America Online, the world's biggest internet service provider, is believed to be in talks with NTT DoCoMo, Japan's largest mobile phone company, about jointly developing a global internet access service for mobile phones.The two are understood to be talking about an alliance to wrest control of the fast growing mobile internet business from a rival standard being promoted by European companies. Both refused to comment yesterday but reports said that a deal could be struck next month.AOL, the world's most popular web portal, with 23m subscribers, has built its empire around the personal computer market, but it has been slow to respond to the expansion of wireless methods of accessing the net such as cellular phones and palmtop devices.A deal with NTT DoCoMo, which could result in the Japanese company taking a stake in AOL Japan, could improve its technological offering and fill a gap in the US group's global strategy.The company unveiled a series of agreements with mobile phone companies in the US and Europe earlier this year and last month, it joined Carphone Warehouse to offer a new internet portal in Britain and continental Europe.DoCoMo's success has been largely built on i-mode, its cheap and simple mobile internet system that has attracted 8m Japanese subscribers in a year and half.According to Japanese media, DoCoMo will provide AOL with the operational know-how and wireless technology used in i-mode, which offers a 24-hour link to the net. In return, AOL can offer a huge range of web content, which is seen as the key to deciding which format proves most popular with consumers.DoCoMo confirmed that it was in talks with a number of global internet firms but refused to comment on AOL.The move would fit with DoCoMo's aggressive strategy to take i-mode, still available only in Japan, worldwide.The company has a &#165;2 trillion (&#163;12.5bn) war chest to buy stakes in overseas telecomunication and internet companies. By the end of the year, it is expected to launch i-mode in Britain, where it would challenge wireless access protocol (Wap) services.DoCoMo will be the first to offer Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA) services, which will provide transmission speeds suitable for moving images and music.A deal could also include the use of services provided by Time Warner, the media group set to merge with AOL. Executives from both US companies were due to appear before US regulators to discuss their proposed merger today.
Britain won't be quite the same again now that the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Bill (RIP) has competed its passage through  parliament. Although a number of welcome amendments and safeguards have been forced through by the Lords, the essentials of the bill still stand.It will leave Britain as the only Western industrialised country with a law enabling the government to demand encryption keys from individuals and corporations.It remains to be seen whether this  becomes a major turn-off for companies deciding where to locate their activities or whether the principle of opposite effect operates - and the bad effects of the bill are offset by the creation of innovative ways of getting around it which make life even harder for the snoops.Defenders of civil liberties owe a big debt to Caspar Bowden's Foundation for Information Policy Research which relentlessly stalked the government. It won major revisions to key parts of the bill, including the assumption that people claiming to have lost their encryption codes are innocent until proved guilty, and in the clauses that would have enabled local authorities to browse through our emails without a warrant.But it still remains a draconian bill. It will authorise the installation of "black boxes" to snoop on internet service providers (admittedly needing a warrant before MI5 can demand access) and will also enable government to monitor the pattern of our emails (where they are going to and who they are from) without it knowing what is inside them and without warrants.For the first time, GCHQ, Cheltenham, which hitherto has needed a ministerial warrant to intercept domestic communications only if there was suspicion of terrorist activity, will be able to trawl much more easily through domestic mail.It is expected the bill will spawn a whole new industry selling to companies ways of avoiding surveillance that could actually make it more difficult for the governmental bodies to snoop than beforehand.Some of the ways people and companies can protect themselves are discussed on the FIPR's sitehere.
They call it the information superhighway, but it seems more like Spaghetti Junction when you're trying to navigate it. Popular search engines such as Yahoo and AltaVista are fine for locating web pages on a general subject, but for more specific material like news, music and pictures, you need a specialist search tool.News junkies have a number of good news search engines to choose from. My current favourite is Moreover. It gathers headlines from more than 1,500 sources and groups them into 300-odd subjects. You can scan current stories at the site or sign up to have headlines emailed to you on particular subjects on a daily or weekly basis.Also worth visiting is News Index. It allows you to search for current news stories appearing on more than 300 news sites. The search engine checks back with these sites several times a day to keep abreast of developments. You can even set up custom searches and have results emailed to you each day.At NewsNow, headlines are organised into six categories. You click on a category for   more specific topics. Usefully, topics are grouped according to how many minutes or hours old they are and UK stories are flagged with a union flag.If it's music you want, there is a swath of tools for tracking down MP3 files. The controversial Napster software is fantastic for locating and retrieving music files from other users' hard disks (although of course, it may violate copyright laws). Web-based MP3 search engines Gnutella and SpinFrenzy are not as effective at locating files but do not require you to download software. Alternatively, the Lycos MP3 search engine or the CNet Music Centre lets you check multiple MP3 search engines at once.If you're hunting for pictures, you need an image search engine that displays thumbnail pictures in its results, rather than just telling you about them in words. Both Ditto.com and AltaVista scour the web to find the images they present. AltaVista also provides matches from professional collections, which can be used royalty free, for some purposes.Remember, while these tools make finding images easier, that doesn't grant you   an automatic right to use the files you find in your own web documents. Always check with site owners about using pictures that you discover.If you've got a Wap (wireless application protocol) phone that actually works, then a Wap search engine will locate pages designed for your mobile's small screen. Fast's Wap Search gathers its listings from the web, Waply uses   human editors to categorise Wap-friendly sites, while WAPAW.com uses a combination of the two. Also be sure to visit Google, which will automatically translate any page you find from its results into a format for your phone. In addition, it will keep on translating as you view additional pages, giving you access to the entire web.Somewherenear is a location   search engine helpful to both those with Wap phones and ordinary searchers alike. Tell Somewherenear what type of business you are after, such as a pub or cinema, then tell it where you are, and it will return matching businesses in the UK.Sometimes it can be useful to discover what people are talking about on the internet. RemarQ lets you scan messages posted to newsgroups. You can even sign up for an account that will let you post without needing newsgroup software.Meanwhile, a new service called eNow enables you to search through live discussions on the internet. The service is down temporarily, but its operators promise it will be back up shortly.Subject search engines narrow your search to sites covering a particular topic, rather than the entire web. For example, search for "windows" on an ordinary search engine, and you'll probably be overwhelmed by listings on Microsoft Windows, rather than how to install new windows in your home. In contrast, if there was a DIY search engine, those references to Microsoft   Windows would disappear.Google offers an excellent way to create such a search engine. Go to its home page and click on the "browse by subject" link, just above the search box. Next, you'll find 15 major categories listed. Click your way down into any area of interest, then use the search box at the top of the page to search just within that subject.For example, to perform a DIY search, you would click "Home", then "Do-It-Yourself". On the page that appears, there are some excellent DIY web sites listed. Then, if you use the search box, you can scan all the pages that Google has found from these sites - and only these sites. As a result, looking for "windows" brings up pages related to DIY and windows, and not the Windows operating system.Google is an extremely powerful tool, but it can take a bit of work. Fortunately, you can also find prebuilt search engines devoted to specific subjects at Search Engine Guide or from the list here.&#149;  Danny Sullivan is editor ofSearch Engine WatchSpeciality search enginesMoreoverwww.moreover.comNers Indexwww.newsindex.comNewsnowwww.newsnow.co.ukNapsterwww.napster.comGnutellahttp://gnutella.wego.comSpinfrenzywww.spinfrenzy.comLycos MP3http://mp3.lycos.comCnet music centrehttp://mp3.lycos.comDittowww.ditto.comAltaVista Image Searchimages.altavista.comFAST Wap Searchhttp://wap.fast.noWaplywww.waply.comWAPAW.comwww.wapaw.comGooglewww.google.comSomewherenear.comhttp://somewherenear.comRemarQwww.remarq.comeNowwww.enow.comSearch Engine Guidewww.searchengineguide.comSearch Engine Linkshttp://searchenginewatch.com/links
E-shoppingSanjida O'Connell is right, of course (Why shoppers shy away from the net, Online, July 20).  For many who are comparatively "old hands" at surfing the net and who are "just ordinary" folks, any attempt at window shopping on the net is not only frustrating, but boring. It can also be costly, and very time wasting.  For the house bound, and those who just cannot afford the time to go "supermarketing" and of course, the initially curious, some level of business will establish itself.But human beings need stimulation, including getting to and returning from centres of commercial interest. All sorts of things can happen and all sorts of people can be met. Not so on the net.  Long live lovely, wonderful human individuality and choice.Robert Davisrobarb@pisle5.freeserve.co.uk.Jenni's firstContrary to the assertion in Web Watch, www.jennycam.com is not by any means a classic. It is a rip-off of the name of the real classicwww.jennicam.com. There are many variations on the name in attempts to cash in the fame of the original. Almost any recognisable distortion will produce a derivative web site, but most of them are commercial and sleazy.John R Battsjohnbatts@banbury19.freeserve.co.ukOpera loverStephen Dunn writes about how annoying it is for web developers that Opera impersonates other browsers. (Online, July 20) . But it is only because of sloppy, lazy web developers who don't understand that the web is designed to run across a variety of browsers from Lynx to Netscape and insist on coding for Internet Exploiter only that Opera has to resort to this tactic.Anthony Cunninghamtjc@tardis.ed.ac.ukWater worksJohn Eason's interesting commentary on urban myths (Weblife, July 20) poses the question "Is there any truth to the legend that water swirls down the plughole counter- clockwise in Australia?" The answer, surely, is yes. I recall that in the 1960s the journal Nature reported the findings of an experiment using a carefully engineered vibration-free temperature-controlled bowl. In the southern hemisphere, as may be expected, water did indeed swirl counter-clockwise.Stan Brownbrownfarthings@aol.comPicture lawWhatever the international situation, the copyright problem raised by Guy Clapperton does seem to be covered under English Law, specifically by the Copyright Act and by the House of Lords Report on Digital Imaging.  The concept is that of an original from which copies can be made. The author, in this case the photographer, holds copyright in the original and has the right to make copies and to charge anyone else who wishes to do so.The original is, in traditional photography, the negative or transparency which results from processing the film after exposure to light. It may be copied in various ways, including scanning, but the original, with its copyright, still exists and any copies produced from the digital file are still copies of the original.A different situation arises when the digital file is produced directly using a digital camera. The House of Lords says that a digital file can never be an original because it can only be copied digitally. If there is no original there can be no copyright.  Thus, in the Sygma case, some authors may be entitled to copying fees, others not, depending on whether or not the digital file came from a copyright original.George Kitchingeorge@gkphoto.freeserve.co.uk
Convicts roll out a new ideaMoHoSony PlayStation	£29.99 Take 2Originality isn't an overly common commodity in the PlayStation market but, for their first title since leaving Bullfrog, Lost Toys have developed an inventively different game.Move quickly past the wafer-thin plot - future criminals lose legs, gain ball and become freedom-seeking gladiators - and choose from a list of curiously unlovable characters. Then it's into the action which is best described as mixing Marble Madness, skateboarding and future sport. Fans of those genres will enjoy the accurate rolling and movement, but it is the rippling landscape that impresses most.Caused by explosions and other seismic activity, this is a remarkable graphical effect on a machine already drawing its pension, and enables you to surf past baddies and obstacles alike. The game is split up into numerous arenas made up from one of seven basic elements - race, tag, pursuit etc - but all involve time trials or tricky challenges.Successful arena qualification opens up further levels and there is certainly a lot to do before your spherical-limbed convict tastes freedom.
But frustration can set in with a steep learning curve for first-timers. Just getting used to the physics and control takes time and it's likely that MoHo's charms will remain hidden to all but the most committed and patient gamer.
Or, perhaps, to those who fondly recall the days when games were hair-wrenchingly tough and Fifa was a little known acronym.
Flawed, yes, but in these days of sequels and licenses, MoHo is a breath of fresh air. (GH)Great game, shame about the consoleIn Cold BloodRevolution Software/ Sony PlayStationDeveloping a game for the PlayStation these days is like launching a space shuttle with an elastic band: however good the design, it's never going to get off the ground.In Cold Blood has good design coming out of its ears. A tight, twisting plot, challenging puzzles, intricate visuals, and an interface that remains intuitive without wasting a button on the controller. Sadly, these noble efforts are thwarted at every turn by the limitations of the console.In theory, the animations and backgrounds are rich and detailed. In practice, on the PlayStation's ageing processor, it's like watching the cast of Thunderbirds wandering round the set of Scooby-Doo.In theory, the ubiquitous shadows add atmosphere; in practice, unless you're playing on a multiplex cinema screen, it's impossible to tell good guys from bad, or which way your character is facing (a hitch in a third-person stealth adventure).The nine huge levels, split Resident Evil-style into dozens of smaller zones, ought to give relentlessly nail-biting gameplay; but with the PlayStation's feature-length load times, you'd better have some knitting handy.
Revolution must take its share of the blame. It's way too easy to die: three bullets and you're dead, and you can't draw your gun without triggering world war three. There are also believability problems: guards shoot you if you so much as show your face, while their technician colleagues treat you like a long-lost brother.Then there's the sort of carelessness that would leave Homer Simpson's forehead sore. The first guy you meet, for example, helps you out by chatting with the guards outside a mine so that you can sneak in. But once you've hacked into the mine's computer, you discover that the entry under your pal's name reads "shoot to kill".It's almost as if the developers, having sweated blood over the core of the game, gave up when they found out it was PlayStation-bound. On the other hand, if this is a test run for something sensational on the PS2, I can't wait. (AB)No sex please, we're killersDead or Alive 2Sega Dreamcast	 £39.99 Tecmo/SegaAcclaim's poster campaign for this game - featuring a reclining digital woman with the legend "Are you hard enough?" -is a pitiable example of the kind of drooling teenage sexism that still infects the videogame industry.
Which is stupid, because underneath the soft-porn trappings of heaving breasts and flashing knickers, Dead or Alive 2 boasts some highly refined beat-'em-up mechanics.Most games in the Tekken or Street Fighter mould require you to learn head-frazzling strings of button-presses to execute special moves, but DOA2 is different.Punches and kicks flow together with beautiful freedom, while an intuitive system of grapples and reversals explodes the tedious old "I'll attack while you guard and then you attack while I guard" paradigm.The gorgeously modelled 3D arenas include a church with stained-glass windows and a verdant mountain pass with a splashing stream, as well as the usual hi-tech rooms of steel and glass.Their topography demands strategic thinking: fighters can be hurled through windows, slammed up against walls, or thrown off the edge of a platform to land painfully 100 feet below.The animation is astounding. The physics of waving hair and flapping clothing are slightly slowed down, to lend a patina of John Woo-style grace to the frenetic punching and kicking, and a fighter will even glance down as a feinted punch passes the side of his body.The illusion of solid, crunching contact is unmatched, even by Namco's brilliant Soul Calibur. DOA2 can't match that masterpiece for sheer eye candy or long-term solo interest, but its two-player contests, especially in the excellent tag mode, are fascinatingly tense, and it is possibly the more sophisticated game design.
Shame it's marketed for 12-year-old boys. (SP)
Lara VIt will begin with Lara's funeral and feature the usual clutch of new costumes, new weapons and new enemies. Lara will appear as a 16 year old as well as in her mature form. The first preview of TR5 is expected to appear in Official PlayStation Magazine next month. Meanwhile, PSM magazine reckons that TR6 will feature Lara but will drop the Tomb Raiding bit in order to explore new situations.Theresa Jenne's unofficial Tomb Raiders websiteis tracking developments.Dream Bleem!Bleem, best known for its Sony PlayStation emulator for the PC, plans to launch an emulator that will play PlayStation games on a Sega Dreamcast console. Bleem says there will be four $19.99 "bleempaks", each of which will support 100 PlayStation titles. Games will run at 640 by 480 pixels (VGA) instead of the usual 320 by 240 pixels.  On its website seewww.bleem.com, Bleem concedes that its emulator will play copies of original games: "We can't prevent it since the technology that verifies that a disc is an original PSX title is patented by Sony, and if we used it, we would be in violation of that."   However, Bleem says: "It's ridiculous to blame the makers of a program that simply PLAYS recorded media. It would make more sense to go after the devices that make the copies in the first place - the company that created the CD format (Sony), makes the recorders (Sony), and sells the media (you guessed it, Sony)."Tour de forceKonami, one of Japan's leading games developers, has signed a deal to develop a game based on one of Europe's leading sports events, the Tour de France.   It may be out in time for next year's tour, but don't bet on it. Konami also says it plans to publish at least 10 games for the PlayStation 2.   The five titles being prepared for the UK hardware launch include the great soccer sim, International Superstar Soccer. Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty will appear next year.PSone TVIn Japan, Sony has started a TV advertising campaign for the dinky PSone version of the PlayStation. The ads are online in RealPlayer format, so trywww.scei.co.jp/news/puki/ram/000717.ramif you have a fast internet connection. For more Sony TV clips, including PS2 ads, seewww.scei.co.jp/news/puki/puki_02.html.  Jack Schofield
I've been avoiding this moment for a long time. But eventually, I knew I'd have to deal with it.Having been involved with computers for, what, the past 25 years, I'd think I was quite capable of picking a system suitable for my mother's introduction to cyberspace."Just get me something that will do America Online," she told me. "And maybe print out some letters. And faxing. I'd love to get one of those printer/fax/scanner copier machines," she said, referring to something she saw at my brother's house. "I can do that, right?"Not such a tall order. She's not asking for video or advanced graphics. Just the very basics. Easy. Or so it seemed at first.I'll just get her an iMac, plug it in, and she'll be ready to go. But a Macintosh, well, it may be hard to find a printer/copier/fax for one of those. She'll be in constant compatibility hell."Why can't I have a fax copier like your brother's?" she will want to know. I'll just   find her a Windows PC. Hell, it'll be a lot cheaper, and I can get one with an older, more stable system than Windows 98.But which one? And how will she ever figure out how to use it? I imagined an endless string of phone calls from her at all hours, asking about device drivers, install wizards, and resource conflicts. "Download it from the web?" she'd ask. "Where do I click for that?"How could any loving, self-respecting son send his mother into the nightmare otherwise known as Windows? I couldn't live with myself.So a Mac. Fine. When I got my first Mac, it guided me through what it means to point, click, and drag in a lengthy set of tutorials. She'll need them. The poor woman has never even touched a mouse. But do Macs even come with those sorts of tutorials anymore? Skills like pointing and clicking are taken for granted, these days. "Scroll down?" she'll ask. "What do they mean by that?" How does   a virgin user even begin to approach the complexities of an intuitive interface?OK, so let's say I buy the computer, bring it over, set it up, and show her the basics of turning it on, clicking on things, opening files, and saving them. Let's say I even get her America Online account up and running, and configure the modem so it dials in automatically when she opens the program.I know it will only be a matter of time - probably by the time I get home, in fact - that my poor mom will be on the phone, complaining of her first crash. She won't even know what happened - only that the screen froze, and that moving her mouse doesn't change the position of the cursor on the screen, anymore."But I didn't do anything wrong," she'll say. "I only did exactly what you showed me."And, chances are, she'll be right. Through no fault of her own, the brand new computer system that I bought her for her birthday will have frozen before her eyes. And I'll be utterly incapable of convincing her that this is not a broken computer. It's working exactly as a new computer should, by current standards. It's simply crashing for no reason, at absolutely unpredictable moments.Even though she installed no new software, downloaded no viruses, nor asked the machine to do anything even slightly out of the ordinary, it will, to my mother, look and act broken. No matter which machine I pick for her, this outcome is inevitable.How and why this became the current state of home computing is a testament to the market-crazed development cycles of today's leading operating system manufacturers.Bill Gates is so driven to   absorb every software trend in his path that he adds new "functionality" to Windows before it's even compatible with the rest of his system.And Steven Jobs is so obsessed with resurrecting the decade-old NextStep in the form of the much-heralded but already condemned OSX, that he's allowing current Macs to be released with known bugs.It's not planned obsolescence - it's obsolescence by default. And no amount of fruity colors can make up for a computer that just doesn't get the job - simply turning on and staying on - done.So what's a loving son supposed to do?"It's perfectly normal," I'll tell her. "Computers are not like your other appliances, mom. They're not supposed to work. Just push the restart button and try again."Sadly, only when my mother begins to accept such frustration as a matter of course, will she be what we now consider computer literate. Welcome to cyberspace, mom.
Welcome to the beginning of the end for copyright. The music industry may have won a short-term victory againstNapster, the website whose software allows users to swap music for free. But the temporary injunction that the Recording Industry Association of America has won against the site, forcing it to close down from tomorrow until its giant copyright battle is resolved in court, won't stop the tsunami.The internet, the most effective means yet discovered for sharing proprietorial information, redefines the concept of copyright beyond anything the law can keep up with.Created some music? Technologies such as MP3, or whatever cleverer successors that follow, turn it into a commodity that can instantly be spread across web communities.Created a DVD? Watch out for software such as DeCSS, that allows users to bypass encryption protection and share high-quality movies on the web.Created some content? Stand by as it appears on endless talk boards and news headline feeds, turning what you thought was uniquely yours into a mere commodity.The music industry has to fight hard. It has too much to lose - not least the profit margins on £14 CDs that cost a pound or so to produce. That's why the battle has gone to the US senate, with the absurd scenario of Metallica's drummer, Lars Ulrich, testifying in Washington against Napster, which was created by a college student named Shawn Fanning.Where Fanning went, endless talented programmers will follow, fighting to stay one step ahead of the law's ability to enforce ownership of intellectual copyright.The law itself cannot be entirely helpful: DeCSS, the software that allows DVDs (digital versatile disks) to be shared, is helped by the US government's concern to limit the degree to which the coding within DVDs are encrypted. If encryption was too tight, the argument goes, terrorists or criminals would use the technology to swap all sorts of undesirable information beyond the authorities' abilities to monitor it.So while the music industry fights to ban a technology that allows music files to be exchanged, the Hollywood film studios are leading their own legal battle against DVD piracy. Eight studios are currently suing the people behind hackers' magazine 2600, for posting DeCSS on itswebsite. If the big boys win this round - 2600 has to file its legal response by August 8 - it will be only a matter of time before another copyright-busting piece of software emerges.Napster hasn't given up. Its lawyer, David Boies - who made his name in the Microsoft anti-trust trial - is pitching  the battle as a David-against-Goliath fight designed merely to protect profits.He calls Napster "the kind of new technology that can threaten the economic control of a dominant trade association based on the existing technology". The Recording Industry Assocation of America, he says, "is trying very fast to catch up and shut down Napster until they can dominate" - even if, as he claims, home users of the program are not violating copyright by sharing music stored on their hard disks.The final judges in this battle will be the users themselves. In a culture where even pirated videos have proved impossible for the entertainment industry to suppress, there is little chance that, as technology improves and the net offers more and more scope for cheating, it will be able to maintain full control - at full price - of digital content.
I see a room filled with young people sitting in rows focused intently on their work. There      is no sound bar the whir of machines. They look around pensively at their unknown      co-workers. Occasionally the distant, incoherent bark of the foreman is heard.Attentively      they listen for the production line to be reversed, revised or deconstructed once again.       The daily influx of new fodder to aid in the great endeavour, is adding to the workers'      feelings of despair and frustration. Is this a Victorian factory or the offices of a red-hot      dot.com?While comparing today's high-tech company cultures to slavery might be seen as being a      little too strong, how many times have you heard the phrase "we'll tie the staff in with      stock options"?The new media industry brings a new and yet slightly disturbing meaning to the phrase      "sweat equity". It seems to me that the modern version of slavery is having equity in a      company which you neither believe in nor have any affinity with.       We talk about offering carrots to the employees while forgetting that carrots are meant      for donkeys.Looking back, we could have adopted the more noble      craftsman-and-apprentice model from the last century.       Do we need a new renaissance? Social accountability is at an all time high and many      existing business models have been following suit. The so called new media seem to have      been left behind, unless of course you are launching a "green" dot com.But wait! Look at all those young millionaires that have been created in the past five      years, you say. How many cotton barons were created from that period, on the backs of      how many people? Dot cotton anyone?       I can appreciate the desire for the one stop shop within the agency world: we'll have every      penny you are willing to spend. But acting this way would be the same as trying to buy a      Rolex, a Picasso and a loaf of bread from the local supermarket. Can you expect to get the      best work across so many different fields - and have any level of passion?Probably I was one of the very few people who laughed out loud during the most recent      "black Friday", while at the same time wondering what it meant to all the cotton workers      out there. Economically, socially and spiritually we need to start practising what we      preach.       So how do we move forward?Smaller de-centralised groups, flatter management structures, internal empowerment and      a good deal more respect. Remember to nurture - not neuter - those who bring the talent.      You may have more experience of marketing, but they understand the marketplace.       Things would be very different if people remembered the first meaning of the word equity:      "The state, ideal or quality of being just, impartial and fair".&#149; Jon Bains is chairman of Lateral, an internet design and advertising agency. Seewww.lateral.net
Steve Jobs, Apple chief executive, took centre stage last week to unveil a new product range, but perhaps his most interesting comments passed almost unnoticed in the latest Business Week magazine.There, he was quoted as saying the Mac maker is working "on a handful" of internet appliances - cutdown computers which offer only internet access, without the expensive memory or hard disk requirements of general purpose computers.The new devices could start appearing next year, the magazine suggested. That would be quite a departure for Apple, which currently markets the iMac -which starts at &#163;649 - as its simple solution for surfing the net.For now, the new G4 Cube was getting the most applause at the MacWorld expo in New York - for its good looks, if nothing else. It is a stylish 20cm square box with some cute design innovations: instead of having a noisy fan inside, it has a vent on top, next to a toaster-style slot loading CD/DVD drive.The innards, however, are not so exciting: there is a 450MHz or 500MHz G4 processor, 64MB of memory, a 20GB hard drive, a 56k modem, and the dated ATI   Rage 128 Pro graphics card. There are no internal expansion slots.As we went to press, there was no price for the 500MHz version, but the 450MHz model will cost &#163;1,467, including VAT.There is also a new range of iMac colours, waving goodbye to the likes of blueberry and tangerine, and saying hello to ruby and indigo.And, to cheers, the hated iMac mouse and tiny keyboard has been abolished. The new Apples will all ship with an optical mouse (with no moving parts) and a proper keyboard. For details, seewww.apple.com/uk.Flying phoneWe've all heard commuters shouting "hi, honey, I'm on the train" down their mobiles   on the way home. Soon we could be suffering "hi, honey, I'm on the plane" as we watch the in-flight movie.BAE Systems, a UK-based aerospace company, has devloped a new system called CabinCall which will allow aeroplane passengers to use their own mobile phones in flight.The system routes the calls from the plane via satellite or terrestrial networks. With several airlines said to have expressed an interest, the system could start appearing in planes from autumn 2001.Cabin crews will retain control of the system, meaning that calls can be prohibited during critical times such as take off and landing and - one would hope - night flights.
How did you get involved in IT?When I did my PhD in psychology, I used   computers for statistical analysis, which   I enjoyed greatly. I couldn't understand why so many lecturers disliked computers and that sparked my interest in cyber   psychology. I tried out the net in 1988, then did an MSc in computer science where everyone - I hang out with geeky people - was talking about the web. I used the Mosaic browser, a forerunner of Internet Explorer, and feel an affinity for the web, because I've watched it grow up.How did you become a spokesperson on IT?I ran two high profile projects for Microsoft in 1998-9. During the first, a group of inexperienced internet users stayed alone in a hotel room for a week using a net terminal to source their physical and social needs. Last year, I analysed 38,373 emails from 100 individuals for Hotmail and published the results online.Do people behave differently in cyberspace?A little. People are less inhibited than in "real life". The safety of being alone at home means we can experiment more with our personas and social stratagems. It's liberating but can also exacerbate extreme personalities.Will the net change human behaviour permanently?Yes; it will bring us a more intimate knowledge of the lives that other people lead and shrink the world into a global village. It also makes us aware of problems that exist, which may contribute to the growing incidence of depression.Does IT benefit people with disabilities?Blind people can use screen readers, which make full use of computer and internet facilities possible. Audio sites and MP3 players are starting to provide inexpensive collections of fiction, non-fiction and plays, useful to those whose mobility is limited. All sorts of services have become possible for people whose disabilities have cut them off from the mainstream of experience in the past.Is there anything you hate on the net?Junk mail!What are you currently working on?A project that looks at the problems of information overload by following a group of people for one day and their use of telephones, memos, mobile phones, faxes, the net and other types of communication.Any favourite places on the net?As an Australian, I have a passion for Vegemite and was searching for a supplier when I came acrossPhotomicrographs, an online gallery of exquisite pictures of magnified substances including, yes, Vegemite. Two important work related sites are theNational Centre for Tactile Diagramsthat lists tactile versions of diagrams, photos and maps, which are very difficult for visually impaired people to find, andwww.netinvestigations.net, a site devoted to cyber psychology.&#149; Contact Helen Petrie at the sensory disabilities research unitwww.psy.herts.ac.uk/sdru
The Halifax has just delayed the launch of its internet bank, Intelligent Finance, for a month because it doesn't work properly. It's easy to understand why Jim Spowart, IF's chief executive, is wary: the Prudential's Egg collapsed when it was launched, and last month, Cahoot, the Abbey National's online bank, went down in less than 90 minutes, swamped by the number of would-be customers. He doesn't want to make it three in a row.These are merely the latest in a long series of well-publicised problems with websites including Boo, the failed fashion retailer, Microsoft's Hotmail email service, and eBay, the giant auction site. America Online, the world's largest internet service provider, once went down for 19 hours, depriving net addicts of their vital "fix" of email and chat.Computer problems stretch far beyond the internet. Last month, travellers were delayed at many British airports after air traffic control computers at West Drayton, near Heathrow, shut themselves down because data in a software upgrade did not fit the space allowed for it. In April, the London Stock Exchange was brought to a standstill on what should have been its busiest day after overnight computer processing took longer than expected, and share prices were scrambled. In both cases, minor glitches led to major problems.The British government has had even more trouble with computer projects, this month's possible loss of millions of tax records being a relatively minor example. Recent disasters include Pathway, the Post Office's swipe-card project, which was being developed with the Benefits Agency, problems with the national insurance recording system, the immigration and nationality directorate computer, and the Home Office's passport system.The parliamentary public accounts committee, looking into these problems, found more than 30 government computer projects that had gone seriously wrong. The committee's chairman reportedly observed that "a number of the departments appear before you so often that they are almost like old friends".But while a lot of big computer projects go wrong, in the sense that they come in late or over budget, so do ones that have nothing to do with computers: big projects are inherently difficult to manage. Governments may do worse than private industry because civil servants are less good at project management, or because governments attempt more big computer projects than private companies, or because government computer failures are harder to hush up.Whatever the case, everyday life is now so dependent on computers that their failure could conceivably lead to real disasters, and the recent century date-change problem - known as the Millennium Bug - had many people contemplating the breakdown of society.Actually, most computer systems work most of the time, and it is journalistic hyperbole to describe service failures as disasters.Arthur Lawrence, chairman of the British Computer Society's specialist group on safety-critical systems, says: "People who don't know anything about it tend to think disasters are happening all the time, when they're not. A computer failure is an inconvenience or an embarrassment rather than a disaster. Most people in the safety-critical computing industry are working to ensure that disasters can't happen."A spokesman for National Air Traffic Services (Nats) was also quick to stress that while the failure of the air traffic control computers "did cause some difficulties, obviously, there was no loss of safety. And, in fact, on the day in question, there were no safety-related incidents".Air traffic controllers had to revert to "a manual system, which was slower, so the number of flights was curtailed, but there wasn't actually anything dangerous".The spokesman also argued that the IBM mainframe-based flight data processing system had run at 99.99% availability in 1999, which was an improvement on the 99.97% availability achieved the previous year. "This was the first major failure in 15 years."In the computer industry, 99.99% availability - which allows downtime of 53 minutes a year - is not considered particularly noteworthy. The more challenging and much more expensive target is "five nines" or 99.999% - an average annual downtime of nearer five minutes - but Nats only quotes figures to two decimal places.So far, building computer systems that provide "five nines" or 24/7 (24 hours a day, seven days a week) operation has been a specialist job. Over the past 20 years, the main suppliers have been Tandem, which was taken over by Compaq, and Stratus, which provided IBM with hardware it resold as the System/88. In a fault-tolerant system, you can remove a major component - a processor chip or hard drive - and it will keep going. But such systems are expensive, because they are based on specialised software and highly-redundant hardware.David Chalmers, from Stratus, says things are about to change. Previously mainly banks and other financial service providers bought fault-tolerant systems because they were handling transactions that could be valued - someone taking money from a cash machine, for example. "On the web," Chalmers says, "every transaction has a value. When eBay went down, its market capitalisation shrank by $3bn."In effect, the web has brought many companies' "back office" computer systems not just in to the "front office", it has put them on a global stage. "Today when your system goes down, everybody knows," says Chalmers. "The online economy needs what we do."Naturally he has something to sell: ftServer computers that Stratus plans to launch at the end of the year. The new design will be based on Intel's next-generation 64-bit processor, codenamed McKinley, and Microsoft's forthcoming data centre version of Windows 2000.By using industry-standard parts, Chalmers claims the ftServer will provide fault   tolerance that, instead of being more expensive, will be significantly cheaper than the mainframes or clusters of minicomputer servers commonly used today. "We took a long hard look at ourselves," says Chalmers. "We'll keep doing what we've always done, but we've changed our view of price."The ftServer depends on a deal Stratus has signed with Microsoft that will allow customers to run multiple copies of Windows 2000 in lock-step - so that if one system fails, another takes over transparently - but only pay for one. It also depends on other suppliers signing up to produce ftServer hardware: NEC of Japan has been the first to license the technology.But, as Chalmers concedes, "there's a lot more to availability than smart tin". Computer system failures are often not the fault of the hardware or even the operating system, but of incorrect procedures or specifications. In other words, the software "works as designed", but the design was wrong.John Higgins, director general of the Computing Services and Software Association (CSSA), says: "On the face of it, computers go wrong and people tend to blame the computer, but what does that mean? Really you have to look behind the computer, and usually you'll find somebody's trying to introduce some big change in procedures and working practices and there are bound to be hiccups. It tends not to be the technology."Either way, it's important to find a solution, because New Labour is betting the future of the country on an IT strategy that involves making all government services available online by 2005. This is going to cost billions.The public access network - a "national network of over 700 UK Online centres in libraries, schools, shops and even pubs", according to e-minister Patricia Hewitt - will cost £450m. The government has published Successful IT: Modernising Government In Action, a Cabinet Office guide intended to "improve the way government handles IT projects"www.citu.gov.uk/itprojectsreview.htm.This mandates two huge changes. First, projects have to focus on delivering "business benefits" rather than installing computer systems.   The report says: "Too often we have seen an approach that looks only at part of the change programme (for example, bringing in new technology) and does not integrate this with other elements (such as culture change) or take an overall view of the whole change process. Achieving and maintaining this integration is a vital, and ongoing, management task."Second, each project must be run by an individual, a boss, not by some buck-passing committee. Indeed, the report requires that all "IT-based change programmes and projects" have "a senior responsible owner".   This is an approach that works well in private industry, but may not survive entrenched government bureaucracy.But as Higgins says: "The stakes are getting higher: it's not as though we'd computerised all the things we're going to computerise.   "We've got very ambitious programmes in the public sector and in the private sector, with people looking for increased efficiency and increased exploitation of the technology, so we've got to get better at implementing it."
Tony O'Reilly's Independent News &amp; Media was yesterday forced to cut the offer price of shares in its iTouch wireless internet business virtually by half.The company said it had encountered nervousness among potential investors after a series of disappointing flotations of hi-tech companies.The shares, which had been priced at 100p to 130p valuing the business at up to &#163;370m, have been set at 70p giving a capitalisation of &#163;200m. Trading begins on Wednesday.Ivan Fallon, iTouch chairman, said the company had suffered from the lack of any business on the market to compare itself against. The company is an internet portal offering content and services via mobile phones."In the end we had quite a robust institutional interest and we got a pretty realistic valuation," he said. The amount raised has been clawed back from &#163;70m to about &#163;49m as a result of the repricing, but this would not alter the business plan and would keep iTouch going for a couple of years. It operates in South Africa, Ireland, Britain, Australia, New Zealand and Israel.
Local convenience stores are to be repositioned at the heart of the online shopping revolution if a nationwide pilot scheme proves successful.Internet shopping fulfilment specialist M-box said yesterday that convenience store chains including Spar, Londis, Costcutter and Bells Stores had agreed to act as pick-up points from where internet shoppers can receive parcels.The trial service aims to solve the problem faced by customers who shop online but are at work when the goods can be delivered to their homes. M-box hopes the initiative will enable customers to pick up the goods from their local convenience shop on their way to or from work.The firm already has a delivery agreement for smaller packages with Express Dairies. Domino's Pizza, with 205 stores in Britain and Ireland, has previously delivered computer games to peoples' homes on behalf of Gameplay.Around 1,000 local shops will take part in the M-box trial. If the service is a success it will be rolled out to around 10,000 stores.Geoff Web, chief executive of M-box, said stores would know in advance what was coming in and when it was arriving.M-box sells its services to online retailers, allowing customers to receive their goods by parcel delivery, milkmen, convenience stores or motorbike express couriers.
Joe Galli, the president and chief operating officer atAmazon.com, announced yesterday that he was leaving the online retailer after little more than a year, to join another internet company.Shares in Amazon fell 14% on the news that the company, already hit by cash flow concerns, is to lose its second senior executive since the start of the year. But they recovered some momentum in the afternoon to trade down by about 3%.The company cited personal reasons for Mr Galli's decision to join VerticalNet, a business-to-business firm, as chief executive.Mr Galli's family has continued to live on the east coast of the US, close to the Pennsylvania headquarters of VerticalNet - the other side of the country to Seattle-based Amazon.Jeff Bezos, the company's founder and chief executive, said: " I believe he is making the right decision for him and his family circumstances."One analyst said that Mr Bezos, who will take over his deputy's duties, sent a heartfelt email to staff, pointing out that he had personally vouched for Mr Galli to his new employers. The signs that Mr Galli was not leaving because of disagreements helped the share price to recover.The former Black &amp; Decker marketing executive was said to have received options to purchase 3.92m shares when he joined Amazon in June last year.His departure from Amazon follows that of chief financial officer Joy Covey, who left the company earlier this year.
A scheme allowing foreign "business innovators", particularly e-business entrepreneurs, to settle in Britain was announced yesterday as the first step in the government's plan to relax the immigration rules to encourage some categories of economic migrants.A pilot scheme, to be introduced in September, will waive the rules requiring such individuals to invest at least &#163;1m or buy a British company worth at least &#163;200,000.Ministers, who yesterday talked about the "global war for talent", intend the scheme to be used to attract innovators who want to set up science, technology and e-commerce based businesses which would contribute to economic growth.Barbara Roche, the immigration minister, said: "It is important that our immigration policy encourages people with innovative business proposals and valuable skills to bring these to the UK. Many such people whose presence here would result in significant economic benefit to the nation are not catered for under existing rules."Those who apply under the scheme will have to submit a business plan, including an assessment of the business's potential economic benefit to Britain. Ministers have promised to produce more proposals as to how changes in the rules could "meet emerging social and economic needs" in September.The details of the scheme were unveiled as the latest asylum figures showed a small fall in the numbers applying for refugee status in the past month. Some 5,900 applications were lodged in June, down 285 on the previous month. The backlog of claims waiting for a decision has fallen by 5,000 to 85,000 as an emergency &#163;600m cash injection begins to take effect.Most applications came from Sri Lanka, followed by the former Yugoslavia and Iran. Some 265 Kosovans who entered Britain under the UN humanitarian evacuation programme have applied to remain as refugees.
Reuters, the news and information provider, said yesterday that its latter day conversion to the internet continued to gain momentum as it reported a 9% increase in revenues for the first half to &#163;1.7bn.Chief executive Peter Job outlined the company's intent to climb on board the internet in February and since then Reuters has embarked on a series of new ventures. Its strategy is to move the core business onto the web, open new retail markets and broadly accelerate its use of the internet.The main driver for the growth in turnover was a 50% improvement in revenues at electronic broking division Instinet to &#163;381m.Group operating profits were 3% better at &#163;285m for the first half before a &#163;41m charge to pay for taking the core business online. That charge will be higher in the second half. The company said the flotation of its new media investment business the Greenhouse Fund and In stinet were still under consideration but added that it would not be rushed while market conditions remained uncertain. Shares in the company were marked up 46p to &#163;13.04.Paul Richards, media analyst at investment bank West LB Panmure, said the company was "firing on all cylinders."A few years ago Reuters was a big, sleepy giant with all the right content which it wasn't making the most of. It's now embracing the internet as a low cost distribution method and is gaining exponential momentum," he said.Reuters also announced the development of a service with Tibco Software, data group Equant and Yahoo to help businesses build their own websites.The Greenhouse Fund generated &#163;42m from disposals during the half year and still had &#163;243m of investments in a portfolio of 60 companies. A number of stock market flotations of companies in which the fund held a stake have taken place including Orchestream in Britain and Virage in the United States.
Lloyds TSB tried to persuade the City of its net credentials yesterday by backing a $30m joint venture with Antfactory, the internet incubator.Dennis Holt, director of retail distribution at Lloyds TSB, said the bank was "not placing a long-term limit" on the amount of money it would put into the new Valuefactory Ventures but suggested that it was unlikely to run into hundreds of millions of pounds.The bank, which is due to publish its interim profits figures later this week amid mounting pressure to convince   the City it has scope for further growth, faced criticism earlier in the year for being slow to develop on the internet.Mr Holt said Valuefactory Ventures would invest in internet businesses which were not core to the bank's strategy and which it might otherwise neglect. Lloyds TSB staff working with Antfactory might learn ways to hasten the bank's internet ventures.He insisted the new operation would prove advantageous for the bank's shareholders and had not come too late to take the best investment opportunities for dot.com companies.
Ebookers, the online travel agency, has brushed aside fears that it was heading for a cash crisis by raising $45m (&#163;30m) in a placing of shares with institutional investors.The company said the money should be enough to fund it through to profitability by early 2002. Finance director Sanjiv Talwar said: "This reinforces the message that we are a real business rather than a paper tiger."Ebookers is a pan-European travel agency, operating in 11 countries. Although the company is based in London, its shares are listed on New York's Nasdaq and Franfkurt's Neuer Markt. It claims to have the highest transaction value of any online ticketing agent, with customers spending an average of &#163;425 each.The new money will fund a renewed advertising campaign, predominantly in print media, to convince travellers of the virtues of buying tickets   on the net. It will also pay for upgrades in technology and the group has said it wants to make an acquisition to take it into Italy.Mr Talwar said that assuming the group sticks to its current business plan, it will not need to raise any more cash. However, he added: "Of course, if there are strategic reasons for going in other directions, we will consider it."The shares were placed at $11. In March, the price reached $35 but subsequently slumped as low as $6, amid rumours that the group was burning cash far faster than expected. Sentiment among investors was affected by the disappointing flotation of Lastminute.com, which also sells air tickets online.Ebookers' chief executive is Dinesh Dhamija, who previously founded the offline Flightbookers travel agency.The company announced last week that quarterly sales had reached &#163;20m, with losses up from &#163;660,000 to &#163;6.6m.
Napster, the digital song-swapping service facing a lawsuit by the world's five largest record labels, said yesterday it had formed a research and development pact with online music company Liquid Audio."Most people know that Liquid Audio knows a lot about digital rights management," said Hank Barry, Napster chief executive. "But they also know a lot about MP3's - how they work, how they move. We will be looking to share what we've learned with one another."Mr Barry, an attorney who represented Liquid Audio, emphasised that there are no plans for Napster to use Liquid Audio's technology within its song swapping service. Liquid Audio would provide Napster with consulting services that would help Napster look at MP3 in new ways.MP3 is a file format that allows the storage of music files on a personal computer in small packets of data. Napster software allows users that are logged onto the internet to see what MP3 files other Napster users have stored in their computers. Using the software,   users can search and download songs from other people's computers.Napster was created by Shawn Fanning, who last year, as a 19-year-old computer student at the University of Michigan, was toying around with the web. His creation has been championed by artists such as Courtney Love and Public Enemy and attacked by Metallica for stealing artists' music.What is not in doubt is the popularity of Mr Fanning's company. Napster claims its membership has soared to more than 20m users, making it the largest online file sharing community in the world.A hearing is scheduled in a US federal court in San Francisco tomorrow stemming from a lawsuit filed by the record industry that accuses the company of rampant copyright infringement.Napster has replied and claimed that the online trading of MP3 music files falls within the parameters of the Audio Home Recording Act of 1992 which permits copying music for personal use.
In one of Scott Adams' wonderful Dilbert cartoons, venture capitalists say: "Despite your cool ponytail, you seem to have squandered our investment. You'll get no more funding unless you mutter empty internet words that make us swoon." So the man with the ponytail says 
"e-commerce" and they swoon.The tendency of investors to throw barrel loads of money at e-businesses and excitable predictions that the revenues it generates will reach $1bn by 2003 (that one comes from Pegasus Research) help to explain why no self-respecting business school fails to include a sizeable e-commerce element in its MBA courses, and often even its undergraduate courses.  The British government, ready as always to pour hyperbole on anything labelled "new", said in a 1999 white paper that it wanted "to create in the UK the best environment in the world for electronic trading by 2002."But so far, the French business school École Supérieure de Commerce de Grenoble is still probably alone in Europe in running a Masters degree solely in e-commerce.
 
The French business school was founded in 1985 specifically to produce high-tech managers. "What's different about ESC Grenoble" says its IBM-sponsored professor of e-business, Dr Lee Schlenker, who leads the one year MSc in the subject, "is the way it makes technology central to what it does. Our core business is to train our students in the kind of products to be used by companies."The technology revolution will only be complete, he says, "when computers become so integrated that you do not know they are there."Leeds University Business school runs a specialist MBA in information management, in partnership with the world's third biggest software company, SAP (Systems, Applications and products in data Processing). But the more usual model is to include a significant e-business element into a general MBA, and perhaps also offer e-commerce as an "elective" - one of several specialist options.At City University Business School, MBA students can now opt for a programme which specialises in 
e-business, and which will constitute a sizeable chunk of their degree. It has developed from a programme which used to be called IT management, and aims to prepare students for future technology, not just what is now available. The course director, Ann Brown, says that the next generation of mobile telephones will change everything yet again. Getting the internet on your mobile telephone will constitute another way in which people can sell you things."Mobile commerce is forecast to be even bigger than e-commerce" she says, and she already has one of her students doing a project about advertising on mobile telephones.Unsurprisingly, in the business schools which deliver their MBAs on the internet - in Britain, primarily the Open University Business School and Henley Management College - e-commerce figures large in the course itself."It needs to be integrated into MBAs, not used as a bolt-on" says Henley's director of development, David Birchall. But most of his students will not go into solely internet companies, he says. The growth area is the mixture of traditional trading and e-commerce - "bricks and clicks" in the new jargon."What we do is to introduce 
e-business issues into the overall programme from day one, and get people to think strategically about them" says Mr Birchall. "Then later, someone who is well into it may choose to do e-business as an elective."Henley also has an e-business start-up group among its alumni, with 200 members. It is very proud of this group. Increasingly, business schools judge their virility on how many of their former students become dot.com millionaires.In that race, London Business School has an in-built advantage, because it can put up money and provide moderately priced and fully serviced "incubator" offices near Baker Street in which new businesses can grow. The money comes from a £2.5m trust fund backed by, among others, NatWest Bank. The business school expects to sell its stake at a profit within five years, to enable it to invest in new start-ups.
Forbidden Technologies, a south London firm with just five employees, ended yesterday with a market capitalisation of &#163;188m after encouraging progress on its pioneering method of showing video clips on the internet.The company announced it had succeeded in compressing video data by a factor of 2,000 times. This meant that a 45-second clip of chief executive Stephen Streater could be downloaded by internet users almost instantaneously.Forbidden believes its technology could eventually pave the way for feature films and television programs to be routinely viewed on the net.Its shares leapt 55p to 252.5p yesterday, despite criticism from some quarters that the picture quality of its transmission was poor.Mr Streater said: "For the first time, we're starting to show people the actual technology we have. It's looking plausible that we can get this thing going."Forbidden hopes to have a product on the market by the end of the year allowing production companies and advertisers to put simple video clips on the net. At present, downloading film is extremely slow users have to wait several   minutes to download just a few seconds of moving pictures.Analysts and journalists were invited to watch the short clip of Mr Streater, who was shown talking about the company's technology. One observer said afterwards that the speed of transmission was impressive but that the picture needed a lot of work: Mr Streater's lips did not move clearly and when he moved his head suddenly, the picture distorted. He said   further trials should iron out these problems.Forbidden's initial products are likely to be aimed towards transmitting head shots of people talking to a camera. More complicated images should come later, but broadcasting of feature films on the net is still about five years away. But Mr Streater says this limited style of video roughly accounts for 10% of present TV output.Forbidden faces tough com petition in the net video market. Israeli experts GEO Interactive are thought to be close to realising a mobile phone that can broadcast video and players like IndigoVision - about to join the market with a capitalisation of &#163;130m.The real competition is likely to emerge from the US - where companies such as Real Networks have set the standard in internet videoplayers for the past couple of years.
Walt Disney may be screaming blue murder at the proposed merger of America Online and Time Warner, but the combination of the world's largest internet service provider and one of its biggest media companies can claim News Corporation as its first victim.Let me explain. Earlier this month, Time Warner's book-publishing arm bought the north American rights for a book by Jack Welch. Interest in the revered head of the US conglomerate General Electric is such that four publishers fought over the contract, pushing the final amount to a record $7.1m (&#163;4.7m). Not even the Pope could top that.But the right to publish the words of the management wizard did not just go to the highest bidder. Welch, who is to hand over his share of the advance to charity, decided to stop the bidding at just over $7m. He then had further discussions with the salivating agents and finally chose Time Warner over HarperCollins, the book publisher owned by News Corp.Why? The obvious explanation, confirmed by insiders, was that Time Warner won because it was able to offer an unbeatable array of marketing opportunities. Publish with Time Warner and you not only gain access to some of America's most popular magazines but to AOL's 23m online subscribers.The publishing deal, a record-breaker even before worldwide rights are discussed, could be the first concrete example of the much-hyped synergies expected from the proposed merger.Opponents of the blockbuster deal, which has still to be agreed by US regulators, have jumped on this example of the overriding power of the combination. Just think, the merger of AOL and Time Warner makes News Corp look like the underdog, albeit in the tiny part of the media galaxy that is publishing. Rupert Murdoch's sprawling empire, which encompasses UK news-papers, Hollywood film studios and satellite television operations, does not have access to an internet business of any meaningful size.None of the huge media empires can compete with AOL's clout on the web, of course. The two other bidders in the race for the Welch book - Bertelsmann's Doubleday   and Viacom's Simon &amp; Schuster - dropped out at $6.5m, but they too would not have been able to offer the same coverage.The deal poses the question of how the internet is going to be used by book publishers. The advantage of Time Warner's family of magazines is obvious. About 1.6m hardback copies of the book need to be sold to justify the record advance. A tie-in with business bible Fortune, general interest magazine Time or the popular People - all owned by Time Warner - will help to sell a book which the about-to-retire Welch insists will be more management manual than autobiography.Time Warner's publishing arm has not spelt out how it could use AOL. While much has been written about the impact of online distribution on the publishing world through websites such as Amazon.com, for example, less is known about the uses and advantages of online marketing. Advertising slots on the home page, or related chat room tie-ins? Industry insiders are keen to see whether the combined AOL-Time Warner will go beyond existing ideas.The issue also raises interesting competitive issues. How far can discounts for related parts of a multi-media empire go? Should Time Warner be able to pay half what its competitors have to for banner ads on AOL or a full-page in Fortune?These questions are likely to be discussed in Washington where the federal communications commission and the federal trade commission are considering the merger on both industry-specific and competitive grounds.Any discussion of competition and the new AOL-Time Warner will, of course, be seized on by Disney. The media and entertainment group, no stranger to aggressive business tactics, is urging Washington regulators to curb the power of the media alliance by actually splitting up parts of it. Scared by its own spat with Time Warner earlier this year when the cable group pulled the plug on Disney's ABC television network, Disney has suggested that its rival's cable TV business should be separated from the combined group's various content assets.Preston Padden, Disney's chief lobbyist, has said: "There are just a million ways that a company that controls the pipeline, the set-top box, the operating system, the menus, and the navigation ... can discriminate and limit and skew consumer choice."Such concerns are likely to be put to Steve Case and Gerald Leven, the heads of AOL and Time Warner respectively, when they appear before a public hearing held by the FCC this week.In the meantime, Michael Wolff, who writes a column for New York magazine, has been commissioned to write a book about the impact of the AOL-Time Warner merger. The publisher? HarperCollins.
* A few tears were shed after the final of Channel 4's E-Millionaire Show, in which two winners, Jo Rajko of youreable.com, a service for the disabled, and Colin Robinson of schoolsforschools.com, a network that links schools to businesses, were presented with &#163;1m apiece. It was an emotional time for all the finalists - especially when some of them learned that they didn't actually own their own domain names. It turned out that only Andrew Pearce, founder of beepboutique.com, had had the foresight to register his domain before making his application.After choosing the finalists, Princess Productions apparently registered all five domains "on behalf of the contestants", but they evidently overlooked youreable.co.uk (registered by the entrepreneurial Mr A Hughes as late as July 10) and com-poser. co.uk (registered by one Tim Luke). According to Princess, the names have since been given to the contestants, but no one felt able to comment on whether any ransom money had changed hands.*The announcement last week that First Tuesday had merged with Yazam, a leader in seed-stage investing and business development, puts an end to rumours that the networking agency had plans to become an incubator. First Tuesday will maintain the brand and operate as a subsidiary. CEO Reade Fahs: "Entrepreneurs will have more fertile ground on which to learn,   grow, and create relationships." And investors? "They will benefit from new alliances that create more successful investments." Yazam's own companies, of course, will also be beneficiaries.*United News and Media's Xilerate has unveiled plans for allaboutparents.com, a parenting portal due to go live on August 2. The venture, backed by Debenhams, is primarily an e-commerce vehicle for both parties, but contains all the usual fare: news, columns and articles taken from the Daily Express and Express Parent stable.*US portal iVillage has been pawing at the UK women's market for a long time. In February it even appointed editors and a CEO, but everything was put on hold amid rumours of a cash crisis. Three cheers for Tesco, then, which has galloped in with $18m to launch the "online community" at the end of this year. Beme.com's Hilary Burden wishes them luck but says they can expect "stiff competition".*Those heading to Ibiza this week might like to check out Worldpop.com's hilarious new Mobile Ibiza service, which messages you with opportunities such as "Get on the guest list and hang out with Kylie at Pacha!" or "Meet Geri at Manumission!" To get on the VIP list, you have to phone a premium-rate UK number (the Ibiza one didn't work) and then wait in a virtual queue. Realistic, eh?
Yahoo!, one of the world's leading internet service providers, faces daily fines of more than &#163;100,000 if a court in Paris today finds that it has failed to stop French surfers accessing online auctions of Nazi memorabilia.It has been given until today to block the site, judged by an earlier ruling to be an "offence to the collective memory" of France. The auctions had already been removed from Yahoo! France, the French subsidiary, but the US web portal refused to block access, or put warning messages on its US site.A search last night revealed 1,211 items of Nazi memorabilia for sale, including bayonets, medals and swastikas.Recent court judgments have brought temporary relief to internet companies accused   of giving access to offensive material. The US supreme court ruled in May that an internet service provider (ISP) bore no responsibility for the material it carried, and a court in Munich last year overturned the conviction of the former head of CompuServe in Germany for aiding and abetting the spread of child pornography.The issue which has landed CompuServe and AOL in court in Germany in the past is the responsibility of an ISP for material provided to that country, but today's case in France is wider in scope.If successful, it will make material in a foreign language and not specifically aimed at the population of another country actionable under that country's laws, simply because it is available there.The case comes two months after the Paris court banned   the site, ruling that it "constituted an apology for nazism and a contestation of Nazi crimes".Yahoo! was told to "dissuade and make it impossible" for French users to access the site. It was further ordered to provide a warning on its search engine about the contents of sites for which it provided active links.Yesterday the only visible warnings on the auction site informed collectors that items such as an identity book belonging to a member of the SS were "very rare" and would go under the hammer in five hours. Another entry read: "Postcard of Nazi Concentration Camp! LOOK!!!"The case is being brought by the Union of Jewish Students and the International League Against Racism and Anti-Semitism (LICRA), whose honorary members include   the French president, Jacques Chirac, and the prime minister, Lionel Jospin.Marc Knobel, a historian involved in the action, said the organisations were first made aware of the site in February, when it carried links to sites involved in Holocaust denials and other neo-Nazi groups.Mr Knobel said: "Should we have to accept this barbarism? Yahoo.com can sell things in America. That's fine. The Americans do what they want. But from Paris, I can consult these pages, and according to French law, that is illegal."France prohibits the sale of goods inciting violence or racist sentiments.Mr Knobel said: "Liberty of expression has its limits, according to the human rights charter. In America they have the first amendment, which makes legal action against such sites difficult. But in   France, as in other countries, we have laws, and these laws must be respected."Even aside from technical difficulties &#91;of blocking the site to French users&#93; we don't expect Yahoo! to agree, which could mean a fine of over &#163;100,000 a day until they do."A spokesman for Yahoo! France would not say whether the company would appeal against the ruling, propose another solution, or ensure compliance with French law by removing the auctions from its US site, a step which would set a precedent.Internet specialists claim it is virtually impossible to block access to such sites, because of the ease with which proxy addresses can be established and advertised without the ISP's knowledge."It's technically not in Yahoo!'s power to do this," Armando Fox, an assistant computer science professor at Stanford University, told the US magazine Business and Industry. "All Yahoo! sees is an address, and anyone can set up a proxy to change an address. There's no way to reliably map an incoming connection."Lawyers too say that this is unchartered territory, potentially making internet bankers in one country liable for dealings which infringe the banking laws of another."It's a little bit as if we've all been transported to Mars and now have to figure out new rules of engagement," said Thomas Vartanian, chairman of an American Bar Association committee which spent two years examining jurisdictional issues posed by the internet."I see businesses spending a lot of money trying to figure out their liability all around the world," he said.Web law: policing the internetMay 2000US supreme court rules that internet service provides have full protection against libellous or abusive messages over the web. The court upholds a ruling against a former boy scout who sued the ISP Prodigy after an impostor used his name to send threatening messages to his neighboursApril 2000A court in Munich holds AOL Europe liable for failing to prevent distribution of pirated music. An AOL spokesman said: "Nobody would have sued the Royal Mail or Deutsche Post for delivering a package that contained illegal CDs"March 2000In an out-of-  court settlement, Demon pays university lecturer Laurence Godfrey &#163;15,000 and legal fees of around &#163;230,000 because he was the subject of allegedly libellous bulletin-board postings.Within days British ISPs closed two websites, a gay site called Outcast and an anti-censorship site. Outcast appeals to the European court of human rightsMay 1998A former head of CompuServe in Germany, Felix Somm, is given a two-year suspended sentence and fined &#163;33,000 in a landmark ruling that held him responsible for aiding and abetting the spread of child pornography. Ruling is overturned in 1999
The photograph could be of any group of young friends enjoying a beer on a Caribbean beach.But the four Edinburgh university graduates have more reasons to celebrate than most: since leaving the venerable institution, they have managed to build up a massive internet pornography empire and evade British police for more than 18 months.Trading under the name Rhino Corporation, the three men and one woman have exploited Antigua's accommodating offshore company laws to put together a hardcore porn operation of such sophistication they have made themselves virtually untraceable.In two years, they have gone from minnows to major players in the burgeoning net porn industry, running their own lucrative stable of slickly produced, explicit pay sites as well as sponsoring sex sites run by smaller operators.Since disappearing into the Edinburgh ether in 1998, the four have adopted the names Mark and Jason Rhino, DragonKing and Amber to conceal their real identities. Their vast incomes from the porn business are held in secret numbered Antiguan bank accounts, and they are understood to use Antiguan credit cards to conduct their day-to-day transactions. The   authorities in this country have all but given up hope of tracking them down.They have now taken the audacious step of offering advice via the internet for anyone who wants to follow their example. Their website not only outlines how the owners of Antiguan offshore corporations can mask their identities, move around assets under the noses of the tax authorities and render themselves almost immune from prosecution; it also, for a $2,750 (&#163;1,700) fee, allows would-be offshore businessmen the opportunity to set up a company with the click of a mouse.The group went into business in 1997 after graduating from Edinburgh, where at least two of them studied for computing degrees. In an attempt to get around Britain's stringent obscenity laws, they launched sex sites using rented web space from American internet host companies specialising in porn. From the start, the operation was highly sophisticated.All the money from subscription fees to their sites was paid immediately into the Rhino Corporation's anonymous Antiguan offshore account.Since the island set itself up as an offshore tax haven in 1992, it has been an offence punishable by three years in jail for a bank to reveal details about directors, officers or shareholders of an offshore company. By living off company credit cards, the group removed the possibility of the sites or the profits being traced back to them.But their enterprise came to the attention of police in Edinburgh, who suspected they were posting pornography on to the web from this country. Even for sites hosted outside Britain, this would have come under the offence of handling and distributing obscene materials.Officers began monitoring Rhino's activities, but just as they were about to move in, the group disappeared and has not been seen in this country since.The four claim to have moved permanently to Antigua, but police sources believe they still spend time in Britain, hiding beneath the cloak of their assumed names and their Antiguan credit cards.Traced by The Observer to the Rhino Corporation's Antiguan base, Amber, from Reading, denied that she or her three colleagues had ever broken the law. 'I don't believe we have ever done anything illegal,' she said. 'Whoever has told you we have is mistaken.'The company now runs 10 'specialist' hardcore sites, with lurid titles ranging from Wives Exposed and Dirty Dykes to Sex Spy and Simply Gay. Amber runs a site called Dirty Teens, specialising in material involving young girls; it boasts of being a 'highly controversial site which has made international news many times'. Each site carries a monthly subscription fee of $29.95.The operation has built much of its success on sponsoring smaller sites, under the name Flash Cash. In return for carrying a link to one of Rhino's sites, the operators get a payment for each visitor who then subscribes.Under their photograph on the Flash Cash promotional site, they state: 'With the ever-changing adult industry and fly-by-night sponsors, it's nice to know there are still solid sponsors who give you the freedom to market as you wish, and the peace of mind that comes with knowing you will be paid honestly and on time for your hard work.'Amber also denied that the web advice on setting up offshore companies amounted to a blueprint for pornographers to evade obscenity and tax laws. 'We are not really aiming that towards the porn sites. It has nothing at all to do with the porn sites, it's just financial advice.'But Rhino's company formation operation is clearly targeted at those interested in the web porn industry.It is offering the operators of smaller sex sites who carry ads for Rhino's service $300 for every customer who signs up. It also encourages the operators to move offshore themselves, allowing them to get all their Rhino sponsor cheques paid into an anonymous, secure bank account.The company's advice to would-be customers is also forthright.It states, for example: 'By transferring assets (e.g. domain names, property) to the company, any visible connection between you and your business can be severed.'It will be almost impossible for anyone to trace you from publicly available information.'Under the heading, Asset Protection, it continues: 'Antigua does not recognise the authority of the US (or any foreign government) over what it regards as its own internal affairs, so in order to sue, the litigator must first prove that the alleged crime is also an offence in Antigua. Antigua has no personal income tax and therefore will not assist any prosecution for tax evasion. It also does not have stringent obscenity laws.'The latest venture is certain to infuriate British police. 'They are already making an awful lot of money,' a source in the internet sex industry told The Observer. 'Now, by offering this service, they are really giving the finger to the British authorities.'Despite the unabashed nature of Rhino's web activities, however, the brains behind the operation remained reluctant to step into the limelight.'I really don't think we want this sort of publicity,' Amber told The Observer before ringing off. 'It will give the wrong impression.'
Scenes from e-commercial life: One: my teenage son needs a new watch. He has set his heart on something called a Casio G-shock, a hideous contraption the size of a three-pin plug. I send him downtown to check the price. It's about &#163;80. 'Too much,' I protest, 'far too much.' We reach a deal: if he can find a G-shock timepiece significantly cheaper on the Web, I'll buy it.After a few minutes' research he suggestswww.letsbuyit.coma reverse auction site which enables buyers to band together to get group discounts. In the end, we buy the watch for something like &#163;44. Delivery is promised within 10 days. I am sceptical, but on the tenth day the parcel arrives and my son berates me for my lack of faith in technology.Two days later another G-shock watch arrives. My credit card account, however, has not been debited for it. I send an email to letsbuyit.com but receive no reply. Eventually I get a   phone call from an embarrassed young woman who arranges for a courier to pick up the surplus timepiece. I spend some time calculating how much her employer has lost on this transaction.Scene two: I want to buy a pre-pay mobile phone as a present for someone. The queues at the local Carphone Warehouse go round the block. Not having the time to hang about, I order the phone from theVirgin website. The transaction form seems well designed and even offers me the facility to choose the date on which the phone will be delivered.Agreeably surprised by this, I choose the following Saturday. But when I look at the form, re-presented for my click-through approval, I find the delivery date is set for   'next day' and that this is impossible to change. In other words, the approval form has not picked up my delivery preference. After several fruitless attempts to remedy this, I notice that the site offers a link enabling one to track one's order online, and so click to approve the deal.But guess what? The tracking link doesn't work, providing only the useless information that 'Your order has a status of Dispatched. Delivery status is Unknown'. Eventually I ring the 0845 number and speak to a human being. 'Your software doesn't work,' I say. He murmurs the resigned platitudes of someone who has heard this before, and tells me that the phone will be delivered on Friday.I could fill this entire page with similar e-commerce horror stories culled from my own and readers' experiences. What they illustrate is an attitude towards e-commerce and customer service on the part of many companies which borders on criminal negligence. They see the Web as a way to make money without incurring the costs of a bricks-and-mortar operation. And because any fool can create an e-commerce website, many fools do.Taking orders is easy; but fulfilling them - delivering the stuff to your door - is difficult and expensive, requiring as it does old-economy disciplines like adequate staffing, infrastructure, stock control and logistics. The only e-commerce vendor I have used extensively which has never faltered in this respect isAmazon- a fact which has led me to conclude that Amazon is really just a good customer-service organisation which happens to be on the web.There is a corporate governance issue here. Directors of public companies such as Powergen (whose website recently breached the credit card security of many of its customers) ought to take a closer interest in what is being done on the web in their name. Many of the most flagrant examples of incompetent e-commercial software would never have got past a vigilant, internet-savvy manager. Evidently such managers are rare in Britain. I wonder why.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
The story so far:Flametree.co.ukis an internet company looking to build a portal to help working women 'balance their lives'. Formed by two friends, Jayne Buxton and Rosemary Leith, Flametree has secured nearly &#163;1 million in private financing and the site is now up and running. The company's backers include Ally Svenson, co-founder of the Seattle Coffee Company.&#149; It has  been a month since  The  Observer caught up with the staff of Flametree, who seem to be multiplying fast. Only a couple of months after its site launched, Flametree has already outgrown its offices in London's Victoria and is now hunting for new premises.Nothing too expensive, mind. The company does not intend to blow its financing on a plush office suite.Fortune seems to be smiling on the start-up. Euan Blair's imbibing activities focused the national attention on teenage drinking and parental responsibility, issues which Flametree's array of experts were well qualified to talk about. As anxious parents clicked on to the site looking for guidance on how to keep young Johnny off the Special Brew, Flametree was able to reorientate the Web pages so that they offered advice, case studies and features devoted to the tricky subject of teenage dipsomania.The site is now generating 24,000 page impressions a week, a figure that delights the founders. Rosemary says: 'The most interesting statistic is that the average time on the site is 14 minutes. With some other sites people just spend 20 minutes a month.'This all bodes well when it   comes to selling advertising and sponsorship space, though this is still no easy feat. The pair admit finding sponsors is time-consuming. 'It's building a relationship' Jayne says. 'It's not like asking somebody to buy a month's supply of water. It's a much deeper, potentially more interesting but therefore more complex area.'Flametree's portal provides links to a range of e-commerce partners. The childcare link is proving very popular, and Ten UK, an online company which can help you with everything from finding a nanny at short notice to ordering flowers and food for a dinner party, is also benefiting from its alliance with Flametree, which takes a commission for any new custom it generates.Given the fact that the company is still finding its feet, emphasis is currently on prioritising. Flametree's founders know they cannot do everything perfectly from the start, so they are using focus groups to decide which parts of the site they should concentrate on improving. 'You've got to concentrate on the core before you start branching out,' Jayne says.The site's forums are running smoothly, and its webmaster has so far not felt compelled to throw anyone out of the discussion rooms. Chris, Flametree's content and technology manager, has programmed the site's software to alert him if the forum users type one of four banned swear words, but no one has yet felt the urge to be profane.However, some of the topics discussed are creating a stir. One woman's suggestions that the best way to get children to go to sleep was to zip them into tents generated an uproar.Getting the site listed with the search engines is now proving one of the firm's biggest challenges. 'It's a real marketing exercise,' Jayne says. The trick is to create the right key words so that search engine users will find the site. 'Do it incorrectly, then you've had it,' says Chris sternly. Companies which are too 'enthusiastic' with their descriptions can fall foul of the search engines - a serious no-no.But, all in all, things are going well. 'There's a rhythm to it,' says Rosemary.
The security of Government internet and email services is a shambles, raising serious questions about national security, according to one of the Government's most senior advisers on electronic protection.Deri Jones, the head of Europe's biggest internet security testing company, which supplies services to a series of government departments as well as the Bank of England, Powergen and British Gas, said tests had revealed gaping holes at the heart of the Government's computer services. He said hackers - and unauthorised Government officials - would find it easy to get into many of the Government's most sensitive internet sites.Jones accused officials of being complacent about security issues. They were too busy fighting turf wars over who has the most complex internet sites to realise that threats from outside individuals were real and that malevolent insiders could be having a field day.The Government's supposedly secure intranet service, GSI, which links departments, is thought to be particularly vulnerable.The news comes days after a confidential memo by Tony Blair detailing the failings of the Labour Government was leaked to the press. It was the first time the personal correspondence of a serving Prime Minister has been passed to the media. Damaging memos from Blair's senior polling adviser, Philip Gould, have also appeared in newspapers in the past month, provoking fear in Downing Street that a mole is operating at the heart of government. All the files containing the sensitive information are thought to have been collated electronically.Alastair Campbell, the Prime Minister's official spokesman, who was one of the recipients of the memos, has raised concerns that hackers or unauthorised officials have been gaining access to confidential files.Blair has now ordered an overhaul of electronic security at Downing Street, demanding tighter 'copy to' lists - groups of people who are automatically sent sensi tive documents. 'We had actually been relaxing the sense of central control in Government,' a Cabinet source said. 'Now that will be reversed.'John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, and Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, have demanded that there are fewer written memos and have said that if people like Gould, an inveterate memo writer, have to make their opinions known, they should do it verbally.At a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour Party last week Prescott and Brown agreed with the mood of the meeting that it was time to move away from memos criticising the Government's performance.'It was clear what they thought,' one senior backbencher at the meeting said. Jones's company, NTA Monitor, which provides security advice and equipment for the Cabinet Office, the Office of Fair Trading, the Department for Education and the Government's publishing arm, the Stationery Office, surveyed 16,000 organisations in Britain last month.Of the groups tested, more than a third of Government departments and linked organisations failed the most basic security test - the email relay vulnerability test. That compared with just one in five university sites and one in four commercial sites.&#149; Ken Livingstone added to the troubles by saying Blair's inner circle was 'like a mirror image of the old Militant tendency'. The London Mayor told, BBC2's  Around Westminster  programme: 'They have no life outside politics, they require total compliance with the line, and they are devoid of humour.'These are not people you should let run a country. They shouldn't even let them run a political party. If the Prime Minister was to cut himself free of that we wouldn't have many of the problems we've currently got.'
Northern Ireland peacemaker George Mitchell is joining Axiomlab, the latest 'internet incubator' to come to the market.The former Democratic senator heads Axiomlab's board, which includes top UK executives from Microsoft and Cisco Systems.The venture is raising &#163;5 million at 5p per share, valuing the company at &#163;13m on the Alternative Investment Market this week. Unusually, the firm will restrict its investments initially to start-ups in Scotland and the North of England.'We see a gap in the market in areas that badly need such investment,' said founding director Fred Mendelson. 'Each region will also have its own heavyweight investment panel, and we already have backers such as Royal Bank of Scotland, Scottish Mutual and Apax.'Axiomlab is the brainchild of Mendelson - a 37-year-old Oxford graduate, Harvard MBA and former McKinsey management consultant - and Ray Ingleby, a self-made multi-millionaire.The flotation bucks the trend of growing disappointment with certain so-called 'incubators'.
Anarchists and anti-capitalists are gearing up for a summer of protest in Britain in the run-up to a big global demonstration expected in Prague when the International Monetary Fund meets at the end of September.A key target for the British groups, which caused mayhem in central London in May when the Cenotaph and a statue of Winston Churchill were defaced, will be the Labour Party conference in Brighton.In an advertisement in the New Statesman, a group describing itself as Brighton 2000 calls on supporters to gather on Sunday 24 September, the day that the Prime Minister is expected to arrive.Some demonstrators are expected to move straight on to Prague for the IMF meeting, which opens two days later.'Brighton rocks against Blair,' says the ad. 'Blockade Labour's party conference in solidarity with the 26 September shutdown of the IMF meeting in Prague. Protest against privatisation, to tax the rich and for asylum seekers' rights.''We obviously can't detail what plans we have for the conference,' said a spokesman for the London-based Brighton 2000. 'But activism in the country over the last year has developed a track record in mass action. Our actions at the Labour conference will prove no different.'The internet is the major way of drumming up support for the various protests. In the run-up to Prague (S26 as it has become known), groups such as Global Exchange and Tradewatch have started partnering activist organisations across the globe using translators to help spread information.Other protests planned for this summer include a mass walk on 1 August from Aldermaston to Faslane in Scotland, culminating in a blockade of a Trident submarine base two weeks later.On the same day, cycle rides highlighting inner-city pollution are planned to hit London, Copenhagen, Geneva and Berlin. The cyclists plan to place themselves strategically in large groups around key spots in each city. The aim will be to halt private traffic.In Prague, officials are bracing themselves for the arrival of tens of thousands of anti-globalisation activists who plan to turn the IMF and World Bank meeting into an embarrassing shambles. More than 20,000 demonstrators are expected for what will be the Czech capital's first large-scale protest since the 1989 popular revolts which transformed the economy from Communism to free market economics.Authorities fear a humiliating repetition of the events outside the World Trade Organisation in Seattle last November but have been accused of planning to adopt similar heavy-handed methods to those used by the Communist regime to crush their critics.The Interior Ministry has ordered the closure of all theatres during the conference for fear that protesters will use them as platforms for their demonstrations, as dissidents such as Vaclav Havel habitually did in the run-up to the Velvet Revolution.The Education Ministry has insisted on the evacuation of all schoolchildren and has granted a special holiday to educational establishments during the week-long conference.'There is a fear for pupils' security as they could become witness to mass protests of opponents of globalisation,' a spokesman said. An exodus from the city is expected following an advertising campaign urging them to leave to ease traffic congestion and reports in national newspapers telling them to barricade all doors and windows against 'barbarians'.Security will be tight at the former Communist Party's Palace of Culture, now called the Congress Centre, where an estimated 23,000 delegates will gather.Eleven thousand police strengthened by a 5,000 back-up team of soldiers and special officers will be drafted in to keep the peace.Czech authorities are in close contact with Interpol and the secret services in other countries and their security strategy has been boosted by the FBI's timely decision to open an office in Prague to help the fight against terrorism, extremism and economic crime.Twenty-four police officers received FBI training in Washington during the IMF and World Bank conference in April and the following month Louis Freeh, head of the FBI, visited Prague to discuss contingency plans for the conference which has been five years in the making.Protesters say opposition towards them is growing. 'We have had our phones bugged, our emails infiltrated, and we've been videoed during meetings,' said Chelsea Mozen, international media co-ordinator for the protest ers. Mozen has given up a social policy job in Washington to go to Prague for the protest. An international gathering of organisers in June held at a farmhouse outside Prague was videotaped and observed by men with binoculars from a rooftop, said Mozen.Rumour has reached the protesters that even the Czech Republic's borders will be closed in an attempt to stop undesirables from entering to disrupt the event, which is expected to net the country over $80 million.Martin Shaw, a 35-year-old electrician from London who has moved to Prague for the conference, said he distrusted the authorities' offer to 'house' the protesters in the monolithic but now derelict Strahov Stadium.'I won't be staying there, because it's far from the conference centre, and I wouldn't put it past them to try and trap us there so that we don't get in the way of the unelected, unaccountable bunch of men who will be making decisions for the whole world,' he said.After the London protests Blair described the action as 'beneath contempt' and Home Secretary Jack Straw said that the organisations involved were guilty of 'criminality and thuggery masquerading as political protest'. More than 400 police in riot gear finally broke up the demonstrations after stones were thrown.Sussex police have launched Operation Otter to tackle the expected trouble in Brighton, which could include sit-down protests, 'guerrilla gardening', targeting of retailers and attempts to stop delegates entering the conference.Flashpoints&#149; 1 August: Mass walk sets off from Aldermaston, Berkshire, to Faslane, Scotland, for attempt to blockade Trident base&#149; 1 August: Cyclists plan to blockade traffic in London, Copenhagen, Geneva and Berlin in pollution protest&#149; 24 September: Labour Party conference, Brighton&#149; 26 September: IMF/World Bank meeting, Prague
Internet bank Egg is expanding left, right and centre, with share-dealing starting tomorrow and a range of other services planned, but almost two years after its launch, it still seems to be getting complaints about problems with its basic banking service.Ann Broome opened an Egg savings account almost a year ago and says she now plans to take all her money out after a catalogue of problems.Ms Broome, of St Andrews,   Fife, opened a standard savings account with Egg, and shortly afterwards took up the internet-only option in order to take advantage of the higher interest rate. "That's when the problems started. We've had endless difficulties since then," she says.Her main gripes concern Egg "losing" &#163;3,000 and failing to transfer two other sums totalling &#163;2,700 into her account. According to her Royal Bank of Scotland statement, the &#163;3,000 had been collected by Egg   on April 6, but her Egg statement made no mention of it being paid into her account. "To all intents and purposes the money had vanished into thin air," she says.The &#163;2,700, although appearing on the Egg statement as payments into the account on April 14 and 17, had, in fact, never been collected by Egg from her nominated NatWest account, where it was still sitting nearly two months later. She is still waiting for the interest on the &#163;2,700, she says."Egg should provide its customers with more information and be more helpful and reliable when they encounter problems. In order to get to speak to someone who knows anything about anything it involves a major battle every time."Egg admits that the &#163;2,700 wasn't collected from the NatWest account, and says: "It was an admin error." As for the &#163;3,000, a spokeswoman says it did not have all the details necessary to allocate this money to the right account, so it was put into a suspense account.Egg has offered Ms Broome compensation to cover the interest she would have lost. It initially offered &#163;20 but says she was "unhappy" with that so it has offered her a further &#163;10. Ms Broome's experiences were not representative of its normal service, says the spokeswoman.
With the inexorable rise of internet culture, those myths, rumours and falsities seem to spread as fast as those nasty e-viruses. So, too, does the number of sites set up to debunk them. One of the best iswww.snopes.com(should that be snoops?). Split into topics such as animals, politics, sex, and radio &amp; TV - the site gauges the accuracy and origins of tall tales, such as the Rolling Stones' Mars bar myth, Neil Armstrong's crazy moon mutterings and a categorical, once-and-for-all denial of folk law concerning gerbils or the death of Catherine the Great.  A great pub conversation stopper.Speaking of killing off pub banter, why not visit the best pub band of all time, atwww.chasndave.co.uk, to get the lowdown on the Londoners'  latest CDs, gigs and fan memorabilia, as well as a discography and lyric sheets with a rhyme-and-slang glossary - presumably to fathom out all the chirpy chinwag. There's even a chat-room. Worth it just to see Glasgow Rangers give it more rabbit than Sainbury's.For more classic blasts from the past, visitwww.TVparty.com, a celebration of all that's good, bad, ugly or just plain tacky on the small screen, from classic 50s, 60s and 70s shows to catchy jingles, and from forgotten theme tunes to hilarious out-takes, such as William Shatner's moody indignation at being told to be more emotional in his acting. There's also a host of "did-u-knows" such as Casey Kasem being unmasked as the voice of Shaggy in Scooby Doo. Though a tad American, the site is often hilarious, not least the excerpt involving a bad-mouthed car salesman using back-seat sex as a selling point live on TV.For all matters of romance, check outwww.e-crush.com, a new site trying to bring lovelorn secret admirers together ("345 couples matched on e-crush today," it boasts). All you do, apparently, is tell the webmaster who you fancy, and they will quiz your intended to see if it is mutual. A small-screen Cupid; a bit like that car salesman.Seen a site worth visiting? Then write tothe.editor@guardian.co.uk
It started as a drinks party in a Soho bar, organised by four friends intent on bringing a bit of Silicon Valley-style networking to London's nascent internet entrepreneur community.This morning, just 21 months after it was founded, First Tuesday is expected to announce that its founders are selling to Yazam, an Israeli firm which specialises in finding funding for early stage internet companies. The price for the venture, whose survival in its early days depended on fivers being thrown into a bucket by the door after each cocktail party: around $50m.Since the first Tuesday of October 1998 the informal monthly gathering has evolved into a global network hosting regular events in 85 countries that bring entrepreneurs with ideas together with venture capitalists, bankers, legal advisers and other like-minded people.In the process it has made accidental millionaires of its four youthful founders - John Browning, Nick Denton, Adam Gold and Julie Meyer -and transformed the way through which individuals in the UK with a big dot.com idea can meet the backers capable of turning their vision into a reality.Internet businesses such as Confetti.co.uk, Lastorders.com, Clickmango.com and AIM-listed Kazoo3D have all come about largely through First Tuesday events - which have raised around $130m in total funding capital.Today's sale will also put an end to rumours that the First Tuesday phenomena was on the verge of going sour. There have been reports that, in common with many internet start-ups, it was suffering cash shortages and that staff had not been paid in weeks. The founders always denied there was any problem, promising that news of some hefty funding would soon be disclosed.At first glance this looks like    a fire sale. But the indicated price says otherwise - and so do those close to the deal, who insist that the combination of Yazam and First Tuesday is "the perfect fit". Yazam's backers include Charles Schwab, the online stockbroking pio neer, and Carlyle Internet Partners, the venture capital fund backed by Tim Jackson, founder of QXL.com.First Tuesday's events across the globe will bring entrepreneurs and ideas together. Yazam, with the support of   other shareholders - including Texas Pacific Group, JP Morgan, Merrill Lynch and Apax Partners - will provide the best start-ups with seed funds with which to get off the ground.How it will fit with First Tuesday's existing sponsors, many of whom are venture capital groups, is unclear. Some, already unhappy at paying First Tuesday 2% commission on any deals struck at its events, could well refuse to work with the enlarged group if they believe it will gain unfair access to deal flow.It will also be interesting to see how the volunteer regional   representatives, who made First Tuesday popular around the world, are rewarded.But for the next generation of Tim Jacksons - he set up QXL.com in 1997 when very few people were using the net and there were hardly any start-ups in London - it could be a very valuable service."First Tuesday has become a community and a popular movement," he said."It is not about fashionable twenty-somethings meeting at cocktail parties, rather it is a mechanism for helping entrepreneurs, financial backers and service providers to meet and do business."
Letsbuyit.com is due for the stock market flotation it craves this morning, albeit at the third attempt and with a vastly reduced value.The London-based online retailer originally sought to list on Frankfurt's Neuer Markt for around 1bn euro (&#163;625m) but yesterday announced an expected valuation of about 310m euro, reflecting declining investor enthusiasm for internet retailers.Last week Letsbuyit was hoping to issue shares at 6-7 euro each but will now place 17.8m shares at 3.50 euro, raising around 62.5m euro. It had intended to raise double that amount.The fundraising will take Letsbuyit's cash reserves to around 77m euro, giving it 12-15 months before it needs to raise more money, a spokeswoman said.Martin Coles, the chief executive, acknowledged that the market would be keeping a watchful eye on Letsbuyit's financial performance. "Our performance will be scrutinised and evaluated by the public, and we relish the opportunity to prove our mettle."Letsbuyit arranges for consumers to pool their buying - and bargaining - power for goods such as TVs and personal stereos. It relies heavily on marketing to draw in customers and wants the cash to boost its firepower.It is not expected to turn a profit until 2003. Sales are expected to rise to 734m euro by then, from 48.8m euro this year.
At last, a dot.com in which you can place a little more faith than the all too ephemeral rest:www.lourdes-france.com, the website of the celebrated Roman Catholic shrine, has been attracting more than 10,000 cyber-pilgrims a day since its relaunch last month ."It's a big, big success," Lourdes' IT manager, Philippe Leroux, said. "People can now petition for a prayer by email, see the celebrated grotto of Notre Dame on the webcam and tune in to the daily   rosaries on live audio. If they're lucky, a priest will have selected their petition from the daily download and include it in his service."More than 5m real pilgrims a year visit the small town in the foothills of the Pyrenees where, in 1858, the Virgin Mary apparently appeared 18 times in the Massabielle Grotto before Bernadette Soubirou. With 270 hotels and 13 campsites - more tourist beds than any French town except Paris - Lourdes caters to the faithful who flock there to sample its record of miracles.Thousands suffering from afflictions as diverse as blindness and tumours claim to have recovered after a visit, although the church has classified only 66 as miracles.To qualify, a cure must be declared "certain, definite and medically inexplicable" by a commission of 30 experts and submitted to the pilgrim's local bishop for ratification. The latest official miracle was announced last year, 12 years after a man was inexplicably cured of multiple sclerosis.Mr Leroux said the 670-page multilingual website was not   intended as a commercial exercise to drum up more business for Lourdes, but for communicating directly with pilgrimage organisers, Catholic believers, the plain curious, and "those who have no one else to turn to". It was also aimed at thwarting rogue Lourdes sites."Virtual pilgrimage can never be a substitute for the real thing," he said. "But it can be a help to the truly desperate. We get up to 60 requests for prayers a day, and I think people are comforted by being able to email the Virgin Mary."
The electricity utility Powergen yesterday advised all its online customers to change their credit and debit card numbers after an error allowed details of thousands of customers to be accessed by an unauthorised person.Powergen was alerted 10 days ago when a customer, John Chamberlain, accessed the site to pay his bill online.Mr Chamberlain, an IT manager from Leicester, said he was surprised to discover three files on the web server containing the names, addresses and card details of home and business customers, including his own.He told the BBC Panorama website: "In under three minutes I had access to 5,000 credit card details. I can't believe how easy it was - I teach this and anyone could have got this information."A Powergen spokeswoman said a technical error occurred 10 days ago when data was being transferred from one server to another. Complete details of up to 7,000 customers who pay online for gas, electricity and telephone had temporarily slipped outside the security gate on the website.Powergen said it logged Mr Chamberlain's complaint and took immediate action to correct the error.But the company only informed customers yesterday after Mr Chamberlain took the story to the e-business news site, silicon.comPowergen yesterday launched a review of website security and said it would give each customer &#163;50 for the inconvenience of the "precautionary measure" of changing bank card numbers.Mike Wagner, retail managing director, said: "The website was immediately closed down and our systems experts confirmed that this was a one-off incident."The company has contacted police about how it became possible to access the information.Mr Chamberlain told silicon.com he did not "hack" into the Powergen file, but played with the URL - the set of characters and punctuation marks that form a website address."I simply removed part of the URL and the details were sitting there on an unsecured directory file," he said.The security breach comes after a survey last week revealed fear of fraud remained a deterrent to e-commerce.The survey, commissioned by public relations firm Shandwick International, found that one in three internet users would never make online credit card purchases because of the risk of fraud.Rob Trevelyan, an ethical hacker who tests internet security for Escrow internet consultants, said the Powergen breach showed shoppers still took a huge risk paying with a debit card online."This customer data should not have been on the server and if it was it should have been encrypted. It was a total security breach. You did not need to be a hacker to access it. Any 14-year-old could have done it."
Coffee breakInternet audio portal,http://Angrycoffee.comhas just added an MP3 search engine that can access the Napster network from the web. The Percolator is slightly faster   thanNapsterbecause the web-based interface allows only downloads. There is no facility to allow other users to upload from your hard drive, which is bound to annoy the purists. To lessen charges that the site is merely piggybacking, the Percolator places tracks by unsigned, independent artists alongside each search result, and no fee is asked for any of the tracks.Olympic clashThe millennium Olympics do not start until September 15, but already there are clashes behind the scenes far fiercer than those which will be    seen on track and field. Aboriginal groups are calling for a boycott of the games in support of their demands for for greater autonomy. Environmentalists are targeting individual sponsors (seewww.cokespotlight.org). Even local residents are taking the opportunity to campaign for lower rents seewww.rw.apana.org.au.The Anti-Olympic Allianceis trying to unite the different protest groups - there are at least 40 - and two independent media sites have been set up athttp://sydney.indymedia.organdwww.samcentre.org.To the woodsYou really need a superfast connection to fully appreciate the kooky site atwww.once-upon-a-forest.com. Is it net art or just an elaborate hoax? Who cares, when it is done as beautifully as this? Equally bizarre iswww.soulbath.com, the online plaything of Hi-Res, one of London's trendiest web development agencies. It pretends to be an anti-banner site, but does this by producing some very pretty banners indeed.Green powerServista is the latest service provider to offer unmetered internet access for users of its telephone service. It will also supply gas and electricity and put them all on one e-bill. The company even claims to guarantee that it can supply households with electricity from renewable sources, though a monthly surcharge - roughly &#163;1.40 per month for the average household - will be added to the bill. Seewww.servista.com.Big brotherChannel 4's new series, Big Brother, might have been inspired by the likes of the now classic Jennycam.com, but its supporting website atwww.channel4.com/bigbrotheris tame by comparison. And quite what George Orwell would make of the Big    Brother pizza from Domino's, does not bear thinking about. Maybe he would have advocated the fledgling net privacy site atwww.bigbrother.org, or wryly smiled at the simple joke atwww.bigbrother.com.New and notedwww.thehorsesmouth.co.ukis a new portal for horse racing fans;www.bulletinmail.comoffers email for cell phones.Alertnetis Reuters' new news service. A complete guide to making paper aeroplanes is online atwww.paperairplanes.co.uk.Six of the best:BarcelonaBarcelona city webwww.bcn.es/english/ihome.htmCatalan culture centrehttp://tourism.catalonia.netOfficial sitewww.barcelonaturisme.comJoan Miro museumwww.bcn.fjmiro.esBus and Metro timetableswww.tmb.net/welcome.htmlFC Barcawww.fcbarcelona.es
Dastardly advertisersA program hidden on my hard disk is calling websites and downloading adverts whenever I use the internet. This nasty little program, tsadbot, runs indefinitely. It lives in a directory called C:\Program Files\ TimeSink\AdGateway, but when I delete the directory, it comes back whenever I use a trial version of PKZIP, a file compression program. Very clever, but how can I get rid of it?Raphael Vowlesrvowles@mgdardani.screaming.netJack Schofield:Lots of software houses are now trying systems like this. The deal is that you get free use of their programs in exchange for viewing banner ads, and the adbots fetch the ads. That seems fair to me.What isn't fair is for adbots to be installed behind your back, without explaining what they are going to do and explicitly asking permission.The two main adbot systems areConducent's tsadbotand theRadiate or Aureate systemandwww.binarybliss.comwhich uses IPC Server.Some people have become very annoyed about adbots: seewww.cexx.org/adware.htmfor example.Steve Gibson of Gibson Research Corporation has    published lots of information athttp://grc.com/optout.htmand is developing software to remove adbots. (So far it only removes Aureate.) The message to the suppliers is that they need to clean up their acts to prevent a revolt.However, it is not fair to block the ads while continuing to use excellent adware programs such as GetRight and SurfSaver. The solution is to pay for ad-free copies.Meanwhile, PKware's answer to your problem is as follows: "PKZIP 2.70 shareware for Windows has the capability of uninstalling both PKZIP and the tsadbot.exe program. To uninstall the adbot, please download and install version 2.70 and then uninstall. This will clear the tsadbot from your system."Saving old BBC floppiesMy Acorn BBC computer packed up years ago, but I kept my old floppies, always intending to find a way of having their contents read and saved on to disk. Is there any hope?Tony Nunntony.nunn@dial.pipex.comJS:It's getting increasingly hard to rescue old files because of the size difference (your BBC floppies may be 5.25in not 3.5in) and because modern PC floppy drive controllers simply aren't capable of reading such low disk densities.However, I believe that an Acorn Risc PC can read and write both formats, so if you know someone with the right types of drive, that may be the best way to do it.If you have a suitable PC - preferably an old one - then you can try to read double-density BBC disks directly using the FDC program written by Wouter Scholten.You can download this from 8-Bit Software's BBC and Master Computer Public Domain Library atwww.8bs.karoo.net/filecon.htmChris Richardson, who runs the site in his spare time, is prepared to help people with file transfer problems   "for a modest fee", he ssays.His email address ischris@8bs.karoo.co.ukBook wormI have quite a lot of books in my personal library. Can you suggest a good way to catalogue them? Is there a dedicated database for that sort of thing?David Grahamdavidjohn@grahams.fsbusiness.co.ukJS:There doesn't seem to be a wide choice of cheap or free programs   to catalogue books: presumably most people create their own using database software.However, there's the PrimaSoft Book Organizer Deluxe, available on a 30-day free trial for Windows fromwww.primasoft.com/deluxeprg/bkodx.htm.There's also HomeBase 2, a free program from the Advanced Book Exchange (the "world's largest source of out of print material"). You can download it fromwww.abebooks.com(select the link for free software).The program looks good but may be more than you need - unless you want to set up as a second-hand book dealer.Default fontIs there any way of changing the default font in WordPad (Windows 98 Second Edition)?Keith Scottkscott@btinternet.comJS:If there is, I can't find it!Blame BillWhen I edit a document in Word 97 and click Save, the file usually becomes unreasonably larger. The only way I can get round this is to click Save As and use a different filename or a different folder. What am I doing wrong, or is it BillGates's fault?Jim FlettJimFlett@tesco.netJS:The Microsoft Word document file specification is fantastically complicated and provides for all sorts of features, including revision tracking and statistics that you might not want to circulate: for example, select a doc file, right click it, and look at Properties.Go to Tools|Options|Save and turn off Allow Fast Saves, but otherwise, you can blame Bill.Picture showsI have a Fuji MX-600 Zoom camera which is useful for showing the latest snaps of    our granddaughter to friends and relatives on their own television sets. Once the image files have been downloaded on to CD-rom for storage, is there any device that could "play" the CD-rom, again on our friends' TV sets?Kerry MilanKerry_Milan@email.msn.comJS:A decade ago, some companies - Kodak, Philips - had a go at this market with PhotoCD players, but they didn't sell. The only obvious device today would be a portable computer with a TV output port and a CD-rom drive. This would not be cheap.An alternative would be to record the sequence from the camera to a VHS cassette and run the tape.
Mobile phones permanently linked to the internet will become the biggest selling consumer product of all time. But you wouldn't think so from early experiences with the Wap (wireless application protocol) phones now coming on to the market.Count yourself lucky if one in four connections is successful, and when you do get through, downloading the limited amount of data on to the phone's screen is painfully slow. New applications (such as instant news, share prices, neighbourhood entertainment, online booking, gaming, recruitment etc) are best seen as an amuse-bouche until the first course arrives (with the danger, from the manufacturers' point of view, that you may suddenly decide you're not hungry after all).The sensible advice is that if you are buying a mobile anyway, get one with Wap and experience Wapathy at first hand. If you don't need to buy a phone, hang on until access gets faster and the incorporation of packet switching means they will be on line all the time.One of the curious things about the Wap experience is that the more frustrated you get, the more you can see their dizzy potential. If they continue to get smaller, lighter and more versatile (the Ericsson R320 weighs only 100 grams compared with 125 grams for the technically superior Nokia 7110) then they will become a part of our clothing that we are unaware of until used.Cameras can now be accommodated on a micro-chip, enabling two-way video-conferencing. The first model will be unveiled by Orange later this year. A combination of wireless technology (for the last few miles) and fibre optic cables around the world, will enable your phone to link live to any web camera on earth (and maybe some not on earth) whether it is a traffic camera on the M1, a lecture at Harvard, your doctor's surgery when you are on holiday or the camera behind the goal posts at Manchester United's ground.Global positioning technology can fit inside your phone enabling information to be sent to you geared to where you are (or to keep tags on errant teenagers).Some of the recent improvements in voice recognition technology have surprised even cynics in the industry. Once you can dictate email into your phone and have it reliably translated into text, then the biggest drawback of the mobile (the tiny keyboard) disappears. Coming soon to your friendly phone will be "streaming" voice recognition when text can be transformed into voice (and vice versa) live and at very high speeds (and passably translated into other languages simultaneously).One of the fastest growing activities in the US is payment by secure email (see PayPalwww.x.com. It won't be long before it will be possible to pay for your papers by email at your local kiosk, possibly by adding the cost to your phone bill.Throw away your MP3 player, along with your radio. Digitised music will be downloaded directly from the web.A single diary on the internet linked to the "always on" phone will be all you need. The phone could also become a television set, an alarm clock, a scanner or whatever you want. And goodness knows what will happen when the "peer-to-peer" principles of Napster (ie hard disks communicating without mediators) are applied to web phones. The point is that no one will need to take all the function of the new phones. Choose from a tariff what you want - a trade-off between the cost of the service and the weight of the phone.In the short run, all this will add to information overload as hundreds, maybe thousands of companies try to sell variations of the same package of services. But in the long run, the mobile will provide the solution to overload simply because it has to. The smallness of the phone means information will have to be customised or narrowcast to the user's requirements.It is often said Europe's comparative advantage in mobile technology offers it a huge advantage in exploiting the biggest consumer market of all time. That is true tactically. But strategically the US has already won the war. US investors already own the majority of shares of Vodafone, the world's biggest mobile service provider and the company (Phone.com) that devised the software that runs Wap. US investors also own the majority of shares in the world's three biggest mobile phone manufacturers - Nokia, Ericsson and, of course, Motorola. If you can't beat 'em, own 'em.
John Wheelwright made his fortune through judicious use of 19th century innovations in the Pennines, where the remote valleys housed the Victorian version of cutting edge technology as a matter of course.His spirit must be looking down benignly on the electronic whispers coming out of Rishworth, near Halifax, where the school founded by his charitable bequests is pioneering again - with Britain's first educational Wapsite and students' phone system.Unclipping his lightweight Wap mobile, 13-year-old Kyle Partridge shows the way things are going, flicking quickly through options available onwww.rishworth-school.co.uk/wap/index.wml.Sports fixtures, school trips, class timetable_ ten miles away in Huddersfield, computer consultant and Rishworth parent John Sinclair Willis   is inputting the latest data provided by school staff for the Wapsite."Soon," says Rishworth's librarian Sheila Sheppard, "you'll have a games teacher up on the higher pitches (cold, blustery places between the gritstone school buildings and the moor top), checking who's where and why they haven't come up to join the team."That's a way away, with the data processing still offsite and only a handful of students currently owning Wap phones. But the future sneaks up very fast.As in Clueless, the Hollywood smash which had everyone laughing five years ago at the only-in-America scene of high school girls pulling out mobiles, Rishworth pupils reach for their Ericssons and One2One paycards routinely outside lessons; and Kyle gets a ready audience when he offers tips on Wap phone price reductions. His was   &#163;80 but on offer with a &#163;30 discount. He tells a group of friends in the library, including Willis's 14-year-old daughter Katie: "It's easy to find good deals. Prices have fallen pretty dramatically."Katie is pressing her father - whose official title   is Rishworth Wapmaster -to keep innovating with the Wapsite. She says: "He depends on what the staff here send him - things like the calendar for the term ahead - but there's great potential for doing more at short notice."Richard Baker, the head of    Rishworth, an independent, part-boarding school for students aged 11-18, sees the development as the obvious next step from his long-standing website, a classy piece of work run from Hebden Bridge - the Hampstead of the mid-Pennines - with a daily date change in   place by 6am. "That's done well over the last few years, keeping us in touch with parents and former pupils from literally all round the world," he says."So we wondered about the next step, and thought 'wireless'. Now it's possible for anyone, staff or student,   to check times and dates wherever you are, simply by logging on with a mobile phone."Sinclair Willis adds that the novelty of the Wapsite will soon be as everyday as the Clueless mobiles have become. He says: "The latest estimates in our   business suggest that there'll be something like 600 million wireless internet users by the 2003, and that only two years after that, Wap devices will overtake PCs as the main way of accessing the net."Up on the hill above Halifax, the system is still more fun than practical, with a jumbo-sized mobile advertising its limited services on the Rishworth website -www.rishworth-school.co.uk.But Kyle Partridge shows a couple of other friends, Paul Lees and Kate Rowley, both 12, the simple techniques for downloading email and hooking up to bookmarked internet sites."I've heard of people getting Wap mobiles even for &#163;30," he says, checking out the following week's Concert in the Quad programme to see if Slightly Alien, Seen 4 and the Fallacy are still sharing the bill.Sheila Sheppard, staying in over lunchbreak to keep up with the new technology in her library, says: "John Wheelwright would be proud - Rishworth still forging ahead."
Pete Sampras and the Williams sisters may have grabbed all the headlines at Wimbledon, but deep in the bowels of the All England Tennis Club's headquarters in leafy SW19 tennis history of a different kind was being made.Its effects on how the sport is followed in the future are likely to be far more profound than any of the winning performances the relentless Sampras was able to muster.Somewhere around the time Venus Williams was presented with her first ever Grand Slam singles title, the official websitewww.wimbledon.orgregistered its two billionth hit of the fortnight.Just eight days into the two-week tournament all previous user records were broken. By the time Andre Agassi and Pat Rafter's electrifying semi-final moved into its fifth and deciding set, the Wimbledon site was registering more than 960,000 hits per minute from score-hungry fans.Even for Wimbledon the figures were unprecedented. For some of the bigger internet service providers they would have been statistics to die for. But, as anybody who runs an online sports service will tell you, sports fans cannot get enough of their favourite team or star and the web is the perfect medium for delivering that information.A decade after Rupert Murdoch described sport as "a battering ram" and used exclusive sports rights to build his BSkyB satellite empire, the comment is as true as ever. Internet service providers and mobile phone operators are queuing up to sign content deals with sports websites in the hope that consumers will spend just that little bit longer on their site or a few seconds more surfing their Wap phones if there is the promise of the latest soccer transfer news or England cricket score.Screen Digest's Rachel Church, author of a recently released 450 page report entitle Sport On The Internet, says her two subject matters   could not be a better fit. "The internet is considered the perfect medium for the average sports fan, who is usually passionate about one team and sport, as well as interested in big events and other sports to a lesser degree," she says. "The web allows users to drill as deeply as they like in one sport, and, at the same time, get an instant, comprehensive overview of all the others."The Wimbledon site offered a huge range of information. Powerful technology from IBM enabled fans to have text messages of latest scores automatically sent to their mobiles and email newsletters dispatched daily to their PCs. Visitors could trawl through thousands of statistics from this and previous tournaments or use a robotic camera to zoom in and out on the live action on centre court.Players could come off court after a match and head for the locker room knowing a personalised statistic analysis of their performance would be waiting for them.By far the most popular service was the live scoreboard that web users could download to their desktops. It kept them up to date on scores from all courts in real-time while they worked. "Office users across Europe and the US downloaded it in their hundreds of thousands," an IBM spokeswoman said. "It was the immediacy of the scores that they seemed to love."In November, Neilsen Media Research found that 60% of UK adult internet users regularly logged on for sports and entertainment news. The anecdotal evidence from online sports providers is that the numbers have since grown exponentially.Research by Go2Net in May found that US sitesESPN.com,NBA.comandNFL.comare the most popular on a global basis, but British sites such asSoccernet,CricInfoandSports.comare not far behind.Users are predominantly male, older, up-market and   decision-makers. In short, an advertiser's dream. Personalisation technology will increase the lure of the web as an advertising medium.By 2005 advertising on sports-related websites is expected to reach $6.27bn, up from $612m in 1999. The National Basketball Association in the US is expected to receive as much as 15% of its income from online revenue streams by 2004.For now though, the main value of sports content is in driving sales of new technology like Wap. Jupiter Research says 40% of consumers want additional content via their   cellular handset or pager."Sports results is killer content for mobile internet devices," says Sports.com's managing director Tom Jessiman. "Events change so often during the day and sports fans want to be kept updated on changing scores wherever they are, whether they're on the train, on the bus or standing on a street corner. They can wait until they get home to watch the highlights on television but they need to know the score as soon as it changes."During Euro 2000 and Wimbledon, Sports.com registered around 100,000 page views a day through Wap, compared with around 15,000 a day from portals like Excite and even less from many of the financial sites whose real-time share price updates were said to have been ideally suited to mobile phones."By the end of next year we believe more people will be accessing Sports.com through mobile devices than their fixed screens," Jessiman says.Jessiman, an American   who ran Sportsline in the US, believes Europe's superior mobile penetration will give sports fans on the continent an 18-month head start over those in the US when it comes to receiving sports news on the move.In February, Vodafone signed a commercial alliance with the biggest sports brand of all - Manchester United. A four-year &#163;30m deal will not only put the Vodafone logo on United shirts but will also bring a range of mobile information services to the club's global supporter base, including access to the web. Vodafone predicts that in three to four years, United fans will watch highlights of matches and goals on their phones, and call in for exclusive audio reports, betting odds and statistics.Traditional broadcasters are picking up on the internet's sport potential and also positioning themselves for the introduction of broadband services such as ADSL and cable. BSkyB recently paid   &#163;301m for Sports Internet, owners of thePlanetfootball.combrand, 11 Premiership football club websites, a statistics service and an off-shore betting arm. It also has a stake in Sportal, a south London company specialising in building official websites for teams such as AC Milan and the South African rugby team.Sportalbuilt the official site for Euro2000 which offered 3,000 pages in six European languages and video clips of all the goals from previous European championships. During the tournament it registered 129 million page impressions.The web is providing huge   commercial opportunities for sport's biggest stars. Yahoo and Microsoft are rumoured to have offered &#163;10m to run davidbeckham.com. Japanese footballer Nakata recently signed a &#163;30m internet deal and expects to make a further &#163;20m from merchandising. His site receives 100,000 visits per week.The most commonly searched for athlete on the web is Russian tennis star Anna Kournikova, says Lycos. Hersiteis built in partnership with US firm Athletes Direct. Visitors can get their latest Anna "fix", trawl picture libraries, discover her favourite things   (chocolate, Austin Powers and sit-ups, apparently) and ask her questions. (What was it like living in Alaska, Anna? Her reply: "Alaska was pretty much like anywhere else!")A large e-tailing section is devoted to her own merchandising range. But the success of kournikova.com depends largely on how long Anna remains the media's golden girl and whether a younger, more attractive version takes her place.There are thousands and thousands of sports sites, ranging from cheaply strung together sites on park football teams and school sports days through to lavish ventures such asManutd.comandWWF.com, official website of the World Wrestling Federation.Experts predict that many will struggle to survive. The winners, they say, will be those that combine a mass global and local appeal with a strong following. Leading clubs will be able to build communities, exploit archives of information and, soon, show video clips of goals. From 2001, Premiership clubs will be able to show their own games on their websites after midnight on Monday.However, Screen Digest's   Rachel Church believes that niche sites, based around sports and teams whose loyal users are deprived of extensive television coverage, will also have their day.Technology as much as any other factor is likely to define the future of many websites and the way in which sport is consumed. But despite the growing importance of new delivery platforms and the success of sites like Wimbledon, traditional coverage of the tournament from the likes of the BBC is unlikely to be dropped."There's no single killer application," said Sportal chief executive Rob Hersov. "The different distribution media like Wap, broadband and wireless will all be ways to distribute digital assets and consumers will be viewing the event or the information or the interactivity in different ways."So the Saturday Wap user may use the office's ADSL line during the week before going home in the evening to watch sport on digital television, using a PC to access the web for their statistical needs at the same time. And it would be a surprise if stars like Anna Kournikova didn't have a presence on every single platform.Most popular UK sitesPage impressions 		per month1:soccernet.com60 million2:sports.com31 million3:formula1.com27 million4:planetfootball.com25 million5:sky.sports.com25 million6:Sportal network25 million7:Sports Internet20 million8:sporting-life.com15 million9:teamtalk.com14 million10:football365.com12.5 million
Moving home should become easier and less stressful because of moves to cut gazumping announced yesterday.The time it takes solicitors to conduct a property search on a house could be cut from six weeks to half an hour using an online conveyancing service, the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, revealed.The national land information service website will give solicitors and buyers instant access to deeds and planning records that are currently available only through a lengthy process of written applications to more than 10 government agencies.Solicitors said the e-conveyancing website, which runs from spring next year, would allow them to access all planning and environmental information on a single register, so they could complete legal checks on a house in less than 48 hours and exchange contracts in a week.This would reduce gazumping, whereby a seller backs out and accepts a higher offer in the wait for solicitors to complete checks for the first buyer.Lord Irvine said: "This is the first time since the Domesday book that we will have a complete survey of all land holdings and their associated values."He said gazumping was expensive and traumatic and should be avoided.Andrew Larner, of the government's improvement and development agency, said the website would cost between &#163;10 and &#163;20 to access and would eventually be free.It would allow solicitors to check a property's complete planning history, its access by public roads and environmental details such as its proximity to landfill sites.David Brown, of Abbey Law solicitors, took part in a pilot of the scheme in Bristol last year. "Using the website we can complete our checks in 48 hours," he said. "If the buyer has a mortgage complete and the seller has made detailed preparations, the website means contracts can be exchanged in one week."Previously, conveyancing entailed writing to 12 agencies, waiting for answers by post, then making written requests for clarification of those answers. Over 10% of house purchases would fall through in the time it took us to do this. A large proportion of that was through gazumping."The online service will cover all commercial and residential properties in England and Wales. It will be run in a public-private partnership, with a government investment of &#163;2m.
The scene is England v Germany in the 2002 World Cup final. Michael Owen steps up to take the penalty that could give England their first world triumph since 1966.Millions of fans around the nation hold their breath. Hundreds of thousands have their thumbs on their TV remote controls frantically placing their bets on whether Owen will blast the ball straight at the keeper, roll it to his right or place it top left.The big bookmakers and dozens of online start-ups are convinced this scenario will become reality within a couple of years. Betting, they claim, is on about to become a mass-market phenomena for the first time.Datamonitor research predicts that revenues from internet and interactive TV gaming in western European will more than double to $5.5bn over four years.Casual gamblers, 20-something women and housewives will have a flutter from their own living rooms on everything from the time of the next England goal to which couple in Eastenders will be the next to break up.Mori research found that one in five women said that   online gambling would be more tempting because it is a "safer, fun, unintimidating or anonymous environment".The bookmakers are determined to bridge that gap between the 70% of adults that play the national lottery compared with the 6% who use betting shops. Ladbrokes is pursuing a multimedia strategy that it believes can double turnover within two years.It has launched two online betting sites and struck deals with BSkyB, Telewest and Cable &amp; Wireless that will enable digital satellite and cable television subscribers to place bets from their living rooms. Ladbrokes customers can also bet over their Wap mobile phones.The big prize is the Far East and the US via the internet. Ladbrokes' tax-free betting operation already employs staff who speak Mandarin and Cantonese.The net attracts punters who want to place bets discreetly. Mobile internet devices make it convenient to gamble whenever and wherever players want. Novelty bets are also possible, enabling new types of customers to be attracted.Fans United by webManchester United did not become the world's first &#163;1bn football club in March courtesy of a big win or another great performance from David Beckham.The share price jumped after a City analyst said the world's richest club was also a rather hot internet stock. The analyst at investment bank Warburg Dillon Read said manutd.com, the club's official website, then generating 8m hits a month, had not been fully valued by the stockmarket and that the shares were trading cheaply.He called MUFC "the ultimate content provider" and the web the perfect medium through which it could maximise its brand, broadcast its games and - of course - hit the wallets of its 12m global fan base.Manutd.com is, says the same analyst, the most visited website in China. The club has huge support in the Far East generally and in Scandinavia, a region with very high internet penetration.Manchester United magazine sells 90,339 copies per month and a Thai version sells a further 20,000 in Thailand. United is trying to get the rights to show highlights of its matches on manutd.com. Eventually it hopes to broadcast games live, charging fans on a pay-per-view basis.The team's number of television followers is unmatched by any other club. The potential for a web-based product is clear.The first steps towards the club using new technology to connect direct to its   fans were taken in February with the unveiling of a &#163;30m four-year partnership agreement with Vodafone, the mobile telecoms group.Thanks to the Vodafone deal United fans will eventually be able to use mobile devices to watch goal highlights, listen to live match commentaries, receive real-time score updates in text message formats and order the latest replica kit.The service will be global and available in dozens of different languages. "Fans from Stretford to Shanghai will be able to keep up with all the action from Old Trafford 24 hours a day," deputy chief executive Peter Kenyon said. "All they will have to do is push a button on their phone."United is now looking for investment partners with internet expertise to help it maximise the potential of Manutd.com.It may be the world's biggest and best-known club, but in internet terms United is only a start-up. The worst news for fans sick of United's dominance of the game is that this is one start-up almost guaranteed to succeed - and make the club a lot more money.
It seems perfect: no queues, screaming children, students buying 10 Marlboro Lights, people bickering about the price, stroppy assistants, wonky trolleys, six-packs with a third off, old strawberries with new discounts. Shopping on the internet should be easy and stress-free, yet, says a new study, people are still reluctant to embrace e-commerce.Dr Peter Lunt, senior lecturer in the psychology department, University College London, has spent the past two years analysing people's responses to internet shopping and found that most shoppers buy books, CDs, travel tickets and software over the internet. He surveyed almost 900 people, talking to   and surfing the net with groups and individuals in their own home.Of those surveyed, only 14%had tried shopping online and a mere 5% were regular (monthly) users. Three-quarters had bought only four kinds of products. In general, the people least keen on internet shopping tended to be thrifty or brand loyal shoppers.According to Lunt, the main reasons cited for being cautious about e-shopping were the costs of computer equipment, going online and delivery of goods. People were also uncertain about how to return products.There is also a fundamental mismatch between the way   people shop normally and online services: impulse buying or the ability to examine products are missing; for many, the experience of shopping, for clothes, for instance, is as important as the products themselves."People acknowledge the convenience of e-commerce in principle, especially for mundane grocery shopping," says Lunt. "But it became clear that the supermarket shop is a complex activity that includes idiosyncratic and luxury items bought on impulse or with a specific occasion, person or meal in mind. The difficulties of reproducing this experience using a list-based computer program were evident to our participants."Most shoppers found it hard to navigate e-commerce sites as goods are laid out unintuitively and many were disappointed at how dull the web sites were, particularly if they were used to computer or video games.Lunt believes there are three groups of people who do not e-shop. The first has little knowledge of the internet but is potentially interested. "They're a prime target for limited e-services delivered by digital TV," he adds. The other group tends to be older and less educated and, Lunt believes, may be left behind. Members of the third group are relatively wealthy and computer literate but have other reasons for not shopping   on the web. "The issues for these people are the broader social issues of privacy and the possible effects on the way we live and shop. They could be the new Luddites - except that they are happy to use the internet for other reasons."Lunt adds that this group is unlikely to start e-shopping unless they are sure that their   privacy will be safeguarded.Most of the people he talked to considered online shopping analogous to "real" shopping. "They are thinking more of the integration of e-commerce services into their current consumption practices rather than taking the opportunity to rethink the way they shop and organise   the allocation of responsibilities within the household," says Lunt.The location of the computer was another factor, as many people have theirs either in the sitting room as part of an entertainment set-up, or else in the study for work.Lunt sees this as a drawback because as he puts it,   "PCs are not integrated into the 'provisioning' spaces and flows of the household".Young people and men were most positive about internet shopping. About 58% of e-shoppers are men. Lunt suggests that men shop more than women simply because what they want is gendered - books and CDs rather than cosmetics or clothes - but that in any case men still aren't buying much at all."The survey indicates that those who are most positive about e-commerce are focusing on the convenience and the price advantage in particular products and not on the experiential aspects of shopping. These are relatively well to do people who are technologically savvy and don't get much pleasure from shopping," he says.Given that these people are a minority, will the situation change enough to encourage the rest of the population to shop online? The European Commission has already been involved in producing directives aimed at protecting the identities of online shoppers, but the trouble will be in regulating the internet.As usual it will be down to the manufacturers themselves to behave reasonably. How ever, because manufacturers will need to make more profits than usual from internet sales, they will need - and want - to collect and analyse the vast amounts of data that will be generated by internet shoppers."One likely solution is that firms will develop methods that allow the collection of data linked to consumer profiles (ways of categorising consumers using a variety of indicators) that do not require the identification of individuals," says Lunt. "This has the advantage of protecting the privacy of the individual but allowing the collection of detailed consumer information. The problem with this scenario is that this is still a radical increase in information   asymmetry between consumers and retailers (they may not know it is me but they know a lot more about people 'like' me) and that there are a number of potential dangers in this practice. One is that marketing decisions will be made on the basis of the information but (since it is not identified with me) I can not challenge these decisions."In the future, more of us may be encouraged to shop online as manufacturers overcome bad web design and learn to safeguard our privacy, but could internet shopping ever seriously replace the stress, and the thrill of the real thing?"It depends how far you are looking ahead," says Lunt, "I think the interesting question is what the strategic responses of firms to the introduction of e-commerce will be. They have to find new ways of appealing to customers and offering services that will include having a mix of online and offline presence in the market . This raises interesting questions for existing firms: how will this affect their brand image?"
Most of us can remember where we were when we heard John Lennon died, but who remembers what they were doing when Pete Townshend passed on?Back in June 1995 many internet users were stunned by a message that went the rounds of newsgroups: "I was very saddened to hear of the death of Pete Townsend, formerly of The Who. His Tommy will be missed by millions."The online rock world might have gone into mourning had not a counter message emerged: "I think you're confusing Peter Townsend, who died but wasn't very famous for almost marrying someone royal, with Pete Townshend, who hasn't died (as far as I know) and was very famous for being in The Who."This underlines the problem of the net: the sum of human knowledge is there but so is the sum of human ignorance, misinterpretation - and malice.All those improbable stories we once heard in pubs, college bars or at work have swum out onto the net, where they flourish in emails and on websites. Once you might have heard them while hitch-hiking. A driver would tell you about a friend of his who had a picked up another hitcher who had seemed quite normal - then had vanished into thin air in the course of the journey. Now you can    find the story on your browser (seewww.snopes.com/horrors/ghosts/vanish.htm).Back in 1981 the folklorist Jan Harold Brunvand (now professor emeritus in the University of Utah English department) wrote a book about these urban legends, The Vanishing Hitchhiker. (Check outwww.snopes.com/sources/vanhitch.htm)  for details of the book and stories. A full list of Brunvand's books can be found atwww.hum.utah.edu/english/faculty/brunvand.html. Such stories are also known as "foafs". Foaf stands for "friend of a friend" because the story usually happened to a friend of a friend.There are thousands of places on the net dedicated to debunking these myths. One of the oldest is the alt.folklore.urban, a usenet group which also has a website atwww.urbanlegends.comThere you can find a wealth of wonderful stories such as the old chestnut about the family on holiday with their elderly gran. Gran passes on and the family, rather than break off the holiday, pack her body on the roofrack. Then the car is stolen...New urban legends are constantly appearing. A    current favourite is that HIV contaminated needles are being attached to petrol pump handles in America (www.scambusters.org/hoaxes/needlesandgas.html).Don't Spread That Hoax atwww.nonprofit.net/hoax/hoax.htmlis dedicated to stamping out emails such as the one that tells you that to save the life of a dying child you must forward this email to at least four other people; for each email you send, 3p will be given to a cancer fund.There is no way to monitor the fact that you are sending an email anywhere so how would anyone know when to send 3p to the cancer campaign?Pseudoscience takes a pasting at sites likeBad Astronomy.comwhere the legend that you can stand a raw egg on its end only during the vernal equinox is demolished. Is there any truth to that legend that water swirls down the plughole counterclockwise in Australia? Seehttp://math.ucr.edu/home/baez/physics/bathtub.html.It's also worth checking out &lt;www.urbanmyths.comfor some outrageous legends - particularly the email from   the boy who doesn't have a body. He's just a head tied to a burlap bag.It can be disappointing to learn that some stories that you've lived with and loved for a long time are just myths.One of my favourites about a zoo keeper who died of suffocation, smothered when he fed too many laxatives to a constipated elephant, was exploded by the Darwinian awards legends websitehttp://DarwinAwards.com/legends/index_legends1998.html.Sometimes the debunkers do not do us a favour. You have probably seen the warnings at petrol stations against using mobile phones. This dates back to an urban legend that a petrol station was destroyed by a spark (read the legend atwww.darwinawards.com/legends/legends1999.html. But think about it. Do we really want to get rid of signs telling people not to use their mobile phones?Finally, it's good to remember that hoaxes were around long before the internet. For example, in 1726 Mary Toft of Godalming, Surrey, claimed to have given birth to a litter of rabbits.This case attracted a great deal of attention from leading medical authorities. For details of this and other hoaxes from the 16th century to the present day, visit the excellent and comprehensive Museum of Hoaxes run by Alex Boese athttp://helix.ucsd.edu/~aboese/hoaxes.html
You could almost feel the waves of relief surging from the squat sprawl of the Microsoft campus at Redmond, Washington. Good news hasn't been plentiful there in recent months, but one day last month it started arriving in bucketfuls.Larry Ellison, the charismatic, Armani-clad chief of the software giant Oracle and a bitter foe of Bill Gates, had been forced into a humiliating admission: he had hired private detectives who had been caught sifting through the rubbish of organisations he believed to be linked to Microsoft. (Ellison denies having authorised anyone to break the law).Ellison claimed to have uncovered a network of "Microsoft front groups" who were misrepresenting themselves as independent pressure groups opposed to the US government's anti-monopoly action against the firm. But all that was easily dismissed as the ramblings of a man who has never made a secret of his envy of Bill Gates. The resignation two weeks ago of Oracle's president, Ray Lane, though officially unconnected, cemented Microsoft's glee. If this grubby episode ever comes to court, it doesn't look like the sort of thing to detain a jury for long.But then very little is ever as it seems in the spite-fuelled upper echelons of Silicon Valley, and "Larrygate" has proved no exception. Ellison may be renowned as a brash playboy with a taste for ostentatious displays of wealth but it is by no means so certain that he is a delusional conspiracy theorist as well. Look more closely at the pro-Microsoft groups he targeted - and others like them - and things start to get bizarre indeed. Welcome to the strange, disorienting world of Microsoft's public relations campaign, where appearances are frequently deceptive, and where apparent groundswells of public support turn out to have been heavily financed by the company itself.One point of entry to this hall of mirrors is to be found on Eye Street, in the Foggy Bottom district of central Washington DC. Number 1225 is   the home of the Association for Competitive Technology (Act), and it was here, last year, that a woman reportedly working for Investigative Group International, the firm hired by Ellison, tried unsuccessfully to persuade two cleaners to accept $1,200 in exchange for the contents of its wastepaper baskets. Act's president - an ebullient software developer named Jonathan Zuck - was a regular fixture at the Microsoft trial, briefing the media on the lunacy of the government's case. This much is undisputed. After that, things start to get complicated.Act - which says it represents "mostly small-and mid-sized companies" - lists Microsoft as one of several founder members. It is not so obvious from its literature that Microsoft is also one of its major funders - the major funder by a long chalk, according to US press reports, though Zuck won't reveal the exact figure. Some might say that from the single-mindedness with which it argues Microsoft's case, it looks a lot like it was established at the Redmond giant's behest.Nevertheless, Microsoft points out, there are other groups that feel the same way - groups such as Americans for Technology Leadership (ATL), which describes itself as "a broad-based coalition of technology professionals, consumers and organisations dedicated to limiting government regulation of technology". Established shortly after the antitrust case began, ATL also turns out to be heavily funded by Microsoft, though again the amount is unknown. Should you wish to track down ATL, you won't have to go far, because its offices are also at 1225 Eye Street: on the very same floor. And if you want to talk to its founder, you won't have to go anywhere at all - because it's Jonathan Zuck."They're definitely one of our biggest contributors - we've been open about that from day one &#91;and&#93; it's the wrong issue to be focusing on," says Zuck. He insists that Oracle indulges in many of the very lobbying practices it criticises: "All this horseshit that &#91;Ellison&#93; was spewing . . .   bears very little resemblance to his own business practices."But there are still more mirrors, more wheels within corporate wheels. ATL's current chief executive, Josh Mathis, benefits from Microsoft money in another way. When he isn't leading the anti-monopoly uprising from Eye Street, Mathis is an employee of DCI/New Media, an Arizona-based company that "specialises in using cutting-edge technology to move public opinion" - setting up large-scale phone-bank operations to stoke indignation among voters and persuading them to lobby their elected representatives. Clients include the tobacco lobby, the National Rifle Association - and Microsoft.They have a word in Washington for the corporate-sponsored outcry, the grassroots movement that isn't: AstroTurf. By far the most comical example of this is to be found at the Freedom to Innovate Network (Fin), a "non-partisan, grassroots network of citizens and businesses who have a stake in the success of Microsoft and the high-tech industry". Fin doesn't try particularly hard to appear independent - its website, after all, is housed on Microsoft's own - but it has as its online centrepiece a lengthy   collection of testimonials from activist groups with vaguely alarming names: the Centre for the Moral Defence of Capitalism, Frontiers of Freedom, Defenders of Property Rights. Their comments appear unsolicited and independent: it certainly looks like there is a groundswell of support for the beleaguered computer giant. Though it isn't mentioned on the site, the vast majority get funding from Microsoft, a company source confirms. There are swathes of them - the National Taxpayers Union, Citizens for a Sound Economy, the Small Business Survival Committee, Americans for Tax Reform, and many more."Groups like Jonathan Zuck's wouldn't exist if it wasn't for Microsoft," says James Love, director of the Consumer Project on Technology, a Washington DC-based group (funded by private grant-making trusts) that has been one of the company's most vociferous critics. He calls it "scandalous" for Microsoft to act "as if there's some big, respectable opinion that the antitrust laws shouldn't apply to the computer industry. But then it's always better to report a favourable study from an independent group than from one you gave a grant to."Strange things have been happening at the offices of the Independent Institute, a think-tank based in Oakland, California: people have been calling in, pretending to be people they aren't. "On June 18, a guy showed up here after hours, asking for directions," recalls David Theroux, the founder and president. "The receptionist came to find me, and I gave the guy directions. But then, apparently, he came back into the office, grabbed two laptops and left. We filed a report to the police. They described it as a professional job."There is no reason to suspect that the theft is connected to the Oracle revelations. But whoever did steal the laptops may well have held a similar view to Ellison of the work of the institute: it was one of the organisa tions he asked Investigative Group International to target. Theroux is furious, condemning Oracle for its "back-alley tactics" and stressing that he has never concealed Microsoft's support for his organisation.Unfortunately it hasn't always seemed that way. In June last year, full-page advertisements appeared in the New York Times and the Washington Post that seemed to suggest opinion was swinging behind Microsoft. Headlined "An Open Letter to President Clinton from 240 Economists on Antitrust Protectionism", the ads mounted a scathing attack on the Justice Department's case, backed by experts and carrying the Independent Institute's logo.What didn't emerge, until it was reported by the New York Times four months later, was that their publication had been paid for by Microsoft. (Theroux maintains there was no specific contract with Microsoft to publish the ads, but a Redmond source confirmed the Times's claim.) Nobody told the economists that Microsoft money was backing the ads, and at least one signatory, Professor Simon Hakim of Temple University in Philadelphia, has expressed outrage at this. Others maintain that the fact they didn't know proves their   opinions were sincere. Perception, once again, is everything."We are very comfortable disclosing whether or not we have a financial relationship with an organisation or an advocacy group," says Microsoft spokesman Vivek Varma. "And if Mr Ellison is going to stand up and make charges about disclosure, it would be fair for him to disclose all of the places that Oracle has investments, including what the levels of those investments are." Nor does it pay to take too paranoid a view of Microsoft's alliances with free-market think-tanks and pressure groups: in the words of John Berthoud, president of the Microsoft-funded National Taxpayers Union, it is "hardly surprising" that organisations favouring limited government should oppose the antitrust ruling.But even if Ellison's claims are as preposterous as his opponents make out, Microsoft doesn't exactly make it easy to discount them. In April, reports surfaced in the US media of one of the most embarrassing lobbying incidents in recent history: the revelation that Bill Gates had hired the services of Century Strategies to drum up "grassroots" support and encourage voters to telephone presidential hopeful George W Bush, urging him to take Microsoft's side.For Gates, a billionaire whose charitable foundation takes a strong liberal line, it was an uncomfortable partnering: Century Strategies is owned by Ralph Reed, former firebrand leader of the far-right Christian Coalition. There was another problem: Reed was being paid by Microsoft to lobby Bush - but was a paid adviser to Bush, too. Though Microsoft had hired Century before Reed officially joined the Bush payroll, the incident caused red faces at Redmond, and it was left to Century to pull out of the deal and issue a sheepish apology.Maybe it's natural arrogance that makes Ellison so sure of his allegations: he has, cockily, offered to send the relevant garbage to Redmond for Gates to sift through personally. Maybe it is paranoia borne of jealousy. On the other hand, Microsoft's elation may be seriously misplaced. The cracks in its finely engineered public opinion campaign seem to be showing. "If you read a newspaper, you might get the impression that there's a whole lot of people who agree with Microsoft," says Love. "But then a whole lot of Microsoft's campaign is based on all sorts of stuff that's made to appear to be something it's not."
Apple Computer unveiled its first new product line for nine months yesterday, including a cube-shaped power computer and an updated iMac range for the consumer market.Steve Jobs, wearing his trademark baggy jeans and black polo neck jumper, said the Power Mac G4 Cube combined the power of the group's business-focused desktop with the "iMac magic" of sleek design.He won an appreciative gasp from an audience of thousands of Mac devotees at the annual MacWorld event in New York when he demonstrated the ease of removing the inside of the eight-inch cube-shaped computer.Wall Street analysts hope the updated iMac range will help improve sales of the colourful computers.Although about 3.7m iMacs have been sold since they were introduced two years ago, making them among the most popular desktops, sales slowed in the quarter to the end of June.Apple hopes that the latest range, which boasts five new colours as well as an optical mouse and keyboard, will reinvigorate demand in the run-up to the all-important Christmas selling season.Wall Street's immediate reaction was negative. Shares in Apple were down more than $3 to $53.625 an hour after the new range had been announced as traders reacted to the slightly weaker sales released the night before.Apple took the wraps off four new models of the iMac yesterday. The basic model in a new indigo colour scheme will be priced at $799 in the US and aimed at first-time users.The entry-level machine is important for the group because internal analysis suggests that 30% of all iMac buyers were first-time users of the group's products.The more expensive models boast digital video and a palette of colours to extend the "fruit sorbet" range.Other new developments revealed with some gusto by Mr Jobs include computers with dual processors and a demonstration of a new interface for the version of Mac OS to be released next year.A senior manager at Microsoft received the least enthusiastic welcome from an audience which included some enthusiasts wearing Monopoly-board images of the company.However, the company displayed a new software suite designed for Macs, prompting Mr Jobs to exclaim: "The best version of Office is that used   on the Mac - who would have thunk &#91;sic&#93; it a few years ago."Average unit prices have been affected by a bigger than expected shift to lower-priced iMacs and iBooks in the education sector. The company has made generous allowances, too, for the discounting it sees as necessary to clear old stock before the new range arrives in the shops.
Sony's palmalikesSony will launch its first Palm-compatible handheld computers in Japan in September - one with a colour screen, one mono -but they won't work as MP3 music players. The Sony    devices are much like current Palm machines except that will take Sony Memory Sticks. However, they will not play music from Sticks used in the MS Walkman because they don't support the copyright protection system used. Sony's "personal entertainment organisers" also have faster processors, running at 20MHz. This will enable them to run video sequences, using Generic Media's player, at 4-10 frames per second. Sony is not saying when it might offer its palmtops outside Japan. However, rival "Windows-powered" (ie CE3 powered) PocketPCs from Hewlett-Packard, Coimpaq and Casio come with MP3-playing software built in.Ultimate videoCould the humble VHS video recorder follow almost every other type of device and go digital? Philips hopes so. It plans to unveil its first D-VHS recorder, the VR20D, at the IFA sound and video show in Berlin next month. Digital recording will provide a much better picture, Philips says, and up to 21 hours of video on a single tape. (Useful for those long holidays, perhaps?) The system should also appeal to digital videocamera users who will be able to make perfect transfers from their tiny tapes.The little matter about which   Philips remains strangely silent is, of course, the price.Tiny transmitterTiny, the PC manufacturer, has launched a system that can distribute DVD movies around the house. The DigiCast gizmo consists of a transmitter, which is attached to a PC with DVD drive, and a receiver, which is attached to your TV set. The idea is that you can run a DVD movie on a PC in the study, say, and watch it in the comfort of a living room up to 50m away. It could also be a boon for families who aren't talking to one another...Gateway leadsGateway is now the brand of PC most commonly found in US homes, having finally overtaken Packard Bell, according to a survey by the American research firm Media Metrix. But Gateway, with 10.3% of the installed base of 55m PCs, is only a whisker ahead of Compaq, the world's largest PC manufacturer. Packard Bell, Hewlett-Packard, Dell and IBM follow on behind. In a separate survey, Media Metrix research shows a decline in Apple Macintosh ownership in homes from a high of 4.9 million house  holds in January 1996 down to 3.8 million households in January 2000.Lovely ClioTwo years after being unveiled at the Comdex computer show in Las Vegas, the award-winning Clio notebook computer is heading for the UK. The distribution of the latest Windows-powered version (ie it runs Microsoft's Windows CE3 operating system) has been taken on by A2000 Distribution (seewww.pocketpc.uk.com). The unique selling feature is a SwingTop (sic) screen: it swivels so the Clio can either be used conventionally or as a pen-operated tablet computer.
Game Boy GambitPalm organiser users can now run Nintendo Game Boy games, thanks to the $16.95 Liberty emulator launched on the web byGambit Studios. The tricky bit is transferring the games from a Game Boy cartridge to a personal computer and from there to the Palm, which is undoubtedly beyond virtually all the program's potential users. As a result, pirated Game Boy cartridge code is likely to be circulated illegally on the internet, as is already the case with some   other Nintendo systems. However, Gambit is keen to license games from software houses and make them available for a fee.While the Palm has a bigger, better screen than the 10 year old Game Boy, it makes a poor emulator because of the key arrangement (it lacks a directional control pad), lack of sound and lack of speed. Gambit Studios therefore "recommends and sells Afterburner 3.0", an over-clocking utility that makes the Palm processor run faster.Gambit says Liberty runs on most Palm OS 2.0 devices from Palm, Handspring, TRG, Symbol and IBM, if they have at least 16K of memory. Exceptions are the Pilot 1000, Pilot 5000, Palm Personal and Palm Professional "due to operating system display limitations".Soldier Blue?Soldier of Fortune, an ultraviolent PC game, has been classified as an adult movie in British Columbia, Canada,    making it illegal to sell or rent it to anyone under 18. Mary-Louise McCausland, the provincial director of film classification, said that this was because the game's "depictions of violence against persons and animals   are brutal and portrayed realistically and explicitly".Hello SydneyEidos Interactive is publishing the official video game of the Sydney 2000 Olympic    Games for the PC, Sony PlayStation and Sega Dreamcast. The game is being produced by Warwick-based software house Attention To Detail (ATD), which started the project with a fact finding mission two   years ago. The game will include 12 sports from the 100m sprint to the Kayak K1 slalom via skeet shooting, superheavyweight weight lifting and 10m platform diving.Class goalsNext term, more British schoolchildren will benefit from playing fantasy football in class, with Schoolmaster.net, an internet service and educational content provider, supporting the Schools Fantasy League. Manou Marzban says that "besides developing worksheets on player statistics and performance testing mathematical knowledge, Schoolmaster.net will provide worksheets that address journalism, language prose, geography and history." It will also provide supporting online services including email, chat and discussion groups. Seewww.schoolmaster.netandwww.fantasyleague.com
