Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
We've been hearing about the decline of reading for so long now that it's amazing a contemporary teenager can even recognise a book, much less read one. The US (where I am) seems to be cycling through yet another "Johnny can't read" mini-panic, sparked by the release of a National Endowment for the Arts study, calledTo Read Or Not To Read, which chronicles in exhaustive statistical detail the waning of literary culture and its dire consequences for society. Newspapers dutifully editorialised about America's literacy crisis.It's the sort of "our kids in peril" story - right up there with threats of MySpace predators - that plays well as a three-minute television newsbite or a three-paragraph op-ed piece. But if you actually read the report, what you find are some startling omissions - omissions that ultimately lead to a heavily distorted view of the Google generation and its prospects.You need to read itThe NEA makes a convincing case that both kids and adults are reading fewer books. "Non-required" reading - ie, picking up a book for the fun of it - is down 7% since 1992 for all adults, and 12% for 18-24 year olds.The subtitle of the NEA report - A Question Of National Consequence - would lead you believe this dramatic drop must have had done significant damage to our reading proficiencies as a society. And indeed, NEA chair Dana Gioia states boldly in his introduction: "The story the data tell is simple, consistent and alarming."  But then the data turns out to be complex, inconsistent and not really that alarming at all. As Gioia puts it, in the very next sentence: "Although there has been measurable progress in recent years in reading ability at the elementary school level, all progress appears to halt as children enter their teenage years."What was that again? There's measurable progress in two of the three age groups reviewed? Actually, it's more than just measurable: if you look at the charts, the single biggest change - either positive or negative - is the spike upwards in reading abilities among nine-year-olds, which jumped seven points from 1999.But at least there must be an "alarming" drop in reading skills among those 17-year-olds to justify this big report. And there it is: the teenagers are down five points from 1988. But wait, this is all on a scale of 0-500. If you scored it on a standard 100-point exam scale, it's the equivalent of dropping a single point. Not exactly cause for national alarm.And we're comparing two different generations. Today's teenagers are the nine-year-olds who didn't test all that well back in 1999 - presumably because they didn't develop a love of reading that would sustain them through the competing attractions of being a teenager in the digital age. But there's no reason to suspect that the current crop of nine-year-olds won't be much better at sustaining their interest in reading given their current performance.Comparable non-events appear when you look at prose literacy levels in the adult population: in 1992, 43% of Americans read at an intermediate level; by 2003 the number was slightly higher at 44%. "Proficient" readers dropped slightly, from 15% to 13%. In other words, the distribution is basically unchanged - despite the vast influx of non-native English speakers into the US population during this period.All of which raises an interesting question: if people are reading less, why haven't scores dropped more dramatically? The answer gets to the most significant sleight of hand of the NEA study: its studies are heavily biased towards words on a printed page.Odds are that you are reading these words on a computer monitor. Are you not exercising the same cognitive muscles because these words are made out of pixels and not little splotches of ink? According to the NEA you're not, because in almost every study it cites, screen-based reading is excluded from the data. This is a preposterous omission, because of course the single most dramatic change in media habits over the past decade is the huge spike in internet activity.Yes, we are reading in smaller bites on the screen, often switching back and forth between applications as we do it. A recent study by the British Library ofonscreen research activitiesfound that "new forms of 'reading' are emerging as users 'power browse' ... "And of course we are writing more, and writing in public for strangers: novel readers may have declined by 10%, but the number of bloggers has gone from zero to 25 million. Simply excising screen-based reading from the study altogether is like doing a literacy survey circa 1500 and only counting the amount of time people spent reading scrolls.All Gioia has to say about the dark matter of electronic reading is this: "Whatever the benefits of newer electronic media, they provide no measurable substitute for the intellectual and personal development initiated and sustained by frequent reading."Technological literacyThe only reason the intellectual benefits are not measurable is that they haven't been measured yet. There have been almost no studies that have looked at the potential positive impact of electronic media. Certainly there is every reason to believe that technological literacy correlates strongly with professional success in the information age.I challenge the NEA to track the economic status of obsessive novel readers and obsessive computer programmers over the next 10 years. Which group will have more professional success in this climate? Which group is more likely to found the next Google or Facebook? Which group is more likely to go  from college into a job paying $80,000 (&pound;40,600)?But the unmeasured skills of the "digital natives" are not just about technological proficiency. One of the few groups that has looked at these issues is the Pew Research Centre, which found in a2004 studyof politics and media use: "Relying on the internet as a source of campaign information is strongly correlated with knowledge about the candidates and the campaign. This is more the case than for other types of media, even accounting for the fact that internet users generally are better educated and more interested politically. And among young people under 30, use of the internet to learn about the campaign has a greater impact on knowledge than does level of education."In apiece for the New Yorker, Caleb Crain manages to write several thousand words about the fate of reading in the modern age with only a few passing references to the computer screen. Unlike the NEA, he at least acknowledges the potential benefits in one brief paragraph: "The internet, happily, does not so far seem to be antagonistic to literacy. Researchers recently gave Michigan children and teenagers home computers in exchange for permission to monitor their internet use. The study found that grades and reading scores rose with the amount of time spent online."Screen shiftThe problem with both arguments is that they're fundamentally rehashing the technological opposition of the television age, the kind of opposition that McLuhan wrote about so powerfully back in the 1960s: word versus image, text versus screen. But that long-term decline towards a pure society of image has been reversed by the rise of digital media. What separates the Google generation from postwar generations is the shift from largely image-based passive media to largely text-based interactive media.We don't know exactly how that will play out in the long run, but thus far, when you look at the demographic patterns of the Google generation, there is not only no cause for alarm: in fact, there's genuine cause for celebration. The twentysomethings in the US - the ones who spent their childhood years engaged with computers and not zoning out in front of the TV - are the least violent, the most politically engaged and the most entrepreneurial since the dawn of the television era.But if you listen to the NEA, we are perched on the edge of a general meltdown: "The general decline in reading is not merely a cultural issue, though it has enormous consequences for literature and the other arts. It is a serious national problem." A serious national problem with no apparent data to support it. Perhaps the scholars at the NEA should put down their novels and take some statistics classes?&#183;Steven Johnson is the author of Everything Bad Is Good For You: How Today's Popular Culture Is Actually Making Us Smarter and The Ghost Map, available fromguardian.co.uk/bookshop&#183;This article was amended on Thursday February 14 2008. The chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts is Dana Gioia, not Giola as we had it in the article above. This has been corrected.
Chart fromYahoo FinanceIt seems that shareholders don't think a Yahoo takeover is a good idea. Even though Microsoft just reported some outstanding financial results, its share price is taking a beating. As has been pointed out, this reduces the value of the bid, which is half cash-half shares.Amusingly enough, this decline is hitting two of Microsoft's biggest shareholders -- Steve Ballmer and Bill Gates -- where it hurts.Considering that Silicon Valley hates foreigners from the far north (Seattle? They're worse than Canadians) and Microsoft is also taking a beating in the press, this might be a good time to pull out. Before it gets worse.Update: Or maybe not. As fred2 points out in a comment below: "Microsoft, Apple and Red Hat all fell on 1 February and have fallen since, and at an almost identical rate. The North American stock markets are all tanking at the moment, so how much can be read into this?" Seehere....Charles Arthur adds:the MSFTextrememakeover blog, which is pushing for downsizing, hassome in-depth financial analysisof the proposed deal, with the coda:So at some future point, MSFT is going to have to take a huge charge to write down the "goodwill" difference between what they paid, versus what YHOO was actually worth. I guesstimate that that charge will be at least $1/share, and it could easily be $2 or more depending on what the final price is, how the integration goes, etc.. Needless to say, a $1-2 charge in some future fiscal will have the effect of wiping out a large part of MSFT's overall earnings for that entire year.And thatif you're a MSFT shareholder you should be hoping this deal gets kiboshed by either YHOO or regulators (however unlikely). Alternatively, you should hope that MSFT and YHOO come to some other accommodation. The best option there would be a standalone entity (either under the YHOO listing or a new one), into which both YHOO and MSFT contribute and MSFT shareholders get stock.(To the latter suggestion, I'd just point out that almost all joint ventures fail. I can only think of one in the past decade that's worked well: Sony Ericsson.)
Archos is taking on Apple with a Wi-Fi-enabled digital set-top box, theArchos TV+, which UK boss Tony Limrick unveiled yesterday in London.It starts as a simple PVR or DVR (Personal or Digital Video Recorder) that can record TV programmes. It also lets you stream files to your TV from your PC. Add the Opera browser (at extra cost) and you can surf the web on your TV screen, using the little Qwerty remote supplied. You can also sync your TV programmes with your Archos PMP (Portable Media Player) and take them away with you.Limrick describes it as "the missing link" between your TV and the net (no PC is required), and reckons Archos has succeeded where other companies (cough*Apple TV*cough) have tried and failed.He's certainly undercutting Apple on price: in the UK, the Archos TV+ costs £179.99 for the 80GB version and £249.99 for 250GB. But you may also have to add £19.95 for the Opera browser. The MPEG2 and H.264 codecs are also extra-cost plug-ins. This probably isn't going to go down too well with buyers, but Limrick says that this way, users don't have to pay for them if they don't want them. (US prices are $249 and $349.)TV programmes are recorded in VGA format (640 x 480), and there's no HD support at the moment. Archos does support DRM-protected WMV and WMA audio and video files, so you can use most music libraries, except Apple DRM-protected iTunes.The TV+ also has a USB port so you can transfer photos from a PC or digital camera and show them on your TV screen.The TV+ is based on Linux, like the TiVo.There are, obviously, other things on the market. The Microsoft Xbox 360 is another way to get PC content on a TV set, though it doesn't record TV programmes (unless you get them from an IPTV supplier such as BT, I think). You can roll your own media center with Linux andMythTV, and so on. But Archos could succeed by providing a small, smart-looking box that makes it simple, at a reasonable price.This whole market has been a bit of a flop so far. Are people simply not interested, or are they just waiting for the right product to come along at the right price? If so, has Archos nailed it?
Child controllerOn Internet Safety Day, February 12, the PICstick (Parents In Control Stick) - essentially a USB dongle - will go on sale at &pound;49.95.picstick.comPop video - in SimlishNatasha Bedingfield has recorded a song in Simlish, the language of EA's Sims game, to promote the FreeTime expansion pack due on February 29.tinyurl.com/25llvrRecord gamersGuinness World Records is tomorrow publishing a 256-page Gamer's Edition that "celebrates the records and achievement of the videogaming world".gamers.guinnessworldrecords.comGoogle on mobileGoogle UK has launched a new universal search service for mobile phones.google.co.uk/mVista getting SP1Microsoft has completed Service Pack 1 update for Windows Vista and released it to manufacturing. SP1 should be available via Windows Update in March.tinyurl.com/2au56mPinkBerryRIM has launched a pink version of the BlackBerry Pearl 8110 smartphone.tinyurl.com/26uk3eShopping in styleiStorez reckons it is offering a new way to shop across online stores and brands using an avatar, such as Career Girl Carrie or Wall Street William.istorez.comA date for oldiesThis year's Silver Surfers' Day will be held on May 23, and Digital Unite is encouraging people to plan events.digitalunite.net
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday February 8 2008The mobile phone music service reviewed in the column below was Vodafone Live! and not MusicStation, as we said. This has been corrected."This is the future of music", proclaims the bumph with the Vodafone Live! mobile I tried out. Personally, I sincerely hope that it isn't, because in many ways the present version of music isn't that bad. You buy a CD, and if you've got a computer you rip it and you can play it on an MP3 player. Or else you buy a dirt-cheap portable CD player and carry that around with you. That does however show up a huge gap in the market: the people who can't afford computers but who do want to listen to more music on the go than will fit on to a CD.Obviously they need some way of getting the music directly on to their mobile phones without the intermediate step of a computer for which they don't have the capital to splash out. And the equally obvious way of doing that is to let them buy the tracks directly over the air, download them to their phone and listen there.OK. So Vodafone Live! is a good idea in that way. (After all, insisting that everyone must buy a computer is a very Marie Antoinette-ish approach - let them download cake, and that sort of thing.) But it's the implementation that's rubbish.I began by browsing around the menu of featured songs and videos. Hey, let's download that Britney (music) video. (It wasn't my money, OK?) This took some minutes, showing just how far the download had got. Success! Now play ... wow, music videos really do not look at all good on a mobile. She looked like a bright ant.OK, then, what about music? I tried to do a search through the music library. Tab down through the fields ... is that the search field? OK, Kanye West. That's K-A-N- oh, boring, my phone doesn't know it, I have to spell the word. Ah, Kanye West. Do I want to buy the ringtone for &pound;2? No, buy wallpaper for something else? No, buy another ringtone for ...? Could I just buy the song now? Finally. Download. "Interrupted." Damn. Retry. Go through the payment process again. (Again?) Download. "Interrupted." Damn. Retry. Payment. Download. Success! Play. "You now need to validate your purchase. You will get a text message and then the track will play."This is simply ridiculous. Although the text message does eventually arrive, the friction involved in doing this is enormous. Surmount the phone's spellcheck and find a song. Do the purchase (and let's not even wonder what would happen if my credit needed topping up). Survive the download. Validate the download. Sure, the sound is good once you get it to play, but even so you've got the problem: what if you're one of that elite with a computer and want to play it on that computer? Uh-uh, no can do. The video and music are DRM-protected, and though you can burn them for backup, playing them on anything but your mobile is a no-no. Which for the videos is daft, and for the music not that helpful.This may be the future of music for some people, but honestly, it could be so much better.Pros:No need for a computer, lots of musicCons:Tedious, bureaucratic, music can't be transferred&#183;This article was amended on Thursday February 7 2008 to correct the name of the product reviewed.
I can see my virtual house!More virtual reality headtracking, following on from last week's mockup version for the Wii; this uses TrackIR, an infrared system to add VR effects to games. (Thanks, "cmsdengl"./)Just, um, reflowing some solderThat is a fire and it is on top of the logic board of an Apple iBook. Never fear: it's a DIY way of melting the solder that holds its graphics chip in, badly. Don't try this at home! Even though this guy did do it at home... (Thanks, StevieBee.)Light-emitting fabrics, helloMaybe not necessary for telling you where the sofa is, but probably a good idea for drunk clubbers heading home on the roads.Come on - tell us your favourite technology and games videos. Stick the URLs in the comments.
I found out aboutIn Memoriamtoo late. The cross-media computer game that forced its way into your life via emails was a superb vision of entertainment to come. Since then, the ARG phenomenon has caught the attentions of big media, and interactive integration has become part of the marketing gamut. In Memoriam stands as a pure form of the kind of entertainment described in Gibson'sPattern Recognition, but one which I was unable to play. I've been looking forward to the creators' new title.Thanks to a handy tip from Footy via bambino_tostare, it turns out the In Memoriam folks have a new interactive adventure:eXperience 112. From the official website:In a dilapidated tanker, grounded on a Pacific island, time seems to have stood still for the past thirty years.Apart from a few hard-to-identify animals, there isn't a soul around. Or at least so it would appear... This makes the presence of Professor Lea Nichols, a woman in her thirties who could be beautiful if the strain of her situation wasn't so etched on her features, all the more troubling...She needs your help to escape from her floating prison. From behind your surveillance screens and using your control tools, you will act as her eyes and her ears as you help her to find a way to leave this sinister vessel.According to Wikipedia,eXperience 112 is an adventure video game where the player does not directly control the in-game avatar; instead, the player helps to guide the avatar via a system of camera and remotely controlled equipment.It doesn't look like it's got all the cross-media higgledy piggeldy, but is a compelling concept nonetheless.The game won the Grand Prix award at the 2007 French Video Game Festival (Festival du JeuVideo 2007). Look forward to more coverage to come.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too, looking at studies that suggest we're reading less, why Apple users are unusual (not just for being a minority), the botnet risk to OLPC and Classmate, how arcade games are being reborn and a medical telepresence experiment that might just work. Click through for the full content..Dawn of the digital nativesIf you believe a scary US report, reading is on the decline. But, says Steven Johnson, it completely fails to consider the amount that we do every day on our computersGame review: Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of DoomAfter a stellar 2007, Microsoft Game Studios has started 2008 with a whimper. Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom is as derivative as the title suggestsNewly asked questionsDoes Microsoft's bid for Yahoo face any antitrust barriers?NewsbytesChild controller | Record gamers | Google on mobile | Vista getting SP1 | PinkBerry | Shopping in style | A date for oldiesGame review: Devil May Cry 4Here's proof that developers are getting to grips with programming for next-gen consoles: the leap to the PS3 and Xbox 360 has elevated Devil May Cry from an admired yet hardly top-rank franchise into something irresistible.Read me first Apple users are special: they're happy to pay for their softwareAndrew Brown: I had to help a friend buy a new computer the other day, which meant escorting her around the Apple store. Since she is on broadband and knows nothing about internet security, it was the obvious thing to do. It's perfectly possible to run Windows securely and reliably and I do so myself, but if you don't want to bother with security at all, a Mac is undoubtedly less trouble.Game review: NiGHTS: Journey of DreamsFans were jubilant to hear that the dreamworld jester of Sega Saturn fame would be returning after more than a decade; however, once played they may wish for sweeter dreamsCrime fears as cheap PCs head for AfricaInitiatives such as the OLPC and Classmate could mean an explosion in botnets in the developing world, warn security expertsMPs rap Ordnance Survey's 'complex and inflexible' licencesMPs have criticised Ordnance Survey for its lack of transparency and the 'complex and inflexible' licences which have left even the Ministry of Defence complainingHow do the US wannabes stack up on games?Aleks Krotoski: When the politically charged Grand Theft Auto IV is released, games will be caught in a hypermedia culture clash which will have a ripple effect throughout the worldWhy the sale of radio spectrum mattersVictor Keegan: One of the big events that will affect lifestyles over the next decade has gone curiously unreported - the upcoming auctions of radio spectrum released by the end of analogue televisionLetters and blogsVista's snap, crackle, pop | The not-so-long view | Who pays? | Real music | Press the 'any' key | Mile high | Total controlAsk JackSuper portable wanted | Triple play | Eee PC revisited | Stumped by AOL | Help, 999 | BackchatGame on again for coin-operated arcade titlesDespite the rise of the consoles, arcade games are seeing a resurgence by offering an experience you can't get at homeFace to face with the future of remote medical consultationsConnecting doctors with patients via video is not new - but is now the time for it finally to take off?Making government IT a profession calls for timeMichael Cross: Nowadays, a fair number of mission-critical government operations rely on the presumption that a web front end will work every timeLight touch could boost fibre optic networksResearchers led by Professor Thomas Krauss of St Andrew's University have developed one of the smallest optical switches ever
Sod's law is the technical term. On the last morning of January, John Suffolk, the government's chief information officer, was cheerfully telling the annual government IT conference that his IT-based transformation of public services is on course. A video clip from the prime minister commended civil service computer bods for "commitment to providing the public with the very best".Sure enough, even as the clip was showing, the government's flagship e-service was falling over. Thousands of people trying to file their self-assessment tax returns that day were greeted with a dismal "some customers may be experiencing problems" message. A grovelling HM Revenue and Customs gave them an extra day's grace.In the great scheme of things, a website crashing for a few hours is no catastrophe. The wonder with the self-assessment service is that it doesn't happen every year: the routine of a sudden rush of transactions on one day a year could have been designed by a malevolent teenager to put the system under strain. The promptness with which the deadline extension was granted, surely part of a contingency plan, suggests that HMRC itself was under no illusions about the chance of failure.The private sector - for which the current generation of web technology was developed - can shrug off such embarrassments, perhaps by bestowing a few M&amp;S vouchers on customers who complain loudly enough. In the public sector, that's not good enough. Nowadays, a fair number of mission-critical government operations rely on the presumption that a web front end will work every time. For example, one of the many tasks envisaged for the citizens' web portal Directgov is disseminating public information in the event of a national emergency. Sooner or later, it is going to be tested very severely indeed.At the conference, Suffolk claimed to be improving the government's record on managing IT projects. The centrepiece is the creation of a government IT profession. This is welcome. Central government's IT corps has been under the cosh for decades; first from the mandarin's traditional disdain for technical specialists, then hollowed out through outsourcing. Local government has done better, thanks to its ability to retain some good people at a fraction of City salaries. Overall, though, and very unfairly, government IT managers are a national joke.Changing such attitudes is going to take a long time. A new fast-stream recruitment of IT specialists is only in its second year. It will take a decade or more for these bright young things to rise to positions of influence. It will take even longer for the government IT profession to establish status and self-confidence.One barrier is in British social attitudes - decades of doughty campaigning by engineering institutions have done little to alter the image of an engineer as a bloke in blue overalls. Computer techies don't do much better.Another barrier may lie in Whitehall. The mark of a profession is not just that its members are competent at their jobs, but that they are answerable to a higher code of conduct. A professional civil engineer would resign if asked to build a bridge with patently unsuitable materials; a computer professional should do the same when asked to construct a mission-critical system with rushed and untested chunks of code.It's significant today that the main organised opposition to many IT-based reforms comes from professional bodies representing lawyers and doctors. I'm not sure that the government has quite thought through the implications of creating another yet body of white-collar troublemakers.
I run training seminars from PowerPoint on a laptop, which I also use on trains and planes, so I want something small and light. I'd love to be able to work for six hours or more without mains power. I'd also like a comfortable keyboard and a 13in screen, but not one with a glossy coating: I've found them unusable. My budget can stretch to £1,600 including VAT.Alan BlackOver the past few years, the market for thin-and-light light business notebooks has had two mainstays: the IBM ThinkPad X60 and the Toshiba Portégé R500 lines. Both offer between seven and eight hours of battery life. But while this type of PC usually leaves out the optical disc to get a thin and light machine, Toshiba now includes aDVD multi-driveonly that is only 7mm thick. The catch is that both systems only have 12.1 inch screens, as does Sony's mobile business offering, theVaio G11. This is less than you want, though it is more usable in an airline seat. However, if you can wait, Lenovo is expected to bring out a new X300 series ThinkPad with a 13.3 inch LED backlit screen. This also has a 7mm ultrathin DVD, according to details leaked to theGizmodoblog. The catch might be the price.Apple has recently entered this market with the MacBook Air. This is thinner than the IBM and Toshiba models, but heavier and slightly bigger because of its 13.3 inch screen. Unfortunately for you, it has a glossy screen. Apple does offer the MacBook Pro with a 15.4 inch non-glossy widescreen. This has good battery life (between five and six hours), and you can always carry a spare. The catch is that it's more than twice as heavy as a Portégé R500 or X60. If you can narrow the choice down to two or three machines, getting them side by side will help you decide.
We want to go wireless and take on a provider that will give us telephone, cable/dish and broadband. At present we're paying a number of providers, and it makes sense to have one bill rather than three.Brian MoranTwo useful sites areBroadband ReportsandISP Review, which carry reader reviews and ratings. Otherwise, there's a new site that's intended to help you choose the best package:simplifydigital.co.uk. However, while having one supplier can be the cheapest option, it prevents you from choosing the best provider in each area, so I still think having three bills is better.
Was there a reason that you didn't suggest the Asus Eee PC toDavid Stansby, who was asking for a sub-£250 laptop?Emma Duke-WilliamsThere were several reasons. It's much nicer to surf the web, chat etc with a 15.4 inch screen, 1.6GHz or faster processor and an 80GB hard drive rather than to use an Eee PC with its somewhat pokey 7-inch screen, 600MHz processor and no hard drive. Cheap laptops have much better keyboards, and many adult users will find the Eee PC's keys too small. Cheap laptops also have DVD drives, which the Eee PC doesn't, and can run iTunes, Windows Media Center, and thousands of games the Eee PC can't. The small cost saving means making a lot of compromises elsewhere.I like the Eee PC, and I'vewrittenplenty about it. I think it's a great second/mobile machine. But that wasn't what David asked for.
I've downloaded a file in .pfc format, which I can't open. Is it something AOL doesn't want me to read?Judith BennettIt's an AOL Personal File Cabinet, and you can probably read it with a user-writtenPFC Viewer, and also export email. Marco Pontello has written a freePFC Extractor, but you have to run it from a Command Prompt, which looks like MS-DOS.
I have been unable to send messages from my Yahoo mailbox since it "improved" it back in December. Messages to its helpline receive identical replies: my server and/or programs are at fault.Bob JonesYou're getting error 999, which seems to be Yahoo code for "we don't have a clue". Using the "secure" log-in option could help. If not,Murray Moffathas a compilation of possibilities.
Are you finding home broadband too slow? For really fast downloads of 100 Mbps or higher, you need a fibre-optic connection. But to support on-demand TV and even home networks, an affordable new generation of optical switches is required. Now, researchers led by Professor Thomas Krauss of St Andrew's University have developed one of the smallest optical switches ever.Krauss has worked with light for 20 years. He understands how to manipulate light, switch light with light, and to use light for logical operations - like on or off. Instead of electrons flowing in copper wires or semiconductors, Krauss relies on photons, glass fibres and photonic crystals. "Using fibre in the home requires small optical circuits that operate with low power. When these can be mass- produced, it helps to keep the cost down," says Krauss.With this in mind, he has made prototype optical switches one-10th of the width of a human hair. They consist of two photonic crystal waveguides - like narrow curved wires - placed in close proximity to one another: a rectangular photonic crystal in the centre is formed by a lattice of holes in silicon. When heated, the switch detunes (turns off) and no longer transmits light. Krauss is also testing one that operates by applying an electric field.The important breakthrough is that these structures use silicon, allowing for wafer fabrication of many optical switches integrated on the same chip - like today's microelectronic circuits. And that promises to be cheaper than large optical telecommunication switches."We wanted to show what can be done with photonic crystals, and that optical building blocks that approach the size of electronic transistors are possible. It is difficult to state which is the smallest optical switch ever made - but this is certainly one of them," says Krauss.Another plus is that, by using silicon, his switches may be integrated with electronic circuitry on the same chip. And, being extremely small, they should operate at very high speeds too.What does all this mean to us? There's a growing need for optical components in telecommunications networks, to support increasing user demands on the internet. So, before too long, fibre optic will enter our homes - and that makes more affordable optical switches essential. "The technology may eventually be used in small consumer devices that connect every home or office to an optical fibre and supply high data rates," says Krauss. "Why home applications? People will want to send videos to their friends, and they do not want to spend hours doing this."
After a stellar 2007, Microsoft Game Studios has started 2008 with a whimper. Kingdom Under Fire: Circle of Doom is as derivative as the title suggests.This is a fantasy hack and slash game that requires players to simply button mash their way through waves of assailants. Exploration? Excitement? Not here. Luckily it looks pretty good — the fantasy environments are attractive, if restricted in scope — and there is some strategy involved in creating new items. But the nonsensical plot does little to engage, while the small number of locales soon kills any wanderlust.Play online though — the game supports up to four players — and you can begin to see what the developers were aiming at. The incessant and repetitive action makes more sense when you've got someone else to share the load. Get a well balanced group and memories of 80s arcade hit Gauntlet will come flooding back.  But these fleeting moments are too rare in a game that ultimately fails to deliver.
When Anne Urquhart of Aberdeen arrived in hospital with an injured toe last week, she was surprised when the doctor asked if she could examine her via a video screen. Aberdeen Royal Infirmary is conducting the NHS's latest experiment in telemedicine - the decades-old idea of diagnosing and treating medical conditions via electronic links rather than face-to-face.The trial's backers, who include the networking company Cisco, say a new set of technologies called telepresence, coupled with new pressures on the NHS, could make the experience commonplace.Videocall me tomorrowIt's an old futurological dream. Telemedicine made its public debut in 1924, when Radio News magazine illustrated a doctor examining his patient on a radio set equipped with a screen. In the 1950s, the University of Nebraska began experiments on medical consultations over CCTV; in the 1960s, Nasa sponsored telemedicine for Native American communities as well as astronauts to demonstrate the spinoff benefits of space travel.In the 1990s, tumbling hardware prices and digital communications generated a wave of interest, especially in countries with scattered populations such as Norway. However, unless you count the speech-only NHS Direct service (NHS 24 in Scotland), telemedicine has found few uses in the UK. Even when doctors accept the technology, in a small country with a comprehensive health service it usually makes more sense to transport the patient to a doctor than to set up a video link.For obvious reasons, the main centres of NHS interest are in Wales and Scotland, where telemedicine has proved useful in linking patients in remote areas to specialists such as dermatologists. What's new about the Aberdeen trial is that it tests the use of telemedicine for a whole range of GP and A&amp;E consultations.Gordon Peterkin, director of the Scottish Centre for Telehealth in Aberdeen, says that a new swathe of pressures on the NHS, from new contracts for doctors to the green agenda, mean telemedicine's time has come.The enabling technology is telepresence, a video conferencing system which presents a life-size high-definition image of the other party as if they were sitting just across the table. The patient's booth includes medical devices - such as a stethoscope, blood-pressure cuff and thermometer - to transmit essential information to the doctor. Crucially, the whole setup works on a standard network, which means it can be deployed everywhere there is broadband: it needs about 3.5 megabits per second.Cisco is promoting the package globally under the brand name HealthPresence. It provided hardware for the Aberdeen trial, and is funding half of the &pound;30,000 evaluation. (It also paid for the Guardian, and three other publications, to attend a press demonstration last week.)The experience is uncannily close to life - when talking to a doctor through the system I found myself reacting automatically to her body language, edging back when she leaned too close. Real patients seem to agree. "It was just like a normal consultation," says Urquhart.However, a large number of questions need to be resolved before teleconsultations with family doctors become routine. The immediate purpose of the Aberdeen trial is to check whether teleconsultations are as effective as face-to-face ones. Despite the long history of such pilots, Peterkin says there is a dearth of hard data of the kind that would be required for other medical innovations.At Aberdeen, patients who volunteer for teleconsultations in the hospital (the doctor is just down the corridor) also receive face-to-face examinations. About  30 patients have been through the trial and so far there have been no differences in diagnosis, according to James Ferguson, an A&amp;E consultant. The trial will need about 300 patients to get a statistically significant sample.The next stage will be to move the patient booth to a "remote safe site", probably a community hospital, where hands-on medical help is available. If that works, the booth could go almost anywhere. "We might put it in a hotel, or a police station," Peterkin says. The booths could be shared with other public services, such as social security benefits. Self-service booths are unlikely, however - the plan is that a trained attendant will help patients with medical devices and point a handheld camera where needed.Vital signsEven if the trials succeed, creating a business case for the service may be difficult.  Cisco won't say how much the hardware will cost. "We haven't priced the booth," says Nick Augostinos, the company's healthcare solutions director. Among other things, the cost will depend on the level of medical equipment and the state of existing broadband networks.Except in special cases such as prisons and offshore oil installations, sustainability has always been telemedicine's big difficulty. Setting up a sponsored pilot is one thing, running an ongoing service is quite another. The lesson of 50 years of telemedicine is that, even if the technology has finally come of age, that is only one part of a much larger jigsaw.
Rumours of the death of the arcade game have been greatly exaggerated. At least, that was the message from exhibitors at last month's Amusement Trade Exhibition International (ATEI) show in London. "There's a vibrant market, it's still healthy," insists Jim DeRose, president of arcade developer Global VR.But where the ATEI was once dominated by driving, rhythm-action and shooting games, it's now primarily a showcase for redemption games, casino equipment and other "section 16" machines - products which, under that section of the Lotteries and Amusements Act, can offer prizes of up to &pound;500. The entire ground floor is taken over by the likes of Barcrest and JPM, names familiar to anyone who's ever spent time lurking around fruit machines. Less than half of the top floor is dedicated to arcade cabinets.It's 25 years since the commercial (and, some would argue, creative) peak of coin-operated videogames. The statistics aren't pretty. The US market has shrunk to a quarter of its size, from 1.4m coin-operated videogames in the early 1980s to just 327,000 in 2006. Revenue declined from $7.3bn (&pound;3.7bn) in 1982 to $866m in 2004.Devastating effectWalter Day took coin-ops seriously. He captained the US National Video Game Team and ran an arcade called Twin Galaxies in Iowa from 1981-84. The glory days, he says, were triggered by one game: Pac-Man. "When arcades first started in the 70s, they had reputations for being rowdy places where people were wasting their time. When Pac-Man was released in 1980, it completely changed the landscape. It leapt out of the arcade and went into theatre lobbies, street corners, doctors' waiting rooms. It led to dozens of other games equally as popular: Defender, Robotron: 2084, Centipede, Joust. The games had little graphical capability, so the gameplay had to be genuinely intriguing. A very wide demographic was playing them."But the growing popularity - and power - of home consoles had a devastating effect on coin-ops. The Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) was launched in the US in 1985, followed by a European release a year later. It sold more than 60m units. Day identifies the end of "the golden age of videogame arcades" as taking place during the Guinness world championship of January 3-5 1986. Just eight contestants turned up. "By 1986, there were so few arcades it wasn't that easy for a person to continue an arcade habit," he says. "The games would often cost as much as a car, $2,900, and arcade operators bought them on credit. They drove each other out of business. So a new generation grew up with home console games and that became what they knew best."But it wasn't until after the 1994 launch of Sony's PlayStation that parity was reached between arcade and home technology. As Namco developed cheaper coin-op technology, it took the PlayStation's key architecture as the foundation for its System 11 board, which was used for the first two Tekken games.The industry reached its nadir a few years later. WMS Industries - the company behind the 1980s hits Defender, Joust and Robotron - stopped manufacturing arcade cabinets in 1999 and now focuses on casino slot machines. Midway closed its arcade division in 2001 while SNK went bankrupt the same year. Konami shut its American arcade operation in 2003. And by 2005, Japan's arcade industry had consolidated: Sega with Sammy, Square Enix with Taito, Namco with Bandai."There was a lot of panic," says DeRose. "A number of the large manufacturers and a lot of the developers went out of the business. You spend millions of dollars to get a game into the marketplace but you can't predict how many units you're going to sell. It compelled a lot of companies to say, 'I'm not willing to take that risk'." Today, a successful arcade game will sell, globally, only 4,000 to 6,000 units."The videogame when it first got established was the tail wagging the dog, because the coin-op pioneered it," says Michael Rudowicz, president of the American Amusement Machine Association (AAMA) and a former president of Konami Inc's coin-op division. "But now we're really the tail on the dog. It was easy enough to port a coin-op game into a consumer game but it's extremely difficult to take a consumer game and make it a coin-op." Home computers and consoles in the 1980s were flooded with arcade conversions.Now, the reverse is true, albeit on a smaller scale. DeRose's Global VR specialises in transposing home properties (such as EA's Nascar Racing) to the arcade, while shooters like Half-Life 2: Survivor and Silent Hill: The Arcade are based on successful home franchises.It's gun and driving games that are at the core of the remaining arcade market, says Namco Europe product manager John Brennan. Hardcore gamers may be keenly anticipating beat-'em-up sequels Street Fighter IV and Namco's own Tekken 6, which is based on PS3 technology: hardcore Tekken fans infiltrated the ostensibly trade-only ATEI to be the first to play the game in the UK. But Brennan admits: "The fighting game market exists but only in very small quantities on coin-op."Rudowicz goes further: "Until something really innovative or new comes along, I think we're in a holding pattern. We haven't really found that next Pac-Man or Space Invaders."But the arcade industry does have a future. It's in "offering technology that you can't get in your home", according to Sega Amusements Europe sales and marketing manager Justin Burke. "In OutRun 2 you can sit in a lifesize Ferrari. You can't do that in your living room." It's in embracing new locations for coin-ops, such as family entertainment centres, and replacing old machines, a move that has seen the number of arcades in the US grow from its 2003 low of 2,500 (down from a peak in the early 1980s of 10,000) to a current figure of 3,500. As Rudowicz puts it: "A lot of the movie theatres had games that had been there for 15 years. Unless I'm really bored out of my mind, why would I want to play that?"Scoring a replayThe future is also in emerging markets like Russia and the Middle East, and in taking coin-ops online. In Japan, where there was a 10.3% rise in the value of the arcade market from between April 2005 and March 2006, Sega's Amusement Linkage Live Network (ALL.net) connects more than 20,000 arcade cabinets."The home's interconnectivity is the lesson that the arcade is learning," says Walter Day, who now runs a website that tracks videogame high scores (twingalaxies.com). "The arcade titles that are most popular now in the US, like Big Buck Hunter and Golden Tee Golf, allow players to compete in contests and for prizes online. They emulate what the internet does for home-based games but do it in a public setting."Big Buck Hunter Pro sold 7,000 units in 2006, making it the year's best-selling arcade game. It's indicative of an industry that, having downsized, survives on modest expectations and successes: within a year of Pac-Man's launch in October 1980 it had sold 100,000 machines.Has the industry ever recovered from the growth in home consoles? "I wouldn't say it's recovered from it," says Brennan. "I'd say it's learnt to live with it."
What if the plans to spread low-cost One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) and Intel Classmate computers to the developing world work? What if in a few years there are hundreds of millions of them out there? Many might applaud. But among computer security experts, there's growing concern that those scheme could inadvertently lead to a huge increase in computer crime.Initiatives such as the OLPC and the Classmate are intended to help bridge the digital divide. But security experts warn that there could be an unforeseen negative effect."There is the possibility of creating the largest botnet in the world," says Yuval Ben-Ithak of Finjan, a computer security company. This view is borne out by arecent reportby F-Secure identifying Africa as one of the emerging cybercrime threats.Phenomenal takeup"Within the past few years, internet take-up in emerging markets has been phenomenal," says Mikko Hypponen, chief research officer at F-Secure. "The trend is expected to continue and spread into areas such as Africa, India and central America. People are developing sophisticated computer skills. But," he adds, "they have limited opportunities to profit from them legally. There will be a delay before legal systems catch up with developments in the IT sector. Computer criminals may also be able to escape the law more easily in countries which are undergoing serious political and security problems."The case of Onel de Guzman, the student who wrote the 2000 Love Bug virus and who escaped prosecution because the Philippines, his home, had no offence with which to prosecute him, is a case in point. But Ivan Krstic, OLPC's director of security hardware, points to the choice of Linux as the operating system for the computers. "You cannot have one program loading from the internet that can then go to your [email] address book and then send out a spam message to everyone," Krstic explains. "The program can only work in its own area and has no functionality beyond that."For anything to be able to achieve that overall control, the attack would have to be written to the system kernel, and those are the hardest attacks to launch. Those vulnerabilities do exist, but they are patched very quickly. It would be difficult to get them to run bots." However, there is an option to run Windows XP on the machine - which means, concedes Krstic, "they can be attacked. All of the connotations of Windows security apply."The Windows-based Intel Classmate also includes a nod at security. Countries buying it can opt for antivirus software, included for a higher price, but must negotiate that with AV companies themselves; and a hardware setting disables the laptop if it is not connected to an antivirus monitoring network for a certain period of time. This is to safeguard the machine from becoming part of a botnet, which can disable antivirus checking.The bigger problem in the long term may be the developing world's choice of operating system. "Most of the machines we are shipping have Windows on them. That's the operating system most countries want," says Intel. It adds that teachers will receive training from Intel to monitor the network and will be able to see if changes have been made to the machines: "Some schools using the computers will have a teacher who is responsible for security on their networks, others will have an IT person." As a last resort the Classmate, like the OLPC XO, can be wiped clean and restored to its factory settings.But while Windows has its problems, Linux may not offer much better protection, says Guillaume Lovet, a botnet expert for Fortinet. "The first botnets  were Stacheldraht, Trinoo and TFN, and were built in Linux," says Lovet. He also dismisses claims that the low bandwidth and internet use in parts of the developing world - the World Economic Forum's 2007 Africa Competitiveness Report estimated that African internet use was just 3.4% of the world total - would act as a brake on the development of botnets."It doesn't take any bandwidth to control or make a botnet," Lovet says. "Aggregated bandwidth is what is important, and that would still be massive. You could still build a huge cyber-weapon with only a thousand of these machines."For the botnet herders - the people who create and control botnets - there would also be kudos in staking a claim in a new area. "We have seen botnets involved in landgrab exercises in the past," says Greg Day, a security analyst for McAfee.Just as alarming for Mark Sunner, chief technology officer of Messagelabs, which monitors email traffic on behalf of the government, is that the machines could be used as a recruiting ground for criminals.Herd goats, or bots?"You can imagine a whole swathe of internet boiler-rooms being created among people who can make more money from internet crime than herding goats," says Sunner, who points to the fact that Africa already has the highly technologically literate Nigerian 419 group, one of the oldest cyber-crime organisations.The latter are very dangerous, says a former head of the UK's now disbanded West African Organised Crime Unit. "They are organised like a business. They are already building most of the bogus bank sites on the web. If you ship computers to Nigeria then a lot of them will inevitably make their way to 419. I mentioned this to someone who is still monitoring 419 and they said 'you might as well shut down the internet and go back to pen and ink'."Sunner, meanwhile, notes the dangers that the machines represent to Africa's own emerging internet infrastructure. "There are a lot of viruses are already heading for Africa and China and the consequences of spam can be terrible if you do not have much bandwidth," he says.Both Intel and OLPC point out that the laptops will often only have intermittent connectivity. That might lower the risk of getting infected - or the chances of getting security upgrades.But the bleak picture may be avoidable, says Rolf Roessing, a security expert for KPMG. "If we are to bring IT to Africa then it will not work unless we bring security with it. Computer security in the west grew because of a loss of innocence and there are still weaknesses in the developed world because of a lack of awareness. If you bring IT to developing countries then you have to develop awareness, too."The rush for the developing marketTheOLPC XOis a toughened, stripped-down laptop weighing 1.3kg that uses a 433Mhz AMD chip, 2GB flash drive and mesh Wi-Fi to create a local area network. The Linux-based OLPC, which is about to be tested by Microsoft for use with XP, can connect to the internet and has three USB ports.Intel's Classmateis built with a 900Mhz Celeron M chip which can run Windows XP or Linux, uses Wi-Fi and has a 2GB Flash drive for the Windows variant and a 1GB Flash drive for the Linux version. The 1.4kg Classmate comes with two USB ports and costs between &pound;115 and &pound;150.TheAsus Eee PCrange is less rugged. There are four 7in models weighing 920g and sporting  an Intel Celeron processor. Their Flash drives range from 2GB to 8GB, with between 512MB and 1GB of Ram. They have three high-speed USB 2.0 ports and Wi-Fi. All run Linux and can run Windows XP, and cost around &pound;200.Acer,Gigabyte,LenovoandEverexhave all announced low-cost laptops that can compete in this area.
One of the big events that will affect lifestyles over the next decade has gone curiously unreported: the upcoming auctions of radio spectrum released by the end of analogue television and the government's decision to push public bodies, such as the military, to auction their unused spectrum worth up to &pound;20bn. These auctions will determine how - and whether - we receive signals for high definition television, mobile broadband and other wonders in the offing. The problems of how we allocate spectrum - and the associated goal of delivering fast broadband to the home - are major public policy issues influencing the course of the UK economy. The key decisions are being left entirely to market forces.This is mostly admirable. Civil servants can't decide what consumers will want a few years hence. Only companies risking their own money can do that, and even they sometimes get it wrong. There are two areas where government could have a vital role. First, where the systemic benefits exceed the returns to an individual company. BT argues that it cannot justify the cost of laying fibre to the home (FTTH) as opposed to a junction box down the road because it can't see any profits nor any use for fibre-optic cable that can't be met from existing capacity. But this ignores the likelihood that if fast broadband were in all homes, developers would soon dream up new products. Ten years ago most corporations couldn't see the point of broadband. They failed to see that supply would create its own demand - witness the deluge of new uses, ranging from internet television to free phone calls.During a Westminster Media Forum on video-on-demand last week, when the question whether broadband-to-the-home might be mandated by government was raised, so many people appeared to be against it that it wasn't even thought worth debating. One wonders whether the same reaction would have been triggered had they been required to decide whether water or electricity to the home should be left to market forces.BT's conservatism may soon change now that rival Virgin has, commendably, announced a roll-out this year of FTTH of up to 50 megabits a second (up to 10 times most current speeds). But it is highly unlikely that this will lead to ubiquitous FTTH in the way that is happening in South Korea and Japan - in both cases with measured government support. Which raises the second area of concern - unless the government intervenes, a huge digital divide will emerge. It is bad enough now when poorer people are deprived of access to the web's gateway to knowledge and entertainment. But if you think of what might be happening in a few years time - such as instantaneous access to your doctor or hospital by live video link - then lack of fast broadband access will cause real deprivation. Access to broadband will be as important as the right to have electricity or water.What can be done? Later this year the government will be auctioning spectrum in the 2.6GHz band which could be used for many things, including a country-wide WiMax network delivering mobile broadband with speeds of up to 26Mbps, almost 10 times current speeds. If manufacturers know this is coming, they can start designing devices giving instant mobile access to anything from a virtual world to your local GP. Such a system would also offer members free telephone calls anywhere to other users. Existing 3G operators won't be keen - except to ensure it doesn't fall into enemy hands. Yet mobile broadband might be the best way to recharge the UK economy and simultaneously to bridge the digital divide. The auction is "technology-neutral", so successful bidders can do what they like with spectrum they acquire. Everything may turn out OK, but if it doesn't then a rare opportunity for Britain to lead from the front will have been missed.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Fans were jubilant to hear that the dreamworld jester of Sega Saturn fame would be returning after over a decade; however, once played they may wish for sweeter dreams.The premise of Journey of Dreams is to rid Nightopia of evil Nightmarens. This is done by flying through colourful, "kiddie-friendly" 3D levels on predetermined 2D paths. Performing circular aerobatics, collecting orbs and steering NiGHTS through hoops to give you boosts, your aim is to chase down monsters and win back keys. Although repetitive, the "three section stage plus boss" format is enjoyable, but the game's downfall — aside from its short length — is that if you fail at any point, you have to redo the whole stage again. Thankfully you can turn to the two-player options or "virtual garden" when the story-mode begins to grate.Sadly, although designed specifically for the Wii's controls, the Wii-mote has too small a response area, making control unwieldy — so multiple control options are a blessing. Harking back to a more innocent time in gaming, its irritating yet addictive feel can be enjoyable, but like NiGHTS' flying, it's a game of highs and lows.
Super portable wantedI run training seminars from PowerPoint on a laptop, which I also use on trains and planes, so I want something small and light. I'd love to be able to work for six hours or more without mains power. I'd also like a comfortable keyboard and a 13in screen, but not one with a glossy coating: I've found them unusable. My budget can stretch to &pound;1,600 including VAT.Alan BlackJS:Over the past few years, the market for thin-and-light light business notebooks has had two mainstays: the IBM ThinkPad X60 and the Toshiba Prot&eacute;g&eacute; R500 lines. Both offer between seven and eight hours of battery life. But while this type of PC usually leaves out the optical disc to get a thin and light machine, Toshiba now includes aDVD multi-driveonly that is only 7mm thick. The catch is that both systems only have 12.1 inch screens, as does Sony's mobile business offering, theVaio G11. This is less than you want, though it is more usable in an airline seat. However, if you can wait, Lenovo is expected to bring out a new X300 series ThinkPad with a 13.3 inch LED backlit screen. This also has a 7mm ultrathin DVD, according to details leaked to theGizmodo blog. The catch might be the price.Apple has recently entered this market with the MacBook Air. This is thinner than the IBM and Toshiba models, but heavier and slightly bigger because of its 13.3 inch screen. Unfortunately for you, it has a glossy screen. Apple does offer the MacBook Pro with a 15.4 inch non-glossy widescreen. This has good battery life (between five and six hours), and you can always carry a spare. The catch is that it's more than twice as heavy as a Prot&eacute;g&eacute; R500 or X60.Triple playWe want to go wireless and take on a provider that will give us telephone, cable/dish and broadband. At present we're paying a number of providers, and it makes sense to have one bill rather than three.Brian MoranJS:Two useful sites areBroadband ReportsandISP Review, which carry reader reviews and ratings. Otherwise, there's a new site that's intended to help you choose the best package:simplifydigital.co.uk. However, while having one supplier can be the cheapest option, it prevents you from choosing the best provider in each area, so I still think having three bills is better.Eee PC revisitedWas there a reason that you didn't suggest the Asus Eee PC to David Stansby, who was asking for a sub-&pound;250 laptop?Emma Duke-WilliamsJS:There were several reasons. It's much nicer to surf the web, chat etc with a 15.4 inch screen, 1.6GHz or faster processor and an 80GB hard drive rather than to use an Eee PC with its somewhat pokey 7-inch screen, 600MHz processor and no hard drive. Cheap laptops have much better keyboards, and many adult users will find the Eee PC's keys too small. Cheap laptops also have DVD drives, which the Eee PC doesn't. The small cost saving means making a lot of compromises elsewhere. I like the Eee PC, and I'vewritten plenty about it. I think it's a great second/mobile machine. But that wasn't what David asked for.Stumped by AOLI've downloaded a file in .pfc format, which I can't open. Is it something AOL doesn't want me to read?Judith BennettJS:It's an AOL Personal File Cabinet, and you can probably read it with a user-writtenPFC Viewer, and also export email. Marco Pontello has written a freePFC Extractor, but you have to run it from a Command Prompt, which looks like MS-DOS.Help, 999I have been unable to send messages from my Yahoo mailbox since it "improved" it back in December. Messages to its helpline receive identical replies: my server and/or programs are at fault.Bob JonesJS:You're getting error 999, which seems to be Yahoo code for "we don't have a clue". Using the "secure" log-in option could help. If not, Murray Moffat has acompilation of possibilities.BackchatBarrie Holder wanted his Psion Series 5 repaired. Steve Dunk says: "A repair service I have used for a broken ribbon cable (a common problem) is Paul Wright atPsionflex."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor,jack.schofield@guardian.co.ukblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack
Vista's snap, crackle, popIn your article on Vista audio (Why Vista sounds worse, January 31) I was surprised that you didn't mention DRM. Essentially, it appears that Vista artificially introduces a lot of overhead encrypting and decrypting data while passing it around internally, and also, in some cases, deliberately downgrades the quality of its audio and video output. Bruce Schneier hasmentioned thisbut a more comprehensive exploration of the way in which Vista (mis)handles audio is availablehere. Might these issues be of far greater relevance than the claim, in your article, that the drivers just aren't ready yet?Richard KempAbingdonTim Anderson responds:Nobody that I talked to thought that DRM was to blame. The "protected media path" is apparently not involved in ordinary audio playback.The not-so-long viewThe title (The internet rewards the lazy and punishes the intrepid, January 31) led me to think: what ever happened to long-term business planning?  I work on the web, where one year is an eternity for some and where the notion of creating, building and holding a business for 10 years is nearly impossible ("it will be shut down or sold").watchmojo.comWho pays?The issue with such a business model is always going to be dilution of the audience (Making social networking pay - for users, January 31). Website owners are going to wonder how much more difficult it is to simply set up their own application rather than add someone else's to get all of the revenue instead of a portion of it. And shared revenue can only go so far when it has to sustain a company AND pay the users as well. The more users who sign up, the smaller the piece of the pie for each of them.profy.comThis is the most basic business principle - you don't pay your users. You give them products and services and they pay you the money.blog.santoshmaharshi.comReal musicVictor Keegan (We'll pay the piper if we like the tune, January 31) says that market research would show that people want simple, inexpensive downloads of music. Well, those that download do, but that's not for everyone. CDs are attractive to many; not everyone is interested just in songs; not everyone likes or uses MP3 players or wants mobile music; minority - non-pop - tastes are poorly served by services such as iTunes.Ian WinshipNewcastle upon TynePress the 'any' keyI bought a Microsoft Natural Desktop keyboard 4000 a couple of months ago and it provided me with my favourite error message (Technophile, January 31). Whenever I've bought a keyboard before I have never installed any software that was included. I didn't realise that the software had to be installed for this keyboard, so I just plugged in and switched on. The computer failed to boot, and the error message was: "Keyboard malfunction. Press F1 for Help". Hmm. Press F1 on a keyboard that isn't working?Iain FentonAlvaMile highDid we go metric in the 70s (Letters January 24 and 31)? Technology Guardian isn't sure: In Is a US spy satellite going to land on my head (January 31) we hear that recently "a 600ft asteroid zoomed passed us at a distance of just 538,000km". Give those writers an inch and they'll take a ...Bob RotheramNottinghamTotal controlAs Bill Clinton might have said: it's the controller, stupid (Hardcore gamers, January 31).Nick RadcliffeEdinburgh&#183;Write to: Letters TechnologyGuardian, 119 Farringdon Road London, EC1R 3ER. Telephone:  020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933. Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Here's proof that developers are really getting to grips with programming for next-gen consoles: the leap to the PS3 and Xbox 360 has elevated Devil May Cry from an admired yet hardly top-rank franchise into something that is utterly irresistible.This time around, you play as Nero (although previous DMC hero Dante features prominently) whose swordplay skills are augmented by a glowing blue demon arm — with which to grab, punch, and pull yourself towards enemies — and a gun (although Nero is more sword-oriented than Dante).It's impossible to find fault with any aspect of Devil May Cry 4: the demon-fighting is rendered deeply enjoyable by the complex but flexible control system, which encourages stylish fighting; the cut-scenes could grace a Hollywood digital epic; the boss-battles are tricky and inventive; the art style gloriously weird; the puzzles pretty decent; and the storyline thoroughly gripping. Truly epic stuff, and a must-buy if you like single-player action-adventure games.
MPs have criticised Ordnance Survey for its lack of transparency on how much it spends on its "firmly commercial" activities, and the "complex and inflexible" licences which have left even the Ministry of Defence "uncertain about what use it may make of the data it buys" from OS.The House of Commons select committee on Communities and Local Government, chaired by Phyllis Starkey,recommendsthat OS should revise its accounting procedures, to make clear how much it spends on activities done purely as part of its "quasi-governmental" function, and those done on a "firmly commercial" basis.OS responded that it is too late in the current financial year to meet that request, but that it is "already acting on many of the points raised in the recommendations".The Locus Association, which promotes private sector use of public sector information, called on the government to "hold OS to account over the committee's conclusions" while expressing disappointment that the report did not demand clearer boundaries for OS's "public task" - maintaining and updating the MasterMap of Great Britain - and its "commercial work", in which it licenses datasets, including the MasterMap and other data. Michael Nicholson, chairman of Locus, said this "will result in commercial activities being continually funded by those which are part of the OS's public task".Evidence given to the committee reveals a broad unease with the status of OS. The mapping imagery company Getmapping.com charges that OS is "competing unfairly in the [mapping] imagery market" by cross-subsidising its commercial activities from the public obligation, with "no effective regulation".The MoD, meanwhile, complained in its evidence about "more stringency and complexity" over the release of OS data. It also suggests splitting OS into two parts - one, government-funded, to maintain the national geographic database; the other to exploit the data, like commercial rivals.The Free Our Data campaign thinks the MoD's idea is workable, but does the government have the courage to do it?OS responded that it "supports the MoD's sharing of data derived from Ordnance Survey products, in order to meet MoD's statutory obligations".&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Yes - though whether any of them has any merit is quite another question.The US Congress' judiciary committee is going to hold "hearings to explore the competitive and privacy implications of the deal" - starting tomorrow, in fact. But Microsoft can justifiably claim that the deal would increase competition in the search advertising marketplace by creating a larger rival to Google which might be able to force prices down. Since the new entity won't be larger in that important field, what is there to complain about?Google, with 62% of the world search market and about 42% of its advertising, would rather shift the debate: its top lawyer David Drummondnotedthat together, Microsoft and Yahoo would have an "overwhelming share" of the instant messaging and webmail markets, and also that they have two of the web's most visited sites."Could a combination of the two take advantage of a PC software monopoly to unfairly limit the ability of consumers to freely access competitors' email, IM and web-based services?", Drummond asked. He was being rhetorical, but we suspect the simple answer is: no. The previous antitrust finding against Microsoft means the US Department of Justice would be watching it closely for such behaviour - probably with a Democrat president, Congress and Senate in the background. Be on your best behaviour at Redmond.Even so, there is some potential for abuse at the fringes. ComScore says Yahoo has 256 million webmail users, and Microsoft's Hotmail 255 million; Google's Gmail has perhaps 50 million users. And you can have multiple webmail accounts; some will even let you divert messages from one to another. The problems could come if or when a combined Microhoo decided that it would not let you forward messages to another webmail account: that might strike some as anticompetitive, and thus requiring some opening up - rather as the European Commission has demanded Microsoft should do with the details of the interface to its server products. But Hewitt Pate, a lawyer who served as an assistant attorney-general in the US Justice Department's antitrust division until 2005, couldn't see any obvious objections.The point is, Google does have a dominant share of web searches and income from web advertising, which will be strengthened once it completes its $3.1bn (&pound;1.6bn) acquisition of the online display ad company DoubleClick - if the EC lets it. Microsoft and Yahoo together would dominate that sector, with about 25% of the market. But there's still all the rest of the web to play for.Earlier this week Microsoft was bullish, telling analysts that "Microsoft believes this proposed combination would receive all necessary regulatory approvals" and should be complete by the second half of this year. We'll see, won't we?
You don't have to be a resident of the United States to know that it's an election year. British eyeballs have been watching the coverage of primaries, caucuses and - most recently - the political media circus called Super Tuesday as if they had a say in who becomes the next president of the US.To date, we've been educated on the candidates' platforms on healthcare, education and foreign policy - pretty typical stuff. But before this year is out, I predict another issue will rise up through the sluice: come April, when the politically charged Grand Theft Auto IV is released, games will be caught in a hypermedia culture clash which will have a ripple effect throughout the world. This isn't frippery; underneath all the "family values" talk that will inevitably rear its ugly head is an insight into how the future US president will cope with media censorship, and how games will be regulated in the future.The political tsunami surrounding the explicit sex scenes buried in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas in 2006 spurred Senator Hillary Clinton to propose the Family Entertainment Protection Act. The so-called Hot Coffee scandal instigated a flurry of controller-gazing as digital immigrant politicos tried to understand interactive content regulation. You can imagine Clinton's people are chomping at the bit for GTA IV's release on April 29. But what about the others?They may not have as clear political connections to gaming as Clinton, but they are prepared to have opinions about them nonetheless. Conservative Mitt Romney is unabashedly open about his dislike for games, and one of his campaign ads implicates them in the same "cesspool of filth" as pornography, sex and perversion. Republican frontrunner John McCain has a political history that promotes stronger labelling on games, and he has publicly blamed the medium for offscreen violence. And Barack Obama, the beacon of change in Washington, doesn't think much of games either, notably returning a donation made to his campaign by the Electronic Software Association and publicly implying gamers were lazy. In a Common Sense Media survey about videogame regulation, he challenged the industry to take responsibility, or his administration would step in.It may seem frivolous to talk about computer games in a campaign dominated by an unpleasant war in the Middle East, but how the candidates view this medium offers a clue as to how heavy-handed they'll be when it comes to media regulation. With this issue already a hot political potato in the UK, I'm holding my breath until April when a new pot of coffee is on course to boil over.
Yahoo is still deliberating over Microsoft's hostile takeover offer, but both companies have asked investors to carefully read regulatory filings as negotiations come to a head.A note posted on both Microsoft's and Yahoo's websites asks investors to carefully read all documentation related to the offer, though no agreement has yet been reached.Since the offer was made on January 31 Yahoo has seen its share price increase by more than 50%, boosting its market value from $25.6bn to $38.73bn (£19.77bn) last night.Microsoft sent a letter to the Yahoo board last Thursday outlining the offer and published it the following day in a move designed to put investor pressure on the company's management.Yahoo's investors have been disappointed that the firm has not been more competitive against Google, despite an intensive 100-day business review, a change of chief executive and a recent restructure that will lead to the loss of 1,000 jobs and aims to make the firm more efficient.Industry commentators have speculated that Yahoo would be keen to solicit alternative offers rather than be forced to accept Microsoft's $44.6bn bid.Eric Schmidt, the Google chief executive, confirmed he had spoken informally with Yahoo head Jerry Yang over a possible partnership.The two companies have even revisited 2007 proposals for Yahoo to outsource its search advertising to Google, a move that would increase the former's cashflow by around 25%.Any such deal would be a serious climb-down for Yahoo, making its underperforming Panama advertising platform defunct, and would be subject to scrutiny from industry regulators.Other commentators have speculated that the real battle ground will be mobile. Former Microsoft blogger Robert Scoble wrote that "the real race today is for ownership of your mobile phone", pointing out that 6m new mobile phones are registered every day in China."So every month that Microsoft and Yahoo will be stuck in some courtroom arguing out why this is a good deal means money in the bank for Google as they close mobile phone deal after mobile phone deal," Scoble said.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Most of this is already in the public domain of course (see CVG's huge hands-on featurehere), but today Konami has sent out a press release explaining how the PES 2008 control system is being reconstructed to take full advantage of the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. From the text:Making use of the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, the player must also consider the movements of their teammates around them. The Nunchuk is used to move the current player, while the Wii Remote is used to pick out players to send them on runs or to receive passes via simple click and drag system which uses arrows to show the path of the run, and a press of the 'B' button to complete the move....Dribbling is effected by clicking on the player and using an arrow and the 'A' button to guide the ball. The speed of the run can then be altered by extending or reducing the length of the guiding arrow, allowing stunning quick turns and bursts of speed to catch defenders off-guard.Shooting also benefits from more control over the players, with the Nunchuck used to shoot or head simply by shaking it. As with the real sport, however, timing is everything in front of goal, and the speed of the pass or cross, the ability of the player, the angle of trajectory and the timing of the shot or header will all have differing effects on the resultant shot.Apparently, other game elements such as man-marking, passing into space, clearing dangerous crosses and performing last-second slide tackles will also be given physical Wii controls - the latter, perhaps, involving hurling the controller across the room in a highly physical representation of your aggressive intent. Possibly not, though.Konami also mentioned the game's Mii mode, which allows you to create a squad made up of 16 of your own customised Mii characters. (There was a video of this mode on the Official Nintendo Magazine website, but it seems to have been removed - it looked suitably daft.) Plus there's a 'Free Match' online gaming mode offering one-on-one matches against your friends or unknown opponents. Finally, the classic Master League mode is being replaced with Champions Road, which sounds a little like the World Tour mode in Virtua Tennis - you travel around the globe taking part in matches and mini-challenges, gaining experiences points and creating a dreamteam of top professionals.All very interesting, but is this a PES for PES fans or a PES for Wii-lovers who know llittle of the brand?
It's that time again: after a week deep in the technology mines of moria, your hard-working podcast team led byAleks Krotoskihave emerged with some audio gems for you.This week:Bobbie Johnsonspeaks toLarry Brilliant, executive director of Google's philanthropic wingGoogle.org, we are joined byBeth Kanterfor a chat about how social media can be used by non-profits and charities and music siteSlicethepiesteps in for anElevator PitchwithJemima Kiss. AndCharlestells us about his chickens.As always,visit our Facebook groupandkeep the feedback, ideas and suggestions coming in.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Intel has revealed more details of Silverthorne -- its smallest x86-compatible processor for more than a decade -- at theInternational Solid State Circuits Conferencein San Francisco.Intel says the tiny 64-bit multithreaded chip, based on its new 45nm Hi-k low power microarchitecture, is aimed at MIDs or "mobile internet devices". (That's an acronym I got from Psion-founder David Potter in the late 1990s, but I thought it would never catch on.) As such, it's seen as competition for the ARM chip used in most smartphones and PDAs, but that's taking a long term view. It's not going to displace ARM chips any time soon.The two main points are that it's a low power chip (0.5W to 2W) and that it can run Windows and other desktop applications. It should therefore find a natural home in UMPCs (ultramobile PCs) rather than mobile phones, though the next generation version, codenamed Moorestown, may well get closer.Either way, users will get more speed and longer battery life with Silverthorne, while Intel will make more money. (Since Silverthorne is about a quarter of the size of a Core 2 Duo, Intel can make roughly four times as many chips per wafer. I'll bet it won't be a quarter of the price.)About a dozen years ago, many of us reckoned Silverthorne couldn't be done, and Microsoft decided to write a whole new operating system for low-end portable devices -- Windows CE, and derivations such as Windows Mobile. CE started out running on any processor but soon became focused on the ARM chip.Intel also went into the ARM chip business: it picked up Compaq's (formerly DEC's) StrongArm development and turned it into Intel XScale. In 2006, however, it did something "absolutely shocking": it sold XScale to theMarvell Technology Group. With hindsight, that was probably a signal that Intel reckoned x86 really did have a future on MIDs,And since MIDs might suddenly become a booming market, thanks to devices like the Nokia Internet Tablet and Asus Eee PC, Silverthorne now looks quite well timed.There's more on Silverthorne at Ars Technica (Inside Intel's Silverthorne ultramobile CPU), CNet (Intel sheds a little more light on Silverthorne) and the usual places.
The British love affair with text messaging shows no sign of abating as figures out today reveal we sent a staggering 57bn messages last year, with almost 5,000 sent every second in December.Statistics from the Mobile Data Association also show that five years after launch picture messaging is starting to take off. Roughly half the mobile phones used in the UK are capable of sending a picture message and although it became possible to send a photo to a user on another network only a few years ago, more than 448m were sent in the UK last year. That is equivalent to 19m rolls of film.The figures also show that making it easy - and cheap - to access the internet on a mobile phone has greatly increased usage. Companies such as T-Mobile and 3 have launched flat-rate mobile broadband packages and the launch of the Apple iPhone has also made the mobile internet more attractive for many consumers. More than 17 million people accessed the internet on a mobile phone in December."Mobile voice took off because it lets individuals do what they've always done and wanted to do, the way they've always done, but, with mobile, wherever and whenever they want. The same is becoming true of mobile internet," according to Jim Hyde, UK boss of T-Mobile. "In time, broadband mobile will be individuals' primary way of accessing the internet - and it will have a greater impact than even mobile voice has had."There had been talk that putting the internet on mobile phones would see people switch from text messaging to email, but SMS volumes continue to rise. Texts sent in 2007 were up 40% year on year and growth in December was 55% with a record 290m sent on New Year's Eve alone."Perhaps a more telling headline number is the penetration of mobile internet usage and multi-media messaging," said MDA chairman Mike Short. "We are really starting to see a much greater variety of mobile data volumes."
Mobile phone users have no greater risk of developing brain tumours than people who have never used them, according to a detailed study of cancer patients.Scientists questioned more than 1,000 people, 322 of whom had been diagnosed with brain tumours, about their phone usage and found no link between cancer and the length of time they had owned a mobile phone or the amount they used it. The study, by researchers in Japan, follows last year's report from the Mobile Telecommunications Health Research Programme.The &pound;8.8m report, funded by the government and the mobile phone industry, concluded mobiles had no short-term health consequences for adults, but raised questions over their long-term use, after finding a slight increase in malignant brain tumours after 10 years.The latest study is the first to take into account the variation in radiation levels that are absorbed by different parts of the brain. According to the team, there was no increase in tumours in the parts of the brain that received the most radiation.The Japanese team, led by Naohito Yamaguchi at Tokyo Women's Medical University, interviewed patients with different kinds of brain tumour. Their history of mobile phone usage was compared with 683 healthy volunteers whose age, gender and lifestyles were chosen to match individual patients.There was no consistent increase in the risk of brain cancer among regular mobile phone users, nor did the risk increase for people who owned phones longer, or spent more time on them, the scientists said. The study, funded by Cancer Research UK, was published yesterday in the British Journal of Cancer.Brain tumours are relatively rare, with just over 4,100 diagnosed in Britain in 2003, less than 2% of all cancers.The research goes further than other recent work by acknowledging that some parts of the brain are exposed to more mobile phone radiation than others, and so might be at greater risk of developing tumours. The scientists measured radiation levels from four different types of mobile phone and calculated how much radiation each part of the brain was exposed to when they were used.With this, the team was able to work out if brain tumours had developed in areas that received the highest doses of radiation. They found that radiation levels in the tumour were lower than 0.1W per kilogram, far below the safety limit of 2W per kilogram as set by the International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation.The study is part of a broader investigation into the health risks of mobile phones called Interphone, which was set up by the International Agency for Research on Cancer in 2000. The investigation will bring together studies from 13 countries and is due to release its final conclusions later this year. "All the epidemiological studies should be included when we make our final judgment on this," said Yamaguchi. "The result of all these studies from different countries will be the most important."Julie Sharp, science information manager at Cancer Research UK, said: "Although there's been disagreement about the effects of mobile phones in the past, the great weight of evidence seems to show there's no effect on cancer risk."
It's that time again: after a week deep in the technology mines of moria, your hard-working podcast team have emerged with some audio gems for you.This week: Bobbie Johnson speaks to Larry Brilliant, executive director of Google's philanthropic wing Google.org, we are joined by Beth Kanter for a chat about how social media can be used by non-profits and charities and music site Slicethepie steps in for an elevator pitch. And Charles tells us about his chickens.As always:• Subscribe free to Tech Weeklyvia iTunes•ordownloadto your computer • Thepodcast feed URL• Visit ourFacebook groupAnd keep the feedback, ideas and suggestions coming in.
Lighting is where it's at in the world of videogame graphics. It's where some of the real forward strides are being made in terms of creating environments with depth and atmosphere. Sometimes it's the obvious stuff - the enthusiastically over-used high dynamic range lighting that hurt your eyes when you drove out of tunnels in Ridge Racer 7 and will make the sunburnt zombies even scarier in Resi 5.More subtle, perhaps, is dynamic luminosity - a technique that seeks to simulate the way light bounces off every reflective surface in a room. Global illumination in other words. AtGDCnext week, UK companyGeomericswill be showing off the latest version of Enlighten, its dynamic luminosity engine, which creates the effect in real-time for PS3, Xbox 360 and PC developers. Geomerics has produced an interesting little video of the effect in action, which explains it all better than I can.The important thing about dynamic luminosity is that it subtly, almost imperceptibly, creates a coherent, plausible environment. Without it, you get a sort of scenic equivalent of the Uncanny Valley - everything seems flat and unreal. Crucially, characters moving through a scene don't quite look part of it unless the radiosity works. Geomerics'website has an admittedly partisan feature on the effect, which also claims that the reason we have so many shooters filled with dull greys and browns is that artists intentionally limit the pallet, "so that the lack of colour bleeding from the world onto characters is not so keenly noticed".So, more luminosity means less moribund, rust-hued shooters? Could it really be that easy?
Oyez, it's Tuesday so Apple has updated its product line with larger iPhones (up to 16GB) and iPod touches (up to 32GB). The prices now run thus: 16GB model for £329, 8GB model for £269; iPod touch now has a 32GB model for £32329 (sorry djhworld), joining the 16GB model for £269 and 8GB model for £199. All inc. VAT.(Please note: the new models are notquiteas large as in the photograph.)Which makes me glad I didn't splash out on one after filing my tax return. (Wouldn't you feelsickif you bought one last week? Come on, share your feelings. Nobody else will hear.)Notable that the revamp doesn't include themuch-expected revisions to the MacBook Pro, which is looking long in the tooth, and forecast to show off the new 45nm "Penryn" processors, from Intel, Real Soon Now. Perhaps next Tuesday.Meanwhile the Macbook Air is starting to arrive with reviewers who are putting it through its paces (no, we've asked, we're still waiting, as we are for Time Capsule..). Over at Ars Technica, Jacqui Chenghad a rotten time of it: although the manual says the Air can import data from another machine via the 802.11n wireless, she failed - and nobody she contacted had succeeded either. In fact, it just wouldn't start:It became a race against time — the longer it went [estimating how long the transfer would take], the more it infuriated me, and then my anger fueled my determination to see just how long this thing would take. Well, my patience lasted about five hours. Five hours later, the transfer still had not started, because the Air still had not calculated the amount of time it would take. It was an 80GB drive (about 70GB of which was full) transferring to another 80GB drive...I had to give up. If I had waited any longer, you wouldn't be reading this review right now — either because it still would not have finished, or because I had snapped.She also has problems with the Wi-Fi detection - which has been a problem with the Faraday-cage-effect aluminium-clad line of "Pro" machines since Apple introduced them in 2001. (Isn'tanyonethere listening?)By way of illustration, where I'm sitting right now, I can easily see over 25 wireless access points on my MacBook. I can only see 13 on the MacBook Air.(I've got an aluminium Powerbook, and its replacement will not have a metal enclosure; the Wi-Fi detection is just rubbish.)And the battery life? Not good again...I'll cut to the chase here: the MacBook Air's battery life sucks. A lot. I found it to be a pretty big disappointment, holding it to my admittedly-high standards. I ran down the battery from full charge four times and came out with an average of two hours and 33 minutes.That's the point at which my two-year-old old MacBook battery recently prompted me to buy a brand new battery, because it wasn't lasting me long enough in a single charge.So is she delighted? Umm, that would be a no.I can't even imagine what I'll do the next time I have to cover a keynote and have things like a USB EVDO modem sucking battery like no tomorrow. Maybe I'll buy one of those external car batteries with a three-prong plug built-in and keep it in my bag for extra juice. So much for three pounds of MacBook Air delight.Anyhow.. anyone here buy an iPhone or iPod touch last week?
A quick snippet of news for those who've missed it so far.According to Gamesindustry.bizand others, Sony Computer Entertainment Japan has confirmed that it'll be introducing a budget range of re-released PS3 titles next month. Among the games set to feature in the selection - known as The Best - are Ridge Racer 7, Gundam, Ninja Gaiden: Sigma, Folklore and Resistance: Fall of Man. The games retail at 3619 yen - about 17 quid - and we can apparently expect a UK version later in the year.It's good news for those of you who bankrupted yourselves buying the machine in the first place. I reckon any of the titles mentioned would be worth a look at £20 a pop - but possibly not at the £29.99 price point that Sony UK will doubtless conjure out of that Yen conversion...
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"IsJoostgoing to last the year?"askedMike Butcher at Techcrunch last month, after it emerged that the company had fired its chief technology officer - who on thesame dayjoined theBBC's iPlayerproject. And suddenly the question becomes this: when was the last time you saw someone watching Joost? If you've got the application on your machine, when was the last time you fired it up? And what did you watch?Joost, if you've forgotten, uses peer-to-peer technology to pass TV content around between computers, so it doesn't need a broadcast studio. It includes ads (which can't be skipped) and you can't record it. What's on, you get. There are various other wrinkles, but that's the essence.Although it hasnow added Star Trek TOS(The Original Series - you know, the one where the guy from Boston Legal and the cereal adverts plays Captain Kirk, and the guy who was a villain in Catlow plays Mr Spock) to its TV channels in the US (not clear whether it's in the UK and Europe), I haven't seen much blog buzz about it.The comments on Butcher's post suggest that people have had bad experiences with Joost - disliking the interface and the content.Rocketboom is sniffyabout it (because Joost wouldn't put it on?) TheGoogle Trends graph(warning: will be distorted by this posting, in a Heisenbergian fashion) isn't encouraging either. Then again,SiteAnalytics' measure of visits looks more promising.The Joost forums (where you can mostly hear the tumbleweed going past) aren't overflowing with joy either. On the "ads" area, thenewest thread, posted at the end of January, saysBig complaint of Joost now - I have to put up with ads. Still have a hard time finding something I'd LIKE to watch and then have ads placed ON and in the shows. For that, I can just turn on the "real" tv. OK, so it's easier to find something I want to see than a few months ago, but with ads in it, I might as well just go down to my corner store and rent the dvd. Or download from a variety of sites. So, sadly, I am now removing Joost as it doesn't solve any problems I have now. Had the promise of it, but sadly doesn't deliver.ParisLemonsaysI open it once in a while to see if anything new has been added, maybe watch a few clips, then shut it down 15 minutes later. I love the software, love the usability, but - as Mathew indicates - the content is simply not where it needs to be in order to get people to open up an entire program just to watch.Sometime last year Joost relocated from London to New York (something we said?). Itsofficial blogdoesn't indicate anything much. (Audience numbers? Downloads? Simultaneous connected users?)And ananonymous commenter spotted by Butcher, claiming to be an insider at Joost, said that "The main problem is that there is only very limited adoption among the user community. Far fewer people connect to the system than was originally hoped. Of course, this is mainly due to quality the content (or rather, lack thereof). It turns out that a lot of people download it once, then find out that there is nothing really good on there, then just never reconnect again."So, is there life as we know it at Joost? And if there is, how will we know?
Google's share price has dropped below $500 (£254) for the first time in six months as investors grow concerned about increased competition from Microsoft's potential merger with Yahoo.The hostile bid overshadowed Google's earnings statement last week, with investors focusing on profits that fell short of expectations despite a year-on-year rise of 40% for 2007 to $4.2bn.Wider concerns about the US economy and a slowdown in advertising - which accounts for 99% of Google's revenue - had pushed the firm's share price down to $495 by the close of business in New York last night.But the Gartner research vice-president, Andrew Frank, predicted that Google would remain market leader even if the Microsoft takeover of Yahoo - which would create a mass of online services known as a megacloud - went through."Microsoft views the megacloud business as part of its top-level strategic goals, but also likely realises that it is unlikely to ever top Google in advertising and search," Frank said."However, advertising and search are excellent potential cash flow generators. Microsoft must stay engaged in this area to diversify its revenue and limit Google's expansion."Microsoft must 'take the fight to Google's neighbourhood' while limiting the drain on Microsoft management," he added.Google shares peaked at $741 in November and some analysts had speculated that the search engine giant was well on the way to eventually reaching $2,000 a share within 15 years.Back in October, Henry Blodget on the Silicon Alley Insider blog said the company's growth would be strong as long as it "continues to eat the lunch of not only every major media company on earth but also the lunch of many technology companies".Writing yesterday, Blodget said Google was perceived by some as "the next Microsoft" because of its monopoly of the search market."Google may not intentionally be exterminating competition with the same zeal that Microsoft once did, but it turns out that search is a natural monopoly."And Google's lifeline to Yahoo (in the form of an Eric Schmidt call to Jerry Yang) resembled not so much a gesture of Valley solidarity as a heavyweight wrestler momentarily taking his foot off a prostrate rival's throat."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Unsurprisingly, gamers and things-gamers-do feature in several ofThe Onion's highly hilarious Top 20 nerd activities. Of particular interest to this blog are numbers 11 (World of Warcraft) and 17-19 (Cosplay, LARP-ing and Second Life/MySpace/Facebook). A most amusing read, if only because it's so true.
Last night I watched The Matrix for the first time in several years. This glimpse into the future was, upon its release in 1999, a revolution in cinematic graphics. It represented the technology we'd be using in 10 years hence (that's next year, folks), and the things we'd be able to do with it.But just before I fell into a lazy slumber in front of the teevee, I felt a huge sense of disappointment: the future depicted on the screen was already obsolete. The clunky computer monitors were as old fashioned as those in the 1980s sleeper hitElectric Dreams(three cheers to anyone who remembers that one); the mobile phones were gargantuan in their hands. Their techno-speak in many cases was laughable, as many phrases have already saturated the masses.So even as this so-called future started to fade with the coming of the sandman, I started to search around in my memory banks for games that, like The Matrix, haven't stood the test of time. Pitfall Harry comes to mind - now kitsch, with its 8 bit graphics and uncontrollable interface - and the then-stunning Crash Bandicoot, with its pretty colours but linear gameplay.I expect there are many others which haven't done well during the ravages, particularly those that fell into the graphical hubris which many a developer finds him/herself distracted by.Suggestions?
Google has thrown a lifeline to its floundering rival Yahoo by proposing a partnership between the two internet search sites as a way to escape Microsoft's $44.6bn (&pound;23bn) hostile takeover bid.Intent on upsetting Microsoft's offer for Yahoo, Google chief executive Eric Schmidt telephoned Yahoo's founder, Jerry Yang, to propose working together.A tie-up could involve Yahoo outsourcing its search and advertising functions to Google and concentrating on other areas where it has technological strength - including mobile applications, social networking and content sharing.Such a move would amount to an admission by Yahoo that it has lost the battle for online search to Google. But it would allow the company to keep its independence and maintain its quirky corporate culture which, employees fear, could be lost under Microsoft management.Yahoo has not publicly responded to Google's approach, which was leaked to the American media, and is yet to outline its response to Microsoft's offer.Google has also canvassed alternative bidders - including AOL Time Warner - in an effort to avert the prospect of a Microsoft takeover.The intervention by Google heightens tension in the technology industry over Microsoft's bid, which has driven a wedge through Silicon Valley.Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, sounded a confident note on the takeover's prospects at a briefing for Wall Street analysts yesterday. "We think it's a generous offer. We trust the Yahoo board and shareholders will join with us quickly in moving down an integrated path."Microsoft said its buyout of Yahoo could be completed by the end of the year. Ballmer rejected suggestions that a combination could be anti-competitive, saying that the creation of a more powerful "number two" to Google in the internet world would be good for consumers."Google's clearly got a dominant position. They've got about 75% of paid search worldwide," Ballmer said. "We think this enhances competition. Anything else would be less good from that perspective."The prize at stake is the rapidly growing global online advertising market, which is estimated at $42bn. Through a combination with Yahoo, Microsoft would command about 30% of online searches in the US, giving it critical mass to make more of its advertising technology.The tie-up would also create a powerful competitor to Google in mobile phone technology by putting together Microsoft's Windows Mobile operating system and Yahoo applications such as the photo-sharing site Flickr."A merged Microsoft/Yahoo could start to develop the kind of integration between platform and applications that is still only a gleam in Google's eye," said John Delaney, an analyst at the technology consultancy Ovum.The emergence of an alternative bidder remains a possibility. Time Warner, AT&amp;T and Comcast are all viewed as possible contenders. Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, however, has said it is not preparing a counter bid.In a message to "fellow yahoos", Yang  has circulated an email to staff saying that "absolutely no decisions have been made" about the company's response to Microsoft's offer."This proposal is just that - a proposal," Yang wrote. "You can be sure the board is going to review it thoughtfully and carefully, and do what's right for our great company."As part of its ongoing restructuring, Yahoo yesterday said it was outsourcing music sales to a third party, Rhapsody,  and shutting Yahoo Music Unlimited.
The eighties were great for strange games. The graphical limitations of the hardware (think C64, Spectrum, Amstrad, Apple II, etc) meant that a certain degree of stylisation was required, while the smaller teams and lower budgets encouraged individuality and experimentation.So you'd get games like Sentinel, Mercenary and Elite, which created their own, fully realised but mostly figurative environments. And then you'd have bizarre one-offs, like the epic Deus Ex Machina or the profoundly weird Frankie Goes to Hollywood - self-conscious art projects unselfconsciously released as mainstream entertainment. Looking back, you realise how similar eighties games were to eighties pop music - there was the same earnest pretentiousness. I mean, think about a modern pop group coming up with lyrics like Howard Jones' or Duran Duran's. Now think of EA doing Captain Blood.Anyway, weird games live on in the indie sector, which is why I'm always loafing about on sites likeJayisgamesandPlaythisthing- which have, this week, thrown up two magnificently idiosyncratic titles. If you get the chance - and you remember the most indulgent of offbeat eighties titles - you've got to check outCoil(pictured), which follows the lifecycle of an alien being through a series of mini-game tableaus and sparse narrative pages that read like teenage Goth poetry, a la The Mission. The music is great.Then go to Playthisthing and tryEmpyreal Nocture, described by the site as, "a 3D Gradius and Shadow Of The Collosus". You control a swarm of arrows seeking out huge floating objects to attack. It's being shown at the Student section of theIndie Game Festivaltaking place in San Francisco later this month.Give those a go, and let us know of any other weird Flash/browser games that remind you of the eighties.
I'm still recovering from theincredible ending of last night's Superbowl. It's the first I've watched since the days ofThe Fridge- yup, going to the Wembley game in October has got this lapsed Dolphins fan right back into the NFL again. And what better way to build up to the Superbowl than with a game of Madden '08? Ok, beer and salted snacks may have been better but Madden did just fine last night. Ever since a game of Championship Manager 2 when my virtual Southampton team beat Man Utd 3-1 - a score joyously replicated at The Dell the next day - I've always had faith in the seemingly mystical power of gaming to predict real sport results. So I played two Patriots Vs Giants games last night and New England won both. Close fought games yes, but the Patriots were obviously going to win the real Superbowl. Ahem. The restis history. Anyone else ever correctly predicted, say, the Cup Final or Wimbledon via FIFA or Virtua Tennis?
Google has thrown a lifebelt to its floundering rival Yahoo by proposing a partnership between the two internet search rivals as a way to escape Microsoft's $44.6bn (£22.4bn) hostile takeover bid.Intent on upsetting Microsoft's offer for Yahoo, Google's chief executive Eric Schmidt made a personal phone call to Yahoo's founder, Jerry Yang, to propose working together.A tie-up could involve Yahoo outsourcing its search and advertising functions to Google and concentrating on other areas where it has technological strength - including mobile applications, social networking and content sharing.Such a move would amount to an admission by Yahoo that it has lost the battle for online search to Google. But it would allow the company to keep its independence and to maintain its own quirky corporate culture which, employees fear, could be lost if Yahoo is swallowed by Microsoft.Yahoo has not publicly responded to Google's approach, which was leaked to the American media, and is yet to outline its position in response to Microsoft's takeover offer.Google has also canvassed alternative bidders - including AOL Time Warner - in an effort to avert the prospect of a Microsoft takeover of Yahoo.The intervention by Google heightens tension in the technology industry over Microsoft's bid, which has driven a wedge through Silicon Valley.Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, sounded a confident note on the takeover's prospects at a briefing for Wall Street analysts yesterday."We think it's a generous offer," said Ballmer. "We trust the Yahoo board and Yahoo shareholders will join with us quickly in moving down an integrated path."If successful, Microsoft said its buyout of Yahoo could be completed by the end of the year. Ballmer rejected suggestions that a combination could be anti-competitive, saying that the creation of a more powerful "number two" to Google in the internet world would be good for consumers."Google's clearly got a dominant position. They've got about 75% of paid search worldwide," Ballmer said. "We think this enhances competition. Anything else would be less good from that perspective."The prize at stake is the rapidly growing global on-line advertising market which is estimated at $42bn. Through a combination with Yahoo, Microsoft would command about 30% of on-line searches in the key US market giving it critical mass to make more out of its own advertising technology.The tie-up would also create a powerful competitor to Google in mobile phone technology by putting Microsoft's Windows Mobile operating system together with Yahoo applications such as photo-sharing site Flickr and family-interest Go.A merged Microsoft/Yahoo could start to develop the kind of integration between platform and applications that is still only a gleam in Google's eye," said John Delaney, an analyst at the technology consultancy Ovum.The emergence of an alternative bidder remains a possibility. Time Warner, AT&amp;T and Comcast are all viewed as possible entrants to the battle. Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, however, has said it is not preparing a bid.In a message to "fellow yahoos", Yang  has circulated an email to staff saying that "absolutely no decisions have been made" about the company's response to Microsoft's offer."This proposal is just that - a proposal," wrote Yang. "You can be sure the board is going to review it thoughtfully and carefully, and do what's right for our great company."As part of its ongoing restructuring effort, Yahoo yesterday said it was outsourcing music sales to a third-party, Rhapsody, in a move which shuts down its in-house Yahoo Music Unlimited.
Microsoft would have to borrow money for the first time to fund its takeover of Yahoo, the technology giant admitted today.Chris Liddell, the Microsoft chief financial officer, told analysts and investors in New York that the company would pay for the bulk of the deal half in cash and half in stock.The rest of the $44.6bn (£22.3bn) deal would be financed with an undisclosed amount of credit."If you look at the cash component, that's going to be over $20bn in cash," Liddell told an investor presentation, according to Reuters."We could fund most of that through our cash holdings, but it's likely we're actually going to borrow for the first time. It's going to be a mixture of the cash we have on hand plus debt."At the same meeting, the Microsoft chief executive, Steve Ballmer, told analysts that the firm expects Yahoo to accept its "generous" offer."We trust the Yahoo board and the Yahoo shareholders will join with us quickly in deciding to move down an integrated path."Meanwhile, Yahoo's staff have been reassured that "absolutely no decisions have been made" about Microsoft's offer for the web company.Yahoo's management sought to reassure staff in an internal email, sent in the aftermath of Microsoft's bid becoming public on Friday filed today with US regulators, telling them to continue to focus on "running our business".The Yahoo chief executive, Jerry Yang, and the new non-executive chairman, Roy Bostock, said in the email that they "want to emphasise that absolutely no decisions have been made - and, despite what some people have tried to suggest, there's certainly no integration process underway"."This proposal is just that - a proposal, and it was only made in the last 24 hours. You can be sure the board is going to review it thoughtfully and carefully, and do what's right for our great company," they added.The email, which was published in Yahoo's characteristic cartoon style without capitalisation, was designed to reassure staff after a week that has seen confirmation of 1,000 job cuts, the departure of former chief executive Terry Semel and the unsolicited takeover offer from Microsoft."We realise that this may have been a tough day for many of you, especially those on the front lines of our business," said the email."We can't let any of the noise we're hearing around this situation distract us from our core mission. It's critical that we continue to focus on running our business, executing our strategy and delivering value to all of our users, advertisers and publishers."Yahoo's share price has continued to rise today, adding $10bn to the firm's market value since the offer was made.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Yahoo would consider an alliance with Google as one way of avoiding a takeover by Microsoft, it was reported in the US last night.The internet company's management is considering restarting talks held late last year with rival Google about ways of working more closely together, according to a source familiar with Yahoo's strategy, Reuters reported.Yahoo is also reported to have been approached by a series of technology, telecoms, media and financial firms but no official alternative to Microsoft's $44.6bn (£22.6bn) offer has been received.A takeover by Google would almost certainly be rejected by industry regulators because of monopoly concerns, although the two companies have talked before about a business alliance.Google yesterday finally released official comment about Microsoft's move, with the senior vice-president and chief legal officer, David Drummond, using the firm's official blog to say the deal raised "troubling questions" over the future of the internet."Could Microsoft now attempt to exert the same sort of inappropriate and illegal influence over the internet that it did with the PC? While the internet rewards competitive innovation, Microsoft has frequently sought to establish proprietary monopolies - and then leverage its dominance into new, adjacent markets," Drummond said.Microsoft rejected the comments, saying a Yahoo takeover would create "a compelling number two competitor for internet search and online advertising".Yahoo's investors welcomed Microsoft's offer, taking the share price up 47% on Friday, and pushing its market value from $25.6bn to $37.9bn.News of the deal hacked $15bn from Google's market value, which fell to $161.39bn.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
