Regular readers will know that I'm interested Rupert Murdoch'sapproachtodigital media- which, until recently has been anon-approach. And like all journalists, I'm particularly interested in navel gazing speculation around the media industry.So it was interesting to hear Big Rupe's thoughts on a radio interview with Five Live this weekend (you can download ithere), in which he spoke about his almost religious conversion to the belief that, hey, there might be something in this internet thing after all. And when I heard him say the following, I nearly dropped my marmalade."I'm sure it will still be available on paper, it won't happen that fast but you'll be able to, for instance, have a tablet beside your bed, you subscribe to the paper and it'll come there wirelessly, and you've got to pick it up and read every page of the paper on an electronic or battery-driven tablet."Of course, it's not a surprising view. People are already trying these things out, and Murdoch is following trends, not making them. But more intriguing was hearing how a man motivated by profit thinks that he can cash in with a "bedside tablet". His answer was one word: "advertising". Sure, it's done wonders for Google's share price and Craigslist does very well, but these are not the same ways I expect Murdoch imagines he will make money. And I doubt the internet advertising model will ever generate enough cash to prop up many of his firms (after all, he already subsidises newspapers like the Times to the tune of millions each year) - so what does he think he knows that we don't?
The fastest-growing internet brands in the UK are not traditional online giants such as Google and Yahoo, but small community sites featuring content put together by users, according to research.Websites providing advice on how to use the internet - from setting up websites and tips on blogging to shopping guides - coupled with community chat networks and music download services were the fastest growing websites of 2005.Photo website builder tool and community site Piczo was the fastest-growing internet brand in the UK in 2005, seeing its unique audience increase by 97 times - a 9,669% growth - from just 12,500 visitors in December 2004 to 1.2 million in the last month of 2005.Piczo offers technology allowing users to build their own website the easy way - without html code - and by November 2005 women under the age of 18 accounted for almost half of its audience - 45% - making it the most likely UK website to be visited by that group.Alex Burmaster, the European internet analyst at Nielsen, said he believed Piczo's success gave an indication of where the internet was headed."The future, it seems, is user-generated content centred around community sites that ride the rise of the internet as a tool to communicate, exchange ideas and pictures," he said.Greetings card website AmericanGreetings, which increased its audience by 2,151%, was the second fastest-growing internet brand in the UK last year, according to Nielsen.Shopzilla's shopping directory, Starware toolbar and search software and music distributor OD2 follow in the list of last year's top 10.Music filesharing site Limewire's audience has increased by 666% to 2.3 million, making it the most popular online destination of the top 10 of fastest growing internet sites last year.The communal encyclopaedia Wikipedia is in seventh place, with a 326% increase in audience year on year, followed by the Skype internet telephony service, broadcaster Nikelodeon's games and chat site for children, with blogging guide Blogger, now owned by Google, in tenth place."The inclusion of other brands such as AmericanGreetings, whose staple is e-greetings cards, Shopzilla, the shopping directory, and OD2, the digital music distributor co-founded by musician Peter Gabriel, are further proof of how online continues to provide a more effective means for meeting the needs and interests of our daily personal or business lives," said Mr Burmaster.Among the top 10 most popular brands in the UK - as opposed to the fastest-growing - there were two significant changes.Google overtook Microsoft and MSN to take the top spot, while Apple entered the top 10 at the expense of internet service provider Wannadoo.Thanks to the success of its iPod music players and iTunes service, Apple saw the biggest growth in the UK top 10 in 2005, up 56% to an unique audience of 6.2 million.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
This morning, Dell launched Intel Viiv-compatible dual-core Dimension desktops in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). These have Intel Dual Core processors and Microsoft Media Center Edition 2005 giving customers "the ability to serve music and video content to Viiv and Media Center compatible consumer electronics around the home," says Dell. Processors range from 2.80GHz (Pentium D 920) to 3.46GHz (D 955 Dual Core Extreme Edition with two 2MB caches and HyperThreading -- only available on the XPS 600).
The relativity of dollars, cents, yen and pounds stirling has once again reared its existential head, with the sale of real goods for virtual world money. AnXFX GeForce graphics cardisgoing forL$20,000 (LindenBucks) - approximately US$80 - over onSecond Liferesident FlipperPA Peregrine's web-based shop,SLBoutique.According to anMTV interviewwith Flip,"I just started to think it would be interesting with the amount of dollars going through on a daily basis to challenge people to think of [LindenBucks] as a foreign currency rather than as Monopoly money"But it'snotreal money (say a thousand sceptics)! Well, that's relative.It's not just computer hardware you can buy, either. You can alsopick upan iPod Nano for L$60,000. At the current exchange rate of approximately L$250=US$1, that's US$240, including P&amp;P. I wonder if Flip ships to the UK.But what are the implications for such transactions? Well, this opens up an interesting avenue for a black market in actual goods, as well as questions about international duty charges and exchange rates. Veteran virtual worlds journalist/thinker Julian Dibbell'sarticlein Legal Affairs from a few weeks ago posits what would happen if the Internal Revenue Service started paying attention to virtual transactions - what about those that result in exchange of physical goods?There is continued consideration on topics like this over atTerra Nova.
A rather sad and nasty little controversy is brewing over in the States concerning the suicide of a young gamer earlier this month. A report posted on, of all places, the Sofia News Agency websiteclaimedthat the 'teenager' took an overdose of pills and antifreeze and then logged onto the videogame forummetalgearsolid.orgto inform other users that he was dying.According to the report:"The other forum members did not believe him and even made fun of him while he shared with them every gruesome detail of his dying agonies."The story was later picked up by other agencies, who seemed to add their own embellishments - includingthe suggestionthat the victim switched on his webcam to broadcast his final hours.Since then, several games sites, includingGaminghorizonand metalgearsolid.org itself, have taken issue with the events as portrayed in the agency story. There was, apparently, no web cam, and fellow forum users attempted to talk the gamer into seeking medical help, even managing to contact him via his IP address. Gamepolitics.com laterposteda transcript from what it claims is an AIM chat with an administrator at Metalgearsolid.org who refutes the story as related by the Sofia news agency.Strangely, almost uniquely perhaps, this controversy has been played out away from the grasp of the major international news sources - instead, trickling through tech news sites, forums and foreign agencies. As a consequence, perhaps, the details remain fuzzy. Is this a story about willful misrepresentation, or technically uncertain journalists picking up vague reports and misinterpreting them?Accordingto Gaminghorizon, AFP, the international newswire service that picked up on the Bulgarian story, has corrected its take on the events, although news sites that ran with AFP's original version, includingCNNandYahoohave apparently yet to make alterations to their reports.Ultimately, the lack of major international media coverage has lent this sequence of events an air of unreality, of illegitimacy. A tragedy quietly perpetrated and pulled apart online.
"The Quaero project -- its name means "I seek" in Latin -- was cooked up last April by France's President Jacques Chirac and Gerhard Schröder, then German chancellor. It is one of several supported by Mr Chirac in an effort to combat US hegemony in the digital era -- the CFII international satellite television news channel is another. He dragged Quaero into the limelight in his New Year address, with grandiose promises to challenge the internet search dominance of the US groups," reportsThe Financial Times."Despite the change of government in Berlin, the Franco-German partnership remains intact, though it would not be surprising if there were moves to turn Quaero into a European Union project. It currently brings together a consortium of organisations in the public and private sectors, including France Telecom, Thomson, the French media services and equipment group, and Bertelsmann, the German media group. While initial funding could be modest at about €300m (£206m), a much larger budget is being discussed between the parties."Although few people give the idea much chance, the FT points out that "some European state-sponsored attempts to compete with the US have proved successful," such as Airbus and the Galileo satellite navigation network.
Following the Google subpoena, Don Dodge, formerly of Napster, has posted his take onthe privacy issue, saying:Getting sued by the government, a competitor, or a litigious action group, will change your perception of privacy in a hurry. At Napster every email we ever wrote or received was subpoenaed and read by teams of lawyers. Sorry Mom...that email you sent me complaining about Dad...is now public information under the Freedom Of Information Act.Bill Gates and other executives at Microsoft have had all of their email captured by legal teams for various law suits at one time or another. Bill Gates once said "We live the observed life". Translation...assume that everything you say, write, or do will be reviewed by a team of lawyers...with the worst of intentions.He has seven tips for surviving, starting with "(1) Write each email as if it is CC'd to your boss, your competitors, or your spouse. If you are ever sued or investigated...it will be."Om Malik points outthat our spending, listening, downloading and other habits are also cached somewhere, and that collecting even more info with something like Root Markets (blogged here yesterday) may not be such a good idea:I found it amazing that not many people thought of this when they looked at Root Markets, a start-up that garnered favorite comments from many, including Erick Schonfeld, one of my colleagues at Business 2.0. Unlike him, when I see the company, the first thought that ran across my mind: so I spy on me, so to speak, build a collection of information about myself, and then heaven forbid for some odd reason, I get subpoenaed. Oops!Most people don't expect to get sued, of course. But in a world where governments increasingly feel they are entitled to trawl for information -- either in the "war on terrorism," or to protect children from seeing inappropriate information, or whatever -- that may not always be necessary.
Range Rover Sport&pound;34,995 to &pound;58,995Top speed:140mphWeight:2.572 tonnesGood for:Feeling smugBad for:Making friendsImmoral. Ugly. Revolting. Disgusting. Embarrassing. Vulgar. Chavvy. These are not adjectives culled from last week's coverage of Jodie Marsh's performance in the Big Brother house, but words that were levelled at the superior Range Rover Sport by nosy friends and disgruntled family. Over the past couple of years, I've tested cars which have provoked mirth, boredom and of course naked envy, but the sheer level of vitriol aimed at the baby Range Rover took my breath away.But why did they all hate it so much? The immediate answer is that it is a 4x4. Turn up in an off-roader these days and you're stared at like a man ordering steak tartare in a vegan restaurant. Or maybe David Blunkett in a DNA lab. Their reaction is based on both ethical and safety grounds. The ethical I can understand. You're on a very sticky wicket if you try and argue that a vehicle that weighs more than a fully grown rhino and does an average of 17 miles to the gallon (downhill) is in any way environmentally responsible. Teak foresters and seal clubbers would probably get a warmer welcome down the pub. As for the safety factor, it's less clear.The British Medical Journal recently went as far as calling for a health warning on SUVs, along the lines of the warnings pasted on fag packets: this car can seriously affect your health (and wealth, actually). But car-pressure groups felt the BMJ had based its findings on casualty statistics from truck-derived vehicles in the United States, ignoring the fact that the vast majority of SUVs sold in the UK are smaller, car-derived models. They go on to say that sales of 4x4s also pose a growing threat to pedestrians. Yet DfT figures for 2005 show that pedestrian deaths in the UK fell by 35 per cent while annual sales of 4x4s doubled in the same period from 80,427 to 179,439.Either way, the biggest problem facing my detractors seemed to be that the Range Rover I happened to test was a shimmering, silky white. Black, navy, green... I might have got away with it. But in blingtastic white with white-leather seats, black tinted windows and 10-spoke, thigh-high alloy wheels, I was deep in Footballers' Wives territory. In this shade, the car was reduced from an awesome, multipurpose vehicle to nothing more than a posey accessory for the super rich and super naff. If Ali G was a car, this would be it.Fine ... but if you manage to park your social, ethical, environmental and class issues to one side, then you'll find that the beautifully made, muscular and compact Sport is one of the most sophisticated, luxurious and competent cars you will ever drive. It's British built in the manner of the great marques of the past and it's fitted with the very best of everything - from seats to safety features.It starts at &pound;34,995 for the 2.7-litre TDV6 turbodiesel, and tops out at &pound;57,495 for the colossal 4.2-litre Supercharged V8. Buy one and you'll never forget it - but it might not be for the reasons you anticipate.martin.love@observer.co.uk
A year ago, Marissa Mayer revealed herself as the public face of Google, the world's biggest internet search engine, to a packed lecture hall. Later, in a blog posted by audience members, it didn't take long for a theme to emerge. One wrote: 'She's hot.' Another opined: 'Yes, she's a honey too.' A third said: 'She looks like Scarlett Johansson.'It can't be fun being a woman in Silicon Valley, surrounded by geeks who don't get out much. 'But I'm a geek, so I don't notice,' Mayer, 30, told The Observer. 'This is an example of what I do at my weekends: I decided I wanted to do a mesh of LEDs &#91;and&#93; ping-pong balls on my walls so I could do a changing, moving art display. The great thing about being in Silicon Valley is you can Google this stuff, and damn, sure enough, there's somebody who actually built one: you can mail them back and forth, they can give you the parts, they can teach you how to do it. That's the kind of person I am. I feel like I'm just one of a great ecosystem of people who do really cool and strange things.'This weekend Google announced that it would not comply with requests from the White House to release records of millions of users' searches to the Justice Department. The Bush administration wanted the information to help crack down on child pornography online.Google's stance was welcomed by civil liberties groups. But Mayer made it clear in an interview before the announcement that any organisation keeps records of those who use it. 'Just like in the real world, it's hard to undo an action,' she said. 'The same is true on the internet. So we do need users to be aware there are records and ramifications.'Legend has it that Mayer was reluctant when, aged 23 and at Stanford University in California, she was advised to see two men on the fourth floor of the computer science building who were exploring new ways to analyse the web. 'I knew about the Stanford PhD types,' she has said. 'They love to rollerblade. They eat pizza for breakfast. They don't shower much. And they don't say "sorry" when they bump into you in the hallway.'But Mayer did call on the pair: Larry Page and Sergey Brin, whose Google search engine went on to conquer the world, thanks in no small part to her jumping aboard in 1999. She was roughly employee number 20 and the first female engineer, and has since had hands-on responsibility for the innovations and user-friendliness that have made the company the fastest-growing in history, worth &pound;68bn - more than Coca-Cola, General Motors or McDonald's.Mayer now has the title of vice-president for search products and user experience, and works from 9am to midnight, a schedule that seems to preclude a boyfriend or pet. Yet she still finds time to write a blog responding to queries from Google's loyal users, one of whom regularly sends emails warning that the number of words on the famously sparse homepage is creeping too far beyond 50. She organises office outings to the cinema, having written her own software to cope with the increase in staff to more than 4,000, and has been seen giving out tickets by hand while carrying a laptop.Ideas are invited from everyone at Google, and Mayer decides which will go before Page and Brin. Her glass-walled office at the 'GooglePlex', the firm's HQ California HQ, is reportedly opposite the engineers' coffee-break area, and she is grateful when engineers drop by late at night to share their thoughts. What is the next big idea? Mayer outlined some possibilities this month at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, where Google launched an online video store and a free-to-download software pack.'The presentation of results is really limited today: 10 weblinks,' she said. 'When you ask Google how to make a cake, &#91;showing you&#93; a video is a great answer. That's one reason we're interested in video search. If you say to Google, "the episode of Survivor I missed last night", you don't want a weblink, what you really want is that video.'Google does a great job with text, but when it comes to voice, sound or images we really need to start pushing on those technologies ... and providing even more high quality, more relevant answers.'Google's aspirations may one day make the computer keyboard antiquated. Mayer, who has had patents filed on her work in artificial intelligence, added: 'What we will see are more modes and mediums. How can you use Google from a phone? Is there a headset that reads your business card and runs a Google search and starts streaming the results into my eye where I can see them and you can't? Maybe it's voice in your car, so you can talk to it and have it read back results. Those things are really intriguing.'Mayer has been a high achiever from the start. Growing up in Wausau, Wisconsin, she starred in the school debating team, captained the cheerleaders, practised ballet for years and wanted to be a doctor. As a 'persnickety little kid' she spent an afternoon fiercely arguing with friends whether a baseball diamond has 88 or 90 feet between bases (Google says 90). She turned down a job teaching computer science to join Google, but has since taught introductory computer programming classes at Stanford.'I watch my mother: she just gets so overwhelmed sometimes with the computer. But you give someone a tool and it makes it that much more empowering. That's also the thing that excited me about teaching computer science: you can teach people for two or three weeks and they can suddenly write their own screensaver and their own browser. That sort of empowerment is what really moves innovation forward.'Such optimism was seldom heard five years ago when the dotcom boom went bust. This time, thanks to fast broadband connections and fewer crazy schemes, maturer dotcoms such as Google seem unstoppable. Mayer said: 'The easiest way to think about 1999 is probably from the dating perspective, of being a single person in Silicon Valley. In '99 everybody you talked to was the chief executive of their new dotcom. Sergey realised that to get himself a date he needed to distinguish himself from being the founder of a losing-money dotcom - he was going to have to be the founder of a making-money dotcom.'It feels a lot more centralised than it did in 1999, when I met the founder of the dotcom that shipped pet food after selling it online. I thought to myself: petfood's heavy. Why would you pay the shipping cost? Now the businesses usually kind of make sense to me.'Google is succeeding in its mission to organise all the world's information, putting it on collision course with American book publishers and now the US government. Mayer is apparently ready for the fight. Type her name into Google's image search engine and there are pictures of Marissa the sweet-as-apple-pie schoolgirl and Marissa at her 30th birthday bash, looking slightly the worse for wear. This is clearly a woman who spares no one - not even herself.Google: The Facts&#183;It's named after the mathematical term 'googol', a 1 with 100 zeros after it.&#183;Co-founders: Larry Page and Sergey Brin, each worth an estimated &pound;6bn.&#183;It carries out up to 1 billion searches per week of more than 8bn web pages.&#183;Google.comis one of the five most popular sites on the internet.&#183;Company's estimated worth: &pound;68bn.&#183;Webster's New Millennium Dictionary of English defines Googling as 'to search for information about a specific person through the Google search engine'.&#183;'Janet Jackson' was the most Googled 'news story' in 2005.
"Companies like Google, Microsoft, and Yahoo are trying to collect as much information about you as possible. Whenever you sign up with them for a service that requires a password (such as e-mail, My Yahoo, or personalized search), you are laying the groundwork for them to one day track your behavior across different parts of the Web through your online identity. If this information is so valuable, why not collect it yourself?" saysErick Schonfeld of Business 2.0.Seth Goldstein reckons you can collect your own data, own it, and trade it.His company is in the early stages of testing a myware service called Root Vaults (http://root.net/), an information bank that stores all the sites you visit and shows graphs of which ones you visit the most, how many hours you spend online each day, as well as the topics the sites can be grouped into (such as business, travel, or news). The first step to deal with information overload, after all, is to measure it.Comment: Goldstein is using the AttentionTrust.org add-on to Firefox. I posted a bit about the background here inAre you paying attention?last November.
"Most people have been complaining to Sony about their stuck and dead pixels. Well I have done my research and I heard about a guy over at psphacks.net that had a LCD TV that had some stuck pixels and when he went to Best-Buy they gave him a dvd that flashed Red, Green and Blue over and over again. This supposedly "un-sticks" the stuck pixels, by calling them to do rapid changes (To my understanding). So I thought about it for a while, and I said, what the heck, I'll try it. So I made my own video that does this, and it works!" says a post by Nick Toohill atPSP Vault.You can download the video there. I haven't tried it, but in the comments, some people claim that it works -- and some that it doesn't. Either way,m it will not work on pixels that aredead(unlit), only ones that arestuckon a solid colour.
Sega CasinoNintendo DSWhile a bus ride can no way recreate the glamour of a visit to the casino, ambiance certainly isn't the only thing missing from Sega's latest foray into portable gaming. Presenting players with a range of just four casino favourites (blackjack and roulette among them), further games need to be unlocked by winning virtual money on the tables. Using the touch screen interface, playing is simple, if face-slappingly unrewarding, with the prospect of risking phoney money on games that add very little to blind chance hardly enough to sustain interest. While capable of taking up a few minutes' worth of prodding at the screen, and free of any misguided interaction with faux casino interiors, this is one of the worst DS titles to date.&#183;Sega, &pound;30Sega Classics CollectionPS2Sega Classics Collection takes some old arcade games and updates them by adding new sound effects and giving them a slight graphical makeover. If, as a concept, that sounds actively disheartening, the lineup will have you reaching for the anti-depressants. A desultory list includes a pumped-up and shiny version of Space Harrier, which is as difficult and frustrating as ever; a charmless update of Outrun; Golden Axe, which, even at the time seemed severely disappointing; and the utterly confusing monstrosity of Tant R &amp; Bonanza Bros, a game that somehow manages simultaneously to bore and irritate. The only glimmer of hope seems to be an arcade-perfect version of Virtua Racing. If shelling out &pound;20 for this 14-year-old arcade game sounds like value for money, get shopping!&#183;Sega, &pound;20True Crime: New York CityGamecube, PC, PS2, XBoxOpening with hilarious, uproarious swathes of unlimited ammo carnage, this follow-up to True Crime: Streets Of LA immediately thrusts you into the boots of a cop whose single-handed crusade against crime (or one-man rampage, depending on your approach to community policing) involves completing a mixture of driving and shooting missions. Gunplay, both on foot and in car, works better here than in the Grand Theft Auto series it apes, and the city looks slightly more solid, but this is an incomparably more limited game, featuring a ropey physics model that sends cars and perpetrators pinging merrily off walls and vehicles like a farcical yet gritty urban recreation of Brownian motion. Whether you're an evidence-planting, pedestrian-squishing bad boy or an incorruptible Robocop, the thrills here are wafer-thin, helped round the U-bend by truly unwieldy controls.&#183;Activision, &pound;30-&pound;35
If you think that Coronation Street hasn't been the same since Alf Roberts then you'll findwww.corrie.neta veritable museum of former Weatherfield residents. However, if you're still hooked here's a few places you can indulge in a virtual half of Newton &amp; Ridley's Mild: atcorrie.emmerdale.bizyou can join The Real Tracey Barlow Mailing List (she's in her room playing tapes) or talk soap with other addicts; the marvellouswww.corrieblog.tvwill fulfil all your gossip needs;corriestreet.blogspot.comis a brilliant blog from Canada;csvu.nethosts visual recaps of every episode and among other delights Coronation Street Fun (tinyurl.com/7w7ne) has quizzes, puzzles and recipes.Finally, be sure to join the campaign attinyurl.com/bg4tnto get Barbara Mullaney (Rita) to re-release her 1973 album On The Street Where I Live on CD.
The Washington Post has turned off comments on its post.blog "indefinitely". In an update, Jim Brady, Executive Editor at washingtonpost.com,writes:washingtonpost.com has done an awful lot to be as transparent as possible. We've started a ton of blogs, we've linked out to bloggers who are writing (often negatively) about Post content and we've made journalists from The Post and post.com available to answer questions online on a daily basis. So I find it hard to make a case that we're unwilling to be criticized. What we're not willing to do is allow the comments area to turn into a place where it's OK to unleash vicious, name-calling attacks on anyone, whether they are Post reporters, public figures or other commenters. And that's exactly what was happening.That leads into the second complaint. The reason that people were not routinely seeing the problematic posts I mentioned were that we were trying to remove them as fast as we could in order to preserve the reasoned arguments many others were making. We removed hundreds of these posts over the past few days, and it was becoming a significant burden on us to try and keep the comments area free of profanity and name-calling. So we eventually chose to turn off comments until we can come up with a better way to handle situations like this, where we have a significant amount of people who refuse to abide by the rules we set out.According to anAP story, " the newspaper's ombudsman raised the ire of readers by writing that lobbyistJack Abramoffgave money to the Democrats as well as to Republicans."
MondayDiscrimination emerges in WoW?US games sales up in 2005... but also downFinally uninstalledTuesdaySex in games conference announcedReasons to be cheerfulCan the games industry address an ageing population?The Movies at SundanceWednesdayMore PS3 release doubtsDo computer games promote active minds?Nintendo questionsThursdayPS3: the first six *confirmed* gamesTechnologyUK teachers are gung-ho about games in educationFridayTen most interesting people in gaming - international perspectiveWowThe coolest non-player characters of all time
If you're trying to work out where an email came from, you have to read the headers -- which isn't always easy.Tracing An Emailprovides a guide, though it seems to have been designed for an amazingly wide screen....
Google is resisting a White House subpoena to hand over the records of the searches internet users are asking it to perform, it has emerged.The request was first made last summer, but when California-based Google refused to comply, the US attorney general, Alberto Gonzales, lodged papers with a federal judge in San Jose to enforce the order.The White House argues that a list of all requests entered into its search engine over a single week - which could span tens of millions of queries - will help it build up a profile of internet use it needs to defend an online pornography law.It also wants a million randomly selected addresses from the index of websites that Google searches.The papers said Google's search record "would assist the government in its efforts to understand the behavior of current web users &#91;and&#93; to estimate how often web users encounter harmful-to-minors material in the course of their searches".The Bush administration insists it does not want to tie the search requests to the person or computer that made them but the subpoena has nevertheless raised serious privacy concerns.Ashok Ramani, Google's lawyer, replied in a letter to the White House that the internet giant - whose corporate motto is "Don't be evil" - would not hand over its records."Google's acceding to the request would suggest that it is willing to reveal information about those who use its services. This is not a perception that Google can accept."He added that the subpoena also threatened to expose some of Google's "crown-jewel trade secrets". Google is concerned that its requests could be used to deduce the size of its index and how many computers it uses. "This information would be highly valuable to competitors or miscreants seeking to harm Google's business," Mr Ramani wrote.Google's main competitors have complied with the White House subpoena, according to the court papers. A spokeswoman for Yahoo!, the second-placed search engine, said it did not consider the request "a privacy issue" while MSN refused to comment on the White House request. A statement merely said it worked "closely with law enforcement officials worldwide to assist them when requested". Google is one of the fastest growing companies of all time and its booming advertising revenues turned a third-quarter profit of &#163;215m in 2005. The company's strength as an advertiser is that it knows what people want because they tell them every time they use it.As the world's dominant search engine, Google has built up valuable records of the wants of internet users.Pam Dixon, the executive director of the World Privacy Forum, told the Associated Press that Google was right to resist the requests."This is exactly the kind of thing we have been worrying about with search engines for some time. Google should be commended for fighting this."She said she hoped the case would remind people to be careful when they used search engines. "When you are looking at that blank search box, you should remember that what you fill can come back to haunt you unless you take precautions," she said.Privacy concerns in the US have been magnified by recent revelations that the White House authorised eavesdropping on civilian communications after 9/11 attacks without obtaining court approval.
Nintendo is fighting back, and Reggie Fils-Aime, executive vice president of sales and marketing for Nintendo America, has donean interview with CNet. The content is entirely predictable, but Fils-Aime does confirm the Revolution games console's launch date ("We've said 2006") and that it "will cost less than $300".Since developers have been speculating that it would costless than $150or perhaps even $99, this isn't stunning news. However, Fils-Aime does get Nintendo's key argument across:The mythical performance vector for this industry is more processing power and prettier pictures, but what's really driven growth is actually improving the way consumers play and get into the game. It's what we've successfully done with the Nintendo DS and what we're committed to doing with the Revolution and the controller we've unveiled for Revolution.
Videogame designers - like screenwriters - tend to put most of their characterisation efforts into the lead role and his/her nemesis. The supporting cast members are often reduced to stock types, their under-written roles sketched in a couple of minutes to fulfil specific plot requirements.But not always. Sometimes you encounter an NPC who rivals the lead for charisma, who gets all the best lines and who - as you plough through the 20-odd hours of gameplay - you feel you'd actually rather be controlling.So, today's friday question - which have been your favourite non-player characters? Let's steer away from final bosses, that is a whole different question. I'm thinking of regular cast members.To get you started, here are some of my favourites:Tracer Tong - Deus ExUltra helpful Hong Kong-based tech geek from the Deus Ex series, supposedly based on the character Dr X from Neil Stephenson's influential sci-fi opus, The Diamond Age. How many other NPCs are based on cult literary figures, eh?Barry Burton- Resident EvilAlright, so he gets the lead role in the risible GBA venture, Resident Evil Gaiden, but I don't count that. This burly STARS operative, with his ready wit ("you were almost a Jill sandwich!") and brute strength deserves a meatier outing in a major Resident Evil release...Nozomi Harasaki - ShenmueNo one before nor since has ever looked as good in a polo neck Aran jumper as Ryo's love interest. Admittedly, this isn't the strongest criteria for a favourite NPC, but these are subjective choices.Alyx Vance - Half-Life 2This fiery resistance operative somehow adds to Gordon Freeman's humanity, her spunky good humour in the face of alien armageddon contrasting with his steely silence.I'm still thinking. But for now, it's your turn...
TheWorld of Warcraftjuggernaut rolls on with the news yesterday that the online RPG has got over one million subscribers in Europe. This brings the combined global total of addicts to 5.5 million. This number is only likely to grow as the game is still gaining word-of-mouth recommendations. And you know what? It deserves the success. I've been playing on and off since last February and still regularly find things to do, places to see and skills to learn. Yes, the grind can get tedious, but there is always some nifty reward tantalisingly just out of reach. And there is a further sign of WoW's mainstream acceptance. I went to a Sony party last night - thrown to celebrate 8 million PS2 and 1 million PSP sales in the UK - and overhead a shouty conversation aboutTaurenracial traits between two pissed revellers. And there wasn't a beard in sight. What next? A politician resigning to "spend more time with my family and my guild"?
You don't have to read yet another $1m Home Page story, but you're going to anyway.... Briefly, Eliger Kliger, who ownsmilliondollarweightloss.com, won the auction for the last 1,000 pixels on the Million Dollar Home Page just before it went down to a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack. Now he's preparing to sue, according toThe Financial Times. Its story says:Mr Fields, who represents Mr Kliger's company and its shareholders, said: "Our client paid over $38,000 and were told by Alex Tew that he could expect substantial free publicity. "Our clients won the auction and wired the money eight days ago and it took Mr Tew at least five days just to put up their pixels and to engage in any PR."Mr Fields added: "We are preparing a federal complaint for breach of contract, negligence and investigating other causes of action. "Our clients have lost the entire benefit of the bargain and were forced to incur expenses."Now, of course, Milliondollarweightloss.com has not only had some publicity from buying the last pixels, it's likely to get a lot more from coverage of its threatened court case. Whether the latter will make readers think nice thoughts about the warm and cuddly people who sell weight loss products is another matter....
A few weeks ago, there was a post onGamerGodwhich listed the 10 most interesting people in games 2005. While some of those who made the cut were arguably admirable, it was a hugely US-biased list. In fact, there was no one from any other country. That makes me sad.So I'd like to propose the following internationally-flavoured list which spans across 2005 to current-day 2006. Please do feel free to add.These folks are in no particular order.1.Greg CostikyanDesign guru Greg set upManifesto Gamesin 2005, with the aim of promoting independent games within an independent distribution model. He's also one of the few big-wigs willing to stand up in front of a crowd of games folk and proclaim the current state of the games industryup the proverbial creekwithout sign of a paddle.2.Qui ChengweiThe man given a suspended life sentence for murdering another because the victim stole his virtual sword has pushed the questions of ownership, value and the legality of virtual property way up to 11. The virtual ownership debate has been rumbling foryears, but this guy made sure that the relativity of what goes on beyond the screen will be given much more consideration in judge's chambers in future. In Shanghai at least.3.Keita TakahashiHe created one of the most talked about series in 2004 (Katamari Damacy), released asequelin 2005 (out here in two weeks!), won countless international awards and then publicly admitted that he didn't even like games. That makes this trained sculptor with designs onchildren's playgroundsinteresting to say the least.4.J AllardThe figurehead for the next generation of Microsoft's home console system has a lot riding on his shoulders. His excellent implementation of a community-based infrastructure in the Xbox 360 is most notable because in five years time the role of the games consumer will be shaped by what was included in the Xbox 360 technology, and the paltry community practices we have now will be considered as retro as Super Mario Bros.5.Brenda BrathwaiteOne area where the GamerGod list and I agree is in the inclusion of Brenda Brathwaite, lead designer on Playboy: The Mansion and countless others, and figurehead of the Sex &amp; Games special interest group with the International Game Developers Association. The timely arrival of theSex &amp; Games blog– after the pathetic hot coffee incident – created a platform which allows the observer to consider the role of adult themes in interactive entertainment, an increasingly important element as the population who uses them gets older and demands more than kicking and shooting.6.NCSoftandArenaNetThe Korean publisher/US developer team were the first to roll-out a subscription-free virtual world from launch withGuild Wars, and coupled that with a platform which supported one big happy online space for the whole world. There are no separate servers, no localised languages. If I want to play with my California-based cousin Patrick, I can; I no longer need a separate US account. Bringing over 1 million gamers together from around the globe is, yes, rather interesting.7.koulamataWhile Lionhead's machinima-making gameThe Moviesgrabbed enough attention for being an innovative product this year, like most creative software it proved to be nothing without a good idea. French user koulamata released hispseudo-documentaryabout the summer riots that ripped across France and raised the tone of the product from entertainment to serious media platform. I hope to see more from this user, and more from those inspired by his film, in the future.8.Takumi YoshinagaYoshinaga is the creator of the marvellous and surreal grown-up version of WarioWare,Project Rub.HisWhere Do Babies Come From?(Rub Rabbitshere in the Euro regions) will be out in February and is stylish and silly, and made by a team of mostly female programmers, designers and artists. Interestingly (as this is what the post is all about), it implements every gizmo on the innovative Nintendo DS, from the stylus to the microphone. It also does everything in its power to encourage people to play together.9.David Cage and Quantic DreamThis Paris-based development studio has produced some of the most forward-thinking products in the industry since it was established in 1997. Interestingly, they've only released 2 games since that time:Fahrenheit(given quite a few column inches on this blog over the past year) andOmikron: The Nomad Soul(David Bowie's foray into interactive entertainment). While both titles are flawed – arguably constricted by technology – they notably pushed the boundaries for gameplay mechanics. In this world of never-ending sequel series, this studio provides a light at the end of the tunnel.10.Will WrightAnother person GamerGod and I agree on is Will Wright, the man possibly allowed the most leeway of any games designer in the West. Sociologist Wright did mental with my head when he proposedUSBEmilyas a game that would incorporate the poetry of Emily Dickinson at the Game Developers Conference, and then talkedSpore- the evolution simulation that may cause waves upon its release in the Intelligent Design-loony USA - practically in the same breath. As always, a man to keep an eye on. Very very interesting.
"Tesco will charge £19.97 for a starter pack including a handset which when plugged into a computer will allow customers to call other users free of charge via the internet. The start-up pack sold by the retailer will include a £5 airtime voucher which can be put towards the cost of other calls. Customers will pay 2p a minute for calls to UK landlines at all times and 10p a minute to call UK mobiles, whatever the network," reportsThe Guardian.Comment: The Guardian story (which has beenSlashdotted) doesn't say where Tesco is getting its service, but with hindsight, that information appeared last year in The Age, in Australia, which on December 28 published a story:UK Tesco to take stake in Freshtel:The issue follows a deal between Tesco and the Australian company under which FreshTel will provide it with a branded VoIP telephone services. "The own brand service will launch in the UK next year and be marketed and distributed through Tesco's existing retail channels," Freshtel said. Freshtel will provide the network, infrastructure and billing information for the retailer.Otherwise the calls don't sound all that free or even cheap. I'm still using18866where calls from a proper phone cost 0p per minute to landlines, after the 4p connection charge.Update: The story was covered by Richard Wrayin the paper this morning.
That's the trouble with print: sometimes life overtakes it. Between us washing the ink off our hands and breaking the forme to get Thursday's Technology section over to the printers, and it appearing, Apple moved over criticism thatiTunes 6.0.2 acts like spyware. (That's the link to our story.)John Gruber at Daring Fireball explains that Apple has nowupdated what gets displayed in the MiniStore, so that it's clear you can opt out of it, and also that you have toopt into the MiniStore display. (Gruber's got a nice bit-of-a-screenshot of it.)Though Gruber thinks it was always "pretty obvious" that iTunes had to be sending data back to Apple's servers (though he doesn't mention that it goes via a third party, called Omniture, on the way) for the MiniStore to be able to show songs related to what you're playing, I think that doesn't stop it being spyware in the strict definition. After all, if you start applying different definitions depending on whether the company involved has a zillion eager fans, or a zillion hate-filled enemies, then it's not much of a definition, is it?A search on "spyware definition" brings up many which mention "hidden components", and transmission of data without the user's knowledge or explicit agreement, and lack of opt-in. Arguably, what's changed to put iTunes outside the definition is the third of these.Still, a nice observation at2mlc: "I also wonder why Cory [Doctorow, who kicked the whole thing off] is worried about Apple knowing what he listens to when he makes itpublic for the entire worldanyway." Um, yes..
Macworld has been timing a2GHz iMac Core Duoand comparing it with a 2.1GHz iMac G5 and reckons "the gains don't match Apple's claims". It says:Unfortunately, our tests suggest that the remarkable results of Apple's published tests aren't reflected in most of the real-world applications we tested. Based on our initial tests, the new Core-Duo-based iMac seems to be 10 to 20% percent faster than its predecessor when it comes to native applications, with some select tasks showing improvement above and beyond that.Performance of non-native applications run via Rosetta may disappoint. Macworld says:We tested three different non-native applications on the Intel-based iMac, and compared the results to the iMac G5. All of the tests showed that PowerPC applications run on the new iMac at less than half their native speed. Our standard Microsoft Word scrolling test ran at 48% of the speed it ran on the iMac G5; our standard battery of 14 Photoshop CS tasks ran at 45% of the G5's speed; an MP3 encode using the non-native iTunes 6.0.1 ran at 34% of the speed.
A classic fromThe Rokkor FilesKonica Minolta, a recent combination of the old Konica and Minolta Camera businesses, has decided to exit the photo industry, where it was losing money. The company'spress releasesays that "In order to continue to have our customers use Maxxum/Dynax lenses, and to maximize possibilities of the optical, mechanical and electronics technologies accumulated through development of SLR cameras in the years to come, we came to the conclusion that it was best to transfer assets concerning camera business to Sony". Details arehere.The Konica silver-halide film and paper business, which goes back to 1904, is being closed, with the maintenance of Konica's minilab systems being taken over by Noritsu Koki Co Ltd. Details arehere.There are about 33,000 Konica Minolta Group employees, and around 3,700 will lose their jobs.Minolta used to be one of the "big five" Japanese SLR camera brands, along with Nikon, Canon, Pentax and Olympus. Konica was the third largest surviving film manufacturer, after Kodak and Fuji.Reutershas the story.
The long-running debate about the re-use of RSS feeds has exploded following the launch of theTop 10 SourcesWeb site in December and, in particular,RSS and Copyright, circa 2006a defence of the site's approach by John Palfrey. He's not just involved with Top 10 Sources, he is also Executive Director of theBerkman Center for Internet &amp; Society at Harvard Law School, Clinical Professor of Law, and a copyright lawyer.Microsoft blogger Robert Scoble provided some useful links to the debate in his postThe RSS copyright can of worms is open- which dates from last year, showing that while this isn't a new issue, it has gathered pace. We've written about it ourselves - seeThe price of full feeds(December 8 2005) andCashing in on fake blogs(November 17 2005) - as fake blogs, or splogs, are often built using full RSS feeds.Update: Dave Winer has posted onWhy Top Ten Sources is a Good Thing.
"The Bush administration on Wednesday asked a federal judge to order Google Inc to turn over a broad range of material from its closely guarded databases. The move is part of a government effort to revive an Internet child protection law struck down two years ago by the US Supreme Court. The law was meant to punish online pornography sites that make their content accessible to minors. The government contends it needs the Google data to determine how often pornography shows up in online searches," says theMercury News."The government indicated that other, unspecified search engines have agreed to release the information, but not Google."Update 1: Danny Sullivan has posted on the issue atSearch Engine Watch. He says:Here's a thought. If you want to measure how much porn is showing up in searches, try searching for it yourself rather than issuing privacy alarm sounding subpoenas. It would certainly be more accurate.Update 2: and Gary Price has produced a summary ofwhat the government is after, with links to the documents.
I have a Centrino laptop with 512MB of memory and Intel Express Graphics. Will this run Windows Vista when it emerges, or am I better to stick with XP? Phil MayorMost PCs that run Windows XP will run Vista, and you already have the recommended minimum memory. However, you also need a graphics system that supports the new Windows Display Driver Model (WDDM) and 64MB of graphics memory to use Vista's new Aero Glass 3D graphics interface.I don't believe your Intel Express Graphics will qualify, and therefore you will either have to install a separate graphics card (if your notebook has Intel's 915PM Express chipset - not 915GM - and a suitable slot) or settle for running Vista with what is so delightfully termed a "Windows XP-comparable graphics experience".According to Microsoft, integrated graphics systems that do support WDDM include Intel's 945G Express chipset and ATI's RS400 and RS480 family chipsets.Any graphics card that currently supports Microsoft's DirectX 9 should also be OK. Details are emerging atMicrosoft Technet.You can find out what your PC has installed by going to Start|Programs| Accessories|System Tools and clicking on System Information. To see the graphics info, click Components and then Display. This will tell you the type of hardware, memory size and level of hardware support for DirectX. Prepare to be disappointed!If you are buying a new PC this year, it's worth making sure it is "Vista ready" and supports DirectX 9 and WDDM. But if you are already running Windows XP SP2 on a machine that is not WDDM-compatible, there may not be a strong reason to upgrade.Microsoft is working to make key features of Vista - the Avalon graphics subsystem, Indigo web services technology and WinFX programming interface - available for XP SP2, probably next year.Microsoft recognises that most users only "upgrade" their version of Windows when they buy a new PC. However, it hopes that making the new technologies available on XP SP2 will encourage developers to use them to create new programs.
Why does my new Canon Ixus 55 only seem to allow "film speeds" of 50-400. Wouldn't it be easy to allow a much wider range that would offer much greater flexibility? Hannah ChiswellIt would -- but the image quality would suffer. In normal photography, a slow film needs more light than a fast film, but a slow film usually provides much better image quality: pictures taken with fast films usually show grain. With digital cameras, faster "film speed" settings don't produce more grain but more "noise". This can be very visible in clear areas such as sky. To get more speed, you need a bigger sensor, which can collect more light. This is why pro digital cameras usually produce better results than the snapshot types, even if the number of megapixels is the same.
I have bought a scanner, which came with Adobe PhotoShop 3. Now if I double-click an image, Adobe PhotoShop 3 opens automatically. I have tried to disable it and failed, and Adobe is no help. I like the standard MS image viewing software that comes with Windows XP, especially the "View as slide-show" facility. Clive PygottWindows files usually end with a three-letter extension that can be assigned to the program you want to open it. Go to Windows Explorer, click Tools and select Folder Options. On the resulting Properties sheet, click the tab marked File Types. Scroll down to the JPG entry, and read the Details section: this will specify a program next to "Opens with". Click on the Restore button and XP will revert to whichever program was assigned to do this job.If this still isn't the one you want, click on Change to see a list of the programs available, select Windows Picture and Fax Viewer, and click OK. Finally, close the Folder Options box. (Note: this program requires theMS06-001security patch.)Also bear in mind that if you right-click any file, Windows will show an in-context menu. If you right-click a JPeg and select Open With, this will let you choose from several programs that could open it. In your case, the options should include Windows Picture and Fax Viewer, Paint, and Internet Explorer, as well as Adobe PhotoShop 3.
I was naturally excited* to read on O'Reilly'sEmerging Telephony blogthat "a new site has popped up devoted to the promotion ofPherotones,which are presented as a sort of oddball, audible cousin of pheromones, which naturally you'll be able to use as ring tones on your cell phone. The site lures us in with the convincing tagline 'You've heard of Pheromones, now try Pherotones!' and gripping personal testimonials." The post's author even talked to " Dr Myra Vanderhood of the Auditory Institute, RTP, a 'world-traveled intimacy expert'."However, these "subliminal sounds" were soon exposed, in a comment to the post, as "a viral marketing campaign created by the advertising agency McKinney Silver," which helpfully did little to cover its tracks.One interesting thing about its campaign was the creation ofa Wikipedia entry for Pherotone, which now carries the warning: "The factual accuracy of this article is disputed."I don't know if this is the first attempt to use Wikipedia for such purposes, but I bet it won't be the last....* My first thought being: "Here's one for the Bad Science column."
Friday August 19 2005For about a month now I've known it's in there; I've been carrying it around for a lot longer. It sounds tiny, just four centimetres, but apparently it's a big 'un. Big enough to kill me, anyway. That's why they're going fill me with anaesthetic, cut open my skull and try to chop it out.Friends do not react at all well when you say the words, "I've got a brain tumour." I know I wouldn't. I'd freak. After all, what do you say to someone in that position? Do you show pity, or is that patronising? Do you offer advice, when you know nothing about the condition? Or should you go for the bluff, you'll-be-OK-lad reassurance, running the risk of sounding uncaring? I tell you, it's a minefield. Thank God I'm on the other end of it.Actually, the etiquette of the situation is not without difficulties for me. Telling people is an almighty pain in the arse. Of course I appreciate everyone's concern. But I've let maybe a dozen people know about it, and each time it takes ages - I reckon 45 minutes - to explain. It was OK the first couple of times, but now I'm bored. I mean, how many times can you repeat the same spiel about the difference between benign and malign?When my flatmates said they hadn't told anyone else about it, giving me the opportunity to let the world know in my own time, my heart sank. Was I really expected to do all this myself? Like someone with a new partner who hasn't told their ex, I wanted to push the responsibility on to someone else, to take the coward's way out.The thing in my head is an acoustic neuroma. It's a growth of cells on the eighth cranial nerve between the inner ear and the brain - the bit that controls balance and hearing. It isn't malignant, so it won't spread. But it is growing, and if it keeps pressing on my brain stem I will die. So a team of surgeons will have to slice my head open, rummage around inside and then make sure I'm well stocked up on Nurofen.Sunday August 21I've always thought of myself as reasonably good-looking, but now I face the likelihood of becoming ugly. Not just ugly, but deformed: my face twisted and lopsided, with one unblinking eye to terrify passing toddlers. The acoustic neuroma is pressing against the nerve that controls the facial muscles. For some reason it doesn't mind being stretched, but objects greatly to whatever is stretching it being taken away. When this happens, the face palsies on the side of the tumour and the mechanism that opens and closes the eye malfunctions. The best-case scenario is that the nerve is left intact and eventually heals, but given the size of the tumour, I would be lucky to get by with this. The worst that can happen is that the nerve is severed during the operation and the medical team are unable to repair it. If this happens, the muscles will go on the right side of my face, drooping permanently, and I can forget about that modelling contract with Prada. I know men are supposed to be nonchalant about their appearance and scoff at preening pretty boys. But believe me, the prospect of lifelong disfigurement makes mirror-checking metrosexuals of us all.Tuesday September 6I rang up the neurology department today expecting to be told again I'd have to wait to find out when I'm due, but apparently I'm pencilled in for admission on Monday November 7. The op takes place on November 8. So that's my deadline for buying pyjamas. To be honest, if I could go in now, I would.I have to admit I don't know much about hospitals. I know I was born in one. There's another down the road from the house where my parents live. I've occasionally visited relatives in them, briefly. The one I'm going to be treated in was the place both where my dad worked as a nurse and where I had my adenoids out 21 years ago. Well, I'm going to get to know one now.Tuesday September 20A few years ago I was at a Hibs v Dundee United game when the bloke sitting behind me came out with the most tasteless football chant I have ever heard. The subject of the ditty was former Easter Road legend Darren Jackson, who ended up playing for Hearts in the twilight of his career. He had recently had a health scare when it was revealed he suffered from hydrocephalus, a build-up of fluid on the brain. To the tune of Winter Wonderland, the song ran thus:"Today I heard a rumourDarren Jackson's got a tumour.What a wonderful wayTo spend your dayWatching Darren Jackson pass away."I turned round to tell the chanter to shut up, but he was six foot three, built like the proverbial outhouse and clad, despite the Edinburgh winter, in just a T-shirt. So I kept my mouth shut. He carried on repeating it until he got bored.I always wondered whether being afflicted by a serious condition would affect my sense of humour. So far it hasn't, and in fact my penchant for sick jokes is as strong as ever. Admittedly, there don't seem to be many gags ready-made for my rather obscure illness. You don't get any hits if you Google "acoustic neuroma jokes". I can, however, adapt an old cancer line to give you this: how many brain tumour patients does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one - but he needs a support group to cheer him on, and there's a lot of grieving afterwards.Monday October 10At first, I'll admit, I was looking forward to six months of lazing around watching reruns of Quantum Leap and Oh! Doctor Beeching. But my days are going to need a bit more structure. So here are my five post-op targets which, though falling short of discovering a cure for cancer, should at least add some purpose to my life.1. Grow a beard. I've always wanted to do this. At university I used to crack under the pressure of itchiness after about a week. Now, if no one other than my parents is going to see me for days on end, I might as well take advantage; my face is going to be looking strange enough anyway.2. Become a pub quiz genius. By next spring I'm going to know the Periodic Table and the capitals of the world by heart.3. Learn the guitar again. I've never exactly been Django Rhineheart, but time was when I was well enough versed in axemanship to serve some time in a couple of thoroughly dreadful bands. It's time I was able to help people warble out of tune to Kinks songs at parties again.4. Complete a hard sudoku puzzle without making notes.5. Watch an entire series of 24 in a real-time single sitting. Admit it, you'd love to do this.Monday October 24I got through the front door fresh off the train, dropped my bags and made myself a cup of tea. Then I went into my brother's old room, sat on the bed and thought about how this will be home for the next six months. This morning I woke up in London. Now I'm writing this at my parents' house. I'm grateful in the extreme to my folks for putting me up, and I'm looking forward to a steady diet of digital TV and home cooking; but I must admit my plans for life didn't include living with my mum and dad at the age of 26.Thursday November 3They say it takes fewer muscles to smile than it does to frown. Except for me there soon won't be much difference, at least on my right side. I'm looking at losing the use of all my facial muscles on that side, so if I've got my head turned a certain way you won't be able to tell if I'm elated or depressed. Which will be handy for playing poker.On the website of the British Acoustic Neuroma Association, there's a quote from a study of people recovering from surgery: "I have emotionally found it extremely difficult that I have lost my smile. I used to be a very smiley person." Members can buy a range of pens and stickers featuring an acid house-style face, with the mouth turning upwards at one side only. It carries the slogan "I'm all smiles inside".So does that mean I am too? That all depends how the operation goes on Tuesday. The hard bit isn't getting the tumour out, it's preserving the nerves that control the facial muscles. Even if they stay intact, my right side will temporarily palsy. By "temporarily" I mean anything up to two years, and in the end the face might even function at 80% capacity. But I would take looking relatively normal by 28. Currently playing: Brian Wilson's Smile.Monday November 7They say it's going to rain today, that the temperature is going to take a dive. I couldn't care less; I'm going into hospital.Everything I have written until now has been speculation, a combination of educated guesswork and slightly morbid revelling in worst-case scenarios. The possibles and probables are about to turn into actuals and definites. Tomorrow they'll wake me up at 6.30am. Within the hour I'll be under anaesthetic and out until lunchtime on Wednesday. And what they do between 8am and 9pm could define the rest of my life. Who knows? I'm just keeping my fingers crossed that the surgeons keep away from the pub tonight.The temptation is to look upon the growth as a manifestation of some kind of inner turmoil which is about to be excised, or as the sins of my soul that will be cut out for good. I'm not going to do that because I know whatever flaws and demons I carry with me will still be there when the operation is over. But I know they will take from me more than a lump of cells. I've never gone through anything remotely like this before; I suppose I'm going to be changed for ever. Hopefully something will be added too.Wednesday November 23As you can see, I'm not dead. The last couple of weeks have been a bit of a blur, which I suppose is a predictable side-effect of having strangers fiddle around inside your head for 13 hours. But the upshot of it is this: I'm here, and in good shape. I look rather weird, of course. The right half of my face doesn't work and I can't close my eye on that side. I have the haircut of a far-right extremist (or a member of the Bravery) and a huge scar around my temple. My sense of balance is shot: my best attempt at walking consists of shuffling like a Chelsea pensioner on his way to Ladbrokes. None of this bothers me too much. Because just before they stitched me back up, the surgeons checked my facial nerve and it seemed, though bruised and swollen, to be intact. So my chances of looking normal again are good.Friday November 25Before my operation, I expected the most troublesome aspect of my recovery to be the head wound left by the surgeons. Failing that, I dreaded losing my balance. I was wrong on both counts. By far the most irritating side-effect of my operation is my permanently open right eye. I wish the sodding thing would hurry up and let me wink like Sid James again. To guard against irritation and, potentially, an ocular ulcer, I have to swipe it with cotton wool dipped in saline fluid every couple of hours. Then I squeeze under the lower lid a substance called Viscotears. That's right; artificial tears. There's a ready-made literary device for all you aspiring novelists.Friday December 9Yesterday I celebrated the one-month anniversary of my operation by ... going back to hospital. Don't worry, I've not started bleeding out of my nostrils or anything. It was a routine check-up. While I was there, my ENT surgeon told me he wanted to slice my right eyelid open and insert a sliver of precious metal. This isn't because I'm keen to engage in bizarre fetishistic practices. I just want to be able to shut both my peepers without having to use industrial quantities of surgical tape. Popping a gold weight into the lid will help it open and close. So hopefully after this new op I'll look a bit less of a freak.Now, I'm sure the more scientifically literate among you will know that the element Au is highly stable and inert: it's unlikely to break down, meaning the surgeon can just take it all out again if my nerve heals. I've read up on that too. But all I can think is: gold! Always believe in your soul! How bling is that? I really want to walk through an airport metal detector and, when the alarm goes off, declare nonchalantly, "Oh, I forgot. That must be the gold implant in my eye."Saturday December 31Looking back, it feels like 2005 was two different years, not one. Six months ago I was beavering away at work, blissfully unconcerned about my health; strange to think that so recently I didn't even know what an acoustic neuroma was. Since then I've been preoccupied with the operation and its aftermath. Career, money, ambition, appearance - none of these seem very important now. Which is just as well when you're on the sick and living with your parents.Before they cut me open, I imagined the experience would be in some way life-changing. I suppose now I'm less uptight - it's hard to get worked up about anything short of major brain surgery these days. And I feel much closer to family and friends after they rallied round. But otherwise I feel much the same bloke as before. Sorry if that sounds less dramatic, but to me it's a big comfort.Less about the old year. I've so much to look forward to in the next one. I can get back to work in a few months and hopefully, by the time 2006 is out, my face will look normal again. So tonight I think I'm due a measure of single malt - it's been two months since I touched booze, and now seems a good time to jump off that particular wagon. As the bells go I'll fill my glass and raise a toast. To your good health, and mine.&middot;Jon's blog is atwww.20six.co.uk/headcase
Is the new version of Apple's iTunes spyware?Arguably, yes, if you let it be. Version 6.0.2 of iTunes software includes a "MiniStore" (in Apple's phrase) which, if you click on a song while connected to the net, will update with suggestions of similar songs or artists you might buy directly. It does that by sending back a string of data with the song name, genre and artist to servers run by a company called Omniture, which passes them to Apple. Yet none of the licences you acquiesce to when installing iTunes mentions sending back data. That's not informed consent - so, strictly speaking, that's spyware behaviour. Happily (for Apple?) you can turn the MiniStore off within iTunes.Also, it only reacts to clicks - rather than tracking which song is playing directly. Apple says it discards any personal data that gets sent. Even so, it's a black mark. "This is the first thing Apple's done with iTunes and the store that's really struck me as going 'over the line'," wrote Rob Griffiths, who runsmacosxhints.com. "Since it's sending your listening habits without your explicit permission, it's clearly a feature that could be described as spyware."Was the WMF exploit a backdoor in Windows?According to Steve Gibson, who develops Windows security products, the Windows Metafile flaw (see "What is a WMF, and why should it worry me?", January 5) doesn't seem like a real mistake - he thinks it was intentionally built in to create a "back door" to systems. In his podcast (transcript attinyurl.com/bzajp) he says: "The only conclusion I can draw is that there has been code from at least Windows 2000 on, and in all current versions ... until it was discovered, which was deliberately put in there by some group..."Stephen Toulouse of Microsoft however rebutted this on the Security blog (attinyurl.com/afe93). The error dates back to the 1980s, and even then its potential flaws were recognised, and guarded against. What's changed? The web - which has put all that vulnerable code in front of malicious hackers seeking any flaw.Do people really want to watch TV on their mobile?It seems to depend where you live. Last Friday, BT and Virgin Mobile released figures from a study of 1,000 users inside the M25: 59% rated TV on their mobile phone appealing or very appealing, but would pay about &pound;5 per month for the service - half what operators had hoped for. But on Tuesday, O2 released survey results from 375 people living near Oxford. There, 76% said they would pay about &pound;10 per month for mobile TV - and take it up in 12 months. Time will tell who's right.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Anyone beaten up for being too keen in class will welcome the latest development in classroom technology. School pupils equipped with hand-held keypads connected wirelessly to electronic whiteboards can now answer teachers' questions - without their classmates knowing. The electronic "student response system", launched last week by Promethean, a supplier of interactive whiteboards, is aimed at four-to-11-year olds.Stephen Jury, the firm's chief executive, says the system helps teachers with the continuous assessment of pupils, and encourages shy children to voice opinions and become more engaged.As always, the technology comes with a price: about &pound;1,800 if bought as a bundle with an interactive whiteboard, Jury says. Luckily for IT suppliers, there is plenty of cash to go around.According to the Department for Education and Skills, ICT (information and communications technology) spending for schools has more than doubled since 1998. Last autumn, the schools minister Andrew Adonis announced &pound;125 million of new money for schools to spend on educational software over the two years.Attendance at the BETT educational technology show in London last week suggests widespread confidence that this investment will continue. "If anything, it will probably increase," says David Todman, Dell's UK schools manager. "To achieve what the government wants in education, there is nothing it can do but increase the expenditure on IT."In a speech to BETT, education secretary Ruth Kelly said that more remains to be done. "In everything we do, technology can provide a surge to speed up progress, to make every pound of investment go as far as it can, and to open up the waters of reform that otherwise would remain inaccessible."The controversial education white paper Higher Standards, Better Schools for All, looks to IT to help the government achieve two aims - lessons tailored to individual pupils' needs and involving parents more closely in choosing and running schools. It notes that more than 80% of secondary schools now have websites. "Parents and pupils will be able to see exactly what's on offer, how well the school is doing, and the future direction it intends to take."Attendance recordsThe white paper cites Kemnal Technology College, at Sidcup in southeast London, as an exemplar. Parents can already log on to the school's IT system to look at their child's reports, attendance records and information about homework.One result of this enthusiasm for IT in education is large contracts for suppliers. Leeds Learning Network, a filtered internet service provider for more than 400 schools, libraries and other institutions across the city, last week announced an &pound;8m deal under which a private contractor, Synetrix, will provide a "virtual learning platform" and other internet services. Meanwhile, five schools in Bristol, acting as pathfinders for the &pound;2.2bn Building Schools for the Future programme, earlier this month agreed an &pound;8m contract with Dell.In another development announced last week, telecommunications firm MCI won a &pound;29m contract to supply the next-generation computer network linking all UK education and research, SuperJanet 5. The new network will eventually have a capacity of 40 gigabits per second: enough for any currently conceivable multimedia learning experience.The government's e-learning strategy, published last year, suggests that big is beautiful, when it comes to IT at least. One priority is to install common systems and technical standards for IT. The government is also considering trying to get better value for money by procuring IT systems on a regional scale, along the lines of the NHS National Programme for IT (a practice already followed in Scotland).At this feast, there is a skeleton: the lack of solid evidence showing that IT actually improves education. Some international research suggests the opposite. A University of Munich study of secondary pupils in 32 countries reported in 2004 that, while at first sight students with access to computers at school and at home do better than those without, this advantage disappears when other factors such as family income are taken into account.The study also found that while students who used computers occasionally did better than those who did not, those who used them several times a week generally performed worse. The study followed earlier Israeli research showing that IT did not improve test scores.Nearly everyone agrees that more needs to be done to ensure that computers are used properly in schools. Stephen Jury says that Britain needs to follow the US in developing the discipline of "instructional technology" rather than leaving e-learning in the hands of IT departments.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Today's Technology section includes not one, but two contributions from Gamesbloggers. Aleks expands on her recentposthere with anarticleabout sexism and racism in World of Warcraft (I've experienced relatively little of this, although my old English teacher would be slurping even more whiskey if he saw the standard of grammar used by 98.4% of players). Elsewhere Keith givesfurther proofthat 2006 will be the year of cerebral gaming and it's not just Tetris. Finally there is alookat a subject we've touched onbefore- 2nd hand game sales. They are great for retailers, handy for punters but a bit rubbish if you are a publisher or developer.
A student who raised $1m through internet advertising is being blackmailed by hackers, it emerged yesterday. Alex Tew, who hit an internet jackpot with his Million Dollar Homepage website, is being targeted by internet criminals who have sent a series of threats demanding a $50,000 (&pound;28,000) ransom. They finally launched an attack which brought down his website. "Hello u website is under us attack," one email reportedly said. "To stop the DDoS &#91;distributed denial of service&#93; send us 50000$."Themilliondollarhomepage.comsite has been experiencing problems for several days, despite the best efforts of the American company that hosts it. But Mr Tew, 21, has refused to respond to the blackmailers' demands."I haven't replied to any of them, as I don't want to give them the satisfaction and I certainly don't intend to pay them any money," he told the BBC.Mr Tew, of Cricklade, Wiltshire, made more than $1m in advertising after coming up with a novel idea to clear his university debt. Advertisers were offered a prime piece of internet real estate in exchange for cash, and within weeks the page had become a web phenomenon.The demands, from an organisation calling itself the Dark Group, began in early January. But it was only last week that the criminals launched what is known as a distributed denial of service attack on the website. These strikes first involve thousands of computers being infected by a virus enabling them to be commanded from a remote location. So-called "zombie" PCs are then told to visit the target website all at once, causing it to collapse under the weight of traffic.
Just in case you missed this yesterday, Sony's Playstation.jp website has released the names of the first sixconfirmedin-house titles for PS3.Accordingto Gamesindustry.biz:"The six titles are Genji 2 (Action), Angel Rings (RPG), Monster Carnival (Action RPG), Everybody's Golf 5 (Sport), Gran Turismo Series (Racing) and The Eye of Judgement (genre TBA)."Most of these had already been mentioned at the Tokyo Game Show in September, of course, but it's interesting to see that, despite rumours of a launch delay, Sony is pressing ahead with its piecemeal PR process.It's also interesting to note that Everybody's Golf will very likely make it intoyet anotherlaunch line-up. What is it about super-deformed cartoon golfing that makes it such an essential element of Sony's hardware plans? No surprises about Gran Turismo though.As for the other titles, there's little-to-no information available, although I'm hoping that Monster Carnival turns out to be a slightly mis-translated videogame conversion of Monster's Ball, Marc Forster's grim tale of love, loss and redemption in a backward Southern town. Nowthatwould be unexpected.
In contrast to what I wrote yesterday, it seems that even the pros think that computer games have what it takes to promote essential cognitive activity. TheBBCreports on aNESTA Futurelabpoll which found that a third of UK teachers have used computer games in their classrooms. The report also found that 59% of UK teachers would like to use more games for educational purposes. According to the article,a large majority of teachers believe there are educational benefits: 91% thought they developed motor and cognitive skills, and 60% believed they would develop thinking skills and acquire specific knowledge.Interestingly, half[CORRECTION: 28%]of the teachers surveyed also play games themselves. I'd like to see the age ranges of the teachers surveyed to see if this supports many peoples' argument that games will reach maturity once the, ahem, old codgers die out.One element I found intriguing that the BBC article touched on only briefly, is that many teachers admitted that they are concerned about how games reinforce gender and national stereotypes.The research comes from a project called Teaching With Games, a NESTA project which "aims to provide practical and informed evidence of the implications and potential of the use of these games in school." It's co-sponsored with Electronic Arts. The study is expected to finish in August.
Smash and grab, the hi-tech wayLast year, parliament nearly fell victim to a sophisticated hacking fraud - that security services believe came from China, says Pete WarrenFraud nags at Google strategyThe threat of click fraud threatens the search giant's plans for the future. Charles Miller explainsPublishers fret over 'pre-sold' boomGames publishers say the thriving secondhand market puts the development of innovative genres at risk. Does it? Mike Anderiesz reports.It's racist, it's sexist, it's virtual: welcome to Azeroth!Reality is leaking unpleasantly into World of Warcraft's online community of five million, writes Aleks KrotoskiIntel link will offer Apple Windows of opportunityJack Schofield: With the launch of Apple Macintoshes based on Intel processors, will we be able to run Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X on the same machine?Regulations strangle energy innovationFuel-cell technology will be the next big thing to power consumer devices, but it needs to clear a few hurdles, explains Danny BradburyTechnobileCharles Arthur: Another document to write, another chance to play font roulette with Microsoft WordBreaking down class barriersThe government is putting millions into IT for schools. But will suppliers benefit more than the pupils, asks Michael CrossPlay with your brain, not just your joystickGamesblog: In Japan, they have had enough. Already addicted to brain-enhancing grid puzzles such as Sudoku and Kakuro, they want a similar workout from videogamesIndustrial revolution in your own homeVictor Keegan: If you have any doubts about the extent of the migration of entertainment and industry to the home, then count up the number of electric motors in your dwellingRead this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andplease include your address and telephone number. (We won't use them, but do still need them)Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. See theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Briefly:When is an online contract watertight?A lawyer explains that smart internet retailers know that even where they take money up front, they may benefit by delaying the point of conclusion of the contract until goods are despatched.How quickly do you judge a website?Within one-twentieth of a second, according to Canadian researchers who flashed up screens and found that people formed subliminal judgments about their like or dislike of a page before they had had a chance to read it.Does Scarlett Johansson need regulatory oversight?No, but her new makeup might. Hollywood star Johansson has just signed a multimillion-dollar deal with cosmetics company L'Oréal in which her face will promote nanotechnology-based pigments.Is time running out for the wrist watch?With more and more of us able to check the time on our mobile, MP3 player, digital radio etc, what use are watches?Short shrift: Is the new version of Apple's iTunes spyware? | Was the WMF exploit a backdoor in Windows? | Do people really want to watch TV on their mobile?
Last week's article about Apple's mis-pricing of Olympus cameras ("Can I buy a &pound;600 camera for &pound;100?") raised an interesting question - at what stage can you rely on contracts formed online?Contrary to popular understanding, the defining moment for contract conclusion is not necessarily when money changes hands. While this is a common scenario in retail sales (mainly because offer, acceptance and payment are simultaneous), it is only one of many possibilities under English law. Conclusion of a contract can take place earlier or later, at the retailer's discretion.Smart internet retailers know that even where they take money up front, they may benefit by delaying the point of conclusion of the contract until goods are despatched. This gives them breathing space to avoid things like pricing errors. Legally, it is easier to reject an order than try to terminate a contract.If a retailer uses this approach, they must be upfront with customers. Before money is taken, the site must clearly explain when the contract will be formed, and the language used must not confuse the customer. Burying a clause in the terms and conditions isn't enough.Where does this leave the customer whose card has been debited? If it is obvious the retailer can't fulfil the order, they need to tell the customer as soon as possible, and refund the money. As long as the retailer does this, and has taken care in writing the terms and conditions and the language used on the site, they should be able to do as Apple (and others) has done, and reject any orders.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
No, but her new makeup might. Johansson, star of films such as Lost in Translation and Match Point, has just signed a multimillion-dollar deal with cosmetics company L'Or&eacute;al in which her face will promote nanotechnology-based pigments; the first advertisement was shown in the United States on Monday.At the same time, though, the US-based Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies (www.nanotech.org) released a report on government oversight of nanotechnology which suggested that new laws are needed to deal with the growing use of molecule-sized elements in more and more products, ranging from trousers to toothbrushes to suntan lotion and, of course, cosmetics.The problem, according to the report's author, Clarence Davies - a former adviser to the Environmental Protection Agency for the first Bush administration - is that existing legislation is not well framed to deal with potential problems caused by nanotechnology.The Food, Drugs and Cosmetics Act, for example, is 100 years old, and was originally introduced to protect people from patent medicine salesmen and unsanitary food-processing plants.But now, cosmetics companies are reckoned to be the biggest commercial users of nanotechnology, because tinier particles offer more effective ways to get close to the skin. Nano-quality foundation looks smoother; nano-size bubbles of moisturiser can penetrate better into the pores. Of course, if it works better, you can charge a premium for it - above that charged for beauty products. Thus, when it comes to nanotech, L'Or&eacute;al has 192 patents, making it the US's sixth-largest holder in the field. Other cosmetics companies are hot on its heels.But is it safe for Johansson to put this stuff on her skin? L'Or&eacute;al insists there is no evidence that the nanoparticles used in its cosmetics can penetrate to the living cells, rather than the dead dermis. But there's no definitive answer, mostly because commerce is moving a lot faster than regulatory bodies.There has been no movement, for example, on the Royal Society's call last November, saying that further research into the health and safety aspects of nanotechnology was "urgently needed". With the jury out, Johansson is essentially a guinea pig - albeit a very well-paid one.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Many years ago, I worked in a photographic factory that could develop and print photos in two weeks, which seemed pretty fast at the time. Now I have my own photo-processing factory in a room at home. This is thanks to a well-aimed Christmas present of a Lexmark P6350 photo lab, which can print, copy, scan and process photos - with impressive reproduction - in less than a minute. It sits on the desk next to my own printing works, which is close to a computer that 30 years ago would have needed the Albert Hall to house its processing power. Like others, we also have a small cinema (in the shape of a DVD player), a laundry (washing machine/dryer) and sundry other electronic artefacts.If you have any doubts about the extent of the migration of entertainment and industry to the home, then count up the number of electric motors, or solid-state equivalents, in your dwelling: you may be surprised. It is much more than you would have seen in a small factory even 50 years ago. The industrial revolution has come home. One of the interesting things about this phenomenon is that it does not seem to have led to any (net) worsening in unemployment, since the UK has a near record number of people in work. Most of the people displaced when we do things at home that formerly would have been done in a factory have found jobs elsewhere.Nor has this process finished. Libraries are in the process of relocating to the home as Google and others set about the mindboggling task of digitising all information held in libraries and museums globally. When this process is finished, students will be able to write their PhDs from home rather than in a university. You will still be able to go to your local library to read a paper (if that hasn't migrated to the home by then), borrow a novel or consult a particularly long book - if, that is, you don't use a bookstore on your screen such asamazon.comorabebooks.com.It is now commonplace for technicians to fix bugs in your computer while working from their own homes, and running a call centre from home or just being one of the nodes is not unusual. Architects, designers, illustrators and media workers could, if they wanted to, work from home since everything they need is behind the computer screen, including networking facilities if they feel isolated. You can also broadcast radio or video shows from home if you want. The growth of free telephone and video calls using the internet, rather than the traditional fixed-line telephone network, can only accelerate this trend.Of course, we will always have to go out for some activities such as restaurants. Oh yeah? It won't be long, surely, before two people who have contacted each other through a dating site have a remote meal first, complete with wine, using a free video calling system such as Skype (reviewed last week) to see if it is worthwhile meeting in real life.Your home could also become a surveillance centre. It has for years been possible to link up to webcams around the world and get a snapshot - regularly updated - of anything, from the town centre of Leeds, to traffic coming out of London, to your favourite ski slope. It is now possible - as of last week - to link your cameraphone to 100 CCTV cameras across Britain's motorway and main road network to suss out traffic conditions live. (Text the words "traffic mxdata" to 60070 for a free trial.)The migration of entertainment to the home will reach a new stage soon as industry giants such as Sony and Microsoft battle to provide us with integrated music, television and internet centres in our homes, which may act as a fresh incentive not to venture out of doors to live events. It used to be said that an Englishman's home was his castle. Not any more. The drawbridge was let down long ago.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
John Carreras was once a contented Google advertiser. He used text adverts that appeared alongside searches to bring people to his trade exhibition website. He happily paid Google a few cents for every referral, believing that anyone who clicked through to his site from Google was a likely customer. But then he attended a conference in Las Vegas, and he noticed something strange: the number of Google referrals he was getting dropped dramatically, only to rise again once the conference was over.Carreras became convinced the "missing clicks" weren't from customers, but from his competitors, who had all been in Vegas along with him. He believed his unscrupulous rivals whiled away their office hours clicking on his Google ads, knowing that every tap cost him money.If you add in a second kind of scam, where people earn themselves a little money from Google by clicking on ads they're hosting on their own sites, you can see the potential for malice. Click fraud, as it's called, is acknowledged by Google as a problem: last year, Google chief financial officer George Reyes described it as "the biggest threat to the internet economy".While Google Labs, as the company calls its development division, turns out new products at a cracking pace, Google remains largely dependent on just one source of income: advertising. Google would never admit to being uneasy about that reliance. Why should it? Advertising is doubling the company's revenue every year, and is expected to generate almost $10bn this year. But for all the undoubted strengths of its pay-per-click system, some worrying vulnerabilities have emerged.Clicking offAt the same time as it tries to combat click fraud, Google is preparing to add a second string to its money-making bow, by charging users for video downloads. It may not sound earth-shattering, but if it works, it could represent the start of chapter two in the Google story.The problem of click fraud remains - although today Marissa Mayer, the company's vice-president of search products, is more reassuring. She calls it "a serious problem for us, but also a very solvable problem". In principle, the company will not charge its advertisers for clicks that aren't from genuine potential customers. Typically, Google is hoping to use technology to detect suspicious click patterns.Which brings us back to John Carreras. As a result of his experience, he got out of the trade exhibition business, believing that click-fraud detection would be a more lucrative field. He now sells software under the name Who's Clicking Who? which promises to solve click fraud for Google advertisers, firstly by sending "we know who you are" messages back to fraudulent clickers, and then by compiling click dossiers to help fraud victims reclaim their money from Google.For the Mountain View company, click fraud has the potential to become the kind of technological arms race that has been a drag on Microsoft in its battle against ever-changing security threats. Nobody knows the exact extent of it. But, says Google-watcher John Battelle, "right now, advertisers are getting such a good return on their investment that it doesn't matter to them whether &#91;click fraud&#93; is 5% or 30%". But he believes that as Google advertising becomes more competitive and the level of fraud grows, "eventually the rubber will meet the road and we'll see how much fraud there is in the system".New streamsThere's no question that Google's ad system is still a runaway success, but with click fraud on the radar, it's a good time to be exploring new revenue streams. Previously, Google Video (video.google.com), unveiled in January last year, only offered a chance to upload and view uncopyrighted videos free - creating a jungle of thousands of weird, searchable amateur videos (try "party", "family" or "vacation" to get the flavour).But Google is now signing up professional broadcasters, and soon users will be asked to pay for downloads. But how will users take to paying a company that has so far offered them so much for nothing? "It will be a new experience for them," admits Jennifer Feikin, director of Google Video. "If you look at our product today, we refer people off to somewhere where they purchase things; this is something brand new, where it will be happening on Google."Google's new interest in selling is a worrying trend for the likes of Amazon, but Battelle believes online retail is only the start of Google's commercial ambitions: "They are changing the economic presumptions of a number of industries. You can start to tick the boxes of all the information-driven, intellectual property-driven businesses in the world. And it's a very, very big bundle of businesses - the biggest bundle one can imagine."So far, Google has remained tight-lipped about whether its video payment system will be the basis for other services. When I suggested to Feikin that it would allow the company to sell almost anything to its customers, she hesitated for a moment, then replied with cheerful mock-surprise, "that's a good idea!"&#183;Charles Miller is producer of The World According to Google, the first in a new Money Programme series, beginning tomorrow night on BBC2 at 7pm.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Here comes another Word document to open. I know what this means: another chance to play font roulette. I wonder, will this be the day when someone sends me a document and it opens in both the manner and font that I choose for it? Or, as usually happens, will the piece of text that someone else has sent me override the settings that I always use, and instead display itself in a tiny font, with borders around the edges of the page to show how it will look when printed - instead of the larger, legible font I want without page borders because I print out so few documents these days? Faites vos jeux. Click, open ... ah yes, there we are. Tiny font and page borders. The house - in this case, Microsoft Word - wins again.You'd think that a program that has become embedded into our modern way of working (whether we quite asked for that to happen or not) might at least do your bidding. But does it? Hell no. Microsoft Word is a law unto itself, disdainful of your settings, always playing the over-helpful host willing to take the coat of any guest document and let it have the run of the place. The downward slope steepened when the first macro viruses appeared in 1995, written by a contractor working for Microsoft, who twigged that they were possible, and decided to get in there first. Then the program showed its true colours as the application that likes to say "Yes". A macro virus that puts the letters WAZZU in every fourth word? Why of course, come right in!Except, of course, to you, the user. You want to open a document you have saved as a template? "That document does not exist," Word tells me suspiciously, as though I'd tried to con it out of its life savings. In vain I point to the template that unarguably does exist. Word is having none of it.In extremis, of course, there's a "help" function that doesn't. It reads like an extended dictionary entry for "recursion" ("fonts: see styles"; "styles: see fonts"). And wouldn't this be the time when that stupid "Clippy" thing might actually be some use? If it were to pop up and say "I notice that you're struggling to get this document to display itself like your others; would you like some help?" then I'd welcome it. Instead, it always pops up when I'm trying to do things I know how to. I've long since turned it into virtual iron filings. As for Word, it had better watch out. I'd write its dismissal notice if the damn thing would only let me.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There is no need for new movie discsThere are, in fact, only two reasons for trying to introduce this technology (Two tribes go to war, January 12), and neither have anything to do with benefiting the consumer. Hardware manufacturers want to sell us more hardware. Studios want to sell people the same movies all over again for a third time and want another go at encryption.John Waltersvia email&middot; The assertion that DVD piracy is rife as a result of the encryption being cracked is simply incorrect; to copy a DVD, you do not need to be able to read the decrypted content. Produce an exact duplicate of the encrypted data, and you have a perfect working copy.DVD piracy has been around as long as DVDs have; breaking the CSS encryption on a DVD simply allows you to play a DVD with unlicensed hardware (or software) or to save the DVD's data to another medium (like a hard drive). The overwhelming majority of DVD piracy is carried out by groups that copy DVDs without ever decrypting them.Gideon Hallettvia emailSpam sticksAbout four years ago I was receiving up to 150 spams per day (I've woken up to the reality of spam, January 12). So I dumped the old address. After four years of being careful where I surf, I'm now at one spam every few days. The first two years, I only had a few spams a year. (I'm a fairly active user, but I use a restricted and safe part of the internet.)Jim Wrightvia email&ge;As long as there are people offering to make you rich for a few easy mouse clicks or a small up-front investment, there are going to be people willing to accept. While it is true that we may be slowly developing a form of institutional knowledge that allows us, as email users, to implicitly identify and reject spam in our inboxes, I can hardly agree with Charles Arthur's conclusion: "Spam hasn't been solved. But I think our attitude to it could be."To quote PT Barnum, "there's a customer born every minute". Barnum is often believed to have said, "there's a sucker born every minute". From the point of view of the spammer, it's not clear there's all that much difference.farragonews.blogspot.comVital statisticsWhile it is no surprise that news of the latest EU directive (Will logging your email combat terrorism in Europe? January 12) has proved to be controversial, it needs to be seen in context.First, most organisations have to retain emails due to other regulations. Second, as the majority of companies already have email retention policies in place, these new requirements should serve to reinforce an already developed strategy. Finally, end-users have little cause to be concerned about a rise in ISP fees, as the technology already exists to enable ISPs to comply with the regulations.While some may criticise this directive as an invasion of privacy, the fact is that it merely reflects the changing status of email in the eyes of global law agencies. Given that it is admissible for email to be used as evidence in a court of law, it is only natural that the EC wants access to incriminating emails during criminal and terrorist prosecutions.Craig Carpenter, director, corporate marketing &amp; global channels, MirapointHalf rightDan Finn has his platforms in a muddle (Letters and blogs, January 12). Okami is definitely a PS2 game - or at least it will be when it is released. However, he was right about Chibi Robo being a GameCube-only title. So perhaps just half an apology is due to Keith Stuart!Gareth Mackievia emailOut of tune&ge;If people are starting to view music as less special than they did in the 19th century (Are downloads creating apathy? January 12), could that be because back then they had Beethoven, Wagner and Brahms and in 2006 we have James Blunt, the Gallaghers and Daniel Powter?http://xrrf.blogspot.com
The launch of Apple Macintoshes based on Intel processors raises a space-saving - and perhaps a money-saving - idea. Will we be able to run Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X on the same machine?There are two ways to do this: the first is to buy a Mac and install Windows. Apple executives have stated that they will not try to prevent this. The second is to run Mac OS X on a standard PC. The latter has been accomplished with hacked, pre-release versions of Mac OS X Intel code, but Apple is determined to prevent it, so it is not an option for business users.According to reports, installing Windows XP may not be as simple as first thought: the Intel-based Macs don't have a standard PC BIOS (Basic input/output system) chip. Instead, Apple is utilising Intel's Extended Firmware Interface. Intel designed EFI for its next generation Itanium chip, but PC manufacturers haven't been interested in using it, so Microsoft hasn't supported it in mass-market versions of Windows.Whether anyone will find a work-around for XP remains to be seen. However, Windows Vista does include EFI support, so when that arrives, creating dual-boot Macs should not be a problem - or even triple-boot machines for those who want a standalone version of GNU/Linux. (OS X is already based on a version of Unix.)Possessing the ability to run Windows Vista at native speeds will be a boon for Mac users who need to run some of the vast collection of Windows programs. These include specialised business and accounting programs, as well as vast numbers of corporate programs that are written in-house. At the moment, this can be achieved via an emulator, and Microsoft sells Virtual PC (bought from Connectix) for the purpose. No doubt Microsoft will be delighted to offer boxed copies of Windows Vista to Mac users instead.People who need to use both types of system could save money and will certainly save space by having one dual-boot machine instead of two. And if it has to be a Mac, then Apple will gain some sales at the PC industry's expense - although it would be nice to have a choice.Apple could also benefit by selling Intel-based Macs to people who would like to try a Mac, but have too much time and money invested in their Windows software and hardware to be willing to take the risk. In ball-park terms, Apple only needs to convert 1% of Windows PC sales (around 200 million units a year) to increase Mac sales by almost 50%.Of course, this is not the first time we have looked forward to an almost-universal desktop system. That was one of the aims of the AIM alliance, formed by Apple, IBM and Motorola in 1991. They worked to create an open PC standard called PReP (PowerPC Reference Platform), later renamed CHRP (Common Hardware Reference Platform). This was intended to run Mac OS, IBM's OS/2, Windows NT, and several versions of Unix, including Sun's Solaris. Be's BeOS and other operating systems would have followed.The idea was that versatile CHRP PCs would attract enough users, and enough software, to enable the PowerPC chip to displace Intel's x86 line and change the face of the PC industry. But while IBM and Motorola showed CHRP systems, they were never available running Mac OS, and were not competitive against Intel-based PCs that already ran OS/2, Windows and numerous versions of Unix perfectly well.Historically, then, Apple has declined two opportunities to separate its operating system from its proprietary hardware. The first was when it declined to take Bill Gates's advice, offered in 1985, to license Mac OS and make it an industry standard. The second was when it failed to follow through with the objectives of the AIM alliance a decade later.The move to Intel provides another opportunity to sell Mac OS without bundling it with hardware. This would enable companies to create a wide range of compatible hardware that is currently not available to Mac users - including handhelds, tablet PCs and hi-fi style media servers - and to reach emerging markets where Apple currently has little or no presence.Shouldn't Apple take it?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The rapid advance of broadband offers the prospect of everyone having access to the treasure trove of knowledge that is on the internet. Now that BT has got its act together in opening up local exchanges to competitors, people are signing up to broadband at record rates - making Britain one of the most advanced countries in Europe. The trouble is that it is richer people who are signing up first thereby widening the digital divide that the advent of broadband was expected to cure. A survey released yesterday by Point Topic revealed that the top 10 local authorities with the highest broadband densities were all located in the capital and the home counties. Wandsworth in south London had 25 broadband lines per 100 population (including children) while the Western Isles had only 4.9. While there is clearly a geographical divide - rural areas have much lower penetration than towns despite the increasing availability of broadband in remote places - the big divide is between rich and poor. Since most people who can afford the monthly instalments for broadband will soon have signed up there is a danger of a slowdown, creating a new digitariat of disenfranchised citizens denied the education as well as the entertainment (not to mention lower prices) that fast internet access offers. An OECD study has found that established computer users tend to perform better in key school subjects than those with limited experience.Technology may come to the rescue. The prospect of digital television for everyone after 2012 could lead to increased internet access as could the sub-$100 computer that a US social consortium is planning. Although this is, rightly, aimed at the developing world, a version of it may find its way into the shops. One other route to achieve universal internet access is the mobile phone, since most people now have one. Figures published yesterday by Informa claim that 11 of the 16 leading markets in Europe, including the UK, now have mobile phone penetration in excess of 100% with Luxembourg on 160%. This does not mean, even in Luxembourg, that everyone has a phone because of multiple subscriptions and SIM cards. Also, all phones do not have easy-to-use internet access. This may improve as screens get bigger, battery life longer and the phones themselves acquire bigger, user-friendly screens. But that is still some way off. If the government wants to achieve its goal of enabling "the whole of society" to experience the benefits of the internet then it had better spend more time devising a strategy to achieve that goal.
Those with an addictive personality should let out a quiet moan now: Tetris is back. Nintendo has updated the legendary puzzler for its portable DS console. Due in March in the US (probably months later here), the game comes with some new touchscreen elements and an amazing wireless battle mode allowing up to 10 users to compete - with just one copy of the game. This year, civilisation may grind to a halt, engulfed in a blizzard of tumbling shapes.Tetris, designed by Russian engineer Alexey Pajitnov in 1985, has never really gone away. In the 16 years since the success of the Game Boy version, there have been countless translations, revisions and ripoffs. It has even already appeared on DS. Last year a bedroom coder managed to get a clone of the original game running on Nintendo's handheld. But no one does Tetris like Nintendo.It's about time games got people thinking again. If you look at recent crossover hits - Tamagotchi, Pokemon, The Sims and Nintendogs - there has been a slide into sentimentality. Now that the videogame has been accepted as a narrative experience, casual players expect a fluffy version of real life every time they pick up a controller. Jeffrey Goldsmith famously called Tetris a "biochemical, reductionistic metaphor... for curiosity, invention and the creative urge". It is hard to imagine a phrase like that being applied to Nintendogs.Even hardcore games are going soft. Resident Evil 4, God of War and Shadow of Colossus eschew the brain-bending puzzles and unrelenting end-of-level bosses of their predecessors in favour of smooth progression. Driving games used to be about avoiding other cars, but in Burnout Revenge and Need For Speed: Most Wanted you're encouraged to rear-end anything that strays into your path.In Japan, they have had enough. Already addicted to brain-enhancing grid puzzles such as Sudoku and Kakuro, they want a similar workout from videogames. Hence, the hit Nintendo DS titles DS Training For Adults: Work Your Brain, Brain Training 2 and Gentle Brain Exercises, each one a daily programme of maths and reading challenges. DS Training For Adults, designed by a university professor, Ryuuta Kawashima, has shipped more than a million copies. An English translation will soon be released.For a while, puzzle games were driven to the periphery, to casual gaming websites such as Popcap, Boonty and Zylom, and to mobile phones. Tetris DS will be at the vanguard of the genre's renaissance. No matter how fascinated we have become by emotional simulations, Tetris represents game addiction in its purest form. Like the game's own multicoloured misshapes, we will just keep falling for it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Much has been made of the internet as a panacea in which people can interact without the lead weights of real-world race, class and gender dragging them into socially constructed categories. Of course, such idealism has been refuted after almost two decades of social science research, so it's not surprising that the world's largest online world is witnessing some rather crude social discrimination.World of Warcraft has a population of just over five million people. That's slightly larger than Norway and one million shy of Paraguay. For a place that doesn't exist - at least in the physical sense of the word - the postmodern setting of Azeroth has an incredibly diverse and dedicated church of followers, boasting over 2.5m users in North America and 1.5m in China. The remaining accounts are scattered around Europe, South America, Africa and Asia.In this melting pot are people who have brought their own moral sensibilities, from stereotypes to political leanings, to the brave new world. Their offline cultural contexts bleed on to the battlefields as Humans meet in epic clashes with the Undead, and form alliances with Night Elves. The ongoing social evolution contributes to the emergence of community and culture, and the relativity of powerful or subordinate social roles is continuously being re-established through the online collective consciousness.What we know about internet interaction is that a relatively small signal in the real world - such as adhering to certain fashions or using specific language - speaks volumes to other people online. In a medium where personal clues are scant, any information is a gold mine, and contributes to how actors are viewed, with potential implications for the hierarchies that emerge. In the case of WoW, someone recently accused native English speakers of discriminating against non-English speakers based on the grammar in their sentences (tinyurl.com/ayubn).As with most stereotypes, a small number of bad eggs have caused widespread problems for others. Virtual money is an extremely important part of WoW, and clever real-world entrepreneurs have exploited loopholes in the game design that net them massive profits for little overhead. The entrepreneurs set up real sweatshops for the virtual world in many non-English speaking countries, where employees have set quotas of Azeroth gold to farm and reap; this they do by grabbing the spoils of epic battles. Essentially, they're not team players. Enough people dealt with these gold farmers and parted under negative circumstances to generate the stereotype, and non-English speakers reportedly now have a harder time joining teams. Because belonging to a group advances both the player's access to more difficult parts of the world and the amount of money in the coffers, this severely inhibits enjoyment of the game.And gender? Well, actions tend to speak louder than bust size in this online sphere, and behind the masks of the preponderance of online community leaders are female players whose choices are respected and adhered to. However, there are far more female avatars than female players. One source reckons 80% of online women are actually played by men. This could be considered a feminist revolution, until you understand the rationale behind the rush to cross-dress: it's common for female characters to receive unsolicited gifts in hopeful return for affections or to give the girl a boost in a man's world.Even in fantasy lands, the virtual world continues to reflect the cultural mores of the players who enter it. Of course, these discriminatory patterns are specific to the game's communication capabilities. What is surprising is that more stereotyping hasn't emerged. Instead, the mega-populations who log on from the various corners of the globe are integrated in ways that would never be possible in the real world.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
