Surrey police are investigating the possibility that missing teenager Amanda Dowler may have gone off with a boyfriend or someone she met through an internet chat site.Detectives, who have downloaded and examined the files on her home computer, are pursuing several fresh leads in the hope they will solve the mystery of her disappearance 12 days ago.More than 100 officers are now working on the case in her home town of Walton-on-Thames. Mobile telephone records are also being scrutinised in the belief they may explain her last known movements.The streets from which Amanda, known as Milly, vanished were checked again yesterday by specialist search officers."Milly, like most youngsters her age, is fairly active in the computer world," said a police spokeswoman yesterday. "There are a number of lines of inquiry which emanate from details recovered from her computer."One report suggested detectives were exploring whether Amanda had posted a message on the FriendsReunited website, which enables people to contact old schoolfriends.The message read: "I've really stayed the same i went to cleves then i went to heathside im 13 now and going into yr 9 it's the summer holidays. lyl + fbi xxxx ps im a metler so ha ha ha ha"."Metler" is thought to refer to the author of the message being a heavy metal music fan. Surrey police declined to confirm whether they were linking it to the missing teenager.Amanda was last seen on March 21 after leaving Walton-on-Thames railway station. Uncharacteristically, she had called her father on a mobile telephone to say she was going to be late. Friends thought she had left them to walk home, a journey that normally took 15 to 20 minutes.Amanda's mother Sally, a teacher, and her father Robert, an IT consultant, have issued repeated pleas begging their daughter to return home. An appeal on BBC Crimewatch produced hundreds of calls but no new confirmed sightings.Having checked local CCTV records and interviewed scores of witnesses who would have been on her route home that day, officers are increasingly convinced that Amanda was not violently abducted but willingly went off with someone she met.At the weekend, Amanda's sister Gemma, 16, released an open letter begging anyone who has abducted her to return her safely.Last night actor Jonathan Pryce, star of the musical My Fair Lady, made an appeal for her return.The 13-year-old had made plans with her family to see the West End production before she vanished.
Very funny- but aren't April Fools supposed to appearbeforemidday? Meanwhile, Ben Hammersley obviously has nothing better to do on this bank holiday Monday than compile avery handy listof April Fools from around the web.
I was at a party the other day along with "the cream of the UK's computer game developers". Games are big business these days - over &#163;1bn and growing quickly - and so, unsurprisingly, they seemed to be in a good mood.I should explain that, while Sony and Microsoft make the boxes, and publishers like Eidos publish the games, the developers are the boys who have to stay up all night writing the things. You'll have noticed I'm saying: guys, boys etc, because, at this party for the "cream of the UK's game developers", I could count exactly two women. And one of those was the PR who organised it. It's entirely possible that there were some very thin women standing behind pillars somewhere, but the point stands that the cream of the UK's game developers doesn't yet include women.This is sad. And not just for women trying to break into the games industry. It's bad for the games industry itself. While gaming is hugely popular (in the US, it's a bigger business than films), it wants, and needs, to be bigger. And the way to do that is to break out of its core demographic into pastures new. And that core demographic is boys aged 16-30. With the emphasis on boys.In other words, the target audience for most games is a younger version of the people at the party, who were for the most part men in their late 30s.There were a few older guys, but they were mostly the business brains who came in from outside when the founders discovered they didn't know how to negotiate a loan. But those founders, the cream, were all of an age that makes it plain that 20 years ago they were huddled over either a Sinclair Spectrum or a BBC Micro, or possibly a Vic-20, playing Defender, or Chucky Egg, or Manic Miner. And when they'd finished playing, they decided to try and do it for themselves.And while they were hogging the TV, their sisters were outside playing real games and developing things like social skills. Without meaning to, yet without even trying, they created a boys-only world of guns, wizards and fast cars, in which the only women are huge of bust and short of clothes.Nobody wants this. The games industry would love to have more women, not least because they want to develop more games that will appeal to older, younger or just more female demographics than their current core audience. Plus they'd have someone other than boys to talk to at parties.
Microsoft TechNet editor Steven Levy has completed his three-parter on what .Net is and what it means, which he startedherein January. Of course this is not an independent view -- ultimately it is a sales pitch -- but it isn't an official Microsoft strategy white paper either. And if you can be bothered to read it, you will understand .Net better than 90% of British IT staff and 99.9% of journalists.Real techies can follow this up with the story ofDollar Rent A Car's .Net implementation, which dismisses Corba, Java and Oracle and shows how true happiness can be achieved simply by buying everything from Microsoft. This is a dramatic change from a couple of years ago when true happiness could only be achieved simply by buying everything from Sun or, before that, buying everything from IBM.
And finally, JOF spotted that Microsoft have recently renamed their "Critical Update Notification Tool" [NTK 2002-02-22] to the somewhat more acronym-friendly "Critical Update Notification Utility", reportsNTK.
Here's a special treat for Easter. It is one of my favourite pages on the Web:Powers of 10.
After making a big splash at the Consumer Electronics Show in January, Moxi Digital is being taken over byDigeo. Well doneBusiness Weekfor a March 4 article suggesting all was not well. Moxi developed a Linux-based home entertainment gateway.
A rare but welcome comment to the Xbox advertising item: "I'd advise you to watch the Playstation 2's 'I am the Wolfman' advert instead:http://www.iamthewolfman.com/". You have to negotiate through the Flash junk, find the video and download it. The result is roughly equivalent to other PS2 adverts, unfortunately: it is eminently forgettable.By the way, that "instead" is a bit of a giveaway. You can watch the PS2 adas welland not lead such an impoverished life.
Is Java Obsolete?Anyone familiar with the way the press works will recognise that headlines are used to attract attention, and that being attacked is fine: it is being ignored that is fatal. But the article made a perfectly reasonable point, whilethe responseseems to have been unreasonable. That doesn't really surprise me. I've seen it all before. In fact, I've been seeing the same thing for 20 years. I've seen similar responses from Acorn users, Amiga users, Apple Macintosh users, Linux users, and others with a religious commitment to some platform that 99.99% of the world (or more) frankly could not give a damn about. Rational argument is part of the fun of the game, of course, but real zealotry is just sad. Mainly it reveals that a sizeable number of computer users have frighteningly impoverished personalities. The traditional response is: "Get a life." Alas, this is easier said than done.
"Remember, to survive in the New Economy Pt. II, you must recall Andrew Mellon's famous words,Gentlemen prefer bonds."
One day there will be No More Xbox Commercials, so it would be a good idea to grab them while you can. This thought was prompted by stumbling into a link for thebirth-to-grave adon theUncle Clivesite. You can also watch the Mosquito ad at thePlaymoresite.
Good newson the broadband front? Surely not. But yes, it is: ADSL installations have gone up, from 3,000 to 8,000 a week, since BT announced it would lower the price it charges ISPs for new connections. BT has also introduced a low-hassle Plug &amp; Go self-installation option, and has been heavily promoting the technology as well, all of which can't be bad.
In your spare time, you were, I am sure, planning to develop your own Microsoft.net client to run on your non-Windows system of choice. This would be be hard work using the specifications submitted to the ECMA standards body. However, now you candownload the source codeof the original CLI (Common Language Infrastructure) under Microsoft's Shared Source programme to see how it's done. The CLI runs under Windows XP and the FreeBSD verison of Unix. This is the code, codenamed Rotor, describedhere.
Why can't wecatch terrorists who use the net? The New York Times [free registration required] reports.
Edwin Black, the author of IBM and the Holocaust, has put forward further evidence to support his claims of IBM's knowledge and complicity in Nazi operations in wartime Poland in the paperback edition to be published in the US this week, according to aReutersstory. For younger readers: IBM had a monopoly of data processing for almost 50 years, and fought a string of anti-trust cases against the US governemt. Following a couple of unfortunate accidents (ie designing the IBM PC to use Intel processors and Microsoft's MS-DOS) it gave away a large part of its monopoly power to a couple of small upstarts; but after 20 years, it is still bigger than both put together.
For too long now the web has been the domain of fancy designers who have no knowledge of user interfaces. As a programmer, I have often been astounded by the inept approach to presentation of information on the computer screen from the web. Would anyone use a computer system at work with such inane access to information?Get the fancy designers out - get the people in who have been creating interfaces and presenting information in a meaningful way for many years. Give it back to the computer professionals.Andrew Pope  andrew.pope@cmgplc.comAs a professionally trained designer, I am appalled by the standard of much of the content on the web. A good designer should be able to create a balance of form and function that is both aesthetically pleasing and user friendly. It is not the designer who is at fault, but the plethora of amateurs out there who don't have a clue.Paul Shanks  Paul.Shanks@  expro.shell.co.ukI particularly agree about the problem of pop-up windows. This has recently become a regular, and unbelievably irritating, feature of the one website I visit the most, and has already caused me to reduce the time I spend there. Which website? Have a guess...Mark Antony Richardson  mark.richardson@  gedas.co.ukTo be honest, what I find even more monotonous than badly designed websites is the repeated trotting out of the same "usability" catchphrases and ideas. The classic example is Jakob Nielsen's www.useit.com. I find this site completely unusable because for some reason, my eyes aren't designed to look at relentless text on disgusting cyan and yellow backgrounds. Perhaps there is no place on the web for graphic design or even fun. Why stop there? How about outlawing fashion? Surely all those expensive clothes are not "usable" when we could all wear a uniform boiler suit? And out with Rembrandt and Monet, we should have schematics and diagrams on our walls! No more Hendrix or Handel, tear down the Arc de Triomphe!Pete Otaqui  pete@mediumart.co.ukSimplicity and ease of use (I know and honour the Warwick work) are the keys to accessibility for disabled people. If it is good for disabled people, it is generally good for people. The Bobby analysis and the W3C rules are all good usability rules. Perhaps the problem is that the designs are driven by us techies.Dave Lyons  Disability technical officer  University of Essex  lyond@essex.ac.ukWebsites should definitely have form following function. It is a practical forum that deserves practical design. We all find needless Flash intros irritating. However Macromedia Flash is an innovative tool that can produce stunning, entertaining visuals, and to sideline it completely would be ridiculous. There is no rule saying that the internet has to be a joyless place. It is time for the old crankies of this world to wake up and smell the upgrades.Simply because inexperienced users still are still coming on to the web doesn't mean we should take 10 steps backwards. They need to learn the ropes and catch up like everyone else. Would you ask all motorists to drive slower because there are more learner drivers?  The web is an ever-changing forum, and if you are too lazy and stubborn to adapt, it's the wrong arena for you anyway.Tracy Brown  tracylouisebrown@hotmailAs cited in a recent piece in the design magazine Create, the Sony Walkman was not developed because of any consumer usability feedback. It had more to do with the chairman of Sony wanting music on the golf course!!Frank Reilly  frank@eye2be.comA fabulous article and oh so right. Perhaps the usability experts, UserMetrics, should also fire the designer and enable the user to re-size text via View|Text Size|Larger.Jim Heckle  jim.heckle@telia.comAmen.  Christopher J Roberts  keynote@jersey.netJack Schofield's Second sight item in Online (21 March) falls short of describing just how poor web usability really is. For example, measuring abandoned shopping carts presupposes that users have got as far as putting an item into their shopping cart in the first place.Thanks to the work of Jared Spool and User Interface Engineering (http://www.uie.com) we know that fewer than half of attempted web purchases succeed. However, e-commerce is not the only area of concern.A Guardian article on 14 February reported on the National Audit Office's findings that four out of five attempts by taxpayers to file electronically had failed in the previous tax year. And if further proof of the general disregard of usability is needed, just visit the Consumer Association's list of Which? Web Trader merchants (http://www.which.net/webtrader). Some of the sites listed there number among the most unusable I have come across.Yet when I wrote to the CA suggesting that they might like to consider making usability a component of the Which Web Trader scheme, I was not even graced with a reply.As Jack says, until somebody wakes up to the fact that people really do need to be able to use this technology, life online is just going to get worse. Those of us in the usability industry had hopes that the bursting of the dot.com bubble was going to focus attention on user-centered development, but this is just not happening. And I dread to think how much of our taxes are going to be squandered on hit-and-miss attempts at giving us online government.PS - For anyone interested in hearing Jared Spool talk about web usability, he is making a rare trip to the UK next month. Details can be found at http://www.usabilitynews.com. For more information on the failings of the Inland Revenue's online tax returns and other important issues in usability, please visit the archives of our D4U (Design for Usability) newsletter at http://lists.syntagm.co.uk/archives. (Readers are also welcome to a free subscription to the newsletter at the same address.)William HudsonI read your article today with great interest.  I must say how much I agree with you.  In general web designers seem to be more interested in what they can do and show off their talents than how useful a web site is to the user.I know a web designer in his mid twenties who is designing a site for a mutual colleague. His main interest seems to be what pretty flash graphics he can use, the actual content and usability appear to come second.The problem is that people are more interested in how a thing looks than how practical it is. Of course this doesn't only apply to web sites.However, I have worked on a large local authority website where they certainly tested everything they put up.  Always checking for usability by those with disabilities. This, of course, is because they are answerable to the public.Sandra WordenYour attack on website design and reference to planes and usability checks is particularly apt in this house.I had the bright idea of trying to find out where in Italy we could fly to from Liverpool airport for Easter.I made the mistake of looking on their website. Apparently it is brand new sooper-dooper state of the art stuff, with flashing bits here, bits popping up and down imaginatively there. Only trouble was it didn't seem to tell me where the bloody planes go to. I thought that would be quite high on their priority list. Silly me.I emailed them suggesting they got ordinary people to test the usability of their site and got a reply saying that they had had many compliments on their website design. Really?  Who from?  Who bothers to ring up and say what a nice site they have? The paying public?  I doubt it.They also then offered me a flight April 14th.  Easter must fall late in Liverpool.The answer was inevitable. I stopped trying and logged onto Manchester Airport's website and got a flight in about three minutes flat. We won't try Liverpool again.Peter HardwickI agree with much of the sentiment underlying the report... advertising flashing all over the place and windows popping up here there and everywhere etc, but what has this got to do with Java. I don't see Java as a problem in web design, but as a solution. It is behind the scenes generally and not in the face...Paul GrimwoodFrom the US, I have read about the problems with web design in today's on-line edition.  I teach web design in the high-tech Huntsville, Alabama market and my office/condo overlooks the Marshall Space Flight Center. Sorry to tell you, but JAVA and frames technology are not the problem.  JAVA is an amazing and capable technology. Its problems are because Microsoft and Sun are designing different JAVA functions, and they aren't always compatible. But, I have an implementation that is guaranteed to work and it was "built" in 1997.  See what Java and frames can do with careful planning at: http://www2.una.edu/communications/For a 2002 implementation of JAVA that because of the Microsoft and Sun impasse may or may not work but provides e-commerce options for users see my personal pages at: http://chotank.comAvon Edward FooteFunny Mr Schofield should mention web usability regarding pop up windows and the like. Yesterday I thought there was a leak in my office and after a while looking at the ceiling realised that the noise was in fact coming from one of many pop up animated ads that Guardian Unlimited generates irrepressibly. Oddly, these seem to appear behind the main page, and are only noticed once the whole page is closed - thus making them largely useless at gaining my attention.Jago DodsonOh, the irony of it all: your article expounds the theory that pop-up ads are an irritant and waste of time, yet Guardian Unlimited persists in using them. The article states that pop-ups drive users away. How true: I'm off to use the BBC online site instead. They have a policy of no pop-ups.Claire PollockI agree that in today's world of multimedia apps and online promises, designers are continually attempting to push the boundaries of design. What you must understand is that a designer producing a site is faced with a challenge to test out the latest technologies and latest layout they personally wish to push. The blame can be laid on the account handlers for this - it is their job to convey the wishes of the client to the designer and keep the designer in check in relation to the companies needs.However we at Zen Internet have found that involving the designer in the meetings from the outset has proved invaluable; the designers can gauge for themselves what the clients needs are.Using this philosophy we have a 100% satisfaction record so far and to this day we have still not produced a Flash animated site. We certainly have the capabilities, and if the designer wishes to release some pent up designer frustration we allocate them personal web space to produce and develop their skills.But in this world of poor usability and general lack of trust in the web, it is important that the account handler does not dazzle the client with what the site will do to the point were graphics rule and navigation takes a back seat. We need to be responsible about how we deal with the customer.Aftab AliAlthough I agree with the general argument in your article that the web is being populated with sites that aren't user-friendly I think that you have made an assumption that is not entirely accurate. You have assumed that these sites have been created by 'web designers' rather than just 'someone who can create a website'.As a professionally trained designer (sorry I work on intranet sites so you can't see my work!) I am appalled by the standard of much of the content on the web and a good designer should be able to create a balance of form and function that is both aesthetically pleasing and user-friendly.So, I would argue that it is not the designer who is at fault, but the plethora of amateurs out there who think they are designers but don't have a clue.Paul ShanksNo doubt 'usability' analysis has its place. But all too often - when used as the sole basis for criticizing poor performance of web sites - the underlying aim seems to be more about selling 'usability' services, rather than fully understanding the dynamics of sales, marketing and product presentation and their relationship to design functions.Good design is not, and should not be determined by 'usability' criteria. At its best. good design will lead us into new and innovative ways of looking at and interacting with whatever we are being presented with.Over emphasis on the role of usability analysis would lead us into a  monotonous world constrained by unnecessary conventions - the real picture is definitely bigger than this!As sited in a recent piece in the design magazine Create, it is worth  remembering that the Sony Walkman was not developed because of any consumer usability feedback. Its development had more to do with the desire of the Chairman of Sony wanting music on the golf course!Frank ReillyThe root of the problem is that there is simply very little 'design' going on on the web. The majority of people who call themselves 'designers' are in fact either techies in love with clever little features (the 'because it can' syndrome) or anybody who can type who confuses being able to operate a program like Front Page or even Dreamweaver with being able to design.Dreamweaver et al are no more than tools, just the same as a pencil is. And since when did he ability to make marks with a pencil transform anyone into a designer?Most of what we see is styling - a wholly different thing. Properly  trained designers are concerned with how to communicate effectively -  typefaces, colours, the number of pixels between A and B are secondary issues to effectiveness. The Bahaus mantra of "form follows function" still holds good - regardless of the number of airheads who insist that "the web changes everything".Chris GoughSadly, I agree with your sentiments regarding the deterioration of the quality of websites - especially where you point to the usability of the interface itself.You raise some interesting points that have prompted a knee-jerk reaction.  In the rush to get up to "earning" thousands of pounds, I have seen some rather dubious looking "computing" centers offer courses that qualify said applicants to be "Certified Web Masters" - a cursory look at the course content amounts to little else than a condensed dictat of a web design software manual, delivered in a sweaty fever in the continued hope of cashing in on those "dot.com million" dreams.However, there is one glaring omission in the midst of all this activity - discussion on the Human Computer Interface (HCI).  This is a huge discipline within Computing Science which seemed to have become rather less fashionable when compared to "Networking" (something most graduates/punters seem to aspire to get to but have no idea what it means) or MSCE's.If you didn't know what HCI involved, you'd probably be interested to find that it is those very issues that you discuss are addressed within this discipline, "...does the user like it..?" or "...can they use it?" or even better, "will it achieve what we intended?".There have been some fairly intensive psychological studies over the years and the results are rather interesting - those being the tenets that govern interface (in this case Web page) design.I see many designers court the techno-buzz words and pander to the flashiest latest tool - to the effect that you bemoan. This is sadly a result of half baked techno-wizards quick to jump on the internet bandwagon, without really taking time to think what they are trying to do.  This is further exacerbated by the fact that computing science courses (as opposed to Computer Science courses) are so hard to get into now (at least 3 B's seem the norm now) and what you see, in my opinion, is the sad result of a failure to properly train our designers in the rush to seek out that elusive fools gold of web commerce ("proper" Bachelors Degrees and evening courses alike).This will get worse.  I guarantee you, with the advent of broadband - you can almost hear the marketeers rubbing their hands with glee at the prospect of being able to bombard you with 1mb/s worth of advertisements.Lucky we have things like pop up killer software and firewalls huh?!Kwok Ng
People support free software and that is noble if the software is supposed to be free. But the majority of computer users seem to be happyripping off softwarethat is not supposed to be free, but is offered as shareware by very small companies just trying to make a modest living. Ambrosia Software, for example, found 104 out of 197 attempts to reregister one of its Macintosh utilities were fraudulent. You can bet that a lot of shareware and commercial software suppliers are going to follow Microsoft's lead and introduce product activation systems.
Super Mario Advance 2Game Boy Advance	&#163;29.99 Nintendo	*****Jedi Power BattlesGame Boy Advance	&#163;29.99 THQ	**You can criticise the Game Boy Advance for many things. The screen is ridiculously dark, and a high percentage of its release schedule consists of lazy conversions of old Super Nintendo Entertainment System games. But, luckily, the latter becomes less of a problem with Super Mario Advance 2 - a handheld conversion of the seminal Super Mario World (SMW).Released in 1991, SMW was seen as the pinnacle of 2D platforming. Now its exquisite level design and intense addictiveness have been brought on to a new format. As before, there are 96 levels to explore and older gamers will feel at home.  Mario is controlled in exactly the same way, with coin collecting, ledge jumping and riding on the dinosaur Yoshi's back as enjoyable now as it was 11 years ago. But    there have been changes.Players can now control Luigi instead of Mario - the former's more floaty jumping making the game easier. Players can also save anywhere, rather than once every three levels as before.  Unfortunately another conversion, Jedi Power Battles, fares less well. Although the graphics and sound are good, the Star Wars platforming    action is disappointing. From the infuriating controls to the numerous leaps of faith, this is a mess. Unlike SMA2, there is little incentive to explore, and any game that makes brandishing a light sabre tedious should be ashamed of itself. Lose the Force and stick with Mario if you want to experience handheld platform perfection.    (GH)Star Trek: Bridge CommanderPC	&#163;35 Totally Games/ Activision	 ***Star Trek and Star Wars games are unique in their ability to compensate for mediocrity. As soon as you hear the theme music or catch sight of Picard's chromium dome, something clicks in your subconscious and there you are in the midst of well-loved characters and situations. Bridge Commander is no exception.Sitting in the captain's chair, Bridge Commander allows you full control of a starship, barking out orders to crew members and taking on exploratory and tactical missions, some easy, some infuriatingly difficult. From blasting asteroids to full-scale battles, something new or unexpected is always about to happen and keeps pulling you back for just one more go.As a real (although faceless and voiceless) starship captain, you have control over almost every area of the ship. You can perform scans, redistribute power levels, plot and navigate space and, of course, blast the heck out of anything that gets in your way with a full compliment of torpedoes and phaser banks. You do this by using the mouse to look around the bridge, clicking on various crew and issuing orders via a somewhat cumbersome interface.In the heat of battle, it quickly becomes easier to assume direct tactical or helm control, rather than relying on your dim-witted crewmen to perform the necessary functions fast enough. Nevertheless, when you actually do complete the mission, there is a palpable sense of satisfaction in having negotiated your way through a genuine challenge.Admittedly, for a Trek game there is precious little freedom to explore or use your initiative, but this is still an unusual take on a well-loved story and the sound effects, music and general authenticity are first class. (MA)Blood Omen 2PC £29.99 PS2 £39.99 Xbox £44.99 Crystal Dynamics/ Eidos ****The
   Legacy Of Kain franchise has achieved staying power without hitting any
   conspicuous heights. Past games in the series have combined
   action-adventure-style gameplay with overblown, gothic vampire storylines, generally
   elaborated by interminable video sequences. Finding, one pre sumes, a constituency
   among American teen fans of Marilyn Manson and Slipknot.Blood Omen 2 does not
   deviate much from Legacy Of Kain, but it does ring some welcome changes.
   Overlong video sequences are absent, and the game has shifted its focus from
   storyline to gameplay. You play as the vampire tyrant Kain, woken from a 200-year
   slumber to lead the fight against the evil Sarafan. You must work your way through an
   imaginatively modelled town reminiscent of Victorian London.The puzzles and
   fighting are well executed, thanks to devices such as the glyph energy that powers
   gates and machinery and grants Kain abilities such as near invisibility and
   possession of enemies. But beware: Blood Omen 2 is extremely gory - Kain has a
   move in which he rips the hearts out of enemies, and replenishes energy by sucking
   the blood out of dead bodies. Children should not be allowed near this game.
   However, if you liked the Tomb Raider games, you should enjoy it, as long as you are
   not put off by the bloodthirstiness. But it is not ground-breaking, and cannot be
   played by more than one person. (SB)
The British games publishing industry's saviour has unfeasibly large breasts, wears
   a ponytail and hotpants and has been missing, presumed dead, for two years. She is,
   of course, Lara Croft, and is due to make her comeback exclusively on the
   PlayStation 2 on November 15, as the star of the game Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The
   Angel Of Darkness.For Lara's British publisher Eidos, The Angel Of Darkness will be
   the most important release in the company's history. The past two years have been a
   struggle for Eidos: its shares have performed badly (in the past fortnight, it
   downgraded a quarterly forecast due to the delay in the release of games) and it has
   been dogged by rumours of takeover bids.But the five previous Tomb Raider games
   sold 28m copies worldwide, and Tomb Raider is arguably the hottest franchise in the
   games industry. Can The Angel Of Darkness revive Eidos' flagging fortunes? Early
   indications at a sneak preview last week were good.The Angel is the first Tomb
   Raider specifically designed for a next-generation console - it is exclusive to the
   PlayStation 2 - and looks set to be vastly more interesting than its predecessors.
   Jeremy Heath-Smith, who juggles being managing director of Tomb Raider developer
   Core Design with his role as Eidos' head of global development, was keen to
   differentiate The Angel Of Darkness from Tomb Raiders of yore:"Lara is still the
   same character, but we're putting her into an environment that is darker and deeper.
   She's far more mobile: she crouches down and sneaks a lot more and has
   hand-to-hand combat for the first time. She'll be able to talk to characters. The game
   starts as an adventure, goes into classic Lara gameplay and then into arcade-style
   action."The Angel Of Darkness should, then, provide a much richer gameplay
   experience than its predecessors. But does Eidos' future depend on it? And, indeed,
   that of the whole British games publishing industry? The likes of Codemasters, Rage
   and SCi may disagree, but Eidos is the only British games publisher with a major
   international presence.Heath-Smith, predictably, is at pains not to overstate the
   game's importance: "Of course the game is important to Eidos. But we've survived
   the past two years without Tomb Raider, so we could survive the next 10 years
   without it, but we're happy we've got it."Any delay beyond the scheduled release
   date, though, would clearly hurt the company. Core Design churned out a game each
   year during Tomb Raider's PlayStation days, and many felt the games would have
   benefited from longer development periods.Heath-Smith tacitly agrees: "The
   commercial reality was that we wanted a game per year and we were using an engine
   that was never designed to do that. But today, we are smarter and we know what to
   do."It must be so tempting to milk such a franchise though, and Heath-Smith will not
   be drawn on the frequency of Tomb Raider releases for the PlayStation 2: "We are
   going to see what happens. The game-playing public seems to want to play sequels
   after a short amount of time."And then there are the Tomb Raider films, the first of
   which was a commercial success despite being savaged by critics. Eidos has sold the
   rights for three movies (keeping script veto rights) and Heath-Smith confirms work
   has started on the next Tomb Raider film: "The second film is in the script-writing
   process, and we're fact-finding for locations and storyboarding. I think a lot was
   learned from doing the Tomb Raider movie."If The Angel Of Darkness fulfils its
   potential, it should provide Eidos with a much-needed smash hit and regain
   credibility with hardcore gamers. To retain the latter, Eidos must resist the temptation
   to rush out sequels, but the way Heath-Smith tells it, Lara's two-year sabbatical has
   brought about an overdue reappraisal of the company's attitude to its prize asset. If
   any character has the power to steam back in like a modern-day conquering heroine,
   both guns blazing, and restore the British games publishing industry's fortunes, that
   character is surely Lara Croft.
The long-awaited Handspring Treo 180 does a marvellous job of miniaturising   and merging the features of a personal digital assistant (PDA) with a phone into a compact, lightweight (147g) device that fits snugly into a shirt pocket.It combines the usual PDA facilities (diary, contacts book, PC synchronisation etc) with dual band phone, text messaging (SMS), email and web access, enabling you to read email and trawl the net (including pictures) either directly or from bookmarks from a reasonably sized screen. It is a huge advance on previous Palm and Handspring PDAs.Its clam-shell top opens to reveal a Qwerty keyboard below the screen, designed to be operated by two thumbs.There are two main drawbacks. Web access is pretty impressive when it arrives (despite a monochrome screen) but travelling there is the digital equivalent of going by Railtrack, mainly because of the continuing slowness and unpredictability of Wap (wireless application protocol). This should be solved when the GPRS (general packet radio service) version arrives later in the year, as it will be "always on" to the web and you won't have to make a fresh connection every time   you want more information.The second drawback is that the keyboard is too dinky to be able to write long replies, though you can get a Grafiti handwriting recognition version instead. Miniaturisation has its limits. But if you are looking for a device combining phone, organiser and web access that fits in a shirt pocket or equivalent, then there isn't any serious competition at the moment.The Pogo has much faster web and email access and is in full colour but at 240g is heavier. The Treo 180 costs &#163;499 or &#163;299 with a BT Cellnet contract - available directly from Handspring or at Cellnet outlets.Cracking appThe Blackberry is completely different. It is expensive, it isn't a phone, it can't access the web, it is monochrome - yet it is sweeping corporate America, where its addictive nature has already earned it the soubriquet "Crackberry".Why? It is easily the best hand-held emailing device I have come across. It fits in a shirt pocket, has diary/contacts functions and weighs under 139g - but its unique   selling point is delivering corporate emails in a fast, secure way. It costs &#163;2,500 to install Blackberry software for up to 20 people alongside the company's existing email server (integrated with Microsoft Exchange) plus &#163;399 for each handset and a &#163;39 monthly subscription (reductions for more than 20 users). BT Cellnet has the British rights.For that, you can receive all your emails - corporate or otherwise - in real time (no logging on) wherever you are,   and if you delete one from the Blackberry, it is automatically deleted from the office computer. A small keyboard beneath the (ample) screen enables replies to be written with two thumbs.Many people regard the idea of corporate emails being pumped at you wherever you are a vision of digital hell. But it is clear from its success in America that this has become a must-have business tool. Already second generation companies - known locally as "Kill Blackberries" - have been springing up in Silicon Valley. Doubtless, a consumer version won't be far behind.Touch photosPhotoshop 7.0, the new version of the celebrated software, is easy and smooth to use, especially on the new Macintosh OS X interface. The new healing brush on the tools bar speeds up retouching work such as removing dust or hairs from scans. By pressing the alt key and clicking on the mouse to select the background colour, you can use that colour to erase something nearby like an intruding lamp post or unwanted wrinkles from a face.The automated web photo   gallery function is very good for people wanting to publish holiday snaps on the web without needing to do a snippet of html. All you need to do is upload the files on to your web space.Another feature enables you to drag a circular icon across, say, someone's face to turn it into a Francis Bacon-style distortion.File browser and extra brush functions are a nice idea, as is a multiple undo facility, but other functions have been flipped around without obvious benefits for the regular userFor professionals, it will be worth the &#163;450 (+ VAT) full version or &#163;99 + VAT for the upgrade though, sadly, there won't be many impecunious art students in the queue.
The ongoing deregulation of the European car retail sector has attracted a myriad of new entrants into the UK market, as the barriers to entry erected by manufacturers come tumbling down. The main driver has been the campaign against "rip-off Britain", the notion that we pay more for commodities than our mainland European cousins.The car has taken centre stage in this campaign with the internet as the weapon of choice in the battle for lower prices. This helped UK car sales surge by 10.7% to a record 2.45 million in 2001, surpassing the previous record of 2.3 million sales in 1989.As a result, hundreds of online car importers have emerged, established high street names as well as brand new internet-only operators, looking to cash in on the price differentials between mainland European and British models.Not only are list prices generally lower in Europe as a rule - sometimes by as much as 60% - they only invoke VAT once imported into the UK, as local tax on the vehicle is waived.In April 2000 the DTI ordered car manufacturers to begin lowering UK prices, but compliance has been slow so far. As such, mediating companies such as Chesterfield-based showroom4cars.com have entered the ongoing power struggle between producer and consumer.  Entrepreneurial brothers Darren and Mark Duesbury established the online car importer in March 2000, as a spin-off from their already successful internet-based mobile phone retail and e-commerce services holding company, Talking Point."At Talking Point we saw we had more capacity and knowledge to move into another market on the internet," recalls Tony Butterfield, business development manager at showroom4cars.com. "The car retail industry was very much behind at the time, so we opted for it. 'Showroom4' would become the umbrella name for all the things we wanted to retail over the web." This includes exclusive Mazda car dealership showroom4 mazda.com, and plans for a showroom4bikes.com. It will also expand into selling light commercial vehicles to small and medium businesses as well as franchising the brand on the high street.With an initial investment of £500,000, showroom4 cars.com began by offering up to 40% discount on UK list prices for some of the most popular cars in the UK, with home delivery within a week. The company visits European suppliers to negotiate discounts on bulk purchases of vehicles, and secure consistent supply. Since a site revamp last June, buyers pay in sterling, obviating the need to purchase euros and incur commission charges arising from currency conversion.According to Butterfield, the company "became profitable" last April. The turnover targeted for March 2002 alone is £2.2m, based on sales of between 125 and 150 cars a month, at an average price of £18,000 per car.Butterfield concedes this projection is higher than for bricks-and-mortar dealers, but insists that showroom4 cars.com customers are generally "early adopters and the south-east affluents" interested in higher-priced models such as the Saab convertible and Audi TT sports car.  He adds that such targets are met with almost negligible marketing. "We're very careful in the way we acquire customers. Compared to the likes of Virgin Cars who do offline marketing and sponsorships, we don't get a direct return from this. Because we are privately funded, we need to make a month-to-month profit."As demand for imported models steadily increased, proof of the increasingly blurring line between internet and bricks-and-mortar businesses emerged for showroom4cars.com last year, as it literally had to pay the price for expansion. In October it was compelled to open a high street showroom at a cost of £500,000."We had to begin pre-ordering and delivering our own European stock in order to keep lead times down and retain flexibility of orders," says Butterfield. "For customers who want their cars ASAP through forward ordering, a lot of new problems emerged, but with no established rule book to counter them with."Along with previously nonexistent inventory costs, came considerations such as the cost and size of car transporters that could literally deliver to the customers' door. But while addressing these new challenges, the older battle with manufacturers raged on as they did their utmost to prevent the arrival of cars that would sell at below their recommended price.Last year, showroom4 cars.com went head-to-head with Daimler-Chrysler and Porsche, after the manufacturers allegedly raised the surcharge for right-hand drive vehicles, extended delivery times and demanded VAT payments upfront, in a bid to discourage individuals and companies from importing. Although the manufacturers denied such acts when confronted by showroom4cars.com, the importer testified to the European Commission during its investigations into car retail.By October, the UK government will begin implementing subsequent changes to the so-called block exemption rule - the protective policy that shields car manufacturers and distributors from normal EU anti-competition law. UK dealers will not only be able to source cars from wherever they wish, but also sell different makes under the same roof. This will in turn encourage even more players into the marketplace, and bring the price of UK-sourced cars down further.   However, showroom4 cars.com is insistent it will not be adversely affected by the inevitable shakeout. "Showroom4cars.com will be able to negotiate even lower prices with its network of European dealers, as they'll be able to supply to whichever retailers they wish, without the threat of losing their franchise."And what about the fact that UK car prices will eventually fall into line with their European counterparts anyway, due to the active role of the EU and UK government in lowering car prices? Pre-emptively, showroom4cars.com now sources cars in the UK to ensure it is not caught out should importing become less attractive.Butterfield is not sure it will ever come to that. "Each country will still have its differential, just as we in the UK have our north-south divide," says Butterfield. "And we'll still be able to use our infrastructure to import at a lower price."
Something most of the accounting and even personal financial systems will allow you to do is to download your statement into your computer. This has a number of advantages: there is a lot less typing in of numbers when it comes to reconciling your statement, and you can download at any time instead of waiting for the monthly or quarterly document to arrive on paper.   There are, however, a number of elements over which care needs to be taken. The first of these is that the opening balance has to be entered manually and this absolutely must be right since all of the other transactions will be overlaid on top of it, and will be thrown if the initial data was wrong.Another point to note is that once you have started downloading your statements it is advisable to do so regularly. Should you miss a month and the bank downloads the next set of figures into your system, you will find the balance is thrown again. The solution will be to enter the missing figures manually, which works but defeats the object of online banking.You will need to edit your figures after downloading them, since they will be received as uncategorised items: the software at the bank will be able to tell your system whether money has gone out of the account or into it, but it will go no further. Categorising so that the right account code attaches to the system is up to you. Clearly this can have implications for VAT and tax records if done incorrectly.The banks' systems are as secure as customers will have the right to expect; most of the risks attached to downloading data are at the customer's end. Most of the security you will need to put in place will be a matter of common sense: restrict people's access to the computer with your accounting system on, and password-protect it; if you have a constant connection to the internet make sure you have a firewall installed ( this is good practice regardless of where you keep your accounts); and avoid the most common mistake - log off your account manually when leaving the computer unattended.More security breaches happen because someone has left their connection open and unattended than most people would want to believe. If you log off simply by shutting down your browser or the window in which your account details are being displayed, many online banks will remind you not to do so again in a fresh screen!
So your computer is slowing down and you think it needs replacing. Sounds naive? Good, because a lot of smaller businesses think exactly like that. Which is a pity, because there's quite a lot that can be done at far less expense.Memory upgradeProbably the simplest upgrade to perform is an increase in a system's memory. It won't make your computer run any faster necessarily, but it will enable it to do more things at the same time, and some applications that wouldn't even install on older systems may do so after the upgrade.  There are a lot of memory chips on the market and the way to tell which one will suit your computer is to look in the manual. PC100 DIMMs are relatively common although more modern systems use the faster PC130 versions. These are easily obtainable at computer superstores and on the internet. First check that your computer has the space for as much extra memory as you need. Next release the clips, press the memory chips in, close the computer and start it up. Expect an immediate improvement and change from £100.Chip/flash biosPutting in a new chip is a simple matter from the physical point of view: just take the old one out and clip the new one in. You will need to check the compatibility of the chip with the motherboard on your system - that's the main board on to which all of the other components fit. The manufacturer will either have provided a manual or at least will have a website to tell you what will fit. After physically putting the chip in, check the manual and find out how the jumpers - normally beside the chip - need setting, as this will affect the voltage passed to the chip. Expect change from £300, depending on which chip you buy, and check that you don't need to change the bios - this will come on a disk or from a website if it needs attention.Graphics cardPoor or basic graphics can slow down a system more than the chip. If your system is slow, open it up and see whether the monitor plugs into a board that's inserted into a slot on the motherboard. If not, consider upgrading if you have a spare slot. Check what sort of slot you have; AGP will be the fastest at the moment but others should also improve performance. Simply slot in the new graphics card, screw it into place, plug the monitor into it and restart. Then run the installation software, and your system should start running better as a decent graphics card, with its own memory, will start processing its own information rather than rely on the main processor. Costs vary.Printer/USBIf printing is a problem and your computer slows down while doing it, then consider buying a printer with memory in it. This will allow your computer to send pages over for the printer itself to process. Printers without memory cannot do this, so the computers themselves have to do all the work.  Don't forget also that a USB cable will transfer data faster than a standard printer cable - if your computer has a USB port. If not, you can get an add-on card with USB ports that will fit in the same way as a graphics card. (See help panel, above.)  o Monitor  All the high-powered graphics in the world won't help a small or underpowered monitor. There are a substantial number on the market: big ones, flat ones which are nice to look at but which cost more and are seriously attractive to thieves if your office is any less than secure. Expect to pay £200 plus for anything with 17-inch displays or more and £250 plus for basic 15-inch flatscreen monitors.KeyboardLogitech and others offer wireless keyboards and mice, most of which have keys for internet and other multimedia commands built in, and which are great to use until the batteries go down. Microsoft also offers a keyboard with many of the most frequently used Microsoft Office functions built in. The chances are that these will help new users more than they will help experienced people. If you're using Office already and happy enough without more shortcut keys, the chances are you won't need them.  o Hard disk  Storage has rarely been cheaper and if you are getting "disk full" messages then it could be time for a new hard disk. Capacity of 120Gb, which was science fiction for small computers only half a decade ago, is now obtainable with change from £150. Replacements are straightforward: unplug the old disk, put the new one in, start up, install the operating system, then put your applications and information on from there. Adding a second disk involves screwing it into place, attaching the ribbon cable to the new disk in a daisy chain formation (and of course the power supply), then formatting when your system asks you to when it restarts and recognises the new disk.DefragYou might be getting "out of disk space" signals when you still have space, but it's suffering from the "two cars parked across three spaces" syndrome. In other words your disk might have plenty of space, but if it's all in bits dotted around the drive they won't be recognised as big enough to store anything. Windows and Mac both have a system tool called "Defrag", which stands for defragment: run this and your disk will be rearranged so that the full bits come at the beginning and the space is left at the end.System restoreTime travel is, of course, a useful device as any wandering Time Lord will tell you. Fortunately it's actually possible thanks to the wonders of computing. Windows XP has a "system restore" facility (go to start: all programs: accessories: system tools and select "system restore") which will allow you to select a "restore point", a point at which your system was running well. It will then roll everything back to that point without losing any files - just applications which might be causing problems. People without Windows XP can get a similar function from GoBack from Roxio software. Change from £30 shouldn't be a problem.Operating SystemFor the best use of all of the hardware in your box, it's useful to have a reasonably current version of the software. It can be worth talking to someone in tech support, though, before upgrading the software. If your computer is too old it might need significant upgrades internally before it can take the latest and best software; it's at this point that you need to weigh up the costs and the time it'll take, and consider whether replacement is a better option.Help panelHints and caveats&#183;Always, always unplug the computer before opening it up, and touch something metallic beforehand to disperse any static electricity you might be carrying around.&#183;If you're upgrading memory, bear in mind that Windows 98 and below do not recognise more than 256Mb, so you won't be doing yourself any good. You will need Windows 98SE.&#183;Likewise, buying a USB card for extra expansion won't do any good if you have Windows 95. It won't be recognised and won't work.&#183;Hard disk upgraders need to remember that a faster hard disk is always better if it's going to be your main disk. If it's your back-up then it's not such a problem.&#183;Chip upgraders must be very careful they don't buy the wrong thing. A Pentium IV won't fit into anything but the latest motherboard, for example.Chips for beginners1-2: Inserting a memory chip simply involves releasing the clips, sliding the chip into a spar slot, pushing it home and closing the computer.3-6: To upgrade your old chip remove the processor, slide out the existing chip located in the end slot, slide in the new one, then replace the processor.7-8: Replace the hard disk by removing the existing one, unplug the ribbon and power cables, plug these cables into the new hard disk and replace in the computer.9: To upgrade the graphics card, first unplug the monitor cable from the card, unscrew and remove the existing graphics card, replace it with the new one, plug the monitor cable into it and restart your computer.
Most software applications a small business is likely to buy have fairly self-explanatory functions. The word processor processes the words. The spreadsheet is a spreadsheet, photo editors edit photos - just say if this is going too quickly for you, won't you? Only then you come to another category on the software shelves: "utility software", it says. And it has nothing to do with gas, electricity and water.Essentially, the idea of a utility package is to make your system run better, and the market leaders are Norton Utilities from Symantec and McAfee Utilities from Network Associates. The names are a good clue; they are essentially hangovers from previous owners, long since bought out by the current software publishers.So, what does this stuff actually do that Windows doesn't? That question will depend largely on which version of Windows a company is using. Ever since Windows 98, for example, PCs have been able to defragment themselves (see next page for an explanation of what this does), but people with older versions might want the capacity to do it without the need to upgrade their computer. It is worth mentioning that computers that are already running to capacity might well slow down if some of the background functions within the utility packages are switched on the whole time."&#91;Our utilities product&#93; is very much a legacy product," confirms Atri Chatterjee, vice president of worldwide marketing at McAfee.com. "A lot of the functions are duplicated, particularly in Microsoft Windows XP, but there are still a lot of customers out there with Windows 95, 98 and 2000." Network Associates, McAfee.com's parent company, now focuses more closely on the security arena, in which add-ons to the basic system are almost essential.Interestingly, Symantec still markets its Norton Utilities system fairly aggressively, and doesn't have any reservations about saying so. "Norton Utilities and Norton Systemworks offer more robust productivity and problem-solving tools than those offered as part of Windows XP," says Kevin Chapman, consumer and small business director of Symantec UK. "In all Windows platforms, users have to hunt around to find the specific tools. This is not so easy for a novice user who may not know where to find the Windows defragger or know what it does."It's a fair point, and both flavours of utility package offer aids to systems that are difficult to find if you don't know which menus to dig at in Windows. The McAfee product, still advertised on the company website but curiously absent from a number of UK online retailers, offers crash protection and backs up files on the quiet; it organises your file system so that your hard disk uses all of its available space, and has a neat utility called TaskMaster that allows you to tailor how your computer starts up. So if you have to do something with, say, graphics that is likely to slow your system down, you can start up with fewer programs than usual running in the background.Norton, similarly, has features to offer that you might find absent from Windows itself: a utility called Norton System Doctor keeps an eye on your computer and the workload you're placing on the chip, and has a widget called Wipe that will render a file unrecoverable rather than the standard "delete".The extras you get, though, are now much less than they used to be compared to the basic Windows and have a distinct air of "optional" about them by now. An element of a system that is more essential is the firewall, the software that blocks intruders from getting into your system while you're on the internet, which can be quite a lot of the time for many computer users. Windows XP has a firewall in it, but a number of companies maintain theirs is better. "&#91;Norton Firewall&#93; is the only firewall product that sets up rules for the most popular online programs automatically to get superior protection without hassle," says Symantec's Chapman.McAfee.com's Chatterjee meanwhile points out that the Microsoft firewall protects against the two most common network protocols and does a good job, but it doesn't report what's happening to the person using the computer and nor does it account for any of the hundreds of minority protocols that are around. "We are actually working with Microsoft on this," he says. "There is value in having your firewall made by a specialist security company."There are other utilities as well. Roxio's GoBack enables a system to be reset to a point when it was working better. This appears to duplicate one of the new functions in Windows XP but again, issues surrounding ease of use and finding the function in Windows (it's in the system tools folder) may make this a better option for some people, particularly since it monitors every change in a computer automatically if you ask it nicely.Help panelOther utilitiesThere are other utility packages aiming at making systems run better or safer, whose functions aren't actually duplicated in any edition of Windows yet. These include:&#183;Antivirus products: a specialised area that the operating system manufacturers are unlikely to touch for a good while yet, if at all.&#183;Logging and reporting of attacks through the internet; for the moment you get basic blocking and that's all.&#183;Automatic defragmentation: in Windows and on the Mac you need to start defragmenting your hard disk (see top 10 tips, opposite) manually; with some of the utility software on the market you don't need to.&#183;Fixing memory leaks: sometimes systems slow down because an application is using more memory than it ought to. McAfee and others offer products that should fix the problem.
A lot of small companies make IT decisions based on price. That's fine as long as they are looking at the actual costs rather than just the price tag. The actual cost can be far higher. In previous issues of Small Business Solutions we have shown the high cost of consumables and the running costs of, say, a printer. Even more expensive, though, is the cost of supporting any sort of IT installation. Most costly of all can be the policy adopted by many smaller traders: that of not supporting their kit at all.A surprising number of businesses don't bother with technical support, regarding it as an optional add-in. Figures from ProData reflect this: in its survey of companies of 1-50 employees, conducted toward the end of 2001, it found that just under half had neither internal support staff nor did they use outside service companies. Contrast this with information from McGladrey &amp; Pullen that says that a company unable to get at its data for 10 days will never recover fully, and 43% of them will go under, and you begin to see just how dangerous a weak link this can be. A Mori survey for SafeOnline has gone further and suggests that 75% of small companies are inadequately covered for the risks posed by data loss. "Data loss" may sound harmless, but consider we're talking customer details, pending orders and accounts, which businesses are legally obliged to keep for six years, and losing it can be very serious indeed."Just because a company is a small business doesn't mean they should automatically take a radically different approach to IT than a much larger business," says David Hughes, partner in technology risk at Andersen Consulting. "The same fundamental challenges and issues apply whatever your business size, including IT strategy, support for your technology infrastructure, security and continuity of operations."The difficulty is many small businesses, particularly extremely small ones, go pale when they hear phrases like "IT strategy": they're too busy concentrating on keeping the thing running to formulate anything as formal as a strategy.However, assuming a company wants to stay in business, it is wise to have some sort of policy on technical support and development. It can be tempting to train an internal staff member to support and configure a network of PCs, but the costs mount up swiftly. The initial training (visit learningtree.co.uk, ariseducation.com or any other reputable training site to check prices) is likely to set your business back £1,500 plus VAT for giving someone a qualification as a computer engineer, and the same again to prepare them for a networking certificate. To work out the real cost, you need to work out how much productive time you'll lose while that person is out of the office on a five-day, full-time course, and then how much you'll lose through their becoming a system support person instead of focusing on your core business. A more realistic option involves paying a third party for some sort of maintenance contract if systems are any age at all. If they're newer, then throwing money at third-party maintenance can be a bad idea.Mark Stevens, business development manager for small business at insurer Eagle Star, is aware of a number of insurers offering cover for business interruption and repairs of computer systems but considers them unnecessary in most cases. "If you back up properly and you have a warranty from the manufacturer, you probably don't need them and they cost a lot." (See help panel, above.) Perhaps surprisingly, he includes extended warranties as being better value.Difficulties can arise with warranties, however, when you have altered a system in some way: perhaps added a software application which is using up all of your memory, or a complex screen saver to a system with only a small graphical capability. It's easy to alter a system's configuration so that it is no longer up to the task for which it may not have been purchased originally but for which you want to use it now."Too often businesses put in a network without thinking about the basic additional costs, such as whether the bandwidth will allow for future expansion and what the upkeep will cost in staff time," says Paul Malcolm, UK manager of networking equipment specialist 3Com. "Increasing simplicity in products is reducing overall costs in terms of training and maintenance. But without a proper strategy in place to monitor the full picture, a business will find the costs too much and feel that IT is not offering them what they had expected."Managing expectations and not trying to force a system to do something beyond its capacity is important, then, and is an idea that can usefully spark a business into preparing some sort of IT strategy to prevent all but the minimum of support issues. This would be a document all the staff could read and understand, and which would need to be enforced - starting with a prohibition on people bringing their own software into a business. (This becomes a particular problem every Christmas when people have been given electronic organisers and want to put the software to synchronise with their diaries on the office system.) A related area is an internet policy and the right to monitor staff's use of the net, to prevent the download of virus-infected files.Chris Watts, senior crime investigator at IT forensics and data recovery specialist Vogon, offers a number of other suggested IT policy areas that should help prevent unnecessary disasters. "Ensure employee contracts state dismissal for IT abuse," he says, which sounds harsh but, bearing in mind the figures on company failure quoted above, might well appear sensible. He also points to knowledge-sharing so that no individual has too much power, and protecting sensitive documents by restricting access to certain people.Another useful preventative measure is simply keeping your systems up to date with the latest versions of software. Neil Laver, product manager for Windows XP at Microsoft, says that the newest version of a system always takes better advantage of the computer's innards than its predecessor and that instances of major system problems on the first release are no longer prevalent. "We haven't had any major 'gotchas' with Windows XP," he says.Overall it has to remain a worry that so many small businesses take the good working order of their IT so much for granted. Consider the old favourite: the comparison between a computer and a car. Nobody would expect a car to run indefinitely without replacement components,   oil changes and general tuning-up as a minimum, and yet the same people who pride themselves on their company vehicles allow their computers to be run into the ground by untrained users with no service agreements in place to help when things go wrong.
Mobile phone operators in the UK have spent &#163;22.5bn on licences for third generation (3G) phone networks.To recoup their costs, however, service providers will often rely on sensitive personal information such as location or financial data. How well operators protect this information will be key in encouraging us to jump on the 3G bandwagon - when it finally arrives.PaymentPhone companies already charge users for services - think of premium-priced calls to buy ringtones. Vodafone's m-pay service, starting this month, cuts out that phone call. Users can spend between 5p and &#163;5 a transaction, either online or through a Wap phone. This will be added to their bills, or taken from their pay-as-you-go credit. M-pay will sell third-party digital content such as video clips of Arsenal goals. Vodafone plans to start other payment services this year.Jim Wadsworth, the firm's group product manager, says transactions will demand a user name and personal identity number. Registration will require access to the phone, as users must retype a code from a text message into the m-pay website.Service will be suspended if a user reports a stolen phone, but also if unusual spending patterns are detected. "We   have various hurdles in terms of total value of transactions in a given period," says Wadsworth. "And if we see something odd below that value, we'll stop further transactions until we get further notice."These security conscious techniques copy those used by banks for credit and debit cards. But there are differences. Vodafone will charge vendors an average 15% commission, more for the smaller amounts. This is in line with commissions on premium-rate lines: BT takes between 23 to 34p of &#163;1-a-minute calls, plus set-up costs.But one high street bank said it typically charges retailers 1.5% to 3.5% commission, even for small transactions. Vodafone's higher charges will presumably be passed on to end users.Banks are closely regulated by the Financial Services Authority, but m-pay will be regulated by the Independent Committee for the Supervision of Standards of Telephone Information Services (Icstis), set up by the industry to monitor premium-rate lines. "It's a new area," says Wadsworth.Banks provide other protection, such as refunds for credit card users if goods worth more than &#163;50 do not appear. Disappointed m-pay users can email vendors. "It's not in our interest for customers to be upset," says Wadsworth. "We'd take appropriate action to ensure the consumer was happy." But there is no guarantee.LocationWhenever you make or receive a call, your network logs the base station used by your phone. This gives a good idea of your location, accurate to a few dozen metres in some urban areas.This data is held for months or even years, depending on your network, which must hand it to law enforcement officers chasing any crime. Such data was used in the January conviction of Colin Murphy, for his part in the Omagh bombing of 1998.But journalists can get access too, according to former tabloid executive Amanda Platell. She told BBC Radio Five Live that, as a result, "celebrities use what they call a 'drug runner' phone," pay-as-you-go mobiles that are either unregistered or use a false name. Former Treasury press officer Charlie Whelan said he'd been told not to use his mobile when travelling secretly to the Highlands, as it would allow journalists to hunt him down.Both Vodafone and Cellnet say they restrict location data to a small group of police liaison staff, and believe it is secure. "We are very careful as to whom that data is given," says Vodafone's director of fraud and security, Jeff Wearing.However, networks are keen to use this data to make money. Cellnet already offers services such as localised traffic news, and Vodafone Wap users can find nearby cash   machines and petrol stations.Nigel Couzens, sales director of localised content provider WCities, says the slow growth of these services is due to operators not installing more accurate location systems. When these appear, services giving exact directions to a location will become viable. But he denies there are privacy implications. "We'll be dealing with a session ID   code, just knowing there's a user in Trafalgar Square looking for a curry house," says Couzens. All its third-party location-based services work in this anonymised way, says Wearing.Another service will be less anonymous. Under an &#163;8m scheme called Zingo, taxi manufacturer Manganese Bronze will use location data to match mobile callers to nearby available taxis. In a recent financial statement, it said the service's delayed launch should take place by summer 2003.CrimeThe biggest problem with mobiles and security is theft: 710,000 phones were stolen in England and Wales last year, and 26,300 involved violence. Mobile thefts account for 28% of all robberies - 48% in London - compared with 8% three years ago.Enter the International Mobile Equipment Identifier (IMEI), your phone's serial number. It remains when the Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) chip holding a user's details is removed. In many   phones, it is held on a rewritable Eprom chip, and software to change it can be found online. Nevertheless, this requires specialist knowledge - so fighting theft through blocking the IMEIs of stolen phones has some mileage.After pressure, Vodafone and Cellnet last month decided to implement IMEI blocking; the other operators, Orange and One2One, already had it in place. Vodafone has already installed it for pay-as-you-go mobiles, with contract phones follow ing by June. Its system will also register a new SIM placed in a stolen phone, and blacklist that, too. Cellnet plans to allow a few calls from a newly stolen phone, to gain the criminal's approximate location.Jack Wraith, the executive secretary of the Mobile Industry Crime Action Forum (Micaf), says UK-wide IMEI blocking could halve mobile theft. "If we're looking at the chancer, who takes a mobile for his next fix, he'll no longer be able to do it in the UK."But three-quarters of stolen mobiles vanish from view. Many are down to young males stealing phones as trophies, but the seizures by police of stolen mobiles en route to airports suggest that many are being exported. IMEI blocking is not common abroad - even with networks owned by the UK operators."None of the overseas units have deployed the technology we have in the UK," says Vodafone's Wearing. He adds that other methods have been tried: Vodafone's Dutch division uses "SMS bombing", sending text message spam to annoy thieves.Wearing says the UK has a particularly bad mobile crime problem, so has introduced blocking first. "We want to be in a position where a phone stolen in the UK will be useless anywhere in the world. I think we're 12 months away, in all honesty."Or longer. Orange says the three French networks, of which it owns the largest, hope to have IMEI blocking   in place next year. The French blacklist will be connected to those in other countries - but this will take longer.Richard Cox, a court expert on telecommunications, says the infrastructure for a single international blacklist already exists, with a centre in Dublin. "It's something the operators all agreed to do, but up to now they've failed to implement," he says.Micaf supports new crimes, of changing an IMEI, and possessing software that allows this. The Home Office says it is considering the feasibility of such moves, and is consulting with the industry. Wraith admits it may be difficult to frame effective legislation regarding software.But Vodafone's Wearing says the industry will lobby for such laws across Europe. He adds that manufacturers' plans to "hard-wire" IMEI codes into 3G phones, so they can't be reprogrammed, may be brought forward to existing second generation models."These proposals look good, and are much better than doing nothing," says Richard Cox. But he says that hard-wired IMEIs were originally planned for all second generation phones.And given the number of phones stolen and exported, and the ability for IMEIs to be altered, "these proposals are unlikely to have too great an effect. What's needed is for every mobile operator to implement the single international blacklist." This, he thinks, is unlikely.
Hints and caveats&#183;Always, always unplug the computer before opening it up, and touch something metallic beforehand to disperse any static electricity you might be carrying around.&#183;If you're upgrading memory, bear in mind that Windows 98 and below do not recognise more than 256Mb, so you won't be doing yourself any good. You will need Windows 98SE.&#183;Likewise, buying a USB card for extra expansion won't do any good if you have Windows 95. It won't be recognised and won't work.&#183;Hard disk upgraders need to remember that a faster hard disk is always better if it's going to be your main disk. If it's your back-up then it's not such a problem.&#183;Chip upgraders must be very careful they don't buy the wrong thing. A Pentium IV won't fit into anything but the latest motherboard, for example.So your computer is slowing down and you think it needs replacing. Sounds naive? Good, because a lot of smaller businesses think exactly like that. Which is a pity, because there's quite a lot that can be done at far less expense.&#183;Memory upgradeProbably the simplest upgrade to perform is an increase in a system's memory. It won't make your computer run any faster necessarily, but it will enable it to do more things at the same time, and some applications that wouldn't even install on older systems may do so after the upgrade.There are a lot of memory chips on the market and the way to tell which one will suit your computer is to look in the manual. PC100 DIMMs are relatively common although more modern systems use the faster PC130 versions. These are easily obtainable at computer superstores and on the internet. First check that your computer has the space for as much extra memory as you need. Next release the clips, press the memory chips in, close the computer and start it up. Expect an immediate improvement and change from &#163;100.&#183;Chip/flash biosPutting in a new chip is a simple matter from the physical point of view: just take the old one out and clip the new one in. You    will need to check the compatibility of the chip with the motherboard on your system - that's the main board on to which all of the other components fit. The manufacturer will either have provided a manual or at least will have a website to tell you what will fit. After physically putting the chip in, check the manual and find out how the jumpers - normally beside the chip - need setting, as this will affect the voltage passed to the chip. Expect change from &#163;300, depending on which chip you   buy, and check that you don't need to change the bios - this will come on a disk or from a website if it needs attention.&#183;Graphics cardPoor or basic graphics can slow down a system more than the chip. If your system is slow, open it up and see whether the monitor plugs into a board that's inserted into a slot on the motherboard. If not, consider upgrading if you have a spare slot. Check what sort of slot you have; AGP will be the fastest at the moment but   others should also improve performance. Simply slot in the new graphics card, screw it into place, plug the monitor into it and restart. Then run the installation software, and your system should start running better as a decent graphics card, with its own memory, will start processing its own information rather than rely on the main processor. Costs vary.&#183;Printer/USBIf printing is a problem and your computer slows down while doing it, then consider buying a printer with memory in it. This will allow your computer to send pages over for the printer itself to process. Printers without memory cannot do this, so the computers themselves have to do all the work.Don't forget also that a USB cable will transfer data faster than a standard printer cable - if your computer has a USB port. If not, you can get an add-on card with USB ports that will fit in the same way as a graphics card. (See help panel, above.)&#183;MonitorAll the high-powered graphics in the world won't help a small or underpowered monitor. There are a substantial number on the market: big ones, flat ones which are nice to look at but which cost more and are seriously attractive to thieves if your office is any less than   secure. Expect to pay &#163;200 plus for anything with 17-inch displays or more and &#163;250 plus for basic 15-inch flatscreen monitors.&#183;KeyboardLogitech and others offer wireless keyboards and mice, most of which have keys for internet and other multimedia commands built in, and which are great to use until the batteries go down. Microsoft also offers a keyboard with many of the most frequently used Microsoft Office functions built in. The chances are that these will help new users more than they will help experienced people. If you're using Office already and happy enough without more shortcut keys, the chances are you won't need them.&#183;Hard diskStorage has rarely been cheaper and if you are getting "disk full" messages then it could be time for a new hard disk. Capacity of 120Gb, which was science fiction for small computers only half a decade ago, is now obtainable with change from &#163;150. Replacements are straightforward: unplug the old disk, put the new one in, start up, install the operating system, then put your applications and information on from there. Adding a second disk involves screwing it into place, attaching the ribbon cable to the new disk in a daisy chain formation   (and of course the power supply), then formatting when your system asks you to when it restarts and recognises the new disk.&#183;DefragYou might be getting "out of disk space" signals when you still have space, but it's suffering from the "two cars parked across three spaces" syndrome. In other words your disk might have plenty of space, but if it's all in bits dotted around the drive they won't be recognised as big enough to store anything. Windows and Mac both have a system tool called "Defrag", which stands for defragment: run this and your disk will be rearranged so that the full bits come at the beginning and the space is left at the end.&#183;System restoreTime travel is, of course, a useful device as any wandering Time Lord will tell you. Fortunately it's actually possible thanks to the wonders of computing. Windows XP has a "system restore" facility (go to start: all programs: accessories: system tools and select "system restore") which will allow you to select a "restore point", a point at which your system was running well. It will then roll everything back to that point without losing any files - just applications which might be causing problems. People without Windows XP can get a similar function from GoBack from Roxio software. Change from &#163;30 shouldn't be a problem.&#183;Operating SystemFor the best use of all of the hardware in your box, it's useful to have a reasonably current version of the software. It can be worth talking to someone in tech support, though, before upgrading the software. If your computer is too old it might need significant upgrades internally before it can take the latest and best software; it's at this point that you need to weigh up the costs and the time it'll take, and consider whether replacement is a better option.1-2:Inserting a memory chip simply involves releasing the clips, sliding the chip into a spar slot, pushing it home and closing the computer.3-6:To upgrade your old chip remove the processor, slide out the existing chip located in the end slot, slide in the new one, then replace the processor.7-8:Replace the hard disk by removing the existing one, unplug the ribbon and power cables, plug these cables into the new hard disk and replace in the computer.9:To upgrade the graphics card, first unplug the monitor cable from the card, unscrew and remove the existing graphics card, replace it with the new one, plug the monitor cable into it and restart your computer.
Kids' stuffAre you feeling miserable? There4me is ready to offer help and confidential advice, with an Ask Sam column (an agony aunt), a message board, and even some playable Shockwave games. The site was launched yesterday by the NSPCC, and focuses on problems such as abuse, bullying, drugs, and health and family worries.SexyI would certainly score highly in the Dereliction of Duty category: sorry to say that for the nth year running, I forgot all about the Sexiest Geek Alive contest. The pageant was held in Austin, Texas, on March 12, and Chad Briggs carried off the prize. The site's photo gallery has everything you need.Art linksThe Irish Museum of Modern Art now has a well-stocked gallery devoted to net art. They all seem to be external links, so the response times are somewhat variable. So is the quality, which is hardly surprising, because everything submitted was accepted, and works are ordered according to when they arrived.  Actually, a lot of net art exhibitions look as though they are produced that way,    but this time it's a feature.Spray timeIs this the world's first online graffiti competition? It is almost certainly the first online graffiti site devoted to promoting a computer game. Hints: you need to log in inside the cabin then go outside to spray. New version of Shockwave probably required.Mostly badFlash 99% Good (a title that seems to be missing a decimal point) is a site developed to promote a book about good web design. It fails right out of the browser. It is no surprise that users cannot vary the size of the type, and setting Internet Explorer's Accessibility Options has no effect at all. Throw in a few stupid tricks - for example, floating pop-up menus that pointlessly repeat text already on the screen, rather than doing the simple thing and underlining links - and you have yet another annoying Flash site, even if it is not as dumb as most. The site's line drawings are a bit of a giveaway: they show people being given urgent medical attention. Instead of patching up bad websites, why not avoid injury by designing them properly in the first place?Only humanIf you happen to bump into a creationist when you don't have Richard Dawkins and a carrier bag of BBC documentaries to hand, you could do worse than point them to Becoming Human. It provides what looks like a    comprehensive guide to human evolution, presented by The Institute of Human Origins at Arizona State University. It's a tricksy Flash 5 website with a slick design of the sort that is eminently suitable for a multimedia CD-Rom. However, a fast Pentium 4 machine with lots of memory and a good broadband internet connection comes close enough to reproducing the same effects as a 27p disc. A smarter operation would just offer the programme as one a huge file so users could download it overnight and burn one themselves.MS GoogleAt last, after all this time, Google is finally offering a specialist search service for Microsoft-oriented websites. It has had a Mac-specific search offering for more than two years, and the Linux-specific version goes back to the dawn of time (May 1998). You can find links to the topic-specific search pages at the bottom of the Advanced Search page. Google-doodle collectors should make sure they don't overlook these different designs.
Friday night, and as dusk settles across London, the M4 lights up with the brake lights of thousands of cars struggling out of the city in the weekly high-speed, nose-to-tail exodus for the country. Inside a shiny new Ford Mondeo (top of the range, lovely leather seats, amazing hydraulic cup holder in the dashboard) I'm shouting at a pukka-voiced phone operator in a repeated attempt to get her to understand my accent."I'm sorry, but I don't understand," she insists for the umpteenth time this evening. I shout the phone number for home again (because shouting had worked once before, in a traffic jam in Kings Cross 90 minutes ago), but then she tells me she didn't hear anything at all.After I've sworn a lot she offers to put me through _ to a real human being who might fare better at decoding what I'm trying to say. Fair enough, perhaps, but    they've got a bit to go with the voice recognition stuff before they start selling this in Scotland, I reflect. Perhaps last Friday afternoon wasn't the best time to take delivery (on loan) of a new car bristling with the latest in electronic gadgetry. That was the day when the truth that most of the driving public must surely know is true - that drivers using mobile phones are more dangerous than drivers over the drink-drive limit - was confirmed by government research.And the fuss over the findings induced the same kind of guilt about fiddling around with this stuff on the move as does getting behind the wheel with so much as a slight hangover. To be fair, Ford sees its new Telematics feature - available in all new Mondeo and Focus models as a factory-fitted &#163;600 option - as something that enhances the safety of the car's occupants, rather than as a potentially dangerous distraction.For instance, the phone (with a little practice, or a slightly softer accent perhaps) really does dial hands free. It does this most effectively from a list of your favourite numbers (just say "Home" or "Bob at the office" and it will call a pre-set number) but you can - if you have the patience - call out the number digit by    digit. All that saves you from a potentially deadly peck at your mobile as you attempt to keep one eye on the road. Then there's the SOS option, of particular interest perhaps to women drivers or regular lone drivers.Press a button and the location of the car (determined by satellite positioning) and car details    are automatically sent via text message. If the airbags are deployed, the operator calls the car automatically; should the driver fail to respond, the emergency services are summoned. The location service also comes in handy for travel information: instead of pressing a button, waiting, and relying on the often-abused RDS (radio data system) traffic bulletins on local radio, you can get an immediate update read to you, localised to the area you are passing through.Finally, there are the "personalised operator services", where you are connected to a nice, old-fashioned human being somewhere in Birmingham (judging by the accents). He can, among lots of other things, point you in the direction of garages, hospitals and the local McDonald's drive-through, or provide directions to wherever you're going.Again, because of the satellite technology, they are able to see where you are, and come up with solutions very quickly. There are some limitations, of course: satellites are involved, but this is not full- blown satellite navigation as fitted in some executive cars for the past few years. The Mondeo that Online was given to test drive had the much more expensive navigation option as well as Telematics and this proved a revelation.The way the unit's    directions, read to you as you drive, adapted if you took a wrong turn, and the options you had to avoid or include busy roads, was very impressive. With Telematics, which doesn't boast any on-screen map, you either pay the hefty per-minute charge to keep the operator on the line as you weave through the streets, or park and take the detailed instructions down with pen and paper - and at that point you might just be better off investing in a map.But Telematics still has a sound purpose, perhaps underlined - rather than undermined - by the damning mobile phone research. It seems that people do want to be able to carry out mobile conversations while they are on the move - from hassled commuters stuck in traffic to busy sales reps fixing up appointments. Making it as easy as possible to do so without causing too much of a distraction makes sense.Drivers can even have their car put on the same account as their mobile phone, if they use Vodafone, so that when the car is running the calls come through Telematics, and when it's off their mobile handset rings instead. The only problem is that when all this stuff doesn't work properly, yelling at your car can prove an even greater distraction than fishing a mobile phone out of a side pocket, and dialling up the number by hand. Bizarrely, your accent could determine just how much you get out of all this high-tech kit.
Since September 11, the world seems to have become a riskier place. The web can increase concerns through its ability to pass on rumours. But it also gives you the chance to see hard facts, many of which are reassuring.TravelAirlines suffered in winter, as potential passengers decided not to fly. But they have started returning to the skies. Flying may not be great for the environment, but it's certainly not dangerous. Data collected by the UK department for transport and covering the last decade) shows that mile for mile, there are 155 deaths in cars for each casualty on an aeroplane - and 5,200 victims on motorbikes. That's not so reassuring for road users. However, elsewhere in the statistics), there is some context. The UK has the safest roads of any country listed, and the number of road deaths fell from 5,554 in 1989 to 3,564 in 1999. This data is at.It would be hard for air figures to fall much: for several years in the past decade, the casualty figure for UK airlines was zero. For more on the    safest airlines, the Air Safety Online site, which grades the world's main carriers. British Airways, British Midland and Virgin Atlantic all score the highest grade. This site holds lots of information on how airlines are improving security after the September 11 attacks, which were made possible by lax security on internal US flights, rather than the international standards that dominate UK airports. It's worth remembering that United and American Airlines had flown 35m flights up to the start of 2001, and suffered just 18 "fatal events". Even after the four crashes of September, the two airlines will retain their A grades, with fewer than one crash per million flights.CrimeSome politicians and newspapers like scaring the public by portraying criminal activity as a wave threatening to overwhelm us. Preliminary data from the 2001 British Crime Survey, which relies on thousands of interviews, not on crime recorded by the police, shows crime falling in virtually every category. Violent crime is down 19%, with a 12% drop overall. Between 1995 and 2000, crime recorded by the survey has fallen by a third. Despite this, 58% of respon  dents thought crime had risen in the last year. The survey is at the Home Ofiice site.As with roads, the UK is one of the world's safer places. Another Home Office report, page 4) compares murder rates in cities worldwide. It shows that murder is less likely in London (2.36 homicides per 100,000 people per year, 1997 to 1999) or Edinburgh (2.15) than in that hotbed of crime, Brussels (2.67) or the average of European Union capitals (2.71). Belfast, sadly, was less safe in the late 90s (5.23), but not when compared with New York (9.38) or Washington DC (50.82).Household dangersThere are threats worth worrying about: as this winter showed, one is flooding. As a response to increasing flood risks, the Environment Agency has been producing more information about it.A site allows you to check if yours is one of the 2m properties liable to flood. It warns on other hazards such as river and sea water    quality and landfill sites. The pages at the Environment Agency's site will help you understand flood risks and protect against them.  In most spheres of life, the dangers are not as bad as they seem. However, one Home Office report, requires Adobe Acrobat) reveals a real, if mundane, danger that hits more than 400,000 Britons every year. And that is chip-pan fires. Of fires in the home, 59% start in the kitchen, and 24% are from pans of fat or oil. Overall, household fires affected 3% of homes in 1999. But even that was down from 3.9% five years earlier.HealthThe dull reality is that the biggest dangers are self-inflicted. Look at the BBC's health pages, especially its relentlessly cheery "Life Calculator", which uses data from a Harvard University study. Type in answers to some simple questions for an estimate of your longevity, and then play around with the choices. Going from a light-drinking, non-smoker to a heavy-drinking smoker knocked almost four years off this reporter's projected life. According to the NHS website, 22% of male deaths and 11% of female deaths can be pinned on the weed.  Give up the nightmares. Instead, have you considered giving up chip-pans and smoking?
Last week your website was bought by a firm in Hong Kong (though later returned). Any lessons?I've learnt about the weird and not very wonderful world of cybersquatting; I've been reminded how horribly dependent we all are on email (and how the world seems to grind to a halt without it) and I've learnt more than I ever wanted to know about the endlessly complicated world of domain name registration. I'm going to make sure I never, ever trust an ISP to do this stuff and ensure that full details of our domain name and expiry dates are engraved on the minds, foreheads and computers of all my colleagues.Has the net changed poetry?I'm not sure it has. The internet has changed all our lives in terms of the mass of information we all have access to and the ease it offers in terms of publishing your own work. There's good and bad poetry on the internet, just as there is everywhere else. But the internet lacks the filters imposed by publishing and the market place, so you probably have to wade through more bad stuff to find the stuff that's genuinely worth reading.Have new forms emerged?I've seen some interesting explorations with word and hypertext, but it's more interesting technically and visually than poetically. I don't feel I've yet seen much that genuinely pushes the boundaries of poetry, or creates new forms. I've seen a fair bit of work that seems competent, but not much that has the real, gut-wrenching impact of good poetry.Will mobiles make a difference?Idon't think so. Maybe texting will encourage us to be succinct in the way that poetry has always done. But the text message is just the medium. Poetry is all about language and that can be spoken, written, typed, texted or emailed. It's the words that matter.Has new technology made it easier to publish?It's clearly made it easier to circulate work on the internet, to get it out there either in virtual or book form. But the real challenge is not to get it out, but to find readers. Arguably, poetry needs more readers than writers and it's tempting to think that the balance lies the other way round.Favourite non-poetry sites?I use the internet mostly to search for particular bits of information, usually work-related but sometimes for "lifestyle issues". Last minute.com got me a much-needed holiday in Goa in January. Last week's stresses had me searching for anti-ageing facials, but I suspect another holiday would be more effective.Gadgets?I'm not hugely gadgety. A Psion might have saved me when I got my handbag (with address book and diary) nicked a few weeks ago. Radio's more important than telly, but a corkscrew is pretty high on the list.
Jack Schofield's Second Sight column last week on web usability prompted a huge response from readers. This week's Feedback page is devoted to just a few of those letters.Pro plusFor too long now the web has been the domain of fancy designers who have no knowledge of user interfaces.As a programmer, I have often been astounded by the inept approach to presentation of information on the computer screen from the web. Would anyone use a computer system at work with such inane access to information?Get the fancy designers out - get the people in who have been creating interfaces and presenting information in a meaningful way for many years. Give it back to the computer professionals.Andrew Popeandrew.pope@cmgplc.comAm dramsAs a professionally trained designer, I am appalled by the standard of much of the content on the web. A good designer should be able to create a balance of form and function that is both aesthetically pleasing and user friendly. It is not the designer who is at fault, but the plethora of amateurs out there who don't have a clue.Paul ShanksPaul.Shanks@expro.shell.co.ukPop-up painI particularly agree about the problem of pop-up windows. This has recently become a regular, and unbelievably irritating, feature of the one website I visit the most, and has already caused me to reduce the time I spend there. Which website? Have a guess...Mark Antony Richardsonmark.richardson@gedas.co.ukYellow yukTo be honest, what I find even more monotonous than badly designed websites is the repeated trotting out of the same "usability" catchphrases and ideas. The classic example is Jakob Nielsen's Useit.com. I find this site completely unusable because for some reason, my eyes aren't designed to look at relentless text on disgusting cyan and   yellow backgrounds. Perhaps there is no place on the web for graphic design or even fun. Why stop there? How about outlawing fashion? Surely all those expensive clothes are not "usable" when we could all wear a uniform boiler suit? And out with Rembrandt and Monet, we should have schematics and diagrams on our walls! No more Hendrix or Handel, tear down the Arc de Triomphe!Pete Otaquipete@mediumart.co.ukTech faultSimplicity and ease of use (I know and honour the Warwick work) are the keys to accessibility for disabled people. If it is good for disabled people, it is generally good for people. The Bobby analysis and the W3C rules are all good usability rules. Perhaps the problem is that the designs are driven by us techies.Dave LyonsDisability technical officerUniversity of Essexlyond@essex.ac.ukFlashersWebsites should definitely have form following function. It is a practical forum that deserves practical design. We all find needless Flash intros irritating. However Macromedia Flash is an innovative tool that can produce stunning, entertaining visuals,   and to sideline it completely would be ridiculous. There is no rule saying that the internet has to be a joyless place. It is time for the old crankies of this world to wake up and smell the upgrades.Simply because inexperienced users still are still coming on to the web doesn't mean we should take 10 steps backwards. They need to learn the ropes and catch up like everyone else. Would you ask all motorists to drive slower because there are more learner drivers?The web is an ever-changing forum, and if you are too lazy and stubborn to adapt, it's the wrong arena for you anyway.Tracy Browntracylouisebrown@hotmailFull swingAs cited in a recent piece in the design magazine Create, the Sony Walkman was not developed because of any consumer usability feedback. It had more to do with the chairman of Sony wanting music on the golf course!!Frank Reillyfrank@eye2be.comUse meA fabulous article and oh so right.  Perhaps the usability experts, UserMetrics, should also fire the designer and enable the user to re-size text via View|Text Size|Larger.Jim Hecklejim.heckle@telia.comSo be itAmen.Christopher J Robertskeynote@jersey.net
Suppose the Holy Grail of the content industry, the perfect digital rights management (DRM) technology, is just that: a legend that inspires people to take up an heroic quest, but ultimately a myth? What if that quest turns into another "war on drugs" in which billions of dollars make not the slightest impact on the problem?The dream DRM, from a content owner's perspective, would be one that tracked, traced and monitored every   use of content and ensured it could only be used according to defined rights (with associated payments). In other words, if I try and copy a track from the latest Madonna CD on to my MP3 player to listen to at the gym then the technology would let me, but charge me. Perhaps my PC would contact some kind of rights management centre before copying the track and charge &#163;1 to my account. The MP3 player would only accept downloads after it had checked with the rights management centre to ensure I had paid. All the music in the world would be coded using encryption technology.For this to work, every device (from televisions to PCs and hi-fis to mobile phones) would need a tamper-resistant chip inside to store and process the rights information (and to decrypt permitted content) and a connection to the DRM centre. Actually, one of these devices (the mobile phone) already has both of these, but let's put that to one side for the moment.This approach might seem crazy, but it has its proponents: in the US, Hollywood is lobbying for a Security Systems Standards and Certification Act (SSSCA), which would require companies to   include government-approved anti-copying technology in computers and electronic devices and would make it illegal for consumers to remove it.The benefits of this dream DRM are obvious: artists, musicians, film producers etc, would have the full benefit of their labours and pirates wouldn't be able to rip them off. There are other less obvious benefits: the police would be able to ask the DRM centre who had played violent video games recently and the marketing department of a film distributor would know who had watched Terminator 2 before asking them what they would like to see in Terminator 3. Some governments might be interested in who had watched Newsnight (or their local equivalent) so they could target those viewers with advertising. Some governments might be interested in finding out who had watched non-state approved news or listened to subversive music.Don't panic: for this dream DRM to be 100% effective, it needs an entirely new infrastructure for content management, distribution and access. And this isn't going to happen. Hollywood might think it a good idea, but everyone else thinks it's utterly unworkable.   If you had to call up to re-register a couple of hundred CDs on your new CD player, then you wouldn't buy one: you'd just keep the old one. Hence, companies such as Sony (electronics revenues $40+ billion, music revenues $4+ billion) wouldn't sell very many new hi-fis, Walkmans or DVD players. Time for some more reasoned thinking.DRM technology is a good way of helping people do something they want to do (eg, helping companies manage their software licences) but an ineffective way to prevent them doing things they want to(eg, copying CDs to MP3 players).Would creative artists starve if the net makes any kind of copyright enforcement impossible? Unlikely. If copyright disappeared tomorrow, Madonna could still get a million dollars for appearing in a commercial. The real losers would be record companies, as almost every indus try observer has pointed out, but that doesn't mean society as a whole would lose out.If it is impossible to charge for anything other than the first copy of a piece of content, then society will save a lot of money on DRM and all its side effects (lawyers, jails etc). But will artists be motivated to produce content? I think they would. Just as pharmaceutical companies are allowed to patent their inventions for a few years, so the content industry will be allowed to retain a form of restricted copyright that can be policed more effectively.The average music buyer may be pretty unsympathetic to record companies but they would surely want music and musicians to continue. The record companies might then be transformed into relationship managers, selling the fans a relationship with their heroes that cannot be copied: if you want a ticket for the concert, you have to have bought the CD and that kind of thing. I'm not smart enough to figure out what kinds of things music fans might want from their new cyber-enhanced "one-to-one" relationship with talent, but I'm pretty sure other people are.
Walking down a city street, your mobile phone rings with a warning. You are getting too close to a high-crime area, as a quick glance at the mugging rate on the screen's 3D city map reveals, and the automated system offers better directions to where you want to go. But if you need to summon a taxi or call for more urgent help, rest assured the location data will be sent automatically. The emergency services will know exactly where to find you.This is the near future according to LBS, or location-based services, on phones, palmtop computers and in-car navigation systems with an alphabet soup of fancy features. These could include voice communications (GSM), always-on internet connections (GPRS) and the ability to get a fix from the network of global positioning satellites (GPS). But what really helps turn these raw technologies into useful services is the GIS (geographical information system) running in the background. In   other words, a very smart map.With LBS, you will never get lost, you should be safer and, best of all, from a commercial point of view, you will always be able to find somewhere to buy something specific. But you will also have lost another part of your remaining privacy.Nick Jones, an analyst with Gartner in the UK, says: "Do you really want your employer - or your spouse - to know where you are at every moment of every day?"Well, the network already knows where you are, to some extent, if you are packing a mobile phone. GPS gives a more accurate position, which makes it commercially much more attractive.But it may not be an easy sale. As Jones says, "putting GPS in a phone is frightfully expensive: a &#163;500 phone is too much for my 17-year-old daughter, and it's too big to be fashionable." However, people in the industry, such as Cellpoint's Lars Pettersson, say GPS chips will get smaller and the cost will come down to "a few pounds". A system that was once used mainly for ships and military   applications, then graduated to lorries and cars, is now available in handheld receivers sold in high street stores. Putting GPS chips in phones is the obvious next step.Prash Vadgama of Navman GPS Navigation Solutions, which already sells GPS add-ons for Palm and PocketPC handhelds, says: "Manufacturers have made phones very sophisticated and very small, and at the moment, mapping is a hindrance. But in two years, you are going to get GPS as standard in smart phones. It is up to the service providers to make it cost effective."This section of the industry has been given a huge boost by the US government's Enhanced 911 regulations, according to Rik Temmink, who works on mapping for Microsoft in Seattle. (Calling 911 is the US equivalent of the UK's 999.) E911 requires the network operators "to provide emergency services personnel with location information that will enable them to locate and provide assistance to wireless 911 callers much more quickly.""That's been a multibillion investment for all the big carriers here," says Temmink. "They'd rather not have made it, and now they are looking to monetize it."At least half of all the new mobile phones activated in the US must be E911-capable by June 30, and all of them by the end of the year. Although the accuracy is poor - mostly it locates you within 125 metres - it could open up a mass market to an industry that has previously concentrated almost entirely on professional uses such as transportation (including charging for road use), property and land management services (where should you build a new supermarket?), and government applications, including policing.But delivering useful services is not a simple matter, and many companies are involved in the supply chain. First, you need digital maps, which are provided by suppliers such as Ordnance Survey in the UK. To be useful, the maps must be linked to software and data, for things like calculating distances, and locating points of interest from churches to cash machines. Then you need to be able to deliver the service by many different means -via the web and perhaps the paging network, as well as to GSM, GPRS and 3G phones - to a wide range of clients from the most basic mobiles to full-spec desktop computers. This can only be done if the industry adopts common standards, which it is trying to do at the moment.In the UK, Ordnance Survey has already re-engineered its maps to create a national, digital MasterMap with more than 400m computer-friendly   16-digit identifiers, according to OS's director general, Vanessa Lawrence. These "topographic identifiers" or "toids" enable different layers of data to be added to the basic map. "The latest version has nine layers or themes," she says, "such as water and roads. We're doing &#91;satellite&#93; imagery and a points of interest database, and three more layers this year. You can buy maps by area and by theme, so you are always being charged by the toid."Toids do not replace the old grid reference system, but provide greater accuracy and much more detail. "The grid reference is very good for getting you to the pub," she says, "but if you buy a map in the newsagent's, your street may not even be on it. I've probably got your bay window. I've certainly got the post box outside," she says.MasterMap also represents a brave, early move into XML, the eXtensible Markup Language that is being used to deliver next-generation web services. In this case, Ordnance Survey has used an XML schema called GML (Geography Markup Language), which is supported by the Open GIS Consortium. This should help solve the current problem where different government services have incompatible systems,   and some services have several incompatible systems.Being able to put different data sets on the same map allows all sorts of possibilities, especially if you have maps of things like crime incidents, road accidents, house prices and supermarket purchases. British police forces may not want to make detailed maps of crime patterns publicly available, with animations to show changes by time of day and things like school holidays, but it will happen in parts of the US, if it hasn't already.As one of the first big vendors to back XML, Microsoft is developing MapPoint.net, which will enable companies to develop their own location-based services. If you develop applications in the Visual Studio.net programming environment, launched last month, then you can include a mapping component just as easily as any other component. And while it could be anyone else's mapping service, Microsoft's is handily available in beta test form.Microsoft, the new kid on the mapping block, became involved in 1995 when it bought a very small but very bright British company, NextBase, and took the seven key staff to the US. It backed the further development of the consumer product, AutoRoute, which is now a popular adjunct to Microsoft Works and Microsoft Office. With MapPoint, however, it is pioneering a market that is so small, it barely exists.Temmink says: "We're operating an XML service, so it is a hosted platform: we run it in a big data centre here in Redmond." An application could send the host queries in XML - give me a map, the distance between two points, and driving directions - and get answers back in the same web standard format, which is entirely independent of any Windows software or hardware. If the user has a Compaq iPaq, the answer could be displayed on a map; if a mobile phone, it could be a voice or SMS text message.MapPoint is already running one interesting application for a well-known retailer. What it does is perform geographical queries against repeated credit card transactions, by looking at the times and places things were bought. If the transactions would be physically impossi ble without the use of duplicate cards, it alerts the store to a potential fraud - ideally before the thief has left the shop. "So you have got an application that doesn't display any maps, and it doesn't even have a user interface, but it is very valuable, and it is enabled by using location as an ingredient," says Temmink.To make MapPoint more convenient and more attractive to corporate users, Microsoft has preloaded maps from Ordnance Survey and other companies, and as much demographic and yellow pages-type data as it can get. Mark Bramley, a NextBase original, adds: "One of the barriers people perceive to building geographical information systems is that you need a lot of maps, a lot of data, and a lot of expertise. We're aggregating content so that people don't need to do it themselves."Of course, Microsoft isn't building MapPoint for nothing. It is the XML engine behind MSN MapPoint, the mapping service on Microsoft's own website. MapPoint is barely visible in the UK because it does not have an adequate selection of local maps and data. That will start to appear next week, preparing the way for a UK launch.One alternative would have been to use MapQuest, which is by far the biggest mapping service on the web. However, two years ago, MapQuest was bought by AOL for $1.1bn in stock. Yahoo has also decided to go it alone, and has just replaced MapQuest with its own mapping service. The stage is set for a global battle between the big three - Yahoo, AOL and Microsoft - and more focused suppliers of web maps such as Multimap.com and Maporama.The problem with web-based services is that, while they are hugely popular, there is no money in them. Sean Phelan, Multimap's chief executive, says, "The real business, from our point of view, is providing professional services. That's what keeps us in business." Examples include providing location services to retailers, and maps for estate agents' websites. And as Gartner's Nick Jones says, "If you can track lorries carrying stock, or field service engineers, businesses will pay because the cost is nothing compared to the cost of owning a truck or a field service engineer." Getting consumers to pay is another matter, and this explains the network operators' enthusiasm for the combination of LBS and third-generation phones.Guillaume Dordes, vice president of marketing for Alcatel's Nextenso, explains: 3G "allows for a new business model" where the phone becomes a marketing medium, like television. "The current operator model is based on paying services, but with 3G, you can either have a free service with advertisements, or else you pay."So if you don't pay for directions, or whatever, you may find that every shop within three streets will want to buzz your smart phone with virtual flyers and money-off coupons. And if you are ever involved in an accident, its colourful little screen could become a prime site for wireless adverts for ambulance services, private hospitals, and special offers on insurance policies. I'm sure you are looking forward to that.
You know you've been doing a job too long when you start finding anecdotes about computer support genuinely funny. Only there was this helpdesk at a software manufacturer and the caller said he couldn't get his monitor working. They asked whether he could hear the fan in the computer working and he wasn't sure; they asked whether the cables were all plugged in and he said he thought so but he couldn't see them; they suggested he shone a lamp behind the computer and he said the lamp wasn't working either, and neither was the main light, because there was this power failure...Anyone thinking of setting up their own support system for IT will need to bear in mind the patience needed in such an enterprise, and also the sorts of calls the support desk is likely to get. "Most people who phone up are confused or angry or both, and it takes very special people to be able to understand their predicament," says Giovanni Alberici of Eicon Networks. They often need to be able to explain the question as much as the solution: "Non-technical end users take longest to resolve as they often have difficulty explaining what the problem is," says Mario Vigliotti, technical services manager at Unipalm.There are a few figures around to give would-be support staff an idea of what to expect. IT helpdesk software seller Touchpaper says a quarter of all calls come from board level users having difficulty with mobile applications or devices. These users form typically 5% of the total workforce and would clearly benefit from extra training. Nick Doherty, service manager for Europe, the Middle East and Africa for asset tracking system company Peregrine Systems, points to other avoidable problems: "Some 90% of first-time fixed calls to the help desk can refer to password resets," he says. "Companies could purchase an automated password reset program which could provide an immediate win back."Only a minority of the problems help desks deal with are genuine faults with systems. A spokeswoman for independent support company Servicetec pointed to some common difficulties: forgetting to turn on the monitor after powering up the base; turning on a computer when it has a disk in the A: drive; shutting down computers improperly; accidental deletion of icons, and installing ink cartridges into printers without first taking off the plastic seal are among them.A more serious issue is the jump in support calls when new technology is introduced. ADSL, BT's version of broadband internet, has produced more than its fair share of support issues for suppliers. Via Networks is one of the companies that sells ADSL services, and it focuses specifically on the small business community; it confirms that users asking for help with poorly performing ADSL connections have put in 70% more calls than the average Via Networks customer over the last six months.Naturally there are instances in which the best thing to do is to use the support services of the original supplier, even if your own support is mostly done internally. Accounting system specialist Sage gets a lot of "How do I..." calls from people who could find their own answers in the manual, but there are other queries. "Quite a significant number of calls are from businesses who want information on specific issues such as legislation, NI and tax issues, so we make sure our customer support staff have at least some basic knowledge and contact details at hand," says a spokeswoman.There are a number of possible solutions for smaller businesses wanting to take on the apparently daunting task of support themselves. Touchpaper has already been mentioned as a supplier of helpdesk software; this typically allows the support operative an overview of the system and the caller's place within it, as well as records of any support issues they have had in the past.It's possible to go further and automate a lot of the support functions completely. Broadband automation service company Broadjump, which tries to simplify end user installation of broadband to customers in the telecommunications industry, has automated much of its helpdesk function through a deal with Support.com, which makes web-based support software. This works as a question and answer-based system, so as long as a user (or customer if your products are the sort that need a helpdesk) can get at a web browser, they can service their own queries without taking up time from a human being. People still call of course; Gartner research says that 43% of calls are queries on how to do something within an application, while a further 13% are related to hardware. "It seems laughable that we take up so much time building expertise on applications into the helpdesk agent when intelligent search software could resolve these questions," says Don Ross, business development director for Knowledge Management Software plc. The company makes such systems and they work.None of which is going to cure a company of the dreaded daft user syndrome. PR company MCC International has compiled a number of instances of support calls for a report it was drafting, and came across the classic printer problem in a financial systems company. "The company always used to tell customers not to switch off their printers when printing invoices if they were experiencing problems, because the data would be lost," explains an MCC operative. "One customer rang up very agitated wanted to know what to do, because they knew they shouldn't turn the printer off. When asked what the problem was, the response came back, 'Well, the printer is on fire!'"Hep panelSetting up a help deskSetting up a help desk for your staff can be a good idea, but remember:&#183;It's a people job as much as a technical job; callers will be stressed and they need gentle helping.&#183;Put as much help online as you can if you have an intranet, then wait for the avalanche of calls about subjects people could have looked up for themselves.&#183;An internal helpdesk might appeal initially, but you won't have the economies of scale an externally managed helpdesk can offer. Equally, an external helpdesk will have other clients apart from your business, which clearly you won't.&#183;Adequate user training will eliminate some of the sillier and time-consuming help calls a company will get.
Small businesses trying to look after their own technology (or indeed not looking after it and hoping for the best) can come badly unstuck when it comes to counting the cost of a poorly running or non-functioning system.The worst thing is when the equipment runs out of its initial warranty contract and you've done nothing about renewing or finding an alternative; when things go wrong, you'll be at the back of the queue every time. The cost of repair, paid up incident by incident, is bound to total more than the fee for a steady contract.Contracts can vary, though, and there are important points to watch out for when agreeing to sign one.Check what's coveredThis might sound an obvious point, but it is one to which smaller traders don't always adhere. Norman Cleary, director of sales and marketing for IT service company ServiceTec, explains: "It is not unusual for us to receive over 50 calls a month from a customer about equipment that is not on the original kit list, in other words not covered by the contract. We will of course resolve the problem and add the equipment to the inventory, but this equipment would have been supported more cost-effectively if it was part of the contract." An inventory can also save time. With an accurate kit list, engineers can maintain stocks of the right spares. The difficulty for many smaller businesses is that their technology has grown up almost of its own accord. Yes there's the stuff they planned to buy, but then there was that cheap printer when the old one went belly-up and they needed to nip down the road and get another one quickly, and so on.Check what you can actually askTypically, small business owners/managers work vastly longer hours than normal human beings and they are slow to recognise that others don't always do likewise. Hence cases such as the one seen by Manny Pinon, sales and marketing director at communications equipment distributor Norwood Adam, when an entrepreneur working until 9.30 one evening found the screen going blank and within minutes was cursing his support company down the telephone for not wanting to come out and fix it immediately. "They really need to be realistic about their expectations," he says. Stress will cloud that judgment of course, but it's as well to bear in mind your support company is bound to honour the contract, not surpass it every time.Watch service level agreementsService level agreements (SLAs) can sound appealing until you consider the implications. Any maintenance organisation that claims it will keep your equipment working 100% of the time is either lying or redundant (since the thing's not going to go wrong). But consider how much margin you can afford; if they say they'll ensure your systems will work for 95% of the time that can sound good, but in the telecoms sector, for example, that would mean one call in 20 not getting through. Consider the time a repair is likely to take, and check to see whether you can claim compensation if a system isn't fixed within a given time.Response timesAsk how a service company deals with incoming calls. Robert Gupta is general  manager of Secon Solutions, a dealer in IT security products. "Instead of giving a ticket number and calling back later in the day - or worse, the following day - we provide a service where the next available support representative will take on the issue and start helping straight away if at all possible," he says. Well, he wouldn't have raised the subject otherwise, but it's a valid point: if you're going to get through to a faceless call centre or message service, consider looking elsewhere.AccreditationsMany of the organisations that offer servicing are dealers in IT systems, and it's worth checking which accreditations they have. Most of the big computer manufacturers are fiercely proud of their dealer channels; Compaq, for example, will only address the small business and most of   its corporate customers indirectly. This is partly a numbers issue but also one of geography: "If there's a need for a service visit we just can't be there as quickly as a local organisation," says Michael Johnston, Compaq's business development team director. Accredited dealers can be a good idea but check also that they will cover all of your equipment. If you have, say, a mix of PCs and Apple Macs then you might find your maintenance operative covers only one or the other. This can become a problem when there is an issue coming from the networking between the two: it must be clear in the contract who is responsible for maintaining which shared parts.Doing your own upgradesProbably one of the main reasons you are considering an external service company is so that you are not troubled with opening up the box yourself. If you are likely to want to put in extra memory or hard disks (these operations are very simple) then your contract needs to stipulate that the revamped computers are still covered, as are the new components added. Some maintenance companies won't want to be responsible for items which have been beyond their or the original manufacturer's control.
Internet use might be booming  among Britain's smallest businesses, but the fear that even the simplest business website should still cost hundreds, maybe even thousands, of pounds remains.In fact, as long as you are willing to devote a little time to learning how the internet works, it has never been easier - or cheaper - to create your own web presence.From the domain name and webspace to equipment and software, costs have slumped, and new devices and online services have appeared to remove some of the most tedious parts of creating and maintaining a website.Cumbrian artist Sally Logue is a small business owner who has learnt to do everything, so successfully that her website (www.portraits4pets.com) now generates 80% of her business. Yet four years ago, Sally could not use a computer. Her first IT training was in a rural computer bus which parked in a village near her home, followed up by two short courses - including one in basic website design - at a local college. Using her new-found knowledge she set up a simple website using nothing more than Netscape Composer - a free website creation tool - and a cut-down copy of Photoshop, which came free with her scanner. Her first internet order rolled in, from Alaska.But last summer Logue was fearing the worst. Her animal portrait business had been built up slowly, mainly through local advertising and stands at shows; the website, although online since 1999, still accounted for only a small part of her turnover. So when foot and mouth struck the area, Logue, like so many in Cumbria, was hit hard.The final blow came when the show where she won most of her orders was cancelled. It was then she decided to turn to the internet. "A Business Link adviser came to see me and offered a grant to help push my website more," she says. That £400 grant paid for new equipment and gave her time to set about promoting her site online.     "I was trying to get the site on to search engines, setting up links to other websites, spending a lot of time joining webrings and top sites lists, raising the profile of the site."The publicity drive was an unqualified success. By becoming involved in online communities that might appeal to people who want animal portraits, Logue has gained new customers around the world. "I get quite a few orders from the US. I don't know if the exchange rate is particularly good at the moment or what, but I'm no longer surprised when I get orders from there."Logue is now also taking payment online, using the PayPal system, which has further boosted the number of US orders, and made processing them much easier. "I used to insist on payments in pounds, which complicated things no end: they got charged, and I got charged," she says. "But now I use the PayPal payment system: they pay me in dollars, so I have prices in dollars on the website too."I don't take payment until I've done the work: I put a photograph of the portrait on the internet first, and I think that gives them the guarantee."The DIY approach has saved Logue hundreds, if not thousands, of pounds, and means that she has far more control over her website. She updates it regularly, using it to post digital photographs of her portraits for her clients' approval before she packages the artwork up and sends it off. All this is done using a digital camera, which Logue says has sped things up. "Without that, I wouldn't be able to operate in the same way," she says. "I can photograph a drawing, put it on the internet, and in some cases have payment, all the same day."But the one big tip she would pass on to others considering creating their own web presence is: keep it simple."I tested the site on existing customers and friends before it went live. It turned out to be a good idea to find out what they thought. It has had all sorts of gimmicks, like little dogs running all over it, which have been taken off again. Slow-loading pictures have been made all nice and quick."The problem is you have to click five times before you get the information you want. People are not prepared to hang around that long. People want to see the product, and want to get the information as quickly as possible, not go round in circles."DIY websitesAdviceBusiness Link is a government initiative that offers advice and practical help to small business in England (it's the Small Business Gateway in Lowland Scotland, Business Information Source in the Highlands, and Business Connect in Wales). Find out more at   www.businesslink.org. Don't forget that your local college will often have courses in computer and web design skills, with some offering training tailored for SMEsWeb hostingTo have a website, you need to have a web host who will make your pages available to the net 24 hours a day, seven days a week. There are lots out there, with ahuge range of prices and services. There are, thankfully, also a few sites that attempt to make the choice easier. The Tophosts site (uk.tophosts.com) is full of useful information, as well as a monthly chart listing the top 25 web hosts. And you can compare web hosts at www. webperf.net, although not all the big names you see advertising in magazines will be there, as they have to ask to be included in the site's tests. Domain names (www.yourname.com) are often be bundled in with the cost of the first year's web hosting.SoftwareNetscape Composer is a free application that makes it easier to create simple web pages. It is available as part of the Netscape browser package at http://browsers. netscape.com. Microsoft Office also has the ability to create web pages in the same way you create normal word processing files; the manual will tell you more. There are lots of more sophisticated packages available: for the novice, the next step up from the free, or built-in packages, is Microsoft's FrontPage 2002 software, which costs £105. This also has the advantage of having plug-in extensions for websites, called FrontPage Extensions, supported by many web-host companies.PaymentsPayPal (www.paypal.com) is a way to accept payment over the web without going through the sometimes tricky business of setting up a credit card facility. It also affords the retailer a little more protection against fraudulent transactions. The downside is that PayPal is not as convenient, for the shopper, as using a credit card. PayPal also skims a fee off each transaction.
Traditionally, SMEs have struggled on tight travel budgets, unable to secure discounts enjoyed by bigger organisations with deeper pockets. But the emergence of new web-based travel services means they are now able to access a whole range of cost-effective options from the comfort of their office computers."We are able, through our size, to negotiate heavily discounted air fares, hotels and car hire for SMEs," says James Vaile, managing director of Expedia UK, currently the country's leading travel site. "We are able to offer the same, or often better, discounts than a corporate agency. They can come across to our site and enjoy the benefits without having the infrastructure and volume behind them in their individual organisations."According to a recent report from Jupiter MMXI, the online travel market in Europe has grown considerably over the last year, and analysts predict that it will be worth about £12bn by 2006. According to Jupiter's research, the UK is the biggest online travel market in Europe, with Germany and France close behind. About six million people used UK travel sites in January this year. With the online market set to expand, new travel services are launching and many have SME customers in their sights.Opodo, which is backed by nine European airlines including BA, KLM, Air France and Lufthansa, launched in the UK at the beginning of this year with a huge marketing blitz. It is the third most popular site after Expedia and Last Minute.The new site lets you compare ticket prices from 480 airlines. There is telephone-based customer support and a callback service on the website. You hit a button and a customer representative will ring you to discuss, for example, how best to put together a trip to fit in meetings in different countries. The online travel service also lets you store details so if you frequently travel to a particular destination you don't have to keep keying in the same information.However, despite the fact that travel sites offer heavily discounted ticket prices, there are still large numbers of SMEs in the UK who appear not to have woken up to the possibilities. "The web puts SMEs in control," explains Lorraine Twohill, head of marketing development for Opodo. "It's frustrating when you go into a travel agent and wait in a line. You want to grab the computer and turn it around. The web speeds things up. Most of us are on the computer most of the time anyway. You can get your booking done in about five to eight minutes. It's cost-effective and you can quickly find good deals."Sites are introducing organisational services so you can store the details of other travellers online. Expedia, for example, lets you store multiple traveller details in one place, including credit card details, telephone numbers and special meal requirements. The idea is to make it easier for someone to manage bookings for a group of people. So they don't have to constantly go back to them for additional information.EasyJet is proving itself popular with business travellers and now offers 40 routes from 16 European destinations. For the last financial year it reported pre-tax profits of £40m. Unlike traditional airlines, you have to pay for food and drinks on the aircraft and you are given reference numbers instead of tickets."Hopefully SMEs will find the website easy to use," says Toby Nicol, a spokesman for EasyJet. "Instead of having tickets sent to you, when you make a booking you are given a six digit ticket number and that is all you need to check in. You don't need to worry about whether or not you picked up your tickets in the morning."Being paperless is key to EasyJet's ability to keep its costs down, and by cutting out travel agents, it removes commission payments at a stroke. You can also book through the airline's call centre. However all these travel services want to push business through the web as it is a much cheaper distribution channel. While low cost airlines are gaining in popularity, there has been some criticism that they fly you into airports that are a long distance from the centres of cities. So obviously it is best to check before making a booking.Nevertheless, on balance, there are undeniably a large number of travel bargains online which can help SMEs not only meet more frequently with customers in the UK but also through mainland Europe.
Anti spamI've been trying to send email to a legitimate business client but my outgoing mail server has been accused of spamming and is blacklisted by SpamCop. BT Openworld seems to be powerless to deal with it.Gerry WoolfRottingdeanJack Schofield replies:I am strongly in favour ofSpamCopand similar services, which blacklist ISPs (internet service providers) who allow spammers to send bulk unsolicited commercial email. Some ISPs block all mail from the offending addresses until they close any open mail relays or cut off the spammers they are hosting.  Ultimately, they could be driven out of business as their customers defect to rivals. Of course, blacklisting makes life difficult for innocent bystanders, but it seems to be the only way to put pressure on ISPs to do the right thing. In this case, the refuse message says 62.172.195.247 has been blacklisted listed below. and a Whois search (I usewww.geektools.com/cgi-bin/proxy.cgi) confirms that the blacklisted IP address is in a block registered to BT. You are, in effect, being prompted to apply whatever pressure you can to support@bt.net and any senior staff you can find. I do not know who uses this IP address, but it has been blacklisted 11 times since November 21. The first time, it was delisted in less than two hours. It was last delisted on February 19, and SpamCop last received a spamming complaint about it less than an hour ago, at the time of writing.Spamhausalso lists two companies using addresses in blocks assigned to BT.net.Web faxingDo you know of a web-based service that lets you fax Word documents? I have ADSL so sending stuff electronically is nice and fast.Joia ShillingfordJS:If you still have a modem, you can use a voice line to send faxes directly, without affecting your broadband internet connection. If not,Kevin Savetzkeeps a FAQ (answers to Frequently Asked Questions) on sending faxes via the net. This is a good place to start, but it does not seem to coverInterFax. TheTPC Faxproject is also worth a look. You would obviously want to test a couple of approaches before using them for anything serious.NotebooksI am thinking about purchasing a laptop, but have reservations, including price. The specs that would suit me are: must be lightweight; ability to see screen    outdoors with sun shining; long battery life or ideally one that can be recharged by solar energy. It must also have all the specs of a PC: DVD/CD-R etc.Mary RamsayJS:We would all like one of those but they don't exist. Choosing a notebook PC is an exercise in compromise, and requires that you give up almost everything you want to get the one thing you must have. Some people (eg me) are willing to give up the CD, the floppy, the big screen and the speed in order to get a small ultra-portable with long battery life. Others want a desktop replacement and don't mind if it is big and heavy, and the batteries don't last very long. Dell and IBM have websites where you can choose a suitable machine and add the extras you would like while watching the price go through the roof. If buying retail, Toshiba has a wide range of machines, which offers the best chance of getting something close to an acceptable compromise. I have also had good experiences with Hewlett-Packard and Acer notebooks. However, this is not an area where buying cheap, non-brand systems is without risk.Backchat&#183;Last week, Martin Saunders reported that an unknown file (K0A4U6.ldb) was listening for internet connections and wondered if it was a Trojan. Sam Wahid says Microsoft Access uses .LDB files to hold information about users with access to a database. If one person is changing the data, it locks the database to prevent other users from doing that at the same time.&#183;Robert Moore responded to another item last week. "Your instructions on altering the Send To menu were just what I wanted," he wrote, "but they only work on my Windows 98 machine. There is no Send To folder in Windows Me." Well there is, of course, but it had not occurred to me that people might not be able to see it. As usual, it is Microsoft's fault. It thinks users are better off not knowing about file extensions and system files and folders so, like Apple with resource forks, it does not display them. This makes the PC look simpler and may stop people randomly deleting vital files, but it also creates dangers. For example, you could be tempted to double click an   email attachment called Sexy.txt because you think it is a text file.However, it is actually a virus called Sexy.txt.vbs but Windows has hidden the giveaway Visual Basic Script extension. On balance, then, I think it is best to unhide these files and folders. To do this, run Windows Explorer, select Tools|Folder Options and click the View tab. Under Hidden files and folders, put a dot in the radio button that says Show hidden files and folders, and the SendTo folder in Windows Me should reappear. You can also untick the box next to Hide file extensions for known file types.
Webloggers: I need your help. As well as Onlineblog, I also run a littleweblogdevoted to my local football team, Swindon Town. At the moment, it also runs on Blogger (which I still think is great), but in the close season I'm considering moving to a new content management tool. Reasons? I'm curious, mainly. If it goes really well, I might even think of putting Onlineblog on the new system too. The options are eitherGreymatterorMovabletype. Should I stick with Blogger, or make a move? And to what system? Add your thoughts below or email me (neil dot mcintosh at guardian dot co dot uk) - all suggestions very gratefully received...
Palm, Handspring doomed by wireless?"Strand Consult predicts that Palm and Handspring will be crushed between the financial clout of Microsoft and the entrenched distribution networks of mobile phone manufacturers, once the focus in the PDA market shifts to wireless-enabled devices."
Britney Spears has made her"game debut".
The Apple jackboot has stomped onFinlay Dobbie, a "frequent contributor" to the version of BSD Unix that forms the basis of its OS X operating system. His Apple Developer Connection has been removed because he is only 15 years old. Apple policy requires contributors to be at least 18.
Does Open Source Software Really Work?
The basicsFor an industry that boasts more than 40 million customers in the UK, you would think that a wide range of companies would be fighting one another to offer scores of amazing deals: the perfect vision of a free market. Sadly, the stark truth is that one of the most successful growth industries of the past decade is controlled by a handful of companies, all fighting one another for your business by offering you near-impenetrable cost permutations and little in the way of unbiased advice. In short, buying a suitable mobile phone at a good price is one of the consumer's most challenging tests.A fast-moving, cutting-edge industry unchecked by the discipline of credible regulation has led to a free-for-all. There is simply no option for the consumer other than to roll up your sleeves and take on the mobile-phone retailers at face value. Arm yourself with time, flexibility, knowledge and, above all, an awareness of how, when, why and where you plan to use a mobile phone. Therefore, begin your quest by trying to establish your likely phone habits. What volume of calls do you plan to make each month? Will these calls be made at the weekend, evenings, during business hours, or an equal mix? Will they be to land lines or other mobile users? Are you a gossip, or are you quick and to the point on the phone? Do you want to use your phone abroad? These are just some of the questions you need to answer before traipsing off down the high street. If you have trouble answering any of them, consider that, on average, people use their mobile phones for 42 minutes a month - 18 minutes during peak times and 23 minutes off peak (weekends and evenings). And always ask as many mobile users as you can about their normal habits and costs.The networksYour first priority is to choose which network to use. There are only four companies that run and control their own "network" of mobile phone infrastructure: BT Cellnet, which is to renamed 02 in May, One2One, Orange and Vodafone. You also have the option of using a Virtual Network Operator (VNO), which lease lines by riding piggyback on one of the four main networks and include Virgin Mobile, Fresh (both via One2One) and Genie (via BT Cellnet/O2). Confusing matters still further, the four networks sell their services to customers by either their own-brand high-street shops or through affiliated retailers. The only truly independent retailer is the Carphone Warehouse, which sells services from all four networks, but also owns the Fresh VNO. Got all that?The largest and oldest of the networks are BT Cellnet/O2 and Vodafone. Both boast that they offer the best coverage, namely, the quality and reach of their services across the UK, but as reception can be affected by local obstacles such as hills or tall buildings, it is best to check each network's coverage by doing your own postcode search via their websites. Alternatively, a retailer should give you a detailed answer.It is also wise to check which networks all your friends and family use. You will invariably be charged more to call rival networks, so you can keep your costs down by making sure the numbers you are likely to call belong ideally to your network.TariffsNext, you must decide which network's tariff - pricing system - you will use. There are hundreds of options available to you, but what is good to a business user will clearly not suit someone who just wants a phone for emergencies. This is why it is important to have a good idea of your likely phone habits before you begin to compare tariffs.Make sure you establish what a network means by peak and off-peak calls (peak calls are usually 7am-7pm, Mon-Fri). And do you really need to pay more for extra services such as text messaging, voicemail (ansaphone), Wap internet access or email? This will all help you determine which type of pay-as-you-go deal or monthly contract to opt for.Pay-as-you-go dealsThis method is largely responsible for the huge explosion of popularity in mobiles over the past few years. Pay-as-you-go phones make an ideal gift because the buyer pays one up-front price then the user tops up their credit through vouchers. There is no need to commit to a 12-month contract, go through credit checks, pay connection and line-rental charges, and have the headache of monthly bills. Pay-as-you-go deals start at around &#163;60 and this method is preferred by a majority of low- to mid-level users due to its convenience and simplicity. However, the sting of pay-as-you-go usually comes in the form of higher call costs.Contract dealsThe more conventional contract deals allow the networks to recoup the costs of subsidised handsets and cheaper call charges through your 12-month commitment to their line-rental charges, typically, between &#163;15 and &#163;30 a month. High-end users prefer contract deals because of the seemingly generous inclusive minutes available. That's to say, the minutes of free calls before you have to start paying by the minute. Most contract deals will give you hundreds of inclusive minutes free a month, but you must ask exactly what inclusive means. Are calls to mobiles on other networks or landlines included? What time are these inclusive minutes allowed to be used? May you carry over any unused inclusive minutes to next month? Typically, the more you pay a month in line rental charges, the lower your calls will cost beyond any inclusive allowance.Again, you must ask for a precise breakdown of call costs awaiting you beyond your inclusive allowance. Charges can fluctuate anywhere from 2p a minute to landlines at weekends to 35p a minute to mobiles on different networks. When considering contract deal charges it helps to think what your annual cost is likely to be rather than be attracted to the low sign-up deals.To compare and contrast the minutiae of all the networks deals and tariffs, What Mobile or What Cellphone magazine publish network comparison charts. You should also try some comparison websites (see primary resources). And don't be afraid to swap tariffs if your lifestyle and phone habits change. You may have to buy your way out of a monthly contract, but it could be worth it if it means not being tied to an unsuitable tariff.The phonesYour choice of handset should always be secondary to your choice of network and tariff, but there are some important features to look out for.Battery performance is the phone's most important practical feature. You want to ask about the phone's standby time and talktime, ie how long it can be on before the battery needs recharging and how long the battery lasts when you're constantly making calls. You should expect a phone to offer more than 120 hours of standby time and ideally four or more hours of talktime.A popular new accessory is the emergency charger - a battery pack that you carry with you allowing you to charge up your phone when away from a power point. They are undeniably convenient, but are a worrying move away from a recharging culture towards a disposable battery culture.The appeal of the phone's appearance will, of course, be personal to you, but it's worth remembering that mobile snobs seem, for style reasons, to dislike Motorola phones, so dealers will often try to push their Motorola stock first. Likewise, the same mobile snobs have taken a disliking to BT Cellnet/O2. If you enter a shop saying you're not too bothered about the names involved, that you just want a good deal, don't be surprised to be offered a Motorola phone running on BT Cellnet/O2. There isn't necessarily anything wrong with this, but don't be fobbed off.Other features you will want to consider are the number of phonebook spaces available (should be 100 plus), predictive text input when you're text messaging (it will save you developing a sore thumb), voice-activated dialing, the weight (anything under 100 grammes is considered light) and the size.If you have concerns about the levels of radiofrequency (RF) radiation emitted from your phone, ask what its SAR (specific absorption rate) is. All phones in the UK meet the National Radiological Protection Board's limit of 10 watts per kilogram (w/kg), but some levels are now as low as 0.5w/kg. The Federation of Electronic Industries insists that all new mobiles list SAR levels. As yet there is no agreed standard for low SAR levels.Last, it may be worth checking the version of software within your phone. Like any new software, early versions can sometimes be unstable and full of bugs. For instance, one of 2001's bestsellers, the Nokia 6210, was buggy until it was installed with version 4 of its software. If a phone starts acting up, check the release number by typing *#0000# into it.Extra services  Text messagingThe most popular mobile phone service beyond simply making calls. It comes as standard on all phones and usually costs between 5p and 12p to send each message. However, many monthly contract deals include a number of free text messages in their inclusive minutes.VoicemailA standard feature, but one that can be expensive. To listen to your messages can cost between a few pence a minute up to a frightening 40p a minute. Charges can vary depending on when you use the service. One2One stands alone in offering free voicemail retrieval on all its tariffs.Itemised billsEven though networks can charge up to &#163;3 a month for itemised bills, it is well worth the investment, if only to help you control and budget your costs. Orange and One2One do not currently charge for itemised bills on any of their tariffs.RoamingThe ability to use your phone abroad is becoming increasingly popular, but UK roamers are currently being charged twice by the networks (for making a call and for receiving calls), a move which has been criticised by the telecoms regulator, Oftel. So ask the networks for a breakdown of their roaming charges. Check which type of handset you have, too, (dualband or triband) as Europe and the US, for example, use different systems. It's worth checking for compatibility across the world on the GSM website (Global System for Mobile Communication,www.gsmworld.com).If you are planning to roam frequently, you may be better off taking out your SIM card (subscriber identity module, the removable microchip that holds your account and personal details) and hiring a local one for your visit. The networks are getting wise to this though and some "lock" SIM cards. They will typically charge about &#163;35 to unlock it, but this could still prove to be a saving in the long run. You can check if a card is locked by seeing if it works in a friend's phone.Wap/email/3GThe arrival of interactive services was greeted with great fanfare in 1999, but has, so far, failed to lived up to the network's and public's expectations. The facility to access a very limited form of the internet and email via Wap-enabled phones failed to catch on and now the industry awaits the launch of the much-heralded 3G - third generation - phones, which promise to offer videophone facilities and near-full internet access. The networks have invested billions in the 3G licences so expect tempting deals when it finally launches. As with most technology, however, it may be best to hold back a few months and let the market settle before taking the plunge.Ethics watchMobile manufacturers use a rare mineral called coltan because it is an excellent conductor that can be used to coat electronic components. The ore is nearly as heavy as gold and 80% of the world's reserves are in Africa. Observers in Africa say the search for coltan is funding the war in Congo and may, like the illegal diamond trade, be steering the fighting. Environmentalists believe coltan is also a threat to wildlife. Nokia, Motorola and others insist that their suppliers no longer source from Congo, but make sure you always ask where a phone's coltan is produced.When Ethical Consumer magazine assessed mobiles in October 1999, all top 10 UK brands had links with the arms industry. NEC and Samsung produced missile guidance systems, Ericsson produced pulse radar for combat aircraft, and Nokia manufactured anti-aircraft systems and coastal artillery applications. Taking into account a range of social and environmental factors, One2One was Ethical Consumer's best-buy network, and Bosch and Nokia the best for phones.  For more information visitwww.ethicalconsumer.orgor call 0161 226 2929.InsuranceMobile phones are, contrary to popular belief, rarely covered for theft or loss by your household insurance. Only 30% of mobiles in the UK are insured, which is surprising when you consider how expensive it can be to replace one. If you lose a contract phone, you are still committed to pay your 12 months of line rental and you must replace the originally subsidised phone at cost price which can amount to well over &#163;100. So get insurance. Most contract phone cover will cost between &#163;3 and &#163;6 a month. Pay-as-you-go phone insurance varies hugely (anywhere between &#163;12 and &#163;50 a year), but remember to shop around.Always ask the following questions:&#183;Do I have to pay an excess fee?&#183;How do I make a claim?&#183;Am I covered for accidental damage?&#183;Will I be automatically be given a replacement phone, or can I get a cash alternative?&#183;What happens if my phone is no longer available?The main fear of having your phone stolen is that the thief will run up huge costs in unauthorised calls. One way you can limit this damage is to ask if you can have a credit limit placed on your phone. Once you (or the thief) exceeds this limit, the phone will be blocked. You can help police make a crime report by keeping a record of your phone's unique ID, or IMEI, number. It can usually be found behind the battery, but you can also read it by keying *#06# into your phone. The networks have now, under pressure from consumers and the government, agreed to immediately block phones that have been reported stolen. This should cut the amount of mobile phone crime, but until it becomes universally introduced it is worth adopting as much protection as possible.Primary resourcesThe networks:BT Cellnet/O2  (Tel: 08705 214000,www.btcellnet.net)Orange  (Tel: 0500 802080,www.orange.co.uk)Vodafone  (Tel: 07836 191 191,www.vodafone.co.uk)T-Mobile - formerly One2One  (Tel: 0808 121 3000,www.t-mobile.co.uk)Virtual network operators:Genie  (Tel: 0870 225 7879,www.mobile.genie.co.uk)Virgin Mobile  (Tel: 0845 6000 600,www.virgin.com/mobile)Fresh! (Value Telecom)  (Tel: 0800 049 0800,www.freshmobile.co.uk)Sainsbury's One  (Tel: 0800 015 8080,www.sainsburysmobile.com)Mobile phone manufacturers:For a full list, go towww.ukmobilephonesguide.co.ukHigh-street retailers:Which? says that when it last investigated which retailers gave the best advice, DX Communication and the Carphone Warehouse were top. Comet came last.The Carphone Warehouse  (Tel: 0808 100 9250,www.carphonewarehouse.co.uk)Comet  (Tel: 0845 600 7002,www.comet.co.uk)Dixons  (Tel: 08000 682 868,www.dixons.co.uk)DX Communications  (Tel: 0800 435 184,www.dxcommunications.co.uk)The Link  (Tel: 0500 222 666,www.thelink.com)Online retailers:You will often get a better deal via a website, but stick to established sites and do as much research on the high street and in magazines as possible. Popular sites include:www.jungle.comwww.smalltalk.co.ukwww.mobileshop.comwww.talkingshop.co.ukwww.ukphoneshop.comwww.buzz-mobile.co.ukwww.e2save.comwww.themobilerepublic.comwww.onestopphoneshop.co.ukTariff-comparison websites:www.uSwitch.comwww.buy.co.ukWhich? will tell you which tariff it thinks you are best suited to. Its test costs &#163;9.95. Application form atwww.which.net/publicinterest/phone_tariffs.htmlConsumer magazines:What Cellphone  (&#163;3.40; Tel: 01353 654411,www.what-cellphone.com)What Mobile (&#163;3.95; Tel: 020-7251 6688)
Internet bookmakers may be awarded quality guarantee Kitemarks under government proposals to stimulate and liberalise gambling, it was announced today.The plan - intended to reassure prospective punters that a specific website is licensed by the government - comes as part of a package that could see warm food served in betting shops and a 24-hour "cooling-off" period for casino membership revoked.The proposals also allow UK-based websites for the first time to offer online gaming products with fixed odds - similar to a casino - in addition to sports betting via the internet, interactive television or other media.A government reply to an independent review of Britain's restrictive gambling laws by Sir Alan Budd, a former chief economic adviser to the Treasury, today said that the prohibition of online gambling to British consumers would be an entirely unrealistic objective, even if it were thought to be desirable."Instead, we will as the review body has proposed, move towards legalising the provision of the full range of online gambling services by operators located in the UK, including gaming," it said.Online gambling currently operates in a grey area of the law with no single piece of legislation covering it. While it is legal for a registered bookmaker to accept bets via the internet from a customer with a credit account - just as telephone betting is allowed - casino and machine gaming is only permitted in licensed premises where the person placing the bet is present.This means that no one could legally operate an online gaming business from the UK, though there is nothing to stop a British resident gambling on a site based elsewhere in the world.But many are concerned by the proliferation of potentially under-regulated, non-UK gambling sites. In a statement, the Department of Culture, Media and Sport said a government-backed Kitemark scheme would enable prospective customers to distinguish between those sites that are licensed and regulated and those that are not.A spokesman for the department said an independent Gambling Commission would lay down a "dynamic code of practice" to take account of technological changes as it licenses and monitors online gaming sites.Tessa Jowell, the culture secretary, today said that the proposals will be put before parliament "as soon as time permits". The government reply, however, does not carried detailed proposals, and there will be a further period of consultation with the gambling industry and other interests before the plan becomes a piece of primary legislation.
Last week's price increases by Apple look likely to the first of many in the PC world, as component costs increase and demand begins to pick up, suggestsCNN. Even Dell has upped the prices of things like extra memory in recent weeks, although it's too smart to add to the headline cost of a new PC...
Aberdeen Group analysts haveattacked AMDfor misleading performance ratings, according to The Inquirer. This is another part of the "megahertz myth" story.
Mains-based networking is an ancient idea that goes back more than 20 years to a great Scottish invention, the X10 home automation system. The idea still hasn't gone away, as theHomePlugshows. Only real geeks know aboutDave Rye.
After electronics,photonics.. It must be a decade since we were all writing about photonic processor chips. Hm, back in1993....
