I've got a PC which intermittently refuses to boot, sometimes for several hours. When it's misbehaving, it doesn't show a splashscreen, there's no hard disk activity, and it won't boot from a CD, either. If I leave it powered on, it does seem to boot eventually, after anything up to two or three hours. Memory tests and hard disc tests run clean.The PC is a fairly high spec two-year-old Mesh PC. It has been a dog from 13 months, but Mesh wash their hands of it, because I didn't buy extended warranty.Any idea where I should begin or should I just cut my losses?Pete MortonIntermittent faults are very difficult to diagnose, and I can't think of anything that would cause a PC to hang for a couple of hours before booting. (Anyone?) In this case, I'd guess that the likeliest culprit is either the memory or the hard drive, though you say these check out OK. It might be dust or a stray wire or bit of metal fouling a chip on the motherboard (that last one isn't common turned out to be the cause of my son's PC rebooting at random). It might be the power supply, but again, this seems to work normally once the PC has booted.Although you say Mesh has not been helpful, you could try asking on its support forum, in the section calledMesh Computers Owners Club - Customer Care and Technical Support. Other Mesh owners may have run into similar problems, and will certainly know more about their PC's peccadilloes.Either way, a PC that does not always start can easily turn into a PC that never starts, so make sure you have all your data backed up before trying anything else.Intermittent problems are often caused by hardware connections not being made correctly. You can try to eliminate them by taking the PC apart, blowing the dust out, and reassembling it. Remove all the external cables and unplug it from the mains well before you disassemble it, and make sure your body is not holding a static charge; you should also wear an anti-static wrist strap. Remove the memory cards and any expansion cards then plug them back in, making sure they seat firmly. Don't remove cables unless you know what you're doing, but again, make sure the connectors are pushed home. Make sure fans are clean and spin freely. Make sure there are no stray wires, bent pins, or loose connections.Videojug has lots of short instructional videos in a section calledInstalling Computer Parts. There are videos to show how to install more memory, change a graphics card, replace a power supply, and so on.If your PC still doesn't start correctly, there's probably not much you can do except find a good local technician and ask how much he would charge to have a look at it. Given the low prices of today's desktop PCs, it may be beyond economic repair, but an independent technician should be able to provide evidence of a fault and estimate a repair cost that you could try to reclaim from Mesh.Although Mesh will no doubt say that it only offers a one-year warranty, the Sale of Goods Act says that goods must last a reasonable time, and for a PC, that should be more than 13 months. Legally, it could be up to six years. However, you will have to be prepared to take your case to a small claims court. Also, unfortunately, you will have to contact the government's centralisedConsumer Directservice if you need advice, though you can always try asking them to refer you to theBrent &amp; Harrow Trading Standards Servicewhich is local to Mesh.
Umm, that's a captcha all right. Photo byKdrzpnron Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamVideo CAPTCHAs Promise Better Security, Less Frustration &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebLooks spiffy, though will really depend on working on video-capable devices.'Don't get excited' about Windows 8, says analyst &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Putting aside the question of whether the information that leaked Monday is actually official, it's dangerous to assume that the spelled-out features -- ranging from facial recognition for log-ons to support for slates -- will actually see the light of day, said Michael Cherry, an analyst with Directions on Microsoft, a firm that only tracks the Redmond, Wash. company's moves."&#10;&#10;Oh, damn.iPhone Owners Download Twice As Many Paid Apps As Android Owners &gt;&gt; Business InsiderThe chart of the day, via AdMob. Not mentioned as another possibility: the Android Marketplace is a nightmarish mess.Sony Recalls VAIO Laptop Computers Due to Burn Hazard &gt;&gt; US Consumer Product Safety CommissionExcept Sony isn't recalling them. It's telling people either to update the software themselves, or bring them to shops to get them done. Like a car recall when there's an airbag programming fault, except you can't tweak the airbag software yourself. Nobody calls that a "recall".Danger! Microsoft's Pink phone looks increasingly real &gt;&gt; Guardian Technology (March 2010)If only Microsoft had listened to Jack Schofield then: "But it's really not clear why Microsoft is doing this. When the Hiptop/Sidekick came out in 2002, it was a great device for instant messaging, and it had AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) built in. In the US, it also supported TTY/Relay Operator services that made it one of the best available phones for deaf users.&#10;&#10;"But AIM isn't as important as it used to be (Windows Live Messenger now dominates that space), and there are plenty of more attractive phones for people who want to send SMS messages, access Facebook and follow Twitter. Today's teens would seem more likely to go for a BlackBerry, or a Google Android phone, if they want something with a usable keyboard."Computing Global Energy Production and Consumption &gt;&gt; Wolfram|Alpha BlogSo is the spill in the Gulf a lot compared to US energy use? More interesting stuff from the Wolfram Alpha team.Visualised: which countries World Cup footballers play in the rest of the time &gt;&gt; Estadao.com.brNeat. Though it seems that English players play *only* in England. Even North Korea manages to have some people playing abroad.Get a tweet when the Space Station comes in view &gt;&gt; TwisstLocation-based system that will alert you via Twitter when the International Space Station hoves over the horizon.Visual Storytelling: The Little Prince and Our New Embedded Charts &gt;&gt; Google Code BlogVery cool addition to Google's Image Chart API: TeX formulae and mathematical function plots.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
I was at a literature symposium last week; the kind of place where people are puzzled, and sometimes frightened, to learn that I write and play videogames. "But aren't all games just about shooting people?" was a common question. Of course, I pointed the questioners towardsFlower,Katamari,Auditorium,Monkey IslandandMachinarium, in which you don't have to slay anyone. But there is a real question; why do so many games involve killing people?Perhaps the easiest answer is that this is a form of play that humans enjoy. Children's games are often "bang-bang, you're dead". And from Hamlet to Agatha Christie to Goodfellas, we fictionalise murder to come to terms with it.There's another, slightly more sinister answer too, though. The US military has been funding some games development since the 60s. In their fascinating new bookGames of Empire, academics Nick Dyer-Witheford and Greig de Peuter point out that although the military-funding squeeze after the end of the cold war meant that commercial gaming outpaced the military's, since 2001 the Pentagon has been collaborating with studios to create customised war games. Some of these have been dual-purpose; entering acheat codeinto Full Spectrum Warrior opened up the military-training version.Games aren't "training us to kill" assome hysterical media have declared. But, Dyer-Witheford and De Peuter suggest, the routinisation of warfare in games may tend to make players less critical of our involvement in real warfare. Does this mean we shouldn't play games? Obviously not – but, like any media, it's important to be aware of the messages we're consuming along with our entertainment.
Microsoft has taken the Kin - a shell-shaped mobile that emerged from its purchase of the Danger brand - out to the back and shot it.Slow sales in the US mean that it's not going to be released in Europe(sorry, Windows Mobile fans)and that instead Microsoft is going to focus on Windows Phone 7, its upcoming revision to its entire mobile operating system. (Correction: the Kin ran on a form of Windows CE, not Windows Mobile.)In a statement to CNet News, whichgot the story first, Microsoft said "We have made the decision to focus exclusively on Windows Phone 7 and we will not ship KIN in Europe this fall as planned… Additionally, we are integrating our KIN team with the Windows Phone 7 team, incorporating valuable ideas and technologies from KIN into future Windows Phone releases. We will continue to work with Verizon in the U.S. to sell current KIN phones."The Kin had a lot of advertising behind it in the US, including TV, web, print and radio ads. But it didn't make any difference.The Kin wasunveiled only in April, to be sold through Verizon in the US and slated for Vodafone in the UK in Europe in the autumn.Among the elements that were being pushed by Microsoft as putting the Kin ahead of the pack were "deep social networking integration". However, it wasnever part of the main thrustof Microsoft's mobile strategy, which now revolves around the as-yet unreleased Windows Phone.Michael Gartenberg, a consumer analyst, said he suspected part of the reason for the poor sales was Verizon's data pricing plans.The Kin was part of a project being run within Microsoft called Pink, which was developed in parallel to the Windows Phone 7 project, whose products are scheduled to be released later this year.However Microsoft's decision to kill the Kin means that for now it will struggle even further to maintain market share in the smartphone market, where it has been losing out to Apple's iPhone and especially to Google's Android platform, while Nokia has maintained its lead, with RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, holding its own in second place.The Kin devices, which had a slide-out QWERTY keyboard, were made by Sharp, but Microsoft determined the software, online services and hardware.At the unveiling in April, Patrick Chomet, group director of terminals at Vodafone, said "Kin has a unique and intuitive way of engaging with the user, enabling them easily to share experiences and stay in touch with their friends."
What do you think of when you reminisce about Sega's hardware? For me personally it was all about the Mega Drive and Dreamcast.  I've got plenty of - mainly - happy memories of both. But what about theSaturn, Sega's console in between? For me it really never happened. At the time it was too expensive and just couldn't match up to the Playstation. It did have its fans though and they will probably be getting a teeny bit excited by the news that Sega arepotentially planning to revisit the Saturn cataloguefor some download releases. Sega's Yosuke Okunari, the producer of the upcoming Dreamcast download re-releases, explains the thinking:It's not that we're ignoring Saturn. I think you can see this, considering that we ported Nights Into Dreams and other titles. What we announced this time is a project where we will have consecutive releases of titles that were debuted on Dreamcast. Separate from this, we're of course thinking about ports of Saturn games. It's the same as how Sega Ages and Virtual Console were separate existences. It's not that we have no intention of porting Saturn titles, so please share your requests.Sega are obviously concerned that the relative failure of the Saturn in the market will impact on download salesWhen you look globally the Genesis and Dreamcast are well known, but Saturn is unknown. During that period, PlayStation and Nintendo 64 were a success overseas, but to be honest Saturn was not a success. Because of this, we decided on Dreamcast.Assuming the Saturn games get the green light what would you like to see?  NiGHTS into Dream and Panzer Dragoon are about it from me – but what about you?
Once the darling of the games industry, it's a been a tough few years for Lara Croft. While Tomb Raider: Underworld and Legend were seen as returns to form in many quarters, you can't help but see her as yesterday's girl.Nevertheless, she remains a potent brand, and this latest adventure from developers Crystal Dynamics is a laudable attempt to maximise use of a valuable licence without resorting to rushing out a subpar franchise instalment that devalues the series.This is, you see, anything but a Tomb Raider game - with the clue being in the title. For starters, the game is played entirely from an isometric viewpoint (think Diablo) and takes the format of a dungeon-crawling shooter-cum-puzzler. Available only as a download, Guardian of Light is intended to be short but sweet, and a relatively cheap slice (about £10) of disposable action fun.As if it wasn't already enough of a departure from the hallmarks of its progenitors, Guardian of Light is also designed to be played co-operatively, on or offline. Lara is accompanied in her travails by an ancient Mayan warrior called Totec, and you'll need to use both characters' differing attributes and special abilities to progress.Find a wall that's just too high to jump over? Simple, Totec can throw his spear into the wall, and Lara can jump on it. Then, using a neat grappling-hook system, Lara can pull Totec up after her.Still can't get up? Totec can also hold his shield above his head for Lara to stand on. If he jumps, then she jumps at just the right time, you'll effectively double-jump - but the timing is critical. These nifty mechanics are worked into a variety of puzzles and traps, and make working together all the more enjoyable.Commendably, the developers have included the option to play through a slightly modified version of the game just with Lara if you can't find any willing participants - eliminating the need for a frustrating AI teammate - though Guardian of Light is clearly enjoyed most when playing with friends.The plot is predictably hokey fare - retrieving an ancient artefact to save the world. But plot isn't really something to worry about too much here - the game prioritises fun above all else. There's an arcadey feel as players compete to get high scores and retrieve power-ups, and the presentations and graphics are admirable for what is in essence a second-tier release.Little touches like high-quality cutscenes and decent voice-acting all play their part in what feels like a surprisingly polished experience. One puzzle I was shown was particularly impressive, with Lara forced to run through a floor of spike-laden pressure pads without touching any pad twice - it's clear a lot of thought has gone into both the simple and cerebral elements of the game.The controls, though not immediately intuitive, are simple enough (though the erratic aim control will hopefully be smoothed out before release) and the action, though punctuated by the odd platform section or puzzle, is pretty relentless.In the hour I played through at Square Enix's offices in Wimbledon I was impressed by the variety on offer, both in the enemies you encounter - from giant spiders to horned demons - and the landscapes you traverse. There's a decent array of weapons available too, from Lara's iconic dual-pistols, to meatier fare like assault rifles and grenade launchers.It's not often at preview events I'm sad to be forced to stop playing the game, but I felt that way about Guardian of Light. While it probably won't provide much more than a week's worth of entertainment, it's shaping up to be a real breath of fresh air for the series, and may prove a highly satisfying snack-size treat for a gamer looking for something different between this summer's heavyweight titles.•Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light will be released this summer on XBLA, PSN and PC
About 535,000 Sony Vaio laptops have a software bug that could cause them to overheat, the company said today. But it denied reports that the machines would have to be recalled,saying that they can be fixed with a software update that is available on its website.In a statement, Sony said that there have been 39 overheating cases in total, all outside Japan. Some of these have resulted in damage to computer bodies, but no burn injuries have been reported.Some of Sony's F and C series Vaio PCs made in January this year and some custom-made models from the same series have been affected, the firm said.Sony is asking a total of 646,000 owners to update their machines. The additional 111,000 machines are susceptible to several less serious problems that have also been found in the software.The overheating is caused by a bug in the bios (basic input output system) software which provides the basic functionality for the machine, rather than the Windows operating system which runs on top of it. The bios is embedded in the chips of the machine, but can be upgraded. Sony says that people should either apply the update themselves, or take the affected machines to a Sony repair centre.Affected models sold outside Japan are the VPCCW25FG/B, VPCCW25FG/P and VPCCW25FG/W.A Sony spokeswoman said the company has not estimated possible costs stemming from the problem.The fact that the problem is due to software, and not a hardware problem, will be a considerable relief to Sony. In 2006 it had to recall and replace approximately 10m Sony-made lithium-ion batteries used in laptops made by Sony, Dell and Apple. That cost it $250m.
The UK internet audience rose by 1.9 million over the last year, with people over the age of 50 accounting for more than half of new users.UK web surfers expanded by 5% to 38.8 million in May, compared with 36.9 million in the same month last year, according to UKOM, a division of market research company Nielsen that measures internet usage.An additional 1 million people aged 50 or over are now online, representing 53% of that growth.Most of those new users (722,000) were men and 15% (284,000) were women.The next largest group were women aged 21-34, who accounted for 272,000, followed by teenage girls. An additional 231,000 females between the ages of 12 and 20 now have access to the internet.Alex Burmaster, European internet analyst at UKOM/Neilsen said: "The internet is getting older in more ways than one. Not only is the medium itself maturing but the audience is shifting towards older age groups. The fact that one in four Britons who use the internet today are 50 to 64 years old proves it is no longer the sole preserve of the young."The most popular UK sites for the 50-and-over audience include Saga,electronic greeting cards company Jacquie Lawsonandhealth site RealAge. Nearly 90% of RealAge's traffic is generated by over-50s.Video site Flixxy, which had 108,000 unique users in May, according to Nielsen, is also heavily reliant on older users, with 80% of its traffic coming from those aged 50 or above.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Transport for London (TfL) is suddenly getting the free data/app development religion. Havingjust relaxed its rules to allow commercial use of an initial set of its train and tube data, it is now calling on mobile developers to "come up with innovative and creative ways to keep users informed about the Mayor's flagship cycling scheme."The London cycle hire scheme begins on Friday 30 July, and in the lead up TfL has relaxed its terms and conditions to allow commercial use of official data - "opening the door for developers to provide accurate and reliable information about the hundreds of locations where hire cycles will be available, smart routes around town or proximity of docking stations to Tube stations and places of interest", as TfL puts it.TfL has released the data template of the Barclays Cycle Hire location data on theTfL Developers' Areaof its website. The file contains example data but will be updated to contain details of the location of all operational Barclays Cycle Hire locations as soon as possible.TfL hopes that independent apps will "complement the wealth of information that TfL is already generating to keep users up to speed about the scheme." People can also express an interest in the scheme by providing their details at www.tfl.gov.uk/barclayscyclehire to be kept informed of key developments.As part of the Mayor's vision for London as a cycle city 6,000 cycles will be available at around 400 locations across central London. It's expected to generate up to 40,000 extra daily cycle trips a day. Users can pay £1 for 24 hour access, £5 for 7 day access, or take out a £45 annual Membership. Subsequently, each completed journey of up to half an hour will be free of charge. Journeys of between 30 minutes and one hour will cost £1, £4 for up to 90 minutes and £6 for up to two hours. Charges then increase incrementally up to a maximum hire period of 24 hours.The Mayor of London's Transport Advisor, Kulveer Ranger said: "This scheme is the cornerstone of the cycle revolution the Mayor is bringing to the Capital and we want to make it as easy for Londoners to use as possible. Barclays Cycle Hire has got everybody talking and app developers are already recognising the opportunities that the scheme offers. They are incredibly creative people and I'm really looking forward to seeing and using the new apps."It's a promising start. Developers, get on your bikes.Update:Craig Poxon has put them into Layar, an augmented reality app: here's the one forAndroid, and here's the one for theiPhone. (You need theLayar Reality Browserinstalled, and to use a mobile device.) Who's next?
Unsorted books at Brown University. Photo byquinn.anyaon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSafely signing in on a computer that's not yours &gt;&gt; Omar Shahine's blogIf you're using a public computer and have a phone and are in the US (or UK?) and want to sign in to Live.com or Hotmail.com, you can request a single-use code to replace your password, just in case that public computer is riddled with malware. Which is a safe stance to take.Facebook Uses BitTorrent, and They Love It &gt;&gt; TorrentFreak"Large scale web-services such as Facebook need thousands of servers to manage the flow of updates that are sent out by their millions of users. As a result, keeping all these servers updated with the latest code can be time and resource intensive.&#10;&#10;"According to Tom Cook of Facebook's systems engineering group, the daily code updates for Facebook used to cause a lot of trouble until they discovered BitTorrent. Cook gave a talk at the Velocity Conference this week titled 'A Day in the Life of Facebook Operations' where he explained how effective BitTorrent is for server deployment."Verizon Wireless Said to Start Offering IPhone in January &gt;&gt; BloombergApple and Verizon aren't confirming, but it would radically increase the number of iPhones that Apple sells if this goes through.Brown University has gone Google &gt; Official Google BlogFirst it put 6,000 students onto Google Apps, and then the rest of the university wanted to join too. Brown reckons it will save $1m. And what did it use before?Here's your clue. Someone get Frank Shaw..Data and addressing services &gt;&gt; Postcode AnywhereEssentially a "free data in the cloud" service, where you pay for the "cloud" bit, and as much of the extra paid-for data as you want.Map multiple locations by address or coordinates using spreadsheets &gt;&gt; BatchGeoFabulous resource. (And quite a clever way to get companies to hand over their data, if you were being suspicious.)iPhone vs. HTC EVO &amp; HTC EVO vs iPhone4 &gt;&gt; Laughing SquidFabulously coarse. The "you write the dialogue, we provide the animation" system is a promising step up from LOLCATS.Sites that ban you from linking to them. Still. In 2010 &gt;&gt; malcolm colesOr as Coles calls them, Link Clowns.Windows 8: detailed plans leaked, show Microsoft cycle of invent, fail, copy &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingTim is a longtime Microsoft-watcher; he thinks that - if this is correct - we're looking at 2012 for Windows 8.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Ex-Sony Europe boss David Reeves thinks new consoles may be released sooner than thought. In aninterview with gamesindustry.bizReeves – now working for Capcom – thinks motion control and 3D are a stopgap before new consoles arrive in 2-3 years.Two to three years, I reckon so. I don't have any inside information. All the first-parties have got to be working on something. The tricky thing is when do you put a stake in the ground on technology? That's the problem. You can be waiting a few extra months to implement something, but you've got to set a date to go with a certain chip at a certain point otherwise you're going to miss the key milestones.Reeves talks about Kinect and how he important he thinks it is for Microsoft.If you map it out the Xbox 360 is right up in the corner and it has certain types of games associated with it. And Microsoft knows that in ten years time they can't be there, they have to be appealing to families. And I reckon that strategically it's absolutely the right move. It's almost like two steps back and one step forward. They are right to separate Kinect from everything else.Reeves also mentions the increasing costs of developing core titles and why downloadable content could be the future:Where it has to get creative is with games like Grand Theft Auto and Halo, you've got to reinvent yourself for a new generation, and that's difficult, especially as these games cost $50-$70 million. In terms of downloadable content as long as the content holders – the labels, the artists – aren't too greedy, that's really where the money is. Because otherwise you're spending $60 million to create a new game. To produce Rock Band the guys at Harmonix are brilliant. They're not doing a lot of graphical work, it's not very expensive for them. SingStar was exactly the same, it becomes a licensing business in a way.When asked about 3D Reeves was positive about the benefits for developers, but less so for consumers:It only takes five or six lines of code to change it from a normal game to a 3D game. I remember working on MotorStorm and the guys did a 3D level in about three weeks. What I think we'll see is that certain parts of a game will work very well in 3D and you won't need to make a whole game in 3D. The other aspect is it's quite a strange feeling to play games in 3D. I've played quite a lot, 15-20 games and not necessarily Capcom titles, and when you play them intensely like WipEout you get a sick feeling, so you have to be careful about it. When you look at racing games in 3D and a lot of action adventure games it is a step change. If it works well in 3D then publishers will do it in 3D because it's not a massive expense to do that.I got a headache after a 20 minute play of the Avatar game in 3D so can understand where Reeves is coming from. The bigger issues from this interview is clearly his perception that new consoles will arrive in 2-3 years. Will we really see a PS4 in 2012? Historically you would say yes but after PS2's lengthy - and still ongoing - lifepsan it would be a surprise. An Xbox 720 in 2 years? I doubt that too – though you can easily see another upgrade or two for both consoles.Anyway, what do you think? Will we see a new consoles from Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo within 2-3 years? And if so would you be happy to upgrade?
Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur are joined by Tom Watson MP and Richard Wilson of the video games industry body TIGA to discuss this week's headline technology news.The podcast team tackle the latest announcement from ICANN, who have released the .xxx as a top-level domain for adult sites. ICM Registry, the company that has been fighting for this for almost a decade, will now be able to sell websites with this suffix for $60 a pop. But who will buy?Tom talks us through the prices of government websites, and explains why 75% of them are to be culled by the end of the year.The shockwaves after George Osborne's first budget speech are beginning to ricochet through the creative sector, and none more destructively than in the video games industry. The once-thriving network of developers and publishers had been expecting tax credits for new software development, as promised by Alastair Darling in March, but Osborne's cuts have reversed this advance. Richard Wilson talks us through the implications, while Tom explains what may have happened.Charles also explains the latest in the unfolding diplomatic battle between Google and China, in the week that the search company explicitly asked Chinese web consumers to redirect to their uncensored search facility in Hong Kong.Finally, we look at a new search service called timmp.com, set up by the digital native Marcel Gashi, an 18-year-old serial digital entrepreneur.
Is the green capacitor faulty? Photo byhr.icioon Flickr.Some rights reservedDell sold millions of computers between 2003 and 2005 that had faulty components - specifically, capacitors, according to documents unsealed in a case being heard in the federal court in North Carolina.In anarticle in the New York Times, Ashlee Vance writes about the problems that Dell faced - and how it tried to prevent them becoming more widely known:"Documents recently unsealed in a three-year-old lawsuit against Dell show that the company's employees were actually aware that the computers were likely to break. Still, the employees tried to play down the problem to customers and allowed customers to rely on trouble-prone machines, putting their businesses at risk. Even the firm defending Dell in the lawsuit was affected when Dell balked at fixing 1,000 suspect computers, according to e-mail messages revealed in the dispute."The documents do sound fascinating - though so far the only one from the case that that has made it onto the wider web from the case isthis one- which is simply a list of documents that are no longer sealed. (The case is being heard at theFederal District Court in North Carolina.)In 2005, Dell announced that it was taking a $300m charge to cover the cost of fixing and/or replacing the faulty machines.The NYT then argues that "The documents chronicling the failure of the PCs also help explain the decline of one of America's most celebrated and admired companies. Perhaps more than any other company, Dell fought to lower the price of computers."That may be true - but it's not the whole story. Dell ran afoul, quite without realising it, of one of the most fascinating pieces of industrial espionage of recent times: the theft of a formula for making the electrolyte to go into capacitors from a Japanese company, which got taken to China, and then onto Taiwan - but somewhere, got messed up.How do I know? Because Iwrote about it seven years ago:"A scientist steals a secret formula for an electrical product from his Japanese employer and takes it to China. Then it is stolen again and turns up in Taiwan. But something goes wrong - and thousands, perhaps millions, of computers and electrical goods in the West begin to burn out or explode."It sounds like the plot of a thriller, but it's reality. Thousands of computers have failed and nobody is sure how many more products might go wrong because their capacitors - essential components to control the power supply - were made with faulty materials."In 2001, a scientist - name still unknown - left Rubycon Corporation Japan to go and work for the Luminous Town Electric company in China. Both companies made (among other things) electrolytic capacitors, which are usually used in power circuits. At the LTE Company, the scientist made a copy of the electrolyte - the chemical that goes inside the capacitors and enhances its capacitative properties."Later that year, the scientist's staff defected to Taiwan, taking with them a copy of the electrolyte formula so they could set up their own company. Taiwan supplies 30 per cent of the world's electrolytic capacitors and most of the big PC manufacturers get their machines assembled in Taiwan. But the defectors mis-copied the formula. After a few hours of operation, the electrolyte would leak hydrogen gas, before bursting the metal body of the capacitor. The electrolyte would then leak its brownish filling and could cause a fire."IBM confessed to having a problem - and so too, privately, did Dell at the time. But that was before it began selling millions of machines which had a consistent problem: the capacitors weren't up to scratch.Because according to the NYT story, the problem that kept cropping up with those machines was, indeed, the capacitors. "The problems affecting the Dell computers stemmed from an industrywide encounter with bad capacitors produced by Asian PC component suppliers. Capacitors are found on computer motherboards, playing a crucial role in the flow of current across the hardware. They are not meant to pop and leak fluid, but that is exactly what was happening earlier this decade, causing computers made by Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Apple and others to break."Passive Component Industry Magazine (passive components are things like capacitors and resistors)wrote about this in September 2002, though it didn't know then quite how bad things would get. As Dell's experience showed, it could get very bad indeed.Back in 2003, Dennis Zogbi, president of Paumanok Publications, an expert on the market for passive components, told me that the problem is that "People want Western quality at Chinese prices," he said. "Well, you can't have both."The story continued well after that, though, with sites such asBadcapsstaying on the back of manufacturers including Apple which had had the faulty components. Wikipedia refers to the "capacitor plague" - and though it does seem to have gone into remittance now, Chris Passalacqua, owner of Badcaps, suggests, "They didn't discover this until it was too late and they had manufactured and distributed literally MILLIONS of these flawed capacitors. However, it's been going on way too long to simply blame on an industrial espionage boo-boo in my humble opinion, as this problem is still extremely common, and hasn't slowed down. Personally, I think it all boils down to shoddy components that are manufactured by shoddy component makers."And that's where we circle back to Dell's problems. The NYT said that "The documents chronicling the failure of the PCs also help explain the decline of one of America's most celebrated and admired companies. Perhaps more than any other company, Dell fought to lower the price of computers." And that's certainly true: for years, Dell led because it could undercut rivals, and kept pushing the price down.But price and quality control are always in conflict - and in the end that seems to have done for Dell. While other companies had the capacitor problem too, they didn't suffer it as long as Dell appears to have. So it was partly something Dell couldn't have expected to have control over, namely the electrolyte formula in the capacitors in the motherboards and/or power supplies - but also partly something Dell could have acted on, which was the repeated failure of those capacitors.Meanwhile, if anyone does have a Pacer account and wants to repost those court documents, please link them below.
Last year, in its typically squalid European election campaign, the BNP used an image of a Spitfire as part of its anti-immigration message. Just one problem: the photo they chose was of a craft flown by the 303 Squadron, a ruthlessly effective force made up of rescuedPolishairmen.To my shame, I knew little about the 303 Squadron before this deeply ironic error. Now, however, Channel 4 Education has launched a Flash game,Battle of Britain: 303 Squadron, recreating the key role these 34 Polish fighter pilots played in the decisive campaign, shooting down 136 enemy planes. It's a stylishly presented 2D flight shooter pitching you into dogfights with various craft and presenting genuine encounters from the battle – all interspersed with historical details and photographs.The visuals are crisp and detailed with looming clouds, rolling landscapes and small, but intricately modelled aircraft. Controls are simple – just left, right, throttle and shoot – but they're implemented well enough to provide some compelling aerial combat. Players can collect achievements as they blast through the missions, and there's a multiplayer mode for up to four participants. Naturally, there's Facebook Connect support too, so you can easily invite your mates into the skies.Developed by diversely talented creative agencyFish in a Bottle(who have also worked on somecute games for Ben and Holly's Little Kingdom– the ace new animation from the creators of Peppa Pig), it's another smart, quietly compelling interactive experience from the Channel 4 Education stable, which has also brought us1066, another look at a rather important British battle, andBow Street Runner, based around the formative London police force.Even if you're rubbish at flight combat it's well worth taking a look at this game and reminding yourself about an amazing and inspiring slice of military history.
The city that never sleeps is dead. As Crynet helicopters swoop above the fabled streets of Manhattan, alien monsters lurk in the burned-out shells of iconic buildings. Suddenly a firefight rages; choppers spin into the sides of skyscrapers and explosions billow out across the rubble-strewn avenues. New York is now a true urban jungle, a hostile terrain filled with unknowable predators.Start spreading the news –Crysis 2is coming.Set three years after the original, and still shrouded in narrative secrecy, the action once again follows Delta Force operative Nomad, who in the first game quelled an alien infestation on a remote Pacific island. Now, though, he's a fugitive wearing an illegally acquired new version of the nanosuit – the augmented battle outfit designed by shadowy military corporation, Crynet Systems. And he's also in the Big Apple, where invading alien forces are demolishing Crynet defenses. It looks like you'll need to battle both to survive.It's the nanosuit 2.0 that seems to provide the central focus of the Crysis 2 pre-release hype. In the original game, it provided the player with four upgradeable special powers: speed, strength, armour and cloak (which rendered the character invisible to enemies). Many players quickly figured out their own ways to utilise and combine these abilities, using speed to approach an enemy soldier before quickly switching to strength and punching the victim into next week. But Crytek also saw veteran players developing themed approaches to the game. Some would become predators, focusing on the speed and cloaking features to remove enemies quietly and efficiently, while others went for distance kills, using the binoculars and ranged weapons to cull enemies from afar. And then you had the lumbering heavily armoured gloryseekers, piling in to the middle of the action and blasting away."What we found was, players were creating a game within the game," says executive producer Nathan Camarillo. "We said, 'Here are your tools, here's your nanosuit, here are your weapons, here's where you are, here's your objective – you figure the rest out'. And they were making a completely separate game within that. Some people took that really far. So if someone was playing as a silent assassin, when they got detected they felt like they'd failed – the game didn't tell them they'd failed, the game wasn't over, but they would actually reload and try again. With the superhero characters, if they died, it wasn't a failure it was, 'I made a bad decision – if I had just hidden behind that truck, I could have survived, I would have taken out six dudes'. They were creating a game for themselves in the world that we presented to them."With Crysis 2, then, the aim has been to retain and enhance that sense of freedom and personal customisation within the game world. But that hasn't meant tacking on a load of extra powers to the basic nanosuit concept. "In fact, we didn't add any powers," says Camarillo. "We re-arranged them, made them more accessible and combined them together." Take the example mentioned above, about quickly switching between speed and strength to take out enemies; not all players discovered that, or could pull it off effectively. Rather magnanimously, Crytek saw that as a fault of their design, rather than individual gamers – so now jump has been taking off the speed function and made a separate basic ability, while speed is now available whenever the player needs it."And that's the core of what the nanosuit 2.0 is," says Camarillo. "It's more powerful, it's more expressive, and it's more mobile. It can get you places – and this is very useful in an urban environment where there's lots of variation in height. Once you're one storey high you can jump to a ledge and pull yourself up, or jump on a truck, or slide under a bus, or whatever. You have all these different options of being more mobile. And then on top of that, there are the other types of gameplay expressions I was talking about. So if I want to play stealth, now I'm mobile and stealthy or mobile and armoured."This sense of experiment and expression apparently spans out beyond nanosuit functionality and into the structure of the game itself. With both Far Cry and Crysis, Crytek toyed with sandbox gaming principles, and wants to take things further this time around. When I ask Camarillo what differentiates Crysis 2 from its many rivals, it's this element he focuses on. "Most are corridor shooters," he says. "Every time it plays out the same way: the same guys pop out in the same places, you just move through the story and the game spaces in the same way every time. Our stuff is a lot more systemic – we do have some scripted elements to enhance storytelling and to make sure key beats happen, but when ever you enter our gameplay spaces, you can make different decisions, you can make different choices about the weapons or nanosuit that you take into combat and then the whole game will play out differently."So far, we've seen some extremely exciting set pieces. In the demo shown during EA's pre-E3 press conference, we witness Nomad and colleagues trapped inside Grand Central Station as giant alien beasts smash through the windows, hunting down the player. The sequence ends with Nomad escaping in an APC, just as a tall building is brought crashing down on to the historic station – a breathtaking cinematic moment clearly inspired by Cloverfield. But it seems moments like this will be secondary to what players create for themselves, within what the team is referring to as a choreographed sandbox experience.Camarillo is keen to elaborate on what this means. "It's not the whole of New York, you can't wander around the whole city," he says. "Our sandboxes aren't like that. They're smaller, you get a few blocks to explore, so it's more contained, which is actually how you play with a sandbox as a toy. And while most sandbox games stop the gamer decision at, 'what weapon am I going to choose?' or 'what vehicle should I get in?', we go to a much lower level of detail, so it's more like, 'what attachments do I want to put on my weapon? What firing modes do I want?' You can customise your weapons, you can customise your nanosuit this time. Then on the gameplay side, there are objects I can pick up and throw, there are explosive objects, I have a nanosuit with a lot of power so I can maybe flip a car onto an enemy."And alongside all this is the enemy AI. On stage during the EA conference, Crytek CEO Cevat Yerli promised to provide, "the most intelligent enemies ever", which is an interesting boast considering most game developers agree that making really smart enemies is actually very easy, the hard thing is making enemies that have theappearanceof intelligence, without the ability to beat most human players into the dust on a regular basis. This usually means enemies that react plausibly to player actions, that exhibit basic self-preservation instincts, that use rudimentary group tactics – but still make mistakes.So how will the Crysis 2 AI fit into this matrix of demands? Camarillo suggests that it's all about reading each player and responding to their actions proportionately. So AI enemies will know which weapon you're pointing at them and will react differently depending on perceived threat. They'll know how stable their cover is – so you won't get them congregating behind a vehicle that's about to explode. They also have patrol routines and check-ins, so even if you go in cloaked and take out a lone soldier, the rest will eventually notice he's missing and investigate the area. Also, if they discover the player, they'll make dynamic decisions on how much back-up to call in. If you've just clipped one of their guys in the shoulder, they might ask for a couple more men; if you've slaughtered two or three of them, they'll request the attack chopper. "As the player makes decisions in the gameplay spaces, you can expect the game to push back in similar ways," Camarillo says with a smile. He also mentions that the alien enemies will use the environment like a human player, jumping from building to building, leaping on to objects and vehicles, exploiting the possibilities in the same way we do.And of course, a lot of people are talking about the setting. With Far Cry and Crysis, the developer brought unparalleled realism to dense rural settings – so why the switch to a major city? There were apparently several factors behind the decision. Crytek wanted to use a location that people cared about – and as engagingly designed as the environment was in the original Crysis, few players had emotional attachment with a fictional island chain off the coast of Korea. And when it comes to mass emotional investment, perhaps the easiest frame of reference is a major urban centre. "We looked at every major city on the planet and in the end New York always came out at the top of that list," Camarillo says. "It has a unique character, and there's always a really great story to tell there. It's always changing, always evolving, always reinventing itself, but it's always New York."It's also extremely iconographic. New York isn't the oldest city and it's not the newest but it's a good time capsule. It represents everything mankind has been able to accomplish since the industrial revolution. And when that comes under attack from aliens, everything that we've been able to achieve through technology is under attack as well, everything that we represent. Without a city like that, we're living in the wilderness again. There's a really good metaphor there between the suit, which is also the pinnacle of human technology, and what the city represents."There are also gameplay dimensions to the decision. Some cities present a singular architectural style, which could begin to get boring if used as the sole location for a game, but New York alters from borough to borough, taking in skyscrapers, brownstone tenements, docklands and extremes of poverty and wealth, and all very densely packed ("which is very good for keeping our game localised", Camarillo says). And of course, New York is a tall city with multiple levels for vertical gaming – a perfect playground for the nanosuit 2.0.Behind all this, however, is the one thing Crysis was really famous for: the visuals. Still being held up as a benchmark for PC graphics three years after its release, the original remains one of the most astonishingly beautiful first-person shooters ever made. That's a hell of a lot to live up to, especially with the likes of Gears of War 3, Killzone 3 and Rage also pushing at the boundaries of current hardware. Plus, there's the fact that Crytek's latest 3D workhorse, CryEngine 3 is a multiplatform technology, aimed not just at top-of-the-range multi-core PCs, but at the PS3 and Xbox 360. Surely compromises have been called for?Possibly not. Crytek is using all the latest buzz effects, from deferred lighting to real-time colour-grading, and the demos and trailers so far hint at an impressively detailed, fluid game universe, complete with masses of destructible scenery and some imaginative extraterrestrial foes. On top of this, the game will be viewable in 3D across all platforms – attendees at the EA E3 event got to don passive 3D glasses and watch a short demo of a mass street battle between Crynet and alien forces, complete with tank shells blasting at the screen and alien craft erupting from the pavements as chunks of debris rain down. Impressive stuff, though still largely academic for many of us.Elsewhere, there's one element that Crytek hopes will draw us away from concerns about graphical technologies. The story. "At the end of Crysis there were some unresolved plot threads, and we're going to tie those together," Camarillo says. "There are threads about your character, about the backstory … and through some supplemental material that we'll release, we really want to tie the two games together in a very strong way. It's not a prerequisite to play Crysis in order to play Crysis 2. In fact, we hope we'll inspire more people to go back and play Crysis in the context of what the Crysis 2 story reveals to gamers."But we're not going to be beating the player over the head with the story. We want to have a very cohesive fiction from beginning to end. Some might want a high level story, just to understand everything that's going on, and that everything they do has relevance and meaning within the game. But for the gamer who wants more, there is going to be a lot more available, via information they gather from the environment, characters they interact with, backstory that they can piece together, ambient storytelling littered throughout the game world – there's a deeper story there that we've put a ton of thought into. We've done a lot of internal research and development – some of which will never make it into the game, but in the end it'll make a better experience because everything we've done has been extremely well thought out."There's still a lot to learn about this game. EA knows Crysis 2 is a considerable jewel in its 2010 release arsenal and is slowly distributing information through a carefully stage-managed series of events, trailers and teasers. Camarillo mentioned that multiplayer has been a massively important part of the design team's ambitions with this sequel, yet we know nothing about this element yet. And while it seems Nomad and Crynet are enemies (the organisation takes him prisoner during one trailer, only for the helicopter they've got him in to be shot down by aliens), they may also be working together at stages against a common foe.Whatever the case, what we've seen so far has been genuinely alluring, and the prospect of tearing such a well-known metropolis apart via an engine that will surely be at the bleeding edge of destructible environment technology is scintillating. The city that never sleeps may be dead, but clearly, the Crysis is far from over.
Google today sought to placate the Chinese authorities by ending the automatic redirection of mainland users to its uncensored Hong Kong site, saying officials had warned they would otherwise refuse to renew the firm's licence.Several industry analysts suggested the last-ditch move – made only a day before Google's permit to provide content expires – signalled the end for thegoogle.cnservice following the search giant's battle with the censors.The company began diverting users of the site togoogle.com.hkin March, having said it was no longer willing to censor search results as required under Chinese law.Today, it said it had introduced an extra step, redirecting users to a landing page with a link to the Hong Kong site.In a post on theGoogle blog, the company's chief legal officer, David Drummond, wrote: "This redirect [to Hong Kong], which offers unfiltered search in simplified Chinese, has been working well for our users and for Google."However, it's clear from conversations we have had with Chinese government officials that they find the redirect unacceptable – and that if we continue redirecting users, our internet content provider licence will not be renewed (it's up for renewal on June 30)."Without an ICP licence, we can't operate a commercial website like Google.cn, so Google would effectively go dark in China."That's a prospect dreaded by many of our Chinese users, who have been vocal about their desire to keep Google.cn alive."Drummond said some users were already being taken to the landing page and that, over the next few days, all users would be diverted that way.He said the firm had resubmitted its licence renewal application on that basis.Analysts said Google would be unable to use the google.cn domain and provide services such as music and mapping without a licence, analysts said.Google spokesman Peter Barron said: "We have a choice. Keep the redirect, lose the licence and have .cn go dark, or look at a different option."We think this option stays true to our commitment not to censor, while also hopefully keeping .cn alive ... We are hopeful that our licence will be renewed on this basis, but we'll have to wait to hear from the Chinese authorities."The Chinese ministry of industry and information technology, which oversees licensing, declined to comment.Although Hong Kong is part of China, it is governed under different laws, but users from the mainland are still unable to see uncensored search results on google.com.hk because the country's firewall blocks sensitive terms.Few expected Google's attempt at a compromise to win favour with Chinese authorities."My guess is that, by taking it public, they have basically sealed their fate," said the Beijing-based internet expert Bill Bishop, whoblogs as Digicha."I have always been of the mind that the idea somehow Google had got through everything and now it was hunky-dory was a bit hopeful. People here have long memories."Bishop suggested the drawn-out nature of the dispute with officials was beginning to "chip away at [Google's] position of moral superiority" in some people's eyes.Paul Denlinger, an internet consultant specialising in the Chinese market, said: "I think what they want to do is keep the door open for being able to come back into China at some later date."Going out in a blaze of glory might make some people happy in the US and other parts of the world, but it would slam the door on China."But Denlinger said that, in the shorter term, it "looks very bad" for Google's future in China.Industry sources predicted an appreciable but not huge drop-off in traffic to google.com.hk if google.cn was turned off, because some mainland users were still not used to the google.com.hk domain.A more important question may be whether Google is allowed to continue selling advertising in China in the long run. Denlinger alsoraised questions about Google's ability to offer mapping services.The real winner of today's announcement is likely to be Baidu, the domestic search firm that had around two-thirds of the market even before Google moved its search services overseas.
Nexus One users can today get their hands on the latest Android software update, dubbed Android 2.2 Froyo. The over-the-air update will be restricted to Nexus One handsets initially, and will be gradually rolled out throughout this week.Six months after the release of Android 2.1, Google says the new software – revealed at the company'sannual I/O conferencelast month – could increase performance speeds by up to five times. Good news, too, for those wanting to use their Android-powered device as a portable WiFi hotspot, as the Froyo software upgrade now allows.What else do we get with the 2.2 upgrade?Certain mobiles using 2.2 software will be able to share their WiFi connection with up to eight other devices. And you can now use 2.2-powered devices as a 3G connection for Windows and Linux laptops by plugging in with a USB cable. CPU performance has been given a boost, with the software upgrade able to load data two-to-five times faster. An upgrade to the memory should result in faster app-switching and a "smoother performance" on memory-constrained devices, Google said. Performance of the browser has also been bolstered when loading 'JavaScript-heavy' pages and pages with Flash.Users can now access the three pages – phone, applications finder and browser – from any of the five home screen panels.The camera and galleries have been given a modest overhaul as well – everything from white balance to geo-tagging to flash can be done with on-screen buttons. An LED flash also lets users film in the dark or in low-light settings.Apple released its own software upgrade, iOS4, last week compatible with iPhones 3G, 3GS and 4, as well as the new-generation iPod Touch.Android 2.2 is expected to reach HTC Desire devices by Q3 this year. An HTC spokesperson told Recombu: "We are working hard with our partners to update the HTC Sense experience on Froyo and distribute it to our customers as fast as possible. We expect to release updates for several of our 2010 models including Desire, Legend and Wildfire beginning in Q3."Vodafone told the Guardian that it is in the process of getting approval of its own version of Android 2.2, and that the software upgrade will be rolled out to customers in due course. The mobile network also encouraged those planning to make use of Froyo's tethering capabilities to consider signing up to a Vodafone price plan, saying that 3G tethering would eat into a user's data tariff.O2 said there was no specific timeframe for when the update would be available, but that it should be by the end of the week.So far as the HTC Hero goes, Orange has confirmed that its Hero customers will get the software update 'in the near future'. Three is currently testing Android 2.1 for the HTC Hero and is looking to roll it out to customers by the end of July - exact dates are still to be confirmed, they told us. We're waiting to hear back from Vodafone, O2 and T-Mobile.
A few months ago, Britain's archivists, educators, independent artists and technologists were up in arms over the digital economy bill, a dreadful piece of legislation that ignored all the independent experts' views on how to improve Britain's digital economy; instead, it further rewarded the slow-moving entertainment companies that refused to adapt to the changing marketplace and diverted even more public enforcement resources to shoring up their business-models.The bill was passed despite enormous public outcry, without real parliamentary debate, in a largely empty house, hours before parliament dissolved for the election. Despite reassuring promises to their constituents, huge numbers of MPs just didn't bother to show up for work that day, allowing the bill to slip through (my own MP, Meg Hillier, sent me a letter to tell me that she was "concerned" that the bill was up for a vote without debate, but she voted for it anyway).Well, here's some good news for Britons: you're not the only country whose laws are for sale to oligarchs from the entertainment industry. In my native Canada, a farce worthy of the worst moments of the Digital Economy Act is playing out even as I type these words.Some background: there have been two recent attempts to reform Canadian copyright law. Both failed, due in large part to an unwillingness on the part of lawmakers to conduct public review or consultation on their proposals (though they were happy to have closed-door meetings with lobbyists representing offshore entertainment giants). The minority Tory government is now fielding a third attempt, called Bill C32 (Canadian bills have much less interesting names than their UK counterparts; here, we'd probably call it The Enhancement of Digital Life Through Extreme Punishments for Naughty Pirates Bill of 2010).C32 follows the widest-ever public consultation on Canadian copyright. More than 8,300 Canadians filed comments in the consultation, and they spoke with near unanimity: "We don't want a US-style copyright regime."The US's copyright law was last reformed in 1998, with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), which provided for near-total protection for "digital locks" (also called "DRM," "TPM," "copy prevention," "copy protection" – this explosion of names being the legacy of two decades' worth of attempts to rebrand an unpopular idea in the hopes of making it stick). In the US version of the law, breaking a digital lock is itself a crime – even if you're breaking it for a perfectly legitimate reason.For example, Apple uses digital locks to make sure that the only programs you can run on your iPad and iPhone come from its own App Store. The App Store has lots of conditions on it that are ripe for competitive challenge – it scoops a hefty 30% commission from software creators, and imposes prudish conditions on the presentation of "adult" content (previously, Apple has rejected an ebook reader because it could be used to call up the Kama Sutra, a dictionary because it contained "naughty" words, the Pulitzer-winning political cartoons of Mark Fiore because they "ridiculed public figures" and a comic book adaptation of Joyce's Ulysses because you could see the characters' willies – in each case, they reversed themselves after public outcry).But breaking the digital locks on your iPad so that you can buy apps from someone other than Apple is against the law – even though there is no copyright infringement taking place. Quite the contrary: marketplaces where creators exchange their works for money is the kind of thing you'd expect copyright law to encourage, rather than prohibit.Nearly all of the respondents to the Canadian copyright consultation said that they didn't want to repeat America's 12-year-old mistake. Yes, they said, let us have protection for digital locks, but only if you're breaking them in order to commit an act of actual copyright infringement. Protecting the locks themselves is bad policy.I was one of those Canadians. As a Canadian author (my latest novel, For the Win, is presently on the Canadian bestseller lists), I believe that I should have the major say in the destiny of my copyrighted works.If I want to authorise a reader to break a digital lock to move her copies of my books from a Kindle to a competing ebook reader, that should be my call. Certainly, the mere act of putting my works into a digital locker shouldn't give a company the right to usurp my copyright: copyright protects authorship, not assembling electronics in Pacific Rim sweatshops.Only 46 of the 8,306 commenters thought otherwise. These 46 commenters advocated replicating America's failed experiment in Canada; everyone else thought the idea was daft. You'd think that with numbers like 46:8260, the government would go with the majority, right? Wrong.When minister of industry Tony Clement, and minister of heritage James Moore, published the text of their long-awaited copyright bill, Canadians were floored to discover that the ministers had replicated the American approach to digital locks. Actually, they made it worse – the Americans conduct triennial hearings on proposed exemptions to the rule; Moore and Clement didn't bother with even this tiny safeguard.The ministers have been incapable of explaining the discrepancy. When confronted on it, they inevitably point to the fact that their bill also establishes numerous "user rights" for everyday Canadians (for example, the right to record a TV show in order to watch it later), and suggest that this is the "balance" that Canadians asked for. When critics say, "Yes, you've created some user rights, but if a digital lock prevents their exercise, it's against the law to break the lock, right?" the ministers squirm and change the subject.It's enough to leave you wondering whether the ministers understand their own bill. Indeed, Clement recently appeared on the public broadcaster TVOntario show Search Engine and promised that his law allows journalists to break a digital lock for the purposes of investigative reporting (according to lawyers, scholars and everyone else who's read the bill, he's wrong).If they don't understand their bill, perhaps it's because they weren't really in charge of what went into it. According to the former head of staff for minister of foreign affairs Maxime Bernier: "The prime minister's office's position was, move quickly, satisfy the US; we don't care what you do, as long as the US is satisfied."It's clear the US government has made a top priority out of ensuring other countries cut their throats just as stupidly as America did with the DMCA's digital locks rules. Last week, the Obama administration's newly minted IP enforcement czar, Victoria Espinel, reiterated America's priority to use its trade muscle to force countries into adopting US-style copyright rules.American industry is pleased by this. A shadowy new Canadian "citizens' group", Balanced Copyright For Canada, looks to be the work of the big-four labels, with a membership composed of employees and executives of the labels' Canadian subsidiaries (the membership lists were taken offline hastily after this was publicised).Moore seems to be cracking under the strain of supporting the unsupportable. He has publicly denounced opponents of his bill as "radical extremists" (these "extremists" include the Canadian Bookseller Association, the Retail Council of Canada, the Canadian Library Association, the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada and MPs from all the other parties). He then denied having made the remarks, blocked voters from following him on Twitter when they asked him about it, and has remained silent on the subject since videos of him making the remarks surfaced.So, Britain, rejoice. It's not just our government that can be bullied into voting against the public interest by big content's power-brokers – Canada's just as weak and pitiful.
Gamers of a certain age will remember Elite. The space combat/trading game was – literally – light years ahead of the simplistic gaming fodder of the early 80s. More than two decades on, the similarly space-based DarkStar One is unlikely to have the same impact. However, this is solidly entertaining stuff and Xbox 360 owners have nothing else like it on their console.Much like Freelancer and other post-Elite titles, DarkStar One see the player given the chance to shoot pirates and indulge in some interplanetary trading. The not-totally rubbish plot plays a bigger than expected part too. But it is the space-based action that is the meat of the game. Missions range from killing pirates to escorting random merchant ships to, er, shooting some more pirates. Some plot missions are more varied though and there is always the addictive pull of upgrading your ship and earning money via lucrative trade runs.DarkStar One also lacks the true sense of freedom often found in these games. Yes, you can go off exploring the further reaches of your particular bit of space but wider exploration is fenced off until you have found the artefact needed to progress. In practice though this works quite well with the game bobbing long at a languid but quietly absorbing pace. There is always something to do – escort or kill, mainly – and there is a nice sense of progression as you upgrade your organic spacecraft.DarkStar One is pretty enough without being astonishing. The powerful visual impact of a planet or star is offset by repetitive enemies and craft. For a big galaxy, there really isn't the variety of alien or ship you would expect. Luckily, considering this is a genre almost exclusively found on PC, the controls here work well, with combat especially satisfying.DarkStar One is a rough diamond. The amateurish voice-acting – complete with the most unplaceable range of accents ever – and low-grade cut scenes betray the game's aged development (it was originally released on PC in 2006). The menus are fiddly to access too, while the on-screen text is small and difficult to read even on an HD screen.Despite this, DarkStar One is recommended to patient Xbox 360 owners who fancy a game that involves something different to sniping or scoring.
British businesses aren't hurrying to follow their government in pledging free access to non-personal datasets they collect, a new study has found.Of those surveyed, 68% said that they would not be prepared to open up access to their own data - despite recognising that sharing data could bring commercial benefits, according to a study by Informatic Corporation, which sells data integration software.However, companies are keen that the government should continue with its plans to increase access to public data, such as the Ordnance Survey's OpenData scheme and the measures put in place to make more non-personal central and local datasets available through services such as the data.gov.uk portal.Among the reasons that the companies gave for not opening up their own data were:&bull; Corporate privacy (43%)&bull; Protection of intellectual property (32%)&bull; Concerns that online data may be mismanaged (29%), which could result in poor quality information and a loss of data value.Even so, 83% of businesses surveyed believe they should be entitled to greater access to public sector data:&bull; 32% believe that access to this data should be a right for businesses and the public&bull; 61% of businesses have no concerns around the exposure of public sector data&bull; 46% think that greater access to public data would provide commercial insight&bull; 43% believe access to this data would provide practical business benefits.This report was conducted on behalf of Informatica by LM Research in April 2010. It surveyed 1,000 national and multinational businesses with 100 employees or more from across the UK.In April Ordnance Survey released a number of its mapping products for free commercial reuse, including a postcode-to-location dataset. On 24 June the Prime Minister, David Cameron,chaired the first meeting of the government's Public Transparency Boardwhich declared that public data should be released under an open licence that enables free commercial re-use, and in a machine-readable format.But businesses are less willing to join in - possibly because they see a commercial risk in being making their data available if others do not reciprocate. While a number of companies participate in open source software projects such as the Linux operating system and Apache web server, to which companies such as IBM and Sun have been substantial contributors, that is some distance from making data - even anonymised - about the business visible to rivals."These results reveal a serious disconnect in attitudes of the business and public sector communities when it comes to sharing data online. But with many multinationals and governing bodies pledging open data initiatives, data transparency looks set to become the status quo," said John Poulter, senior vice president, EMEA, Informatica. "We operate in an increasingly digital society, where knowledge sharing has become central for day to day business. Prospective customers are more likely to engage with companies that they feel provide them with added value and insight and it is increasingly important for businesses to recognise, this when embracing digital practices."The same proportion - 83% - of businesses which thought they should have access to public sector data said they would use it to identify new commercial opportunities - which indicates that the freeing of that data should have the effect intended of both increasing government transparency and encouraging commercial exploitation of the data. In the survey, 78% said they would utilise the data as a point of reference when making future investment decisions, and 76% would use it to build knowledge of their customer base.Having greater access to public data would provide the opportunity to make their company more agile and competitive, respondents said."If the government executes its plans effectively, businesses have the potential opportunity to use this data to suit their business needs," said Poulter. "In order for its plans to open up public sector data to be successful, it is vital that the government puts the right measures in place to ensure that the available data is managed correctly; relevant, structured and precise."Poulter added: "While the value of increased access to data is clear, it's understandable that businesses worry about what competitors would be able to do if they opened up the windows to their world. By harnessing their own data and sharing information, businesses could build their customer knowledge even further, providing potential customers with greater insight into their business, whilst at the same time ensuring that confidential data remains protected."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
The Edinburgh Fringe is nearly upon us: it runs from 4 August to 28 August. And to cover it, there's the venerableEdinburgh Festival Fringewebsite - set up in January 1997, when the web was young(ish).But look more closely at the site - specifically, at itsterms and conditions- and you may get a throwback to those days you thought long-gone.They begin:"You are reading the terms and conditions for use of the Edinburgh Festival Fringe website (edfringe.com). They make a legally binding contract between us and you. Your acceptance of the terms and conditions is made by your browsing our website and is dated to your first use of the website. If you do not accept the terms and conditions or any part of them you should stop using our website immediately."Gosh, I'm scared already. Reading them constitutes a legally binding contract? I'm no lawyer, but I think you have to do something - like signing dotted lines, opening packaging, or clicking buttons - to be shown to have entered into a contract. Reading isn't the same as assenting.But carry on: there's another section."About linking by hypertext to our website: Before providing a link to our site you must seek our permission. To do this, email admin@edfringe.com with details of the URL to which you wish to link and the URL of the page on which you will be displaying the link. We do not permit the display of our web pages in any HTMLl [sic] frame unless we have expressly authorised this."Pardon? We have to seek your permission tolinkto your site?Update 17:40:that section has now been removed from the terms and conditions - although completely silently. (You can find it, for now,in Google's cache.)At this point I did pick up the phone to speak to the people behind the site. So, I asked, has Google explicitly asked 1,200 times tolink to pages inside the site?Has Bingasked 69 times? Or is there some sort of exemption for search engines?There is a point to this line of questioning, which is driven by apost by Chris Gutteridge at Southampton University. He pointed to the absurd Ts&amp;Cs, writing:"I work with the Web Science Trust and some of the big names in the Semantic Web and I was hoping I would be able to create "linked data" for the fringe festival. Linked data is the technique being used to publish government data on data.gov.uk and, according to Sir Tim Berners Lee, is the future of the web."If I was able to do this (which I would happily do for free and with no bother to you), it would result in dozens of websites and phone apps remixing the fringe guide. While I'm sure your own iPhone app will be good (although I have a android phone, so no use to me), it would have been exciting to have 100's of people providing alternate ways to work with the programme, and far more in the spirit of the fringe. Sadly it looks like the rules have been written from the perspective of advertising revenue and control, rather than fostering creativity and experimentation."The Fringe will be awesome without linked data, but it could be and should be awesomer."Well, I asked the Edinburgh Fringe website team, how about it? Why not let Gutteridge and similar people link in and create apps? Surely they'd be able to generate benefits for both the people visiting Edinburgh (you'd have an Android or iPhone app which you could use if you said "I've got a half-hour to spare... is there a show on? Are there tickets?") and the performers, who'd see more people at performances, and the site itself?The response from Neil Mackinnon, head of external affairs for the Festival Fringe Society, was:"The Edinburgh Fringe website is the only source of comprehensive and accurate information about every show taking place each August. It is also the only place where audience members can buy tickets for every show in every venue. In 2010 that amounts to 40,254 performances of 2,453 shows in 259 venues. The terms and conditions covering use of our website are kept under constant review to ensure that they meet the needs of the performers and venues who provide the information for the website and our audience members who trust us to deliver accurate and up to date information that can help them select the right shows for them."Though I pointed out that this didn't actually answer any of the questions I'd put - about the weird Ts&amp;Cs, the potential benefits to performers and customers - the team was unmoved, beyond saying that it "keeps these things under review".Possibly, of course, it is simply trying to corner the market for itself, with its own iPhone app which - recently - it has begun picturing on the front of the site with the words "coming July". That might be useful, though it won't be much good for Android users.And we really don't like those terms and conditions.
Tagged truck. Photo bygilleskleinon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPhone 4 image tagging issues &gt;&gt; Flickr Help ForumThe iPhone 4 isn't being recognised in Flickr pics - instead it's tagged as 3G. Oh woe!Windows IT managers: The iPad's next growth market &gt;&gt; ZDNetAka "how to get your boss to buy you an iPad" for IT staff. Might work.Microsoft fires new shot at Google Docs over support &gt;&gt; Computerworld"The launch of Office 2010 earlier this month reminded me just how much this makes us different," [Barbara] Gordon, head of Microsoft customer service and support] said. "When was the last time you called Google for help recovering a lost Google Doc? Were you even able to find a number? My guess is, no. Google simply does not provide that level of service."&#10;&#10;A lost &lt;em&gt;what?&lt;/em&gt; Has Gordon ever actually used Google Docs? In a response, Google called her claim "amusing" and pointed out that such losses only happen if you store the files locally... such as with Office.Government transparency update &gt;&gt; The Network for the Post-Bureaucratic AgeDavid Cameron chaired the first meeting of the Public Sector Transparency Board. Among those present: Sir Tim Berners-Lee, Professor Nigel Shadbolt, Tom Steinberg, and Dr Rufus Pollock. Very interesting principles enunciated.iPhone 4 parts cost Apple just $171 &gt;&gt; ComputerworldBecause the software just writes itself, and the phones just walk to the shops themselves. And the adverts put themselves up.Internet pornography to get its own red light district as .xxx name approved &gt;&gt; The GuardianOne of the best comment threads in years: insightful, well-argued, funny. Personally I like the idea of the .lol top-level .lol domain for pictures of cats with captions.How do you hold your Nokia? &gt;&gt; The official Nokia BlogNo, please, Nokia, we can barely contain our laughter.IPadding 2 &gt;&gt; Visualising headline mentions of 'iPad' in UK papers &gt;&gt; David McCandlessIn no order, he looks at The Telegraph, Guardian, Financial Times, Independent, Sun, Mirror, Mail and Times. Note down what you think the order is. Now click through.iPadding: visualised mentions of 'iPad' in UK papers this year &gt;&gt; David McCandlessIn no particular order, compares number of mentions in The Independent, FT, Guardian, Telegraph, Mail, Mirror, Sun. Guess what the order is. Write it down. Now click through.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Larry Elliott argues that Britain has wasted years "waiting for the invisible hand to deliver Britain magically into a new golden age of hi-tech firms and happy, well-paid workers" (Innovation will get the economy moving, 7 June). And he believes a more active innovation policy should address the current economic crisis. This argument is well-made but his analysis contains common misconceptions about innovation that may have unwanted, even regressive, consequences.First, Elliott cites the conclusion of the recent report by theNational Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts(Nesta) onrebalancing the economy. Of the four scenarios considered, "the fastest growth of all (3.2% a year on average) … is where innovation is boosted across all sectors of the economy, low-tech as well as hi-tech".This conclusion resonates with much other work done by Nesta, and by my colleagues in the field of innovation studies, that has argued against the traditional exclusive focus of innovation policy on hi-tech and research and development (R&amp;D) expenditure. Yet Elliott focuses exclusively on the OECD's data that compares "the impact spending on research and development has had on patents taken out in the three main patent offices of the world …[which] tend to be the ones that have a high value".Innovation is dependent on a much wider set of organisational and social capabilities that are overlooked by such measurements. The connection between investment in R&amp;D and economic growth is thus much more complex and indirect. Accordingly, policy should not automatically privilege these R&amp;D-intensive forms of innovation over low-tech or social forms that may be just as important, even economically.Secondly, we have to consider the direction of innovation and who it benefits. And focusing on R&amp;D and patents overwhelmingly benefits large corporations from developed countries with major research facilities and large intellectual property portfolios. It also shapes science since only those who can (truthfully or not) promise imminent commercial benefit get funding. The shameful evisceration of the internationally leading Horticultural Research Institute at Warwick University is a vivid illustration of this threat to national assets.Finally, given that innovation must currently deal not just with the economic crisis but also with enormous global social and environmental challenges – as recognised by theGreen New Dealplan which Elliott co-authored – these questions of direction are all the more essential. Transforming Britain into an equitable and low-carbon society will demand significantly higher levels of innovation, but in ways that include public engagement: we need a new model of democratic science and innovation.Elliott's other work shows he is no patsy for big business and finance. But focusing on hi-tech innovation alone forestalls this crucial public discussion, to the exclusion of all other stakeholders.
Apple says it sold 1.7m iPhone 4s in its first three days, a record for the newest version of its top-selling product, and the company could have sold more but for production constraints. The latest model features video calling and an updated body, although some users havereported problems with reception, apparently due to a design flaw.Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, called the iPhone 4's launch "the most successful in Apple's history" but added: "We apologise to those customers who were turned away because we did not have enough supply."Research in the US by the analysts Piper Jaffray and in the UK by AQA suggests that 77% of iPhone 4 buyers queueing outside stores on the first days were upgrading from previous models – implying that 23% of buyers were new to the platform.The record sales have come despite shortages of the smaller-capacity 16-gigabyte version of the iPhone, which is coloured white. Apple apologised last week and said it would be unable to fulfil early demand for them. By comparison, the previous iPhone 3GS model, launched a year ago, sold 1m in its first weekend.Apple is competing for market share in the smartphone arena with RIM, maker of the BlackBerry brand; Google's Android software, which is used by multiple handset makers; and Nokia, which has the lion's share of the smartphone market but which has seen its share and profitability shrink since Apple and Google entered the market in 2007.Analysts reckon Apple will be able to sell plenty more of the devices: Colin Gillis of BGC Partners in New York and Andy Hargreaves of Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Oregon, project that Apple will have sold 2m to June 26, the end of the company's fiscal quarter. Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis, had previously estimated 1m to 1.5m.Apple had a difficult time getting enough touch screens to meet demand for the device, said Ashok Kumar, an analyst at Rodman &amp; Renshaw in New York, so the early sales figures may not be an accurate reflection of demand. "It's too early to say if this is negative," said Kumar.While Apple has some production constraints, the company "has a captive audience", he said. "Demand for the iPhone 4 is not yet satiated so it just gets pushed out into subsequent quarters."The iPhone sales results follow Apple's statement last week that it sold more than 3m of its iPad tablet computing device in the first 80 days. With the iPad, introduced April 3, and the three-year-old iPhone, Apple has widened its business beyond the Macintosh computer and iPod media player.Sales of the iPhone accounted for 40% of Apple's revenue last quarter. The device has shown an upward trend in sales: the first sold 700,000 on its first weekend in June 2007, despite a high price that was later cut. In 2008, the iPhone 3G sold 1m in its first week.Apple's share price has more than doubled since the original iPhone's release on 29 June 2007, and itpassed Microsoft as the largest technology company by market valuelate in May.Some iPhone 4 customers have reported trouble with the new antenna design, which uses a stainless steel band on the outside of the casing. The phone signal drops when users cover the bottom left corner of the device with their palm.Apple responded by recommending holding the phone differently or using a case to solve the problem. Customers in the five countries began lining up days in advance to buy the device. Apple said the iPhone will be available in 88 countries by the end of September.
After the annoying success of that Boots "Here come the girls" commercial, it was perhaps inevitable that women would try to reclaim the rock-oriented music genre. U-Sing Girls Night claims to be the first all-girl music game, but is in fact a semi sequel to U-Sing U've Got Talent, neatly targeting the teen-fem market with a 30-track listing featuring only female artists. You can either buy the game on its own, or with two plug-in mics for an additional £20. If you don't already own one, these are matt black, nicely proportioned and balanced and, of course, essential to play the game properly.So, is it worth the effort? Well, if you've seen one of these games you've basically seen them all. Each track is accompanied by the "real" star performing it on video and an onscreen "karaoke-bar" that previews the lyrics and notes as they are sung. Hit them at the right time and in tune and you score points – the more accurately the better. Normally this would be it, but U-Sing does at least try to throw a few curve balls in the shape of Battle Mode, where one singer can hold a note to throw random obstacles at their opponent such as missing onscreen notes or lyrics. Obviously, you'll need both mics to use this feature.Track-wise, it's a clever mix; sprinkling old favourites like Blondie and Tina Turner with younger upstarts like Duffy, Katy Perry and the omnipresent Lady Gaga. Other tracks can be downloaded from Wi-Store for 200-300 Wii points each – which equates to a surprisingly pricey £1.40-£2.10. Whether you go for that option depends on how much you like the basic pack or, indeed, the Jukebox mode that allows you to dispense with onscreen scoring to concentrate on just singing along.If you wanted to quibble, you could say that the rhythm-scoring is a little restrictive – particularly with artists like Amy Winehouse, who rarely sings precisely on the beat, meaning you can copy her almost perfectly and still fail to score well. However, U-Sing does exactly what it sets out to; combining familiar singalong shenanigans with a decent track listing and a bumper shot of oestrogen. As a middle-aged male,  I'm hardly its target market – but, if I were, I'd probably make some noise about it.
UK top 10 video games, week ending 26 June 2010PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (–)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Xbox 360 (30)Wii (28)PS3 (24)DS (17)12 (1)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)63 (2)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)34 (3)2010 Fifa World Cup South Africa(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (39)PSP (10)Wii (7)95 (–)Naughty Bear(12+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (37)16 (–)Demon's Souls: Black Phantom Edition(16+)PS3 (100)17 (4)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)298 (–)Transformers: War For Cybertron (12+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (33)PC (2)Wii (1)19 (11)Battlefield: Bad Company 2(16+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (41)PC (15)1710 (6)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (28)PC (6)33Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2009ELSPA(UK) Ltd
Just before the weekend, Frank Shaw, one of Microsoft's top PR people posted a memo to his team which included a Rocky-style paean to the virtues of jogging uphill, but also a self-examinatory question: why is everyone looking at Apple and Google, and not at Microsoft?Thetext of the memo is at All Things Daily, but far more interesting were the statistics that he chose to include in a morale-boosting blog post.Thing is, as happens with many such statistics-wielding posts, they don't necessarily tell the full story. Just as you should not trust numbers given by an executive unless their share options and fiduciary duties to tell the truth about their company's performance depend on it, you should examine numbers like those paraded by Microsoft more closely - and look too at what has been left out.So let's look more closely at what heoffered on the Official Microsoft Blog:(I'll point out that he clearly wrote it using Word, as it's full of insane markup such as "span" links opened and then closed immediately. Seriously, guys, this is not 1995 - you've got smart programmers, you can figure out how to export HTML from a text document.)So, to work:1&bull;150,000,000Number of Windows 7 licenses sold, making Windows 7 by far the fastest growing operating system in history.[source]Analysis:absolutely true: Windows 7 has had a very successful launch into the market. Much the same sorts of statistics were bandied around for Windows Vista's launch, however; but that obscured the fact that many people and organisations were buying Vista licences anddowngradingto Windows XP. However, Windows 7 appears to be more secure and significantly more user-friendly OS than Vista.2&bull;7.1 million:Projected iPad sales for 2010. [source]&bull;58 million:Projected netbook sales in 2010. [source]&bull;355 million:Projected PC sales in 2010. [source]Analysis:hang on, Frank: didn't Bill Gates say in November 2001 when he showed off the tablet format that he was sure it would be the best-selling form factor in the US in five years? Yes he did, here's thesource. So does the focus on PC sales (which includes Apple's computers, of course) mean Microsoft has given up on tablets?3&bull;&lt;10Percentage of US netbooks running Windows in 2008. [source]&bull;96: Percentage of US netbooks running Windows in 2009. [source]Analysis:netbooks are an interesting area, and the fact that Linux made very little headway here is equally interesting. The links used for the source there point to the same Computerworld article about returns: people who bought Linux netbooks clearly couldn't understand why they couldn't run their Windows apps on them. I doubt anyone has taken their iPad back to the shop because it won't run Windows apps. That may argue to a failure of advertising on the part of the netbook manufacturers - which, given that they were competing against each other for razor-thin profits, is understandable. The shift to Windows on netbooks - though one might quibble, and suggest that Shaw is actually talking about market share, rather than the installed base running Windows - indicates that netbooks are supplementary to existing PCs. But I think we could guess that.4&bull;0: Number of paying customers running on Windows Azure in November 2009.&bull;10,000:Number of paying customers running on Windows Azure in June 2010. [source]&bull;700,000: Number of students, teachers and staff using Microsoft's cloud productivity tools in Kentucky public schools, the largest cloud deployment in the US.[source]Analysis:good numbers. Where's the comparison with the number of Google Apps customers, though, Frank? In October 2009 DailyFinance reported that it hadpassed the 2m mark.5&bull;16 millionTotal subscribers to largest 25 US daily newspapers. [source]&bull;14 MillionTotal number of Netflix subscribers. [source]&bull;23 millionTotal number of Xbox Live subscribers. [source]Analysis:this feels very apples-to-oranges, though Xbox Live is definitely one of the great successes of the Microsoft's whole push into gaming - arguably, of gaming altogether. Not mentioned: the $1bn writeoff against faulty Xbox 360 consoles which had the red ring of death; Microsoft's continued faillure to make a notable profit from its Entertainment &amp; Devices (E&amp;D) division; Nintendo's dominance of the console market with the cheaper, more reliable Wii.6&bull;9,000,000Number of customer downloads of the Office 2010 beta prior to launch, the largest Microsoft beta program in history. [source]Analysis:9m is a lot of downloads. Not shown: to what extent feedback from customers affected how the product worked in the end.7&bull;21.4 millionNumber of new Bing search users in one year. [Comscore report – requires subscription]Analysis:This sounds a lot, until you look at how long Bing has been going and how many users it has already, and the extent to which it has had to buy in some of those new users (via its now-discontinued cashback scheme, which was abandoned because it was the target of scammers). Bing is necessary opposition to Google, but it doesn't - yet? - offer a Unique Selling Point (USP) in the manner of, say,Wolfram Alpha.Oh, andSteve Ballmer said in Januarythat Bing added 11m users in 2009 - though of course that's since June 2009. Are you rounding up, Frank? At the same January point, comScore said Bing had raised its share of the search market from 10.3% to ... drum roll... 10.7%. If 11m users equates to 0.4% of the market, 21m isn't going to make much of a dent, frankly.8&bull;24%Linux Server market share in 2005. [source]&bull;33%Predicted Linux Server market share for 2007 (made in 2005). [source]&bull;21.2%Actual Linux Server market share, Q4 2009. [source]Analysis:This is a really interesting one, because it is a distortion of reality that would have Steve Jobs applauding at its subtlety. You look at those numbers and think: wow, Linux servers really aren't popular. How odd, because you'll notice that you come across Linux servers all over the place:Google,Facebook(which runsF5's Big IP, which is Linux),Yahoo,Amazon,Wordpress.com(which hosts millions of blogs),Twitter... so why such a small number? (The only major site I could quickly find that runs Windows Server iseBay.)Answer: because those "market share" figures are for Linux server licencessold. Microsoft doesn't count them - and because the market research companies can't count them - if money doesn't change hands. True, this indicates that companies selling Linux servers (principally hardware) aren't making headway against Windows Server. But what it doesn't tell you is what progress Linux is making overall on the web. For that, you need Netcraft. And that suggests that Linux has a really big market share.Certainly, Microsoft's Windows Server business is holding up well, judging by the profit figures. Butyou won't find any small web startup using it; and(Update: @QuantumWaveFunction in the comments says they do.) You won't find any big web company using it, except Microsoft (update: and, obviously, eBay - as above). I once asked Google's open source advocate, Chris Di Bona, how much it would cost Google to run on Windows Server. He laughed a long time.9&bull;8.8 millionGlobal iPhone sales in Q1 2010. [source]&bull;21.5 millionNokia smartphone sales in Q1 2010. [source]&bull;55 millionTotal smartphone sales globally in Q1 2010. [source]&bull;439 millionProjected global smartphone sales in 2014. [source]Analysis:you've surely spotted the missing one here: Windows Mobile licence sales. Come on, Frank, if you're going to wave Nokia's willy at Apple, then surely you should be doing the same with Microsoft's mobile phone numbers? No? Perhaps that's because they're declining -having been passed by Apple- and Windows Phone, the upcoming phone OS, is a huge gamble in this space; which, if Microsoft gets it wrong, may be a stumble it can't recover from, especially withAndroid now growing rapidly- even faster than Apple, in fact. (But Apple isn't that troubled, as it gets the hardware revenues plus a slice of the app revenues.)10&bull;9Number of years it took Salesforce.com to reach 1 million paid user milestone. [source]&bull;6Number of years it took Microsoft Dynamics CRM  to reach 1 million paid user milestone. [source]&bull;100%Percent chance that Salesforce.com CEO will mention Microsoft in a speech, panel, interview, or blog post.Analysis:well, at least Frank Shaw has a sense of humour with that last one. Though if we're being pernickety, we'd point out that it should read "100: Percent chance..."More to the point though, Microsoft Dynamics isn't a business that was built from the ground up, as Salesforce is; it's theresult of two acquisitions in 2001 and 2002, and the Wikipedia page (if we can trust it; there don't seem to be any stats on the Microsoft Dynamics page) says there are 300,000 businesses that use Microsoft Dynamics applications and 10,000 Microsoft Dynamics reselling partners worldwide. Given that the companies pre-existed before Microsoft bought them, is that "6 years" milestone really so impressive? And: it would be helpful, Frank, to know how many customers Microsoft Dynamics CRM has now, and how many Salesforce (now 11 years old) has.11&bull;173 millionGlobal Gmail users. [source]&bull;284 millionGlobal Yahoo! Mail users.[source]&bull;360 millionGlobal Windows Live Hotmail users.[source]&bull;299 millionActive Windows Live Messenger Accounts worldwide. [Comscore MyMetrix, WW, March 2010 - requires subscription]&bull;1Rank of Windows Live Messenger globally compared to all other instant messaging services. [Comscore MyMetrix, WW, March 2010 - requires subscription]Analysis:Ignoring the fact that Hotmail was an acquisition (as it's so far back), it might be instructive to compare like with like. Gmail started on April 1 2003. At the end of 2003,Hotmail had 145m users. So in that time, Hotmail has put on 215m users, and Gmail - from a standing start - 173m. It's good for Microsoft, but not bad either for Gmail/12&bull;$5.7 BillionApple Net income for fiscal year ending Sep 2009. [source]&bull;$6.5 BillionGoogle Net income for fiscal year ending Dec 2009. [source]&bull;$14.5 BillionMicrosoft Net Income for fiscal year ending June 2009. [source]&bull;$23.0 billionTotal Microsoft revenue, FY2000. [source]&bull;$58.4 billionTotal Microsoft revenue, FY2009. [source]Analysis:Microsoft remains the most profitable of this group of companies - that's not in doubt. What people wonder about is the extent to which it can maintain growth, and whether that growth will be robust: will PCs become outdated? Will we all start using smartphones? Will we abandon desktop apps for web-based ones, or paid-for ones for free ones? That's still unclear.Frank Shaw's efforts to boost the troops is laudable, but if all you do is look at the numbers, you're missing a big chunk of the story around Microsoft just now. It's a big and strong company - but perhaps not quite as strong as some of these numbers might make you think.
Sunshine, World Cup, Glastonbury - there were plenty of excuses not to game this weekend. Of course, we all found some time right? What limited time I had was spent between Tiger 11 (more thoughts soon), Darkstar One and International Cricket 2010.  Darkstar was probably the pick - it's no Elite but still worth it for trader/pirate-shooting fans. Anyway, what about you?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
The British video game industry is in shock. Barely two months ago,Alistair Darling planned a series of tax breaksfor the sector in his final budget. But last week, amid a range of painful austerity measures,George Osborne reversed the decision, calling Darling's plans "poorly targeted".It is a hammer blow for UK game companies, who are losing out to rivals in countries such as Canada, the US and South Korea, where generous tax subsidies are available to games employers. Richard Wilson, chief executive of the industry's trade body Tiga, called the decision "a big mistake" and was furious at what he sees a "betrayal" of promises. "Before the general election the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats both explicitly stated that they supported tax breaks for the video game industry. In fact, the Conservatives said that Labour had stolen their idea."Wilson is right to be enraged. It may be difficult for the rest of us, reeling from VAT increases and frozen child benefits, to have any sympathy for the makers of computer games. But the UK industry has, up until now, been one of our rare unmitigated success stories – a vibrant, globally respected sector, producing such famed franchises as Tomb Raider, Fable, LittleBigPlanet and Lego Star Wars. We were once the third-largest producer of games in the world, and last year the industry managed to bring £1bn in to the British economy. Cameron loves to talk about moving away from relying on the public sector and financial services – well, David, the video game business could have been part of your way out. It's export-orientated and cutting-edge, has highly skilled employees, and it's even low on carbon emissions.But the signs of strain are showing. It is expensive to make games in Britain, and expensive for foreign investors to set up and support studios here; Wilson states that between 2008 and 2009, 15% of UK development studios went out of business. Meanwhile in Quebec, the government subsidises a third of the salaries paid out to development staff amid a range of other compelling initiatives. No wonder Electronic Arts, Square Enix and Warner Bros all have new studios in Montreal. And no wonder the UK is suffering a brain drain. The period between March 2009 and 2010 saw the loss of over 700 jobs in British games development. About 300 is believed to have gone to Canada. When my brother-in-law, a game designer, was made redundant from his UK firm five years ago, he was snapped up by Ubisoft Montreal.There are no major UK-owned games publishers left, they've either gone bust or been bought out by foreign giants. The UK is now an outsourcing nation, competing for work with countries in Eastern Europe and the Far East where the workforce is cheap and skills are improving. There are growing parallels with the UK movie industry, once a major producer and maker of films, but now scraping by on limited funding. "We'll lose jobs, we'll lose influence, the UK games industry will not be world-leading," warns Wilson.UK games companies have forged creative and commercial links with other sectors, from universities, to the fashion, animation, movie and TV industries. British games veterans are helping to shape the future of interactive TV, the growth of 3D technology and the pervasive "gamification" of consumer products and services in every area of business. How long will that continue?The one bright spot in all this is Osborne's wording. His reference to the tax plans as poorly targeted, may indicate he's looking to review rather than abandon support for the industry. "I was surprised by those words," says Cliona Kirby, a partner in the tax group at technology law firm Olswang, who completed a report on video game tax credits for Ed Vaizey. "But then it's incredibly hard to introduce a targeted tax break for any one industry in the current economic climate, especially when we're looking at tax rises and large public sector cuts. But I believe the Conservatives are still committed to the industry." I'd like to agree but future initiatives may have to be spread out across the entire creative sector.Certainly though, if there is a will there to aid this industry, Tiga will unearth it. Wilson will continue to lobby for tax breaks, as will Elspa, the video game publishers' association. The coalition government could do with an economic success story to rally behind. Video games are a popular component of our leisure time — and there's only so much austerity we can take.
Phenomenally successful, but also imitated, envied and feared – Google is the technological icon of our time. But is its ubiquity and influence a force for good?Chief executive Eric Schmidthas no doubts. He tells the Guardian that Google has been instrumental in a generational shift in democratising information. "Over my lifetime, we are going to go from a small number of people having access to most of the world's information, to virtually everybody in the world having access to virtually all of the world's information," he said. "That's because of web search, cheap phones and automatic translation. That's a pretty amazing achievement and Google is part of that."Yet with Google active in so many areas, from shopping to video and translation to music, its competitors are becoming more numerous and opponents more vociferous. Schmidt admits: "We try to do everything … We don't shake off the big goals."In an interview ahead of his keynote presentation at theGuardian's Activate Summiton Thursday, he makes it clear  Google is positioning itself for the future through mobile, with the development of itsAndroidmobile system and with subsequent Google-branded handsets. He is keener to talk about this area than the battle with newspaper groupss such as News International, whose paywall model is partly based on what it considers Google's parasitical attitude to original content.The mobile battle pitches the three biggest tech firms against each other: Google, Apple and Microsoft. Analyst Gartner puts Android as the world's fourth most-popular smartphone operating system in the first quarter of 2010 – ahead of Microsoft in a market it joined less than two years ago but behindSymbian(Nokia),Research in Motion(Blackberry) and Apple."I believe that the very best engineering is now going on the mobile devices — the hardest problems and the most clever solutions," says Schmidt. "You know who the person is and where they are, and you don't get that from a desktop app." The 50,000 apps built for Android, mostly by third-party developers, cover almost every topic, but the one killer app is still Google itself, says Schmidt.Schmidt describes how our online lives are now more personal, social and mobile. "When people are awake, they are now online, and that has a lot of implications for society and for Google," he says. Google's secret, he adds (though it's not much of a secret), is that it can handle more data than its rivals because it has larger networks and data centres. Google in effect pulled its business from China earlier this year after moving the operation to Hong Kong, bypassingChina's censorship regime. Google, whose company motto is "Do no evil" had been heavily criticised for its decision to do business in China and its rethink was  welcomed by the industry. It also increased pressure on rivals who still operate there."Google doesn't necessarily do things that other companies do. We have our own set of principles that we work hard on. In the China case, the decision was made not for revenue – it was about what we were willing to deal with. We want to be a good global citizen and we believe very strongly in the openness of information."Another key push from Google is encouraging governments to open information to the public, via formats that developers can build useful public services around. One recent victory for open data campaigners in the UK wasTransport for London opening its travel data for commercial use, but the coalition government has indicated it may establish a broader public "right to data" that will have to be provided by local and national authorities.Schmidt says Google's policy is to encourage governments to open their data to the public. The California-based company has teams helping to prepare "non web-resident" archives and databases for the web. "It is no longer acceptable online for government researchers to publish documents read by 500 people in printed form," he says. "It needs to be web first.Once that happens, there are lots of interesting things you can do to correlate real-time information, if that is what is needed, or put it on a map ...  government services are fundamentally about where people are, about what is going on in my town or my school."These projects are just as relevant in developing countries, where the introduction of smarter, cheaper phones has created a powerful network. How does Google help developing countries break through the digital divide, and ensure  the opportunities of the web are open to all? "Hardware manufacturers are being incentivised to make higher volumes of lower-priced mobiles, and prices have fallen dramatically. But a young person now in pretty much any country, if they have a mobile device, can get access to pretty much all the world's information and get it translated into their own language."Arriving at Google in 2001 after a career spent in Silicon Valley, Schmidt is still excited by its possibilities. "That's a big news thing – that's equivalent to the arrival of television."For more information on the Activate Summit, visit guardian.co.uk/activate
Money and ice. Photo byArt By Steve Johnsonon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSongwriter royalty fees surge through Spotify &gt;&gt; The Local"Payments from the Swedish Performing Rights Society (Sveriges Tonsättares Internationella Musikbyrå, STIM) for music listening through Spotify have increased eightfold in one year."Paid-for dating sites are looking troubled &gt;&gt; The Big Money"And growth is what the paid online dating business is sorely lacking. Like a singles' bar on a Tuesday afternoon, it's beginning to look a little desperate inside. There's no question that as the Internet matured, many singles looking to mingle flocked to paid dating sites and made them attractive things to own and build. But as Business Week pointed out, most subscription-based sites have been battling a downward trend for a while now. And since last year, match.com's traffic has been flat at best."iPhone 4 Video Sex Chat Services Already Staffing Up &gt;&gt; Business InsiderWell, at least Steve Jobs succeeded in keeping porn off the iPhone. Oh, wait.Facebook's Video Views Are Soaring &gt;&gt; Business InsiderSoaring, but with a notable 66% upward blip in October 2009: what happened then? In general, the growth looks like, we suspect, the site growth.Will It Blend? - iPhone 4 &gt;&gt; YouTubeI'm not even sure why it's necessary to ask this question. We saw all the previous ones blend; is this meant to be made of diamond or something?Microsoft by the numbers &gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft BlogVery imposing numbers. But look carefully and spot the missing element: Windows Mobile licence sales in the "smartphones" section. Microsoft isn't mentioned in that slot at all.The great big website bonfire &gt;&gt; The Dextrous WebHary Metcalfe, independent developer: "There are serious problems with the way Government procures, develops and manages websites, and unless we change that, closing down websites will only be a short-term solution. People working in departments will always want new websites to do useful, valuable things, and they'll usually find ways to make them. To call these "vanity websites" isn't really fair. And pushing all citizen-facing content onto Directgov, NHS Choices or BusinessLink isn't really sensible. Such large platforms bring a necessary degree of inflexibility which isn't helpful to people who are trying to innovate."Twitter Helps Ex-Homeless Executive Jim Kennedy Find Job &gt;&gt; AOL NewsA happy ending. Let's hope the employer has a positive approach to tweeting.Traffic signs image database &gt;&gt; Department for TransportNeed a warning sign? We've got them.Consumer-grade camera detects cancer cells &gt;&gt; Futurity.orgUse a $400 camera, fluorescent dyes and...er.. "targeted nanoparticles" and some fibre-optic cables and voila, you have an off-the-shelf cancer diagnosis kit. If you have a very well-stocked shelf. Still, very promising for lowering health-care diagnosis costs.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The way the books industry is interacting with digital media is developing faster than many had foreseen, with the latest example an attempt to offer fans of author Iain M Banks exclusive unseen chapters, his original notes and commentary for his latest novel.Mobile software company TradeMobile has worked with Banks's publisher Little, Brown to develop the free application for the iPhone, which launches this Thursday (1 July). Readers who have bought the paperback of Banks's latest novel, Transition, will be able to scan a unique barcode on their edition with their iPhone, and companion features for the novel will be transmitted to their screen.A best-selling author, the publishers also hope the new app may entice readers uninitiated into his complicated universe of difference worlds and civilisations. "For something as complicated as Transition it makes sense," said Banks. "It's very much like a DVD extras."The app also includes character biographies; after a "slightly anguished" email from his German translator, Banks realised that a character called Bisquitine might need her language and cultural references explaining."She appears toward the end of the novel and has an important part to play, and a very eccentric way of expressing herself," says the author. "It took half a day to write and three to explain."Kirk Bowe at TradeMobile says: "You're able to tap in a page number and get back all the characters, scenes and locations which may be relevant to that page."Beyond the iPhoneTradeMobile is currently in talks with Little, Brown about extending the application to other handsets as well as the iPhone. "This helps people who aren't particularly familiar with an author, especially an author like Iain whom they might not have approached before ... it will fill in the blanks that may sometimes scare people away."In March the number of books available as iPhone apps passed the number of gamesfor the first time. "It was a tipping point," says digital editor Dan Franklin at rival publisher Canongate. "The plan is now to be creating something you can only experience digitally" — something which, he admits, defies the instincts of a publisher. "It's our next challenge [but] it's difficult," he says.TradeMobile's Bowe feels the "companion" approach works particularly well for fiction. "Tolkien for example would be amazing," he says. "Really for authors with rich, detailed characters and locations it's great."Banks agrees. "It works well for science fiction, especially when you have a universe or place you go back to. These places gradually build up."It's there if you want it – and that's the beauty of it, it's an opt-in thing. It's not being forced down your neck; if you just want the story, you can have it," says the author. "We'll see how it does with the science-fiction stuff – if it's successful it's the obvious thing to do to extend it to my other novels."Added valueLittle, Brown is part of the UK's largest publishing conglomerate, Hachette UK, which has already launched a similar app for popular crime novelist Martina Cole, and has apps in development for authors including Stephenie Meyer, Patrick Holford and Ian Rankin."Anyone can replicate the experience of reading a physical book in an app. Our feeling is that just isn't very exciting," says head of digital George Walkley. "With Iain Banks and Martina Cole we've tried to provide added value and extra material for authors who have very passionate followings."At Canongate, Franklin is impressed with Little, Brown's new app. "What is cool is that they're getting it to directly interact with a print edition," he says. "It's very clever and something we're looking to do."Canongate is no slouch in the digital department itself, however, launching a (paid-for) enhanced iPhone app for Nick Cave's novel The Death of Bunny Munro in September, complete with videos of Cave and an audio version synched to the text of the book, scored by Cave himself. The app won second place in MediaGuardian's own innovation awards, the Megas, earlier this year. And in May, it brought out an enhanced app for David Eagleman's short story collection Sum: Tales from the Afterlives, featuring videos of Eagleman discussing the book, and a synched audio version read by the likes of Jarvis Cocker, Stephen Fry and Noel Fielding.Like Walkley, Eagleman believes it is important for an app to be more than just an electronic version of a book. "An electronic version of a book merely grants portability. But a thoughtful app can open new inroads to explore the material, as well as ways to keep the material updated and fresh," he says."By having the option to explore a book beyond the original text — by dint of videos, living links, and so on — it becomes a living, breathing, updating organism, just like the rest of our technology."Banks adds: "Everyone's feeling around – no one knows what's going to work. It's quite a nervous time to be a publisher. They're trying to do what they can to keep books interesting. We will just see how it goes."Eagleman agrees. "We're at an exploratory period now, and no one knows where it's going. If you imagine yourself 100 years from now looking back, it's clear that apps are in their infancy and just learning how to crawl. Once they become adults, they might offer such a different experience of the material that they will speciate into an entirely different storytelling animal — as has happened, for example, with movies."
Price  £58,000MPG  37.2Top speed 155mphIt's dark. It's late. You are feeling sleeeeepy. Your head feels heavy. Your eyes are beginning to clo…Wake up for goodness sake! You are supposed to be driving, not nodding off. Turn up the music, open the windows, pinch yourself. That's better. But before long, the motorway's blinking Catseyes will be hypnotising you again, and the whole awful head-jerking battle to stay awake on the road will start once more.Tiredness Kills, yet we have all been guilty of pressing on into the night – and a perilous future. Well, if you are at the wheel of the new Mercedes-Benz S-Class, you won't be doing it again. The winner, for the fourth year running, ofWhat Car?'s prestigious "Luxury Car of the Year" award is also contender for the safest, smartest and most wide-awake car on the road.It is 60 years since the Mercedes-Benz 220 – the originator of today's S-Class – appeared on our streets. Since then, each generation of the German flagship car has raised the bar in terms of safety, luxury, performance and technological ability. In its class, the S-Class is simply unbeatable.  It is scholarship material; thevictor ludorum;an unbearable swot. It has sold more than 3.3m models around the globe and is easily the top-selling luxury saloon in the world. Fortunately, we drivers don't have to compete against it (it would win every time) because it is on our side. All we have to do is sign that cheque and the S-Class will lay down its life for you.Over the years the car has pioneered everything from anti-lock brakes to airbags, catalytic converters to electronic stability programmes. The latest feather in its cap has the rather dull name of Attention Assist. But this programme could do more for road safety than any development since the seatbelt. Almost 25% of serious road accidents are caused by drowsiness – making sleeping at the wheel an even bigger threat than drink driving.So how does Attention Assist work? In essence, it's like inviting Big Brother to belt himself into the passenger seat so he can keep an eye on your every move and then advise you in firm tones what to do next.During the first few minutes of every journey you make, the car's computer generates a profile of your driving behaviour. For the rest of  that journey it then compares this representation continuously with data it collects from 70 monitors around the car – paid-up sneaks, if you like. These track your speed, acceleration, erratic steering (just before a driver drifts off, he or she will correct numerous tiny steering errors), and indicator and pedal use. The monitors note journey length, time of day and the music you are listening to – flick from Radio 4 to Kerrang! and alarm bells will ring (not quite, but it gives you an idea of the forensic detail the computer is assimilating). Also taken into account are the day's driving conditions including wind direction, road surface and whether it is raining, snowing, hailing or not.The key for Attention Assist is to detect the crucial moment – what Mercedes rather poetically calls "the floating transition" – when you slip from alertness to drowsiness. And when you do, Big Brother wakes you up with an unpleasant high-pitched warning sound which jerks you into consciousness. The digital dashboard then goes blank and in large capital letters the unequivocal message "ATTENTION ASSIST. Break!" flashes on and off until you pull over and fill yourself with espresso…  And, you're back in the room!Clunk click: crash-test dummiesIt is 60 years since "Sierra Sam", the world's first crash-test dummy, was strapped into an ejector seat on a 600mph rocket-propelled sled and fired into the desert to test the efficacy of a pilot-restraint harness. Things have moved on since Sam's day, and nowhere more so than Volvo's state-of-the-art crash laboratory in Torslanda, Sweden. This month the centre celebrates its 10th birthday and the 100 dummies who live and work there are in a party mood. But the big question is: who will have the honour of driving the 3,000th test car at 75mph into the centre's own 850-tonne concrete block?Dream ride: Bennetts biker competitionHave you ever had the urge to ride up Route 66, own a Harley Davidson, or simply be decked out in the very best biking leathers? Bennetts, the UK's No 1 for bike insurance, is offering bikers across the country the chance to have their dreams fulfilled. Bennetts Biker Dreams will award £80,000 worth of prizes to the most deserving applicants in celebration of its 80th birthday. Entries to the campaign will be accepted until 30 September 2010. To enter and for full details visitbennetts.co.uk/dreams.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
For me, the most arresting image of the week was not the photograph of General Stanley McChrystal, looking drawn and ascetic in combat fatigues, en route to his dismissal by his commander-in-chief, but a map of central London showing the underground system. On each line can be seen little yellow blobs. Blink and you discover that each blob has moved a fraction. You can see it for yourself attraintimes.org.uk:81/map/tube/.The yellow blobs are, of course, tube trains. The fact that they're moving across the map indicates that this is, as near as dammit, real-time information about their positions on the network. And it's public data: you can sit at your computer in San Francisco or Accra and know how the trains on the Central line are doing just now.How you react to this provides a litmus test for determining where you are on the technology spectrum. If you're of a geekish disposition, then what Matthew Somerville and a couple of his friends managed to do in a few hours with the train data and the application programming interface (API) provided byTransport for Londonwill seem like a thing of beauty and a joy for ever.If you're a non-technical person, then Mr Somerville's live map will strike you as an example of leading-edge uselessness: undoubtedly clever, but of no practical use to you and me. Of course it's important that Transport for London knows where their trains are at any given moment, but it's of little interest to anyone else.If you're a securocrat, ie an employee of the UK's vast security establishment, then Mr Somerville's map will give you the heebie-jeebies. After all, you will argue, Osama bin Laden may be sitting in his cave in Pakistan at this very moment, monitoring the trains on the Central line on his iPad. And so indeed he might. The fact that being able to do this would be significantly less useful than having some devout followers in actual tube stations will not bother you unduly, because being a securocrat essentially means viewing the entire world and everything in it as a possible threat to national security.If on the other hand, you believe that digital technology has the potential to refresh democratic institutions, then you will see the live tube map as a significant development. This is not because Transport for London is a democratic institution but because it shows what can be done when data is released to the public in a way that makes it not just usefultocivil society, but usablebyit. The last few years have seen a vigorous campaign – led by our sister-paper, theGuardian, by the way – to persuade public authorities to provide public access to the data that they routinely collect and store in vast databases. After all, so the slogan goes, "Free Our Data" – we paid for it, so we should be able to see it.The Open Data campaign has begun to yield significant results – boosted by Barack Obama's presidency and his administration's commitment to making government data available on the internet. Over here, the wall of official reticence has begun to wilt – as evidenced, for example, by the decision, earlier this month, to make the data in the Treasury's colossal Combined Online Information System (Coins) available online.For centuries, governments have known that knowledge is power. Privileged official access to information has been one of the tools that politicians have deployed to keep electorates in check. If you doubt that, then just look at the official resistance over decades to proposals for Freedom of Information legislation in this country. Or peruse the ferocity with which Speaker Martin and his minions fought to prevent the release of data on MPs' expenses in any usable form. So the fact that the Treasury has finally opened its database is a real breakthrough.But mere release of data is only half a revolution. This stuff doesn't come in dribs and drabs, like responses to FoI requests; it comes in digital avalanches which can overwhelm us. We need to be able to deploy software tools which can analyse, visualise, summarise and extract from the avalanche the information that we, as citizens, need.So in addition to releasing the data, the government also has to release the APIs – the programming hooks that are needed to enable external software to pull data from official databases so that they can do the analysis. Without the APIs we will be drowing in data and unable to say what it means.So hurrah for Transport for London, which not only granted access to its dynamic database of train movements, but also provided the hooks that enabled Matthew Somerville to add a bit of "maths and magic" to create his live tube map. And may it be the first of many such things.• This article was amended on 28 June 2010. The original referred to "It's Our Data". This has been corrected.
For several years now, Lego games have been building enchanting worlds from a combination of the eponymous plastic bricks, celluloid storylines and glowing pixels. In doing so, developer Traveller's Tales has guided the film franchises ofBatman,Indiana JonesandStar Warsthrough an impressive toybox and, while the series has suffered at times from a lack of fresh ideas, on the whole the quality bar has remained high.Now, the world of the first four Harry Potter books and films has undergone the same treatment – familiar locales and characters from the schoolboy wizard's adventures recreated from virtual Lego. For those who've never played a Lego game, the experience will be initially thrilling. Assuming control of one of a huge cast of plastic interpretations of the Harry Pottercast, there's the opportunity to skip and bumble through some impressively realised scenes, solving puzzles and outwitting foes.As ever, the emphasis is on accessibility, with little punishment for player error. In short, that means things are very easy indeed; something perfect for the families and children that are this title's key target demographic, but a little underwhelming for the older Lego fan who remembers stepping on a brick in the night long before Harry Potter made his way from JK Rowling's pen to paper.Equally, while there's plenty to serve Potter aficionados, such as lessons in broom flying, for those more interested in the gameplay – unless you are a Lego game virgin – things will feel a little basic (though the co-operative multiplayer stands out as a highlight).This combination of beloved fictional world, famous toy and video game is endearing, but sometimes the total feels a little less than the sum of its parts. Still, for families with a love for Harry's adventures, there's plenty here at which to raise a wand, and a smile.
As our cousins stateside make a far better fist of our national sport in South Africa, 505 Games offers an unlikely tonic withBackbreaker, a digitised take on their interpretation of football – you know, the one played with the ball almost entirely in the hand.Backbreakeraffectionately embraces the physicality of gridiron, with bone-crunching tackles not only encouraged but essential. The real question, however, is whether the title can lure fans away from EA's superbJohn Maddenfranchise; it's a challenge not to be underestimated.Dispensing withMadden's complex team-simulation approach,Backbreakerlimits your control to one player per down. While not quite taking a point-of-view perspective from behind the face mask, the camera swings behind the action as you marshal your team as quarterback and playmaker or crash through your opponent's guard as linebacker. It makes for fast-paced gameplay, particularly in offence when running with the ball, where you can shoot for gaps in your opponent's defence. A well-timed tackle is also enormously satisfying although, unlike inMaddenwhere you can quickly change player, inBackbreakerit is easy to find yourself 20 yards off the ball.Maddenfans may find this frustratingly one-dimensional, but it's undeniably fun and it'll keep the senior franchise's developers on their toes.
With sequels to established franchises dominating the software line-up, this year'sElectronic Entertainment Expowas more notable for the hardware on show. And although it had been revealed at the previous year's briefing, Microsoft'sKinectmotion camera, a hardware add-on that allows completely controller-free gaming – the player utilising their whole body to manipulate the action on screen took centre stage this year, with details emerging of a November launch and the software set to accompany the peripheral's release. There is currently no confirmation of a price, but early estimates suggest somewhere around the £100 mark; while the new, smaller, quieter Xbox 360 console (set for launch in July) will undoubtedly be bundled with Kinect at a tempting price.Kinect is surprisingly responsive and accurate. The device works by utilising skeletal-mapping technology to track the movement of the player in 3D space, as well as responding to voice commands. As with any motion-sensing gaming, there are a few foibles: particularly noticeable were the struggles with steering in knockabout racing gameJoy Ride, though more exaggerated motions, with hands held further apart, yielded better results. That aside, the responsiveness was impressive, with only a very slight delay between the actions of a player and their on-screen avatar.As for the software, it's clear the kind of audience Microsoft is targeting. Of the 15 launch titles,Kinect Sportsis the most obvious Wii equivalent, even featuring a bowling game, though it was a clear highlight of the software shown, with surprisingly nuanced controls. Hurdling required an energetic, exaggerated running style and felt a little more capricious, but no less entertaining.Indeed, Kinect Adventures asked players to duck, dodge and leap through its entertaining obstacle courses, while the excellentDance Central,fromRock Bandcreator Harmonix, saw even the cynical abandoning dignity to throw shapes to Lady Gaga and Bell Biv DeVoe. The cuteKinectimalswas perhaps best suited to a younger audience, though its visual charm was impossible to deny.It's understandable that core gamers remain unconvinced, particularly given Microsoft's firm focus on titles for the expanded audience it hopes to woo, though there are a number of popular franchises which promise Kinect functionality, such asFableandForza Motorsport. Creative director Kudo Tsunoda likens the Kinect experience to the inclusive and social arcade culture of the 1980s and 90s, citing the importance of audience participation, and the device's literal interpretation of "jump in, jump out" co-operative play. So perhaps it shouldn't be too big a surprise that Microsoft's briefing chose to ignore the Kinect-compatibleChild of Eden, the thrilling sequel to psychedelic hardcore favouriteRez. Microsoft's biggest obstacle now is in convincing a mainstream audience to, as its motto says, "jump in"; to persuade consumers that controller-free gaming is genuinely the next step up from Wii. If it can clear that hurdle, there's every chance this Christmas could see people Kinect with their family and friends in an entirely new way.
Want to know the must-have item for owners of the new iPhone 4? A bit of duct tape – or a dab of nail polish.The reason: despite Steve Jobs's describing the positioning of the antennae which pick up the mobile signal on the outside of the phone, rather than the inside, as "brilliant engineering", a number of users have discovered that if it isheld from the bottom, the signal strength drops off dramatically– because their skin changes the electrical properties of the antennae.Now, Jobs has informally – and Apple formally – acknowledged the issue: in email replies to owners of the new phones complaining about the problem, Jobs gave a simple response. "Don't hold it that way," he told one.Apple's slightly longer statement notes that: "Gripping any phone will result in some attenuation of its antenna performance with certain places being worse than others  … this is a fact of life for every wireless phone. If you ever experience this on your iPhone 4, avoid gripping it in the lower left corner in a way that covers both sides of the black strip in the metal band, or simply use one of many available cases."Some users have found tape or nail polish on the corner is a solution.With the iPhone 4 having been a sellout in many stores – and Vodafone emailing customers whom it promised supplies to tell them that it cannot satisfy them – the problems are an embarrassment for Apple, which had to overcome early problems with wireless reception on its tablet-style computer, the iPad, when that was launched in May.Dozens of people have posted videos on YouTube showing how the signal reception for 3G voice and data networks falls off when it is held so that the hand touches the antenna parts on the bottom of the phone. Companies selling silicone casing for the iPhone 4 report that they have already been busier, as word of the problem has spread, than they were for last year's release of the iPhone 3GS.Professor Joe McGeehan, head of the Centre for Communications Research at the University of Bristol, and an expert in mobile antenna technology, said: "The hand does have a de-tuning effect on the antenna of any mobile phone: it changes the frequency that it responds to due to capacitative effects. How much it affects it depends on the materials surrounding it. If previous iPhones didn't have this problem, then you have to ask: what's changed, and might that be causing it?"Antenna expert Spencer Webbsaidall mobile phones house the antenna in the bottom of the phone, to minimise the radio output near the head so that the phone will pass safety testing by the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC). "The iPhone 4 has two symmetrical slots in the stainless frame," Webb wrote. "If you short these slots, or cover them with your hand, the antenna performance will suffer. There is no way around this, it's a design compromise that is forced by the requirements of the FCC, AT&amp;T, Apple's marketing department and Apple's industrial designers, to name a few." He said he had upgraded to the new iPhone, despite the concerns. "I voted with my dollars," he said. "Sometimes an antenna that's not great, but good enough, is good enough."Apple offers a solution: "bumpers" which fits around the edge of the phone. But at £29, they are too pricey for many to consider – and have not pleased people who think their phone should work correctly out of the box.
Rock That FontWe all know the stories behind classic album covers for the likes of Nirvana's Nevermind or the Clash's London Calling, but usually our curiosity begins and ends with the image. Here, the obsession is with the fonts selected by bands, and what choosing Helvetica Condensed over Times New Roman says about an artist. The right font sends out the right message: the designer of theBlack Keys' Brotherswould know that the Beach Boys used the same type on Pet Sounds, while Vampire Weekend's most recent cover font is the same as that which Stanley Kubrick insisted on for his movies. Meanwhile, we learn thatPeter Saville created his own unique lettering for his iconic Joy Division sleeves.Gypsy CreamsArmed with a scanner and a box of women's magazines from the late-60s, Tanya Jones brings us the print ads of yesteryear alongside her brilliantly entertaining commentary and comments from followers. Rather than wallow in nostalgia, she treats the ads as bizarre communications from a lost dimension. Advertising wasn't as sophisticated as it is today, but neither it seems were people's bullshit detectors (did you knowDoublemint chewing gum helps tone facial muscles?). They were, however, quite experimental.Heinz salad cream apparently "isn't just for salads"; the copywriters suggested we tried it with bacon and sliced apple. Meanwhile Super Wate-On powder advertised itself with the question: "Left out of seaside fun because you're too skinny?"Blog roll: GraffitiFat CapPortal with free street art mags, videos including the IKS crew in action and the graffiti artist inspired by Gustav Klimt and Hugh Hefner.GraffLondonUnseen tube train redecoration, a feud with Banksy, forums and the occasional music promo from leading London site.Art Of The StateBanksy location map and masses of pics of famous walls, plus burnt-out cars and old punk bands.Secret WarsLive art championships as graffiti artists from across Britain and the world battle for supremacy.Dr.DNaughty chap who enjoys doctoring the occasional billboard.AlbotasExcellent blog with daily graffiti snaps including ingenious street art inspired by Back To The Future, Charlie Brown and The Simpsons.What we learned on the web this weekSome new logo ideas for BPKITT is the coolest anthropomorphic carThe greatest band name of all timeWhere to watch a street recreation of France v West Germany at the 1982 World CupMichael Stipe was a big Rocky Horror fanGiraffes are rudeAmericans are sooo not funnyWhere to have a Twitter ego warSnoop Dogg has a thing for Sookie StockhouseOne trillion midges are on the loose in Scotland
E3, the Electronic Entertainment Expo, is the gamer's equivalent of a trip round Willy Wonka's chocolate factory, where huge announcements, blockbuster sequels and the most anticipated upcoming releases are revealed to the massed gaming media. This year's big news was about 3D gaming and Sony and Microsoft's slightly forlorn-looking attempts to leap aboard the Wii's joypad-free bandwagon.HARDWAREPlayStation 3DOut nowSony's release of its 3D TV range was accompanied by four free 3D games: hover racerWipEout HD, the star of the batch; modestly entertaining shooterSuper Stardust HD; a demo ofMotorstorm: Pacific RiftandPAIN's ragdoll-hurling action more akin to an iPhone game. UpcomingKillzone 3andLittleBigPlanet 2look more promising.Nintendo 3DSEarly 2011Nintendo's handheld system that renders 3D without silly glasses looks like a bigger leap. It comes with two cameras so you can take slightly fuzzy 3D images with a slider to adjust the effect's strength. With Metal Gear Solid and Resident Evil titles in development, it's a highly desirable object.PlayStation Move15 SepThe Wii opened up games to those who were never comfortable with joypads. Four years on and both Xbox and PlayStation 3 are muscling in on the market for gamers who would never identify themselves as such. Resembling Wii-remotes with coloured ping-pong balls on top, Sony's Move controllers allow greater accuracy in detecting movement and rotation.Xbox 360 Kinect4 NovMicrosoft's Kinect is a system that does away with controllers entirely, instead using Israeli military technology to scan players, detecting motions as subtle as a smile or a frown. Impressive, although the slight delay between movements and onscreen effect is a concern.GAMESEpic MickeyWii, autumnIt's been years since the emergence of a Mickey Mouse game of any note, but this promises a fresh take on Disney's original character. Made by Warren Spector, the man behind the wonderful and disturbingSystem Shockand the wildly inventiveDeus Ex, Epic Mickey looks surprisingly dark.Halo: ReachXbox 360, 14 SepAfter a tantalising glimpse through its online multiplayer beta test in the spring, Reach promises to be superb, if not a dramatic departure from its several forebears. Its pedigree and the sheer volume of money invested in its development are reasons to expect Reach to be very exciting.The Last GuardianPlayStation 3, TBA 2010Ico, whose critical acclaim and sleeper hit status were never matched by its sales, is still one of the most talked-about games of the last decade. This, its second sequel, promises the same ethereal atmosphere and emotional punch in an entirely new setting.BulletstormPC, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, early 2011Trapped on a paradise planet infested with flesh-eating mutants and carnivorous plants, your job is to shoot things until they become incapable of feasting on your entrails.Killzone 3PlayStation 3, Feb 2011The Helghast, with their Nazi-style regalia and searing red eyes, make a pretty unsympathetic enemy, even when you're in the process of invading their home planet. This third instalment brings yet more high-resolution thrills, this time spiced up with 3D if you've got the right TV.Gears Of War 3Xbox 360, out April 2011Microsoft's other big-budget shooting franchise eschews Halo's niceties in favour of relentless full-on firefights undertaken by heavily armed and muscled space marines.
Fiat Punto Evo Multiair GP 1.4Price£14,085Top speed115mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.8 secondsAverage consumption49.6mpgCO2 emissions134g/kmEco rating7/10Bound forsixth gearIn a wordSpiritedHave you ever asked yourself what "spirito di punto" actually means? Not its literal meaning, of course, which is obvious to even the most English of linguists, but its "brand" meaning, if&nbsp;you like. The Fiat Punto ads that first featured the phrase toyed with preconceptions about the different driving habits and interests of males and females, but surely no one outside a media studies course would argue that the marketing line was intended as a postmodern critique of consumer sexism.It might be said that the words evoke a sense of liberation, but then&nbsp;it's hard to think of a more constricting idea than the "spirit of&nbsp;point". The point is it's pointless, although very effectively pointless. They sound good, the words, yet they are best left unexamined.And it's perhaps with the same indifference to meaning that one can fully appreciate Fiat's claims for the Punto Evo, which the company insists "redefines the limits of style". Oh come off it, is the reflex rational response, it's a Punto, a&nbsp;little hatchback that looks remarkably like any other little hatchback, not least the Grand Punto, which it replaces. It's like saying Hull City redefine the limits of football.But, hey, that's the spirito di punto. And in that spirito we set out for the depths of Gloucestershire, two adults, a child and three bags. The general rule with small cars is that they're sprightly around town but damp squibs on the motorway. For better or worse, the Punto Evo Multiair appears to have achieved the opposite.In theory, the Multiair engine means that you can accelerate without having to change down in gears. And you can, but it's not so impressive when you accelerate from a&nbsp;low gear. The response in first, second and third seems sluggish and underpowered. However, the car magically improves with each shift of the gear upwards. So in sixth gear – and how many three-door superminis boast a sixth gear? – you're in danger of attracting a hot pursuit.It's a slightly deceptive, disorienting experience. One moment you're in the slow lane, flooring it in fourth and struggling to hit 60, the next you're in the outside lane in sixth, almost effortlessly overtaking dozing Audis, BMWs and, in one delicious maneouvre, a Porsche.At such moments, if it wasn't for the strong physical intimation that the Evo is a plaything of a strong wind, you'd wonder why anyone with a small family bothers with a&nbsp;big car. As for the much vaunted style, the limits appear to be a&nbsp;honeycomb-patterned front grille (in the GP versions) and discreet little rear lights. Aston Martin, eat your crankshaft out, and Bentley, go hide your badge in shame.The Punto Evo redefines not style but performance. It's a small car that punches above its weight, but it may struggle in its own division.
Android is getting too big to ignore. Photo bymathrockon Flickr.Some rights reservedBelow is a transcript (taken with shorthand, contemporaneously) of a conference call with Eric Schmidt, chief executive of Google, on 23 June. There may be some inaccuracies. After that, there is an analysis of what Schmidt said - and where the mobile market is.Also on the conference call were journalists from Germany, the UK and Brazil. I won't indicate here who asked what questions; see if you can work it out.Call beginsEric Schmidt:Verizon is just announcing the Droid X made by Motorola, its fourth Android phone. We have seen a tremendous increase in the adoption of Android. This is one of the best phones ever made, on the very fastest network.We've now got 160,000 new users per day. That's a 60% increase per month [compared to the 100,000 figure per day that was given at the Google I/O conference in May]. If you get an increase like that going on, well, I've done the maths, and it looks like an incredible trajectory.[That equates to 58m per month, a 60% increase month-on-month would mean that by the end of the year there would be about 16m Android phones being activated every day, or 480m per month - which doesn't really sounds feasible. Obviously it is going to tail off or even slow down at some stage.]Counting the number of apps, there are 65,000, compared to 50,000 a month ago. So the growth is accelerating. OK, questions?Q:How large is Android in the US market and European market compared to the iPhone, because it hasn't done too well in Europe?ES:I prefer not to talk about the iPhone as a competitor. The growth rate is very very strong, but I don't think it's really appropriate to make claims about market share.Q:What's driving that acceleration?ES:having multiple hardware partners - LG, Samsung, HTC, Motorola. The thing is it's a totally open platorm, so open that the source is available too. Any application can run on Android as long as it doesn't damage the network.Q:Android is lagging in Europe compared to the US - why do you think that is?ES:I don't know that it's lagging; I would have to look at the numbers. It was launched first in the US but we have enough European partners. The Droid phone was a big driver.Q:Have you made any contacts with Nokia to discuss Android on Nokia?ES:We have talked to everybody... I don't want to talk about any specific companies. [A rather odd response which tailed off amid expectation.]Q:What sort of revenues are you seeing from Android?ES:We make zero from it. Because it's free. (Q:but you get advertising revenue from it...) We don't break out what our mobile advertising revenues are... [in general] we make money when people have powerful broadband devices so we  invest in Android so that people can invest in it. But our mobile revenue growth is very very quick.We know that there will be a great deal of money made in ads from the mobile industry.Q:Do you think Android can become for mobile what Windows was for the PC?ES:well, the thing about Android is that anybody can use it.. Android in many ways is better than Windows because it's free, rather than Windows which had an ever-increasing price point. So anybody can build on Android, and it's free.Also Android has GPS and a full media stack[possibly misheard], so it can do things that even the ordinary PC doesn't have and might never have.Q:Who is your biggest competitor in this fight - Apple, Nokia, who?ES:I try to spend time not focussing on those questions. Nokia has the largest market share, certainly. Apple, I was a proud board member there, I respect them. Nokia and Apple are both highly organised to be competitive.Q:Isn't a problem with Android that of fragmentation of the platform - that some handsets can't update from earlier versions either because of the networks or the phones, so people are stuck on older versions which means you're trying to cope with a broad range of versions?ES:That's a very good question. The first thing to say is that the networks are quite interoperable. Some phones shipped a year ago can't be upgraded. But most can be, to 2.2, though it might take some months to roll out.The argument about fragmentation has been used by competitors of open source for years. But we agree to support compatibility at the platform level. It's important to understand this. Android apps will work on the current generation; any Android app written for one version will run on any phone with that version. That prevents fragmentation. Apps are written on a per-OS basis. But of course not every app written for any version will run on every version of Android - otherwise the platform couldn't evolve.Q:A team at Larva Labs estimated that while Apple has paid developers $1bn from App Store revenues, the comparable figure for the Android Marketplace is about $200m. Is enough money going to developers to make Android attractive?ES:Well, I haven't seen those figures, so I can't talk to them. The thing is, developers go where the volume is. That's the most important lesson from platform economics. It's about scale and volume. It's very important that developers get to a scale where they can see the ability to get to a very large audience. We believe we have done so.Q:We've seen other companies talking about Android-based tablets - does Google intend to produce a tablet running Android?ES:We've seen a number of announcements from other companies about tablets running Android. It's a reasonably obvious product extension that people have announced. We haven't announced any form of Google tablet.[end of interview]Analysis:the timing of this announcement - on 23 June, just as Apple's iPhone 4 was reaching its first customers - was clearly aimed at taking some of the shine off the iPhone announcement by implying that even if Apple activates 1m iPhones in the first sales burst, Android will almost match that in a working week. (Do the maths.)That of course leaves out all sorts of maybes, gotchas and provisionals: are the activation figures volatile? What's the churn like - how many of the activations are new customers, and how many are renewing customers? An interesting calculation from theanalysts Piper Jaffray, via Fortunesuggests that (in the US, at least) 77% of iPhone 4 customers were existing iPhone users.You can look at that two ways: what an enormous number of renewals! Or you could look at it from the other end: wow, Apple grew its customer base for first-day iPhones by 23% - among people who had to wait in enormously long lines. What's the last consumer product you recall people queueing through the day for? I recall how Microsoft managed the hype machine perfectly for Windows 95, withmidnight store openings; rather less so for every subsequent OS release. TheXbox 360 got some dedicated queuers too.But in truth, Schmidt really isn't looking at iPhone sales; he's not trying here to court buyers dithering between iPhone and Android. This was actually a piece of dog-whistle PR aimed at mobile developers.Unfamiliar with dog-whistle PR? It's likedog-whistle politics: aimed at a particular group, couched in terms which don't say a lot to the average person, but which zero in on that target group and make them sit up. The people who Schmidt wanted to hear this latest bit of PR are mobile developers. He wants them to multiply 160,000 by 5 (working days - perhaps 6), and then by 4, to reach about 4m Android phones being activated per month, and to get them to think that this is a really good platform to be building for.That's the point of his "platform economics" answer. Google can only capitalise on mobile advertising once it gets Android to a specific market share. It seems like that it has already crossed it, since it's by all accounts bigger than Apple in smartphone share in the US (and may even be challenging RIM, though still some way behind Nokia). What the numbers are like for Europe - well, we'll have to wait a couple of weeks for the end of the quarter for all those numbers.The interesting challenge though will be whether the Android platform will indeed become the Windows of mobile. That could cut both ways: sure, the handset makers don't have to pay a levy to use Android (as PC makers do to Microsoft). But when they go to the networks (who are the equivalent, in this scenario, of PC purchasers) they may find that they're forced to bid down, and that their margins get eroded as more rivals pile into the market.Apple, meanwhile, can be entirely happy with not having the lion's share of the market, yet making a colossal profit from both the hardware sales (because nobody else can make an iPhone) and the app sales. It does exactly the same in the computer market: it has about 5% market share worldwide, yet makes a stonking profit on every computer sold. PC manufacturers, by contrast, have long since reached the point where price-cutting to win share simply opens a vein in their profits.Android could thus win - and for Nokia, the idea of using Android must look ever more enticing, since it would cut costs and let it use its heft with the networks to win back share - and yet the hardware makers would lose. That's a great danger - not imminent, but it exists - for Schmidt, Android and Google. By creating a flourishing ecosystem of app developers, Android could make life better for the handset makers.Oh, and the company we haven't mentioned here at all, except in passing? Microsoft. If you look at what the Android and iPhone platforms are now doing, you have to ask how on earth Windows Phone - which will have a paid-for licence - is ever going to attract any handset makers. Schmidt's Android dog whistle might be loud for iPhone developers annoyed at the company's capricious treatment of their apps, but it must be loudest for developers considering whether the shrinking, forwards-incompatible pool of Windows Mobile phones is really worth bothering with.Between the handset makers pondering the economics of paying for a Windows Phone licence, and developers wondering why they should write code for a platform, Windows Phone, that's presently activating zero phones a day - because it hasn't been released - versus one doing 160,000 per day, Microsoft has a real problem with Windows Phone. Apple can survive Android because it has that 77% base of loyal customers. Android has an expanding customer base.But what on earth has Microsoft got?* I asked the questions about fragmentation and Larva Labs.
The internet could soon have its own red light district after the ".xxx" suffix was approved – though pornography companies are not keen to use it.Icann, the organisation which determines what "top-level domains" (TLDs) such as .com or .uk can be added to the internet announced today that it will begin the process of registering .xxx by making checks on ICM Registry, the company that wants to run the domain and sell registrations.It marks the closing stages of a 10-year battle by ICM Registry, now run by the British internet entrepreneur Stuart Lawley, to get the .xxx domain set up so that legal pornography sites can be found in a single grouping.Yet pornography is already plentiful online. One of the most valuable domains in the early days was sex.com, which was theobject of a bitter battlein which rivals battled it out to own what was seen as a honeypot for surfers. In 2007 porn.com was sold for $12m.But many pornography companies are unhappy with the idea of a dedicated space online because they expect that as soon as .xxx is implemented, conservative members of the US Congress will lobby to make any sex-related website re-register there and remove itself from other domains such as .com or .org.That would mean that sex sites could be more easily filtered out from web searches, and lower their revenues. Free speech advocates also worry that sites about topics seen by US conservatives as controversial, such as homosexuality, might also be forced to use the .xxx suffix.Icann acknowledged it had made mistakes in reversing its decision to accept ICM Registry's proposal three years ago under pressure from the Bush administration. Icann also said the proposal had been rejected because it lacked the backing of the pornography industry.Lawley, who insists that child pornography will be banned in the domain space, thought the new address could easily attract at least 500,000 sites making it after ".mobi" the second biggest top-level domain name with a specific sponsor registrar.The .mobi TLD, set up in 2005, was sponsored by a range of companies, including Google and Nokia, to create sites for browsing with mobile phones.But where the .mobi TLD had commercial sponsors, the .xxx domain is notable for only having ICM Registry, which stands to benefit from every domain name it sells. Lawley says he expects to make $30m (£20m) a year in revenue by selling each .xxx site for $60, and pledges to donate $10 from each sale to child protection initiatives.
The underdog Danish voiceover IP (VoIP) company Vopium has received a large cash injection from a prominent Indian telecommunications investor and has declared it is gunning for Skype in a bid to compete with the frontrunning VoIP provider.Vopium, sometimes dubbed the 'other' VoIP company, today announced that Indian investor Raghuvinder Kataria, an early backer of Bharti Airtel – the third largest in-country mobile operator in the world – would invest $16.5m (£11m) in the Danish internet telecom, making him its largest shareholder.In a statement, Kataria said: "We believe that the market demands an alternative mobile solution to Skype and the fast market penetration of smartphones opens up new and more intelligent ways of communication."Kataria's investment significantly increases Vopium's funding as their last posted investment was €4.2m (£3.5m) in 2008 from Enex Group SA, a private Luxembourg-based investment company.But the little VoIP still has a long way to go before it catches up with Skype, the field's clear leader.At peak hours, Skype reports 23 million users online and Skype traffic accounts for 12% of global international calling minutes. Its users made 3.1bn minutes of calls to landlines and mobiles, and 36.1bn minutes of calls between Skype users in the third quarter of 2009.Vopium, on the other hand, has a total of one million users with 10,000 of them online at peak hours. Last year, Vopium reported 40m-50m minutes of calls during the whole of last year.But at reported growth of 30% every month, Vopium could well be on track to become a real challenge to Skype's hegemony.Vopium was founded in 2006 by Pakistani entrepreneur Tanveer Sharif. Users download software to their mobile phone, which then re-routes calls over the internet. It was initially founded to allow cheap calling to Pakistan, India and Bangladesh but launched throughout the world last year.
Apple has issued official guidance - and its chief executive Steve Jobs has issued unofficial guidance - on how to avoid the widely-noted reception problems with the new iPhone 4 when held from below: don't hold it that way.The cause has been narrowed down to a circuit being formed when the skin bridges the gap between the left and bottom antennas that form the phone's outer stainless steel bezel: depending on the conductance of the skin, it can make the phone reception drop off dramatically.Emailed by the websiteArs Technica about the problem, Jobs responded in his normal terse manner: "Just avoid holding it in that way," he wrote - a response from Jobs that was received by a number of gadget review sites and customers in the US.Or, in Apple's official statement - which is only being passed out to news organisations whichaskfor a statement on the problem, rather than sent out (as happens with iPad or iPhone sales figures): "Gripping any phone will result in some attenuation of its antenna performance with certain places being worse than others depending on the placement of the antennas. This is a fact of life for every wireless phone. If you ever experience this on your Phone 4, avoid gripping it in the lower left corner in a way that covers both sides of the black strip in the metal band, or simply use one of many available cases."The problem emerged within hours of the first iPhone 4 devices being delivered to customers in the US, with dozens posting videos to YouTube showing mobile reception dropping off dramatically when they picked up the phone. Some users wondered why Apple had not spotted the problem during its testing of the iPhone 4 before its launch, and wondered whether the £25 "bumpers" that Apple sells to go around the casing - and protect the metal antennas - was an implicit acknowledgement of the problem. Apple had no comment on Friday on whether it had discovered the problem during testing, or only after the phone went on sale.Spencer Web, an antenna engineer with Antennasys,notes in a blog postthat antennas for mobile phones are generally placed at the bottom of the phone, in order to keep the radiative parts of the phone as far away from the user's head as possible. In the US the Federal Communications Commission measures the output of a phone, and the amount of non-ionising radiation given off, in specific tests - but Web says that those would not have picked up the problem: "when the FCC tests are run, the head is required to be in the vicinity of the phone.  But, the hand is not!"He added: "The antenna structure for the cell phone is still down at the bottom (I won't address the WiFi nor GPS antennas in this blog entry).  The iPhone 4 has two symmetrical slots in the stainless frame.  If you short these slots, or cover them with your hand, the antenna performance will suffer (see this video I found on YouTube).  There is no way around this, it's a design compromise that is forced by the requirements of the FCC, AT&amp;T, Apple's marketing department and Apple's industrial designers, to name a few."There is some speculation that the problem only occurs on some phones because the antennas are usually covered with a clear finishing solution; if the finish did not cover them properly the phone might be more liable to the problem.Meanwhile iPhone 4 users are developing their own solutions - which range from theuse of duct or masking tape on the bottom edge, painting clear nail varnish over the gap, buying cases to cover the sides of the phone, or - the most expensive option - buying Apple's "bumpers" which cover the edge of the phone.Meanwhile another problem has appeared on some of the new models: yellow discoloration under the screen. According toone suggestion, this is due to a chemical used in the fixing process that joins the touchscreen to the glass above it and will fade in a few days. That remains to be seen.
This ultra high-tech hack-'n'-slash is something of a departure for revered Japanese developer From Software, renowned for its Armoured Core mech games. But it's recognisably Japanese in its sheer refusal to countenance even a hint of compromise.You're a lone human in a dark, bleak and distinctly disturbing world over-run with demons and, after initially choosing whether to take a magic, ranged-weapon or sword and shield-based approach, you simply have to negotiate five enormous areas, killing everything you encounter. Which isn't easy, as there are some fearsome bosses. If you die – and you will – you're transported to the Nexus, a sort of limbo, from which you can jump to the different areas via Arcstones. Reduced to half your life-level, you will only regain your corporeal form by negotiating a whole level and killing the boss at its end – and, since there are no checkpoints, if you die you're sent back to your initial point of entry, albeit with all the items (healing potions, in particular, are plentiful) you've collected. You can at least open up short cuts taking you closer to the end of the level.The control system for Demon's Souls is exemplary, marrying responsiveness with clever design. If you take the hand-to-hand route, you wield a shield in your left hand (with the left trigger) and a sword in your right, and swiftly discover that it is usually best to parry an enemy's initial attack with your shield, while polishing him off with your sword while he is off-balance. More sophisticated enemies require a more tactical approach, though, and some upgrading of weapons. You can, for example, eschew your shield and grasp your sword with both hands for more powerful attacks.Demon's Souls is about as hardcore as you can get, but it is powerfully satisfying once you begin to make progress, and strangely addictive, rather than frustrating, even when you don't. It looks great, too, in a dark, netherworld-style way, and manages impressively to breathe new life into one of the hoariest of genres. Yet another PlayStation 3 exclusive that demands your attention – this has already been the best year yet for Sony's next-gen console.
Nothing like a bit of nostalgia on a Friday morning. Yes, theAlien Breed remakeon 360 didn't match the memories of the Amiga classic but this new co-op trailer of the PC version at least shows the spirit of the original games appears intact. What do you think?
