Who is Shingy?Shingy is David Shing, an Australian. He is 44 years old. He lives in New York City.Why are people talking about him?Shingy rose to prominence earlier this year after an appearanceon MSNBC. The short segment brought to attention Shingy’s job title: he is a “digital prophet” at AOL. His appearance was also of interest: Shingy wears his long, receding hair spiked up and out, which makes him look a bit like a timid lion. Shingy was the subject of a short featurein the New Yorkeron Monday which has raised fresh intrigue.What is a digital prophet?According to Shingy, his role involves “watching the future take shape across the vast online landscape”. Shingy also told the New Yorker: “I fly all around the world and go to conferences.”OK, but what is a digital prophet?“I listen to where media is headed and figure out how our brands can win in that environment,” Shingy said. He says there is “no typical day” for a digital prophet. He is paid a six-figure salary.Again. What is a digital prophet?Among Shingy’s achievements is the coining of the phrase HoMo, which means home/mobile and pertains to the notion that people spend time at home using their mobile phones.Still struggling. What is a digital prophet?The New Yorker profile reveals that Shingy, in his capacity as digital prophet, recently approached Erika Nardini, AOL’s chief marketing officer, and handed her his iPad Mini. The following conversation ensued:‘Wanted to show you a little brain fart I had on the plane,’ he said. It was a cartoon he had drawn of a bear wearing zebra-print pants and a shirt covered in ones and zeros.‘Love it, love it, love it,’ Nardini said. ‘I’m thinking of the bears more as a metaphor.’‘A thousand per cent,’ Shingy said.One more time. What is a digital prophet?Nardini describes Shingy as her “muse”. When Shingy is not doing that, he redesigns, or “reboots”, people’s offices. He recently changed AOL CEO Tim Armstrong’s office. Shingy removed Armstrong’s desk and replaced it with some chairs.So. What is a digital prophet?It remains unclear.
Apple has released a new tool to free former iPhone users from iMessage, solving a problem that has annoyed switchers since the service was introduced three years ago.A replacement for text-messaging that arrived with iOS 5, iMessage lets iPhone, iPad and Mac users send text and picture messages to other iPhone owners over the net for free.The service works by registering the user’s phone number (and email address) with Apple, and then diverting traditional SMS messages to the new protocol when sent between two compatible users.iMessage can be turned off from an iPhone, but until now, users who had switched to a non-Apple device without remembering to disable it first struggled with undelivered messages and no easy way to fix the problem.If a user forgot to turn it off, Apple had no way to help.Benjamin Stein, one affected user, reportedthat Apple’s interim solution was to “tell every single one of your friends to delete every single message thread that you have ever been on … They have no solution and it’s insane that Apple has my phone number held hostage with no way to get it back.”With the new tool,former users can visit Apple’s siteand deregister. “You may need to turn off iMessage if you are now using a non-Apple phone and can’t get SMS or text messages someone sends you from an iPhone,” the company explains.The tool has been well received, even if some questioned why it took so long for Apple to issue a fix.Blogger John Gruber wrote: “When they were designing the ‘use iMessage instead of SMS when texting from one iPhone to another’ feature, I don’t think it ever occurred to anyone at Apple that someone might eventually want to switch from iPhone to another phone.”
It’s Christmas time, and there’s no need to be afraid … of a video game shortage. Every year at this time, the mainstream industry jettisons its biggest releases on to shop shelves, ensuring that no household need contemplate the idea of a festive season without Fifa, Call of Duty, Assassin’s Creed or Skylanders. In some ways, this year should be different, marking as it does the first birthday of Sony and Microsoft’s next generation systems, and the third Xmas for the Wii U. How have they changed the face of gaming? That is a good question – with a crap answer. They haven’t, really.Of course, history tells us that it takes at least two years for most major consoles to “bed in”. Developers need time to get to grips with new hardware, learning the idiosyncracies and figuring out how to exploit innovative features. There are exceptions, of course. Halo: Combat Evolved effectively set the whole tone and agenda for the original Xbox on launch day, while a year after the release of the PlayStation 2 we had Grand Theft Auto III and Metal Gear Solid 2, which were, well, pretty good games.So perhaps we shouldn’t be too surprised that this year’s major Xbox One and PS4 releases don’t really move the design agenda on all that much. Titles like Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare and Dragon Age: Inquisition have fiddled with well-known formulas and conventions in fun and interesting ways; Forza Horizon 2 and DriveClub have attempted to build on the social gaming dynamics set in place by Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit; Destiny and Titanfall mixed single- and multiplayer components, but produced fairly tradition sci-fi shooters, that just happened to be easier to experience with friends.The system and the gameInterestingly, when I asked Twitter for favourite innovations of the “next-gen” era so far, most of the responses were system improvements. The ability to play Wii U games on the GamePad, or to stream live TV to a tablet from Xbox One – both are about multitasking in the living room rather than gameplay. There are peripheral moments too – like the context-sensitive use of the Dual Shock light bar, or the clever way certain titles – like ZombiU, Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare and Alien Isolation – have used controller mics to extend game audio directly into the player’s personal space. Lots of people appreciated the fact that you can now plug your headphones into the PlayStation joypad – a little industrial design addition that is much more about comfort than it is about innovation.The example of a genuinely new idea that people have kept coming back with is the nemesis system in Middle-Earth: Shadow of Mordor. If you haven’t experienced it yet, it allows enemy characters to remember their battles with the player, thereby creating little user-generated sub-plots: an injured foe will recall the encounter and their resentment will fester until your next meeting; or if your opponent defeats you, they will remember the sweet taste of victory. This gives players a strong sense of what all players want: agency in the game world. We want to feel as though we’re making a personal impact on the environment; that we’re not just joining the dots on someone else’s scripted narrative. Mordor indulges player imagination and inherent narcissism – it says, yes, you count, you made a difference.This is interesting because the game systems themselves are built to indulge us in this way. The ability to easily take screenshots and videos on PS4 and Xbox One is a major addition bringing the dynamics of social media into the gaming experience: console manufacturers have learned that people want to tell stories as well as play them. Now developers have to catch up with that. The nemesis system is one move in this direction, but eventually we’ll see this sort of generative, personalised narrative machinery paired with other procedural systems. The likes of Crusader Kings 2, Skyrim and GTA V all build mini-quests around players, but these are usually basic tasks dosed up with a little story filler. The future is about games that observe players and create narrative systems around them.So this Christmas, it’s all about developers toying with the fundamentals of new hardware, personalisation and social features – these are the areas to watch. Next year, titles like No Man’s Sky, Tom Clancy’s The Division and Bloodborne may have more to tell us; and perhaps we will see more of the asymmetrical multiplayer features we saw with early Wii U games like Nintendoland – certainly Evolve and Fable: Legends will be worth a look in this regard. Miiverse has also proved popular and it will be fascinating to see how that expands, and whether Sony can rethink its abandoned Home concept for something else.The future of games is more about us than about the games themselves – or at least the future is somewhere in-between those two entities. Perhaps virtual reality will unite us at least next year; navigating the psychic dead space between player consciousness, controller and screen – maybe it’ll just be a cool new mechanic that no one saw coming. But really, after a long era of sequels and conceptual homogenisation (at least in the mainstream boxed-copy industry), the only true future for games is the one that’s different for everybody.The identity paradox: why game characters are not us, but should beDriveClub, PlayStation 4 and the future of social gamingDestiny – how the makers of Halo plan to change the future of shooters
Microsoft has marked the end of an era in smartphones by launching the first Lumia handset without the Nokia branding.The Windows maker bought the Finnish technology companyin a £4.6bn deallast year and has now shifted its Lumia brand of phones into its own Windows Phone range.The new smartphone is the Microsoft Lumia 535, which runs on Windows Phone 8.1 and has 5 megapixel front and rear-facing cameras, a 5 in HD screen and can take one or two SIM cards.Jo Harlow, Microsoft’s head of phones, said the devices come with access to five of its services: Skype, Office, OneDrive, Cortana and OneNote.OneDrive offers users 15GB of free cloud storage; Cortana is Microsoft’s voice-based personal assistant; and OneNote is a digital note-taking softtware that allows users to edit Office documents.The mobiles expert Rob Kerr, from comparison website uSwitch, said Microsoft’s decision to abandon the Nokia brand was similar to Sony’s move in dropping the Ericsson branding.“The Lumia 535 is a strange launchpad for Microsoft to flex its muscles with as mobile maker. It’s not a standout model, but an affordable, entry-level handset, and it’s set to miss the Christmas shopping rush. But perhaps the point is to leave us wanting more,” he said.The Lumia 535 will go on sale in Britain early next year and cost about €110 (£86), but will become available in the US later this month. It is available in six colours: bright green, bright orange, white, dark grey, cyan and black.•Stephen Elop was the ‘wrong man to lead Nokia’
Name:Alibaba.Age:15.Appearance:The logical end point of capitalism as we know it.I’ve heard of Alibaba. It’s a bit like Amazon, isn’t it?In the sense that King Kong is a bit like the PG Tips chimp, yes. According to recent estimates, Alibaba is worth $100bn more than Amazon. Its enormity cannot be overstated.And why are we talking about it now, exactly?Because Alibaba’s annual Singles’ Day sales event has just made a record £4.4bn in sales.That’s a lot of money! Well done Alibaba! Just one thing, though. I don’t actually know what Singles’ Day is.It’s an act of pure consumerist genius, that’s what it is. Singles’ Day is a kind of anti-Valentine’s Day, practised in China, where single people buy gifts for themselves.I love these ancient Chinese traditions.It’s not ancient. It first came to prominence five years ago.Really?Yes. Alibaba more or less invented it.So, wait, Alibaba makes billions of pounds by scheming up a nonsense holiday and convincing people that it’s really a thing?I told you it was genius, didn’t I? Alibaba estimates that it will send out 200m packages today alone.That’s ridiculous.Even more ridiculous than that, Alibaba invited 500 journalists to its HQ to watch the revenue accumulate in real time.And they went?Of course! Who would turn down the chance to watch a cross between an Apple product launch and the sight of Scrooge McDuck swimming around in a roomful of gold coins?Is that the secret to Alibaba’s success? Making up nonsense events that capitalise on selfishness?Well, there’s that and the fact that Alibaba CEO (and China’s richest man) Jack Ma is a genuine celebrity in his own right.Like Steve Jobs?If Steve Jobs dressed up in novelty leather punk gear, performed karaoke in front of thousands of screaming fans andofficiated mass weddings for his employees, then yes.But what can I buy on Alibaba?Pretty much everything, although of late it’s become notorious for its life-sized resin statue of a naked and obeseArnold Schwarzenegger – a snip at £10,000.I feel like I can relate to Alibaba. I have an Etsy store that sells embroidered Doctor Who fan art.You poor, sweet deluded fool.Do say:“Look out Amazon!”Don’t say:“I wish I was single. I could really use one of those naked Schwarzenegger statues”.
Spotify chief executive Daniel Ek has responded to Taylor Swift’s decision to remove her albums from the streaming service with ablog post tackling what he describes as the “myths” of streaming music.“We started Spotify because we love music and piracy was killing it. So all the talk swirling around lately about how Spotify is making money on the backs of artists upsets me big time,” wrote Ek.In his post, Ek announced that Spotify now has 50 million active users, with 12.5 million of them paying for a monthly subscription. That’s up from40 million and 10 million respectively in May 2014. He added that Spotify has now paid out more than $2bn in royalties to labels and publishers.“A billion dollars from the time we started Spotify in 2008 to last year and another billion dollars since then. And that’s two billion dollars’ worth of listening that would have happened with zero or little compensation to artists and songwriters through piracy or practically equivalent services if there was no Spotify,” wrote Ek.“When I hear stories about artists and songwriters who say they’ve seen little or no money from streaming and are naturally angry and frustrated, I’m really frustrated too. The music industry is changing – and we’re proud of our part in that change – but lots of problems that have plagued the industry since its inception continue to exist.”Ek trained his sights on a lack of transparency within the music industry, referring to the $2bn payouts figure.“If that money is not flowing to the creative community in a timely and transparent way, that’s a big problem. We will do anything we can to work with the industry to increase transparency, improve speed of payments, and give artists the opportunity to promote themselves and connect with fans,” he wrote.Ek also defended Spotify’s “blend” of free and subscription music, with Swift having removed her albums because the company refused to only make them available to its paying subscribers.“Our free service drives our paid service,” he wrote. “Here’s the key fact: more than 80% of our subscribers started as free users. If you take away only one thing, it should be this: No free, no paid, no two billion dollars.”Ek also claimed that a top artist like Taylor Swift can expect to earn $6m a year from Spotify streams; criticised YouTube and SoundCloud for their lack of payments to artists for every stream on their services; and cited the likes of Ed Sheeran, Ariana Grande, Calvin Harris and Daft Punk as examples of artists who have sold lots of albums without windowing their releases from Spotify.“Here’s the thing I really want artists to understand: Our interests are totally aligned with yours. Even if you don’t believe that’s our goal, look at our business. Our whole business is to maximize the value of your music. We don’t use music to drive sales of hardware or software. We use music to get people to pay for music,” he wrote.“We’re getting fans to pay for music again. We’re connecting artists to fans they would never have otherwise found, and we’re paying them for every single listen. We’re not just streaming, we’remainstreaming now, and that’s good for music makers and music lovers around the world.”Ek’s blog post means we have now heard from all the main parties involved in the Taylor Swift removal, as well as from some interested observers.Swiftgave her views in an interview with Yahoo:“Everything new, like Spotify, all feels to me a bit like a grand experiment. And I’m not willing to contribute my life’s work to an experiment that I don’t feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists, and creators of this music. And I just don’t agree with perpetuating the perception that music has no value and should be free...“I try to stay really open-minded about things, because I do think it’s important to be a part of progress. But I think it’s really still up for debate whether this is actual progress, or whether this is taking the word “music” out of the music industry.”Scott Borchetta, who runs Swift’s label Big Machine Label Group, also had his say in a radio interview,as reported by Billboard:“We determined that her fan base is so in on her, let’s pull everything off of Spotify, and any other service that doesn’t offer a premium service. Now if you are a premium subscriber to Beats or Rdio or any of the other services that don’t offer just a free-only, then you will find her catalogue...I’ve had calls from so many other managers and artists. There’s a big fist in the air about this. Spotify is a really good service, they just need to be a better partner and there is a lot of support for this.”Adele’s managerJonathan Dickins addressed the issueduring his appearance at the Web Summit conference in Dublin last week:“The premium tier to me are real active record buyers, paying their $9.99 or €9.99 or £9.99 a month. My feeling would be to get around the situation with someone like Taylor Swift – but Spotify won’t do it – is a window between making something available on the premium service, earlier than it’s made available on the free service.”Anthony Bay, CEO of Spotify rival Rdio, alsopointed to this splitbetween what’s available to stream for free, and for paying subscribers, at the same conference:“It was saying she didn’t think her music should be free. She doesn’t want her music played on an unlimited, on-demand free service with ads. It wasn’t anti-streaming: it was antithattype of streaming...The fundamental thing here is it’s art. It’s the artist’s choice. It needs to be the artist’s decision as much as possible. In this case, if the artist said ‘I don’t want my music to be played for free, then you have to respect that.”And finally U2 frontman Bono – no stranger to digital music controversy at the moment –gave his opinion at Web Summit:“The real enemy, the real fight is between opacity and transparency. The music business has historically involved itself in quite considerable deceit...When people pick on Spotify: Spotify are giving up 70% of all their revenues to rights owners. It’s just that people don’t know where the money is because the record labels haven’t been transparent.”As things stand, Swift’s back catalogue remains unavailable on Spotify, but available on the premium tiers of its rivals – as well as for sale on Apple’s iTunes and other download stores.Ek’s blog post gave no indication on whether Spotify will be changing its policy of insisting every album is available on both its free and paid tiers. An equally important question looming, though, is whether Swift’s music will be available on YouTube’s upcoming “Music Key” streaming service.It is expected to have a similar mix of free and paid tiers to Spotify, andaccording to one leaked contract earlier in the year, may require labels to make their entire catalogues available at both levels.•Bandcamp to help musicians launch their own subscription services•Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube and Spotify?•Spotify v Artists: 10 things to read to understand the debate
The Tor project, which oversees the development of the anonymous browser, has expressed concern over an intergovernmental operation that took down 27 hosts offering “hidden services”, or websites only accessible through the Tor network.The operation, a collaboration between US and EU authorities, went by the codename “Onymous” and resulted in the seizure of more than 400 hidden services.However, the authorities have not revealed how they discovered the location of the hidden services. Tor’s design should prevent these locations from being revealed.The Tor project says in ablogpost: “In liberal democracies, we should expect that when the time comes to prosecute some of the 17 people who have been arrested, the police would have to explain to the judge how the suspects came to be suspects. As a side benefit of the operation of justice, Tor could learn if there are security flaws in hidden services or other critical internet-facing services.“Tor is most interested in understanding how these services were located, and if this indicates a security weakness in Tor hidden services that could be exploited by criminals or secret police repressing dissents.”Among the sites closed in the dark-web takedown was Silk Road 2.0, a successor to the original online black marketplace, where an array of vendors sold both legal and illegal using the cryptocurrency bitcoin. A total of 17 suspects were arrested in the operation, with Californian Blake Benthall accused of running Silk Road 2.0.The authorities suggest that they discovered Benthall through a rookie error, alleging that the developer registered the server for the site using a personal email address. However, Tor warns that “the US DEA [Drug Enforcement Administration] and others have constructed a system of organised and sanctioned perjury which they refer to as ‘parallel construction’” that entails reporting not how they did locate a particular person, but merely how they could have done so.Tor suggests that such “operational security” errors may have led to some operators being uncovered, but also addresses other potential holes. An SQL injection attack, or other exploitation of a “common web bug”, could have been one way in, as could an attack through the bitcoin network.The Tor developers are most concerned about the possibility that the hidden services were discovered through a weakness in the protocol itself: “The number of takedowns and the fact that Tor relays were seized could also mean that the Tor network was attacked to reveal the location of those hidden services. We received some interesting information from an operator of a now-seized hidden service which may indicate this, as well.”
Google has leased a Nasa airfield in San Francisco, which includes three hangars capable of housing robotics research and space-exploration vehicles.The 60-year, $1.16bn (£732m) lease of Moffett Field Naval Air Station on the San Francisco peninsula includes a $200m commitment to refurbish the hangars and improve the site with a museum and educational facilities.“As Nasa expands its presence in space, we are making strides to reduce our footprint here on Earth,” said the Nasa administrator Charles Boldenin a press release. “Moffett Field plays an important role in the Bay Area and is poised to continue to do so through this lease arrangement.”“We look forward to rolling up our sleeves to restore the remarkable landmark Hangar One, which for years has been considered one of the most endangered historic sites in the United States,” said David Radcliffe, vice president of real estate and workplace services at Google.Google declined to comment further on its plans for the airfield.Space exploration, aviation and roboticsThe 1,000 acre site includes a private golf course, a working airfield, two runways, an operations building and three large hangars, including the historic Hangar One. Google secured the lease through its real estate subsidiary Planetary Ventures for “research, development, assembly and testing in the areas of space exploration, aviation, rover/robotics and other emerging technologies”.Google’s founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, have expressed interests in both aviation and space exploration before, offering a $20m prize to any private company that can land a robot on the moon, travel 500m and send back images before the end of 2015.The company recently acquired several robotics and satellite firms, includingBoston Dynamics– the robotics outfit responsible for the military robotic packhorse Big Dog, the running robot Cheetah and the humanoid robot Atlas.The robotics, satellite and space ventures fall under Google’s “moonshot” X Lab responsible forGoogle Glass,Project Loonand most recently a venture intohealth careand medical equipment including acancer- and heart-attack detecting pill.‘Important landmark in Silicon Valley’Hangar One at Moffett is one of the world’s largest freestanding structures covering eight acres, built in the 1930s as a hangar for US naval airships, including theUSS Macon built in 1933. The hangar is so big that weather such as fog can form inside, just under the ceiling.The 60m high building was designated as a US Naval Historical Monument in 1966 but was listed as one of the US’s 11 most endangered historic places by the National Trust for Historic Preservation in 2008.Moffet is situated next to Google’s “Googleplex” head quarters on the San Francisco Bay, near Mountain View, Palo Alto and Santa Clara. It is already being used by Google to store its private jets, while a section of the land forms part of Google’s expanding campus.“Hangar One is an important landmark in Silicon Valley,” said US General Services Administration (GSA) administrator Dan Tangherlini. “GSA was proud to support NASA in delivering the best value to taxpayers while restoring this historic facility and enhancing the surrounding community.”•The ‘father of Android’ leaves Google for new technology hardware startups•Google launches Fit app to take on Apple’s Heath and Samsung’s S Health
Some expected a grand finale, a denouement in which the problems raised by the ruling of the European court of justice againstGoogleon the so-called “right to be forgotten” would be resolved. Instead, a sense of deja vu soon dawned on the final meeting in Brussels, as no new ideas emerged and many of the comments already made in previous meetings were reiterated.For once, we had more time for questions than questions to ask. Perhaps this was inevitable - or perhaps it was a missed opportunity to run some intellectual risks and think outside the proverbial box. Either way, the meeting demonstrated that the council has now explored all the main issues raised by the ruling. These are the questions I found most significant in the course of our seven consultations.The sedimentation of personal information online.Some sensitive and private information from the past needs to remain in the past, yet the web is a flatland lacking historical depth. Information is dynamically structured “on the fly” by our searches. How do we ensure that the right kind of personal information may be remembered (no removal of past information) without being constantly recalled (no unnecessary resurfacing of past information)?A new, two-tier approach to information.The availability of content has been detached by its accessibility. What kind of new equilibrium does this unprecedented decoupling require?The territoriality of the law versus the non-territoriality of the internet.Removing links from EU-based search engines has limited effect if they remain available through other engines that are only a click away. How can we apply legislation that is based on geography to the network space of the internet?A conflict by proxy.The “right to be forgotten” and the “right to information” are proxies for the right to privacy (European Convention on Human Rights, article 8; and Declaration on Human Rights, article 12) and for the right to freedom of opinion and expression. Both rights are subject to interpretation, and when they are in conflict, Europe and the US dissent on how to reconcile them. How can such a conflict be resolved?Information cartography.Today the indexing by search engines is more important than the corresponding information: those who control the map control the territory. At what stage - if any - and how could publishers be involved when their legal contents may be de-linked?Public interest versus what is interesting to the public.De-linking is not admissible when the personal information, which would no longer be easily accessible, matters to the public good. But when is information of “public interest”, exactly?In the information societyanyone can be apublic figurefor 15 minutes, to paraphrase Andy Warhol. When does an individual have a public role that makes it inadmissible to de-link what kind of personal information about that individual?The relevance of relevance.It is impossible to identify the relevance of some personal information without referring to the context within, and the purpose for which that information is being sought. Yet these two variables easily change through circumstances and cannot be easily forecast. What does it mean for personal information that was relevant once not to be relevant anymore? Can it become relevant again in the future?The all-encompassing nature of “data processing”.The concept includes anything that anyone does with or to data. Thus the definition fails to distinguish between, for example, recording, copying, formatting, retrieving, transmitting, linking, and manipulating data. Should data processing be re-defined to be made less inclusive? And if it was, would search engines still be classed as data controllers?Algorithms v humans.Should de-linking ever become automatic?Information powers.The ruling has forced search engines to act as gatekeepers. Is this the only solution and, if not, what better alternatives could be identified?These are difficult questions. They are not the only ones that were raised during the seven meetings, but the debate has been clarified. The time has now come to publish our report: the most difficult part of the work has just begun.• Luciano Floridi is director of research, and professor of philosophy and ethics of information, at theOxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford. He is a member of the Google advisory council on the right to be forgotten. His most recent book isThe Fourth Revolution: How the Infosphere is Reshaping Human Reality (Oxford University Press, 2014).•Read more: The right to be forgotten: who can exercise power, and over what type of information?
The UK’s next general election looks like it may be dominated by the topic of immigration, thanks to the rise of UKIP and the desire of the established political parties to head off a drain in supporters by edging closer to its policies.If there’s a looming threat to British jobs, though, isn’t it more likely to come from robots rather than immigration? Anew report published by Deloitte, the Oxford Martin School and the University of Oxfordhints at exactly that.It claims that 35% of existing UK jobs are at “high risk of replacement in the next 20 years” from technology, automation and robotics, with lower-paid jobs more than five times as likely to be replaced than higher-paid jobs.“Unless these changes coming in the next two decades are fully understood and anticipated by businesses, policy makers and educators, there will be a risk of avoidable unemployment and under-employment,” warns Deloitte’s senior partner Angus Knowles-Cutler.Yet the report also suggests that in London specifically, 73% of businesses are planning to increase their overall headcount, to bring in the new skills and roles required by technology advances.Even so, are we sleepwalking into a dangerous situation if we don’t put the correct educational elements in place to retrain people for these new kinds of jobs? Is this just a problem for politicians, or does the technology industry have social responsibilities too?The comments section is open for your views.Some other stories on the technology radar today:Microsoft CEOSatya Nadella on the core of his company: “There is Windows, there is Office 365, and there is Azure. That’s it.” Although I can’t help wondering where gaming fits into this: Nadella has made it clear that he’s not intending to sell Xbox, and spending $2.5bn on Minecraft-maker Mojang is a clear statement of intent. So does gaming fit under “Windows” then?There’s another iOS security issue being discussed: Masque Attack.Uncovered by security firm FireEye, it involves replacing iOS apps installed on a device with malware. It follows the recent discovery of the Mac-to-iOS WireLurker malware. “Masque Attacks can pose much bigger threats than WireLurker,” claims the company.Like Facebook, Google has launched a campaign to raise money to fight Ebola. It’s promising to donate $2 itself for every $1 donated. “These organizations are doing remarkable work in very difficult circumstances to help contain this outbreak, and we hope our contribution will help them have an even greater impact,”wrote CEO Larry Page.There’s a new Raspberry Pi computer in town:the Model A+. It’s smaller and consumes less power than the existing Model A, and will sell for just $20. “When we announced Raspberry Pi back in 2011, the idea of producing an ‘ARM GNU/Linux box for $25’ seemed ambitious, so it’s pretty mind-bending to be able to knock another $5 off the cost while continuing to build it here in the UK...”The latest concern for celebrities, politicians and business leaders hoping their private information doesn’t get leaked:DarkHotel. Attackers who lurk on hotel Wi-Fi networks waiting for high-profile guests to check in then log in. “This is NSA-level infection mechanism,” said security firm Kaspersky Lab.Finally,Maker Club is a crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogotrying to raise $10,000 for a kit for children that helps them “learn to code, design and build 3D printed robots”. “All the parts for the robots are interchangeable, like Lego, so once you’ve got the hang of things, there’s almost nothing you can’t invent...”What other stories have you seen this morning? Make your recommendations – as well as chewing over the stories above – in the comments section.
It's Tuesday.
Tablets can do almost anything a desktop computer can and in some cases more. But the number of tablet computers available is dizzying. So here’s our guide to six of the best, covering all budgets and needs.Tesco Hudl 2Tesco’s new Hudl 2 is a low-cost Android tablet that’s ideal for a family.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianCost:£129The Tesco Hudl 2 is living proof that good tablets do not have to be expensive. The second generation Hudl has a larger, 8.3in 1080p high-definition screen that’s crisp, bright and great for sharing video. It has 16GB of storage space, a microSD card slot and microHDMI for hooking it up to a television.Stereo speakers on the back are loud and clear. The battery lasts about a day of intermittent use, while a 5MP camera on the back and a 1.2MP camera on the front take passable photos – not worth printing, but OK for impromptu snaps.An extensive parental control system allows adults to set restricted profiles for children and is useful for keeping prying eyes away from inappropriate content.The Hudl 2 costs £129, but can be bought with only £65 of Tesco Clubcard vouchers, making it exceptional value.Verdict:a durable, solid, small tablet that is excellent value with great parental controlsTesco Hudl 2 review: a lot of tablet for the moneyGoogle Nexus 7 2013The Google Nexus 7 2013 might have been discontinued, but it is still one of the best small tablets and available at discount costs.Photograph: Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty ImagesCost:£200Google’s 7in tablet has been around for a year, but is still one of the best small Android tablets available.It has a crisp, clear 1080p high-definition screen, a solid build and stereo speakers like the Hudl. But it also runs the latest version of Android, smoother and faster than the Hudl 2, with guaranteed updates as Google prepares to launchAndroid 5 Lollipop.The rear-facing 5MP camera takes passable photos, the front-facing camera works well for video chat and the battery lasts about eight hours and can be charged wirelessly. Storage is limited to 16GB or 32GB without the ability to add extra, but the Nexus 7 has arguably the best lag and stutter-free experience of any Android tablet.Verdict:clutter-free Android, a solid build and decent screenApple iPad mini 3The iPad mini 3 now comes in gold and has a Touch ID fingerprint sensor.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianCost:£319The iPad mini is the smallest iPad available, but with a 7.9in screen it’s still bigger than a lot of small tablets. Its aluminium body is solid, its retina screen bright and better than 1080p high definition, while the battery lasts a day of hard use on a single charge.The iPad mini’s standout feature is the Touch ID fingerprint sensor hidden under the home button that unlocks the tablet and allows users to pay for goods and services using a fingerprint. Third-party apps such as Evernote and Dropbox can be secured with a fingerprint too.A 5MP camera on the back takes decent, but not spectacular photos while a front-facing camera does the job for video calling. The standard 16GB of storage will fill up quickly with apps, music, videos, games and photos and is not expandable – the 64GB version costing £399 is recommended.The iPad mini 3’s biggest issue is that the iPad mini 2 is still available with everything but the Touch ID sensor and costs £80 less.Verdict:a solid smaller tablet with a good screen and long battery lifeApple iPad mini 3 review: a touch more of the sameSamsung Galaxy Tab SSamsung’s Galaxy Tab S has the best screen of any tablet.Photograph: SamsungCost:£370Samsung’s Galaxy Tab S is its flagship tablet and comes in 8.4in and 10.5in versions. Both are thin and light, feature powerful octa-core processors, 16GB of storage with a microSD card slot for expansion and the latest version of Android.But it’s the new better-than-high-definition wide screens that set these tablets apart. The OLED screens have the deepest blacks, brightest whites and richest colours available on a tablet and make watching videos, reading books and comics and viewing photos a fantastic experience.A fingerprint scanner also makes logging into the tablet easy, an 8MP camera on the back takes decent photos when no smartphone is handy, and the battery lasts about eight hours on a single charge.Verdict:the best screen available on a tabletSamsung Galaxy Tab S review: an Android rival for the iPadGoogle Nexus 9 - HTC’s new 9in tabletApple iPad Air 2Apple’s new iPad Air 2 is thinner, faster and has a Touch ID fingerprint sensor.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianCost:£399The latest full-sized iPad has a 9.7in screen that is better than 1080p high definition for crisp text and detailed images. The shape of the screen means videos are shown with black bars at the top and bottom, but websites and books fill the screen and look great.Its aluminium frame makes it the thinnest tablet available at 6.1mm – only marginally thicker than a headphones port – and at 437g it feels solid and svelte in the hand. A powerful 64-bit processor can run advanced apps that process video and photos, while the battery lasts all day.A fingerprint sensor under the home button, like the iPad mini 3, allows the user to unlock the tablet and pay for goods and services. A solid 8MP camera is one of the best fitted to a tablet yet, but is not quite as good as high-end smartphones.Verdict:the thinnest tablet available with a powerful processorApple iPad Air 2 review: Apple’s best tablet yet, but is that enough?Microsoft Surface Pro 3With Type Cover attached, the Surface Pro 3 becomes a laptop.Photograph: MicrosoftCost:£639The biggest and most expensive in the group, the Microsoft Surface Pro 3 is a full Windows computer squeezed into a tablet body.It has the same processor, Ram and storage as a laptop, but with a touchscreen and no fixed keyboard. It runs full Windows 8.1, which means access to thousands of Windows desktop applications, including iTunes and Photoshop– full apps that aren’t available on the iPad or Android tablets. It has USB ports and can be attached to monitors, keyboards and mice.The tablet also comes with a stylus for writing on the screen and can connect to a detachable keyboard for using like a laptop with an adjustable kickstand on the back to prop it up.It is heavier and doesn’t last as long on a charge as some of the other tablets, but is as capable as a full computer.Verdict:a full computer in a tablet with a few compromisesSurface Pro 3 review: the most lappable tablet yetOther reviews•Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review: a serious iPad Air competitor•Google Android 5 Lollipop review: faster, prettier and better battery life
Barack Obama called for “the strongest possible rules to protect” the open internet on Monday and came out against proposals championed by cable and telecoms companies to create fast lanes for the web.The president’s statement comes as the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) prepares to publish new rules to regulate the internet after a series of legal defeats at the hands of telecoms and cable companies.“An open internet is essential to the American economy, and increasingly to our very way of life. By lowering the cost of launching a new idea, igniting new political movements, and bringing communities closer together, it has been one of the most significant democratizing influences the world has ever known,” Obama said.The president came out firmly against a proposal that would allow cable companies to create “fast lanes” for higher paying customers. Cable and telecoms companies have lobbied for fast lanes, arguing that companies like Netflix should pay more for the large amount of bandwidth they use.Opponents argue such a move would create a tiered internet with faster service for those who can pay, and end “net neutrality” – the principle that all traffic is equal on the web.“Net neutrality has been built into the fabric of the internet since its creation — but it is also a principle that we cannot take for granted. We cannot allow internet service providers (ISPs) to restrict the best access or to pick winners and losers in the online marketplace for services and ideas,“ wrote Obama. He said the FCC should impose “the strongest possible rules to protect net neutrality.”Net neutrality campaigners cheered the president’s statement. David Segal, executive director of Demand Progress, called it a “huge blow for the cable companies that seek to establish fast and slow lanes on the internet”.The telecoms and cable industry said they were stunned by the news and called Obama’s proposals unworkable. Telecommunications Industry Association CEO Scott Belcher said he was “deeply concerned” by the president’s proposals and they would “set the industry back decades”.Obama’s move looks set to start a heated political debate in Washington, where Republican Senator Ted Cruz said on Twitter: “Net Neutrality” is Obamacare for the Internet; the Internet should not operate at the speed of government.”Obama with Xi Jinping in Beijing.Photograph: Sasha Mordovets/Getty ImagesThe president’s move will place extraordinary pressure on the FCC, which is an independent agency but whose senior figures are appointed by the president. Chairman Tom Wheeler is a Democrat, but the FCC’s board is split between Democrat and Republican members and the Republicans have shown clear opposition to imposing more regulation on internet service providers.After receiving more than 4m commentsfrom the general public, the FCC had reportedly been discussing a “hybrid” solution that would have allowed tiered services but imposed stricter rules to protect customers. The proposal met with stiff opposition from net neutrality supporters, who now have the backing of Obama.The president set out four “commonsense” rules he would like to see the FCC impose:No blocking. If a consumer requests access to a website or service, and the content is legal, an internet service provider (ISP) should not be permitted to block it.No “throttling”. ISPs should not be allowed to intentionally slow down some content or speed up others – a process often called “throttling”.Increased transparency. Internet service is not just about the so-called “last mile” – the connection to a customer’s home, said Obama. The FCC should monitor for potential abuses across the network.No paid prioritization. Obama came out firmly against “fast” and “slow” lanes arguing against cable firm’s charging higher fees for faster service. He called for an “explicit ban on paid prioritization and any other restriction that has a similar effect.”Obama said: “The FCC is an independent agency, and ultimately this decision is theirs alone. I believe the FCC should create a new set of rules protecting net neutrality and ensuring that neither the cable company nor the phone company will be able to act as a gatekeeper, restricting what you can do or see online.”Wheeler called the president’s comments an “important and welcome addition to the record” and promised to take them into account in the commission’s deliberations. “From the beginning, I have pledged to finally bring to an end the years-long quest for rules that are upheld in court,” he said.Supporters of net neutrality supporters welcomed president’s comments. Holmes Wilson, co-director of the Fight for the Future advocacy group, said: “Thanks to the second largest online protest in history, nearly 4m comments, White House and FCC phone lines ringing off the hook, and even nationwide street protests, President Obama finally gets it, and can say so.”He said the FCC should reclassify internet service, under Title II of the Communications Act, to give it “common-carrier” status, which would give the FCC far wider powers of regulation.“At this point it should be unthinkable that Tom Wheeler would defy the American public and the president, but we hope President Obama is prepared to demote him if he doesn’t move forward in good faith with Title II reclassification,” he said.Cable companies and others have been fighting hard to stop the FCC imposing Title II status on internet services, arguing it will stifle innovation and introduce unnecessary red tape.
Business executives visiting luxury hotels in Asia have been infected with malware delivered over public Wi-Fi networks, Russian security firm Kaspersky Lab hasdiscovered.The so-called ‘Darkhotel’ hackers managed to tweak their code to ensure that only machines belonging to specific targets were infected, not all visitors’ PCs, and may have included state-sponsored hacking.They also seemed to have advance knowledge of their victims’ whereabouts and which hotels they would be visiting, Kaspersky said.CEOs, senior vice presidents, sales and marketing directors and top research and development staff were amongst those on the attackers’ hit list, though no specific names have been revealed.As soon as they logged onto the hotel Wi-Fi, targets would be greeted with a pop-up asking them to download updates to popular software, such as GoogleToolbar, Adobe Flash and Windows Messenger. But giving permission to the download would only lead to infection and subsequent theft of data from their devices.State-sponsored hackers could have exploited the toolsThe attackers were targeting usernames and passwords for Google, Facebook, Yahoo and Twitter accounts of American and Asian executives, ostensibly hoping to carry out sustained snooping following initial infection, Kaspersky Lab’s Costin Raiu told the Guardian.He believes the perpetrators could have had multiple motivations and may have seen nation state-sponsored hackers and cyber criminals using the same attack tools.“So far all victims we have been able to trace are very important people and they make sense in the context,” he said. “Maybe what we have here is the same framework being used by two different groups - one with a focus on other nation states, the other focusing on business interests… it wouldn’t be abnormal.“I know that at least one of the victims was particularly staying in a hotel because she attended a conference event in that particular city.”Having acquired access to server logs on machines once used by the Darkhotel actors, and having sent researchers to the various hotels, Kaspersky determined the attacks date back to at least 2009. Most victims were based in Japan, Taiwan, China, Russia, Korea and Hong Kong.They weren’t just using hotels to spread their malware, including an advanced keylogger. They also infected peer-to-peer networks like BitTorrent - in one case spreading via a file containing “an anime sex/military comic scene, exposing the likely interests of potential targets” - and sent out emails with malicious attachments. Using the latter technique, the attackers targeted defence firms, governments, and NGOs, using lures on topics including nuclear energy and weaponry capabilities.‘A sophisticated and highly skilled attack’Their attacks used zero-day vulnerabilities - those that haven’t been seen before nor fixed by vendors - in popular software, such as Internet Explorer and Adobe Flash.They also signed their code with seemingly legitimate certificates, designed to prove the authenticity of applications, though they were likely duplicated by the attackers to bypass system defences here. In one case it appeared a certificate had been stolen from a Certificate Authority (CA).Both the zero-days and the certificates indicated a high level of skill amongs the Darkhotel hackers, according to Kasperksy.Onlookers have been surprised by the targeted nature of the Wi-Fi attacks. “This type of targeted attack is uncommon. The steps taken to infect the machines and factors that have to be in place for it to work make it a very specialist type of infection,” said Mark James, security specialist at anti-virus firm ESET.Richard Cassidy, senior solutions architect at Alert Logic, added: “We are seeing a very sophisticated attack on the target networks by this cell, who have put a great deal of thought into what information they want, who they are targeting and how to write malware that provides the best chance of getting what they’re after.”Anyone concerned about such attacks has been advised to use a Virtual Private Networking (VPN) tool, which will encrypt data so attackers’ can’t read the plain text of web communications.‘State sponsored’ Russian hacker group linked to cyber attacks on neighbours
Amazon has galloped ahead of rival entertainment retailers to take more than a fifth of sales of non-digital video games, films and music in the UK.The American online retailer increased sales by nearly 5% in the three months to the end of September to take 22.5% of the entertainment market, according to the latest data from Kantar Worldpanel. Amazon’s strong growth widens its lead over its closest rival, Tesco, where sales dived 5.5% to leave it with a 15% market share.HMV, which is hoping to overtake Amazon to become the UK’s biggest film and music retailer, was only able to tread water, holding 12.3% of the entertainment market.Fiona Keenan, strategic insight director, said Amazon’s success demonstrated the general shift towards buying online. “Thanks to the rise of connected devices – 71% of individuals now own a smartphone and 57% own a tablet – this is a shift that we expect to continue. Amazon’s range of Fire tablets has given it another platform to promote its offering directly to consumers, and it appears to be working, as 15% of entertainment products sold on its site are purchased on a tablet.”All the supermarkets have lost market share compared with the same period last year; they have suffered from the lack of a blockbuster game or music album this year after winning sales from the launch of Grand Theft Auto V in 2013. The supermarkets accounted for 53% of the game’s sales and without its success their share of the games market this year has halved, Keenan said.Meanwhile HMV, the only large high street entertainment retailer left in the UK, is likely to have suffered, because the only non-digital entertainment market to see growth was film. DVD and Blu-ray sales rose 3% thanks to the release of The Lego Movie and TV box sets such as Game of Thrones.
Despite the reputation games have earned for being dumb, mass entertainment, in the right hands they can make insightful political commentary. Tim Wicksteed is a British game-maker currently working onBig Pharma, a simulation game in the vein ofSim City, that challenges players to build and maintain a multinational pharmaceutical company. By basing the game on research, rather than his own opinion, Wicksteed hopes to provide an insight into this notoriously problematic industry.“The more I read about pharmaceuticals, the more interesting stuff I have to work with,” says Wicksteed. “The real-life industry presents so many ideas that make good gameplay mechanics – it’s doing a lot of the design work for me.“For example, one of the things I’m currently interested in is clinical trialling. A pharmaceutical company will sponsor a trial, run by a university, to test whether or not a drug is effective. But in the contract the company can issue something called a gagging clause, which means it has the right to stop a trial early but still publish the results. That gives the company the power to massively influence the results. You imagine a trial involving 200 subjects. The first 20 come in showing the drug has very positive effects and then you stop the trial there – you don’t allow for the statistical averaging required to make the trial properly representative. So, that’s my gameplay mechanic. Players can set a trial going and then select an opportune moment to end it.”As well as inspiring the mechanics ofBig Pharma, Wicksteed’s research has made him mindful of bias. Rather than make sweeping judgments, his goal is to present the pharmaceutical trade as objectively as possible.“When you put together the capitalist ideal – this is a business, businesses have to make money – with something as personal as creating drugs that save lives, there’s bound to be friction,” Wicksteed explains. “So decisions aren’t black and white. The pressure to make profit forces people into them.“Accordingly, I’m trying to make sure that the choices players make inBig Pharmawon’t be weighted either way. Some drugs are going to be very hard to make and you’re going to need a lot of funding to produce them. One of the ways you can make that money is by selling something like a flu remedy. It has a shelf-life and governments will have to pay you year on year to refill their stockpile, giving you a steady income. But you can maybe justify that practice because you’re spending the money on something worth while, an HIV vaccine or a cure for cancer.”The Castle Doctrine: game trailerBig Pharmais part of a trend of video games that aim to examine subject matter the medium has not traditionally approached.Oiligarchy, by American media studies lecturer Paolo Pedercini, unpacks the machinations behind today’s oil industry, inviting players to decide on where to drill and how much to charge. There’s alsoThe Castle Doctrineby Jason Rohrer, an online game where each player must fortify their household to prevent others breaking in and murdering their family. It’s named after the “castle laws”, the section of American legal doctrine which dictates that a person has the right to defend his property using, if necessary, lethal force. The twist in Rohrer’s game is that the more players build up their home defences, the harder it becomes for them to navigate around them and reach their own front door. This makes them feel more vulnerable, which in turn encourages them to build more defences, creating a feedback loop of paranoia.Like Wicksteed, Rohrer believes video games are ideal for representing complex, real-life situations: “We use abstracted, simplified models all the time, outside of games, to help us understand things,” Rohrer says. “A book on economics might present a graph with supply-and-demand curves and we look at the curves to try to map an understanding of real world dynamics. But a game can cast the player as a central character in that system, letting them play, for example, the role of a supplier during a scenario where demand is changing.“In this way, games can go beyond the ‘how’ of a supply-and-demand dynamic and shed light on the ‘why’. Through learning to play games like these, people can develop an intuitive understanding of real-life systems and their emergent dynamics.”The Novelist: game trailerThe NovelistRather than big business, the system under scrutiny here is the nuclear family. You play a benevolent ghost figure who must subtly manipulate a mother, father and son into making compromises for one another. Each family member is affected by the actions of another. By observing them and reading their thoughts, you must decide on the right course. Should the dad spend less time writing and more time with his wife? Does the son need extra lessons at school, or would it be better if he was allowed to play with friends? Each decision has a knock-on affect down the line, revealing from within how a family unit functions.Papers, Please: game trailerPapers, PleaseYou’re a border control officer in a fictitious eastern European country during the 1980s. Your job is to check the documents of would-be immigrants and decide whether or not to grant them citizenship. If you play the altruist and let everyone in, your wages are docked and your family goes hungry. If you’re officious and brutal, refugees are sent back to their war-torn countries to die and suspected “terrorists” are executed by police, but everyone back at the house will get a good meal.LikeBig Pharma, this game attempts to show that rather than being intrinsically “bad”, the people working within institutions are subject to pressures and demands that influence their behaviour.Tropico; game trailerTropicoAs the president of a cold war-era banana republic, your goal is to build a healthy economy while keeping both your electorate and the foreign superpowers happy. But as much as you try to please the voters, for example, lowering wage disparity to satisfy the communist faction, or building a church for the religious sect, they may still decide to oust you, just because they feel like it. You’re given reams of statistics – average age, industrial output, crime figures – but your research and best efforts are rarely enough.Tropicois an examination of how institutions are inevitably flawed because they’re comprised of people.
Kim Kardashian: Hollywood, the entertainer’s first mobile game, grossed $43.4m in its first quarter on sale, constituting more than half of its developers total revenues for the period.Glu Mobile, which developed the licenced game for iPhone and Android,earned four times as muchfrom Kardashian’s game as it did from its next biggest earner, Deer Hunter 2014.The game uses a free-to-play model, letting players build their character up from a Z-list celebrity to an A-list star – and best friend of Kim Kardashian herself – by going to parties, earning corporate sponsorships, and buying clothes.Of course, as a free-to-play game, all of those things take time. Time which can be sped up with a cash injection. Hence the $43m revenue.“Glu’s third quarter was the strongest in the company’s history as non-GAAP revenue and Adjusted EBITDA set all time records,” said the firm’s chief executive, Niccolo de Masi. “The record quarter was driven by the strength of Kim Kardashian: Hollywood, our new releases Dino Hunter: Deadly Shores and Tap Sports: Baseball, ongoing traction with Deer Hunter 2014 and Eternity Warriors 3 and the addition of Racing Rivals to our product portfolio.”The income burst from Kim Kardashain: Hollywood quadrupled Glu Mobile’s overall revenue year-on-year, and took it from a $1m loss the quarter before to $15.4m profit.And the figures released in the company’s quarterly report suggest that the runaway success of the game is largely in its ability to monetise players. The company saw 108m installs of its games last quarter, around the same as it had in the first quarter of the year (106m). But revenue in the first quarter was half what it was after the release of Kardashian’s game.Uncomfirmed reportsfrom US site TMZ suggest that Kardashian herself will get 45% of the net profits for the game, putting her income from just one quarter at around $15m after expenses.In October, Kardashian extended her contract with Glu for an additional three years, and the company released Kim Kardashian: Hollywood 2.0 on Facebook.
OLIVIER NSENGIMANA:SAVING RARE AFRICAN CRANEOlivier Nsengimana has a special passion in his life: the grey-crowned crane. The bird was once endemic across central Africa, in countries that include Kenya and Tanzania. It is now, however, in serious decline due to widespread hunting, poaching and loss of habitat, with numbers down by more than 80%.Olivier Nsengimana tags a grey-crowned crane in Kigali.Photograph: Thierry Grobet/Rolex Awards“It is bad in most countries but in Rwanda, my home country, it is catastrophic,” says the 29-year-old veterinary surgeon. In Rwanda, the grey-crowned crane, which has a striking crown of stiff golden feathers and a bright red spot on its neck and stands at more than a metre high, has become prized as an adornment for private houses and hotels across the country. Despite government bans on the killing, harming or poaching of these birds, many are still being captured and sold to dealers, sometimes for the price of a chicken. “Once they have been taken out of the wild, they can no longer breed and the population drops a little bit more,” says Nsengimana.As a result, there are probably only 300 to 500 grey-crowned cranes left in Rwanda. Yet the bird has a special status in the country as a symbol for two Rwandan clans, and is prized for its beauty.Nsengimana, a survivor of the 1994 Rwanda genocide who spent several months in a refugee camp, decided in 2012 to try to save the crane in his native land. At the time, he was working as a staff veterinary officer forGorilla Doctors in Kigali,Rwanda’s capital, but will now devote his time to saving the grey-crowned crane.The first move, Nsengimana says, is to raise public awareness of the bird’s plight and then declare an amnesty for those who still have them in their possession.“We will use these birds to create a captive population of grey-crowned cranes and begin to re-introduce birds at a special rehabilitation centre in Rwanda’s Akagera National Park,” he says.“We hope to get around 40 cranes back into the wild this way in the near future and more later on. The key point about this effort is that Rwandans are going to do this for themselves. This is not going to be a solution imposed from outside the country.“I want this to be something that Rwanda can be proud of and will it for itself.”The Thousand Columns Gallery in the central sector of the Imawar Yeuta Cave in the Auyan Tepui.Photograph: Alessio Romeo/Rolex AwardsFRANCESCO SAURO:SEEKING THE ORIGIN OF LIFEFrancesco Sauro has no doubts about the value of exploring the vast cave systems below the table-top tepuis mountains of Brazil and Venezuela. The geologist rates this underground system, which has caverns stretching dozens of kilometres, as the world’s oldest and most important: “You can find minerals that are completely new to science.” And Sauro should know. He has already discovered one previously unknown mineral, rossiantonite, in a cave in Venezuela.Francesco Sauro trains for his expeditions in Italy.Photograph: Stefan Walter/Rolex AwardsNow the 30-year-old Italian hopes to add significantly to that discovery with a major new expedition that could involvea team of up to 20. This will start with a lengthy reconnoitre to find surface caves that give access to underground cavern systems. “The only way to these caves is by helicopter,” he says. “The tepuis are far too difficult to climb.”Helicopter flights are expensive, hence the great care needed in surveying the tepuis to find the most promising location. Then the real work begins. “The caves are very different from those in Europe,” says Sauro. “You can find great mushroom-shaped and egg-like formations that are the result of interactions between colonies of bacteria and minerals. These are stunning, primitive life-forms and are very important in understanding the origin of life.”Finding such rock formations gives his expedition a real edge, Sauro adds, though the precious nature of his target also poses severe problems: “You have to keep all possible contamination to a minimum. You can only follow careful, restricted paths. The bacterial colonies down there will be very sensitive and we could easily damage them. Of course, you cannot stop breathing. On the other hand, you can do other things, such as bringing back all your faeces and urine in plastic bags. That is a bit messy, especially if you have 20 people working in a cave system for three or four weeks. But that is the nature of this work.”These expeditions are worth such privations, Sauro insists. “Caves are our last dark continent. There are thousands of kilometres to be explored all over the world and they may hold the secrets of the origin of life. For good measure, they are just great places to be inside.”The Sohum device is tested on a baby at Vaani Vilas Hospital, Bangalore.Photograph: Ambroise Tézenas/Rolex AwardsNEETI KAILAS:LOW-COST WAY TO DISCOVER IF A CHILD IS DEAFDeafness can cause cognitive and language impairment if a child’s lack of hearing is not picked up until he or she is five or six years old. By then, it is usually too late for the child to learn to speak properly, with grim effects for their later years. The problem is particularly severe in the developing world, where diagnoses are often difficult and missed. A deaf child is simply assumed to be a slow learner.However, Neeti Kailas has developed Sohum, a cheap, handheld device that can screen a child’s hearing shortly after birth and could be used in remote, rural settings. Those found to have some form of deafness could then be selected for treatment before it is too late to have an effect on their cognitive development.Neeti Kailas.Photograph: Ambroise Tézenas/Rolex Awards“When I was young I knew someone who was deaf and never learned how to speak,” she says. “It was only later that I discovered it is perfectly possible for deaf people to learn to speak if they are spotted early enough. Later I became interested in medical devices and it seemed logical to follow this interest through.”Kailas, 28, has set up Sohum Innovation Lab in Chennai, India, with her husband Nitin Sisodia, an electrical engineer. The outcome is the Sohum. (The term comes from Vedic philosophy and connects a person with the fabric of the universe.)To use a Sohum scanner, three electrodes are placed via a headband on to a child’s skull. These measure the electrical response his or her brain’s auditory system makes to a specific noise, which appear as five peaks on the device. If these show up, the child can hear. Crucially, the device contains filters that remove ambient noise so that it can be used in noisy settings such as villages, halls or busy surgeries.Kailas is working on preparing the first batch of Sohum devices that will act as a proof-of-concept for the system. When in full production it is hoped they will sell for around $1,500 (£930), considerably lower than $5,000-$25,000 for current devices. Once enough are in operation, a Sohumwould cost around $2.40. If combined as part of government vaccination schemes, costs could be reduced to a few cents. As Neeti says: “We have great hopes for Sohum.”Hosam Zowawi loads up superbugs for examination.Photograph: Julian Kingma/Rolex AwardsHOSAM ZOWAWI:BATTLING THE MICROBE SUPERBUGSHosam Zowawi’s father is a bee-keeper, which impacted on his son’s professional life. “One day, when I was about seven, a relative brought my father a microscope to study honey and pollen particles. My brother and I were allowed to look through it. It opened up a completely new world for me,” he recalls. “I still remember my first glimpse of an ant’s head!”Hosam Zowawi examines antibiotic-resistant bacteria.Photograph: Julian Kingma/Rolex AwardsViews of microscopic creatures stimulated an interest in the living world and gave Hosam his entry into the field of microbiology, which he studied at Umm Al-Qura University in Saudi Arabia, then at Griffith University, in Australia. Now he is turning that expertise into an enterprise aimed at having a direct impact on healthcare.His particular concern is antibiotic resistance, a problem that has reached a critical status in many parts of the globe. Over-prescribing of antibiotics means some strains of microbes have evolved an ability to withstand the effects of these drugs. Life-threatening infections, once controlled by medicines, are now spreading unhindered between patients.One solution, says Hosam, is to find ways to diagnose, quickly and efficiently, which strain a patient is carrying. If they are found to have a resistant strain, a non-resistant antibiotic can be administered. The critical point is that this should be done when a patient is first diagnosed with an infection. Present tests require up to 48 hours to determine if a bug is resistant to an antibiotic, giving it time to spread through the body.The problem has led Hosam to develop two tests that both aim to cut detection times of resistant strains to a few hours. The first is called the Rapid Superbug test, which can pinpoint the presence of genes that code for beta-lactamase enzymes, chemicals that allow bacteria to destroy important classes of antibiotics, including penicillin. The second test rapidly identifies a class of bacteria called gram-negative bacilli, which are more likely to be antibiotic resistant than gram-positive strains, the other main group of bacteria.Hosam’s plans include an antibiotics awareness campaign for the Gulf region that will include videos, flyers and social media. His overall budget – for tests and awareness campaign – is $86,000, to which his Rolex award will make a substantial contribution.A patient’s heart is monitored using the Cardiopad.Photograph: Marc Latzel/Rolex AwardsARTHUR ZANG:INVENTOR OF CARDIOPAD COMPUTERArthur Zang has a straightforward claim to fame: he is responsible for developing Africa’s first medical tablet computer, the Cardiopad. The device allows a nurse in a remote rural clinic to record a patient’s electrocardiograph (EEC) – an electric signal that reveals crucial information about the behaviour of a person’s heart – and transmit it wirelessly to a cardiologist in a city hospital who will then decide whether or not the patient needs treatment or drugs, or if are they are healthy enough to continue without medical intervention?Arthur Zang.Photograph: Ambroise Tézenas/Rolex Awards“I am from Cameroon and we have fewer than 50 cardiologists in this country,” says the 27-year-old computer engineer. “Yet more than 22 million people live here. We need to find a way to make the most use of their expertise and to pinpoint people at risk of heart disease without having them travel unnecessarily through remote countryside to get to a city. That is why I developed the Cardiopad.”The device is intriguing in its own right but there is an added twist to the story of its creation. Zang’s mother, Felicite, is a nurse and immediately saw the value of the Cardiopad. As Zang struggled to raise funds to make a prototype device, she took out a $1,500 bank loan to help his work. “She believed in the Cardiopad from the beginning,” Zang says.That money allowed him to make a prototype device that, in turn, interested the Cameroon government which invested $37,000 in the project. “With that money I went to China and met entrepreneurs. They helped me manufacture 30 complete devices. We are now using these to promote the product and to test them.”Currently the Cardiopad is being used in two hospitals in Cameroon, one in the village of Mbankomo and the other, 20km away, in Yaoundé, the capital of Cameroon. “The nurse attaches electrodes to a patient’s chest and it reads their EEC which is then transmitted to the Cardiopad of the cardiologist in Yaoundé from which a diagnosis is made,” says Zang. “The results have been very good.”And now with his Rolex prize money, Arthur has been able to set up plans for full-scale production of Cardiopads. “We will be selling many devices very soon,” adds Zang. “Then I can pay my mother back.”EVERY SECOND COUNTS: JOIN OUR FORUMThe Observer and the Guardian are launching a half-day forum,Every Second Counts, at Kings Place, London, on Saturday 15 November. The event is sponsored by the Rolex Awards for Enterprise. The forum is aimed at inspiring future leaders in science and health, applied technology, exploration, the environment and cultural heritage and will be attended by the Rolex Awards young laureates. The key speaker will be Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the world wide web.
Streaming music serviceSpotify might not have any of Taylor Swift’s albumsany more, but a number of its rivals do: and they’re beginning to shout about it.Rdio, for example,issued a press release on Fridayreiterating its “commitment to artist choice in music distribution”, noting that it still has all of Swift’s albums bar the latest one (1989), with CEO Anthony Bay saying “artists deserve a say in how their music is shared with their fans”.This might seem like a company sticking the boot in when a much larger rival – Spotify claims more than 40m active users and 10m paying subscribers, while Rdio has never declared its numbers – is down. But there is more to the company’s stance than pure opportunism.On Thursday, I interviewed Bay on-stage at the Web Summit conference in Dublin. He expanded on the topic of artist choice, as well as the move towards more film industry-style “windowing” in streaming music; how streaming services can work better for musicians; and whether Apple and Google will dominate this area in the longer term.But naturally, Taylor Swift loomed large in the conversation, with Bay pointing toher opinion piece for the Wall Street Journalearlier this year as clearly flagging her views, and criticising media coverage that has portrayed the current situation as Swift “breaking up” with Spotify.“It was saying she didn’t think her music should be free. She doesn’t want her music played on an unlimited, on-demand free service with ads. It wasn’t anti-streaming: it was antithattype of streaming,” said Bay.“It’s kinda like if Apple said ‘yknow, Taylor, there’s a lot of people who don’t want to pay for your music on iTunes, so for every song you sell, we’re going to give away four and they might have to listen to an ad’. If she said she didn’t like that, would she be ‘breaking up’ with iTunes? But that’s all this is: free unlimited ‘listen to anything you want, with ads’ is what she didn’t want.”This is why Taylor Swift’s back catalogue – everything bar 1989 – is still available to stream on services like Beats Music, Rhapsody, WiMP in Scandinavia and its US/UK version Tidal and others: because they don’t have free on-demand versions.Meanwhile, Rdio still has it because its free tier is a “personal radio” service based around the idea of stations: fans can’t listen to any of Swift’s albums all the way through in order on it. But by Spotify’s own admission, it doesn’t let artists or labels stipulate that albums be only available to paying customers, so that’s why Swift’s have been removed from that service.Streaming: the artist’s choice“The fundamental thing here is it’s art. It’s the artist’s choice. It needs to be the artist’s decision as much as possible. In this case, if the artist said ‘I don’t want my music to be played for free, then you have to respect that,” said Bay, who thinks this will become more common in the future.He was backed up at the Web Summitby Adele’s manager Jonathan Dickinson this score. “My feeling would be to get around the situation with someone like Taylor Swift – but Spotify won’t do it – is a window between making something available on the premium service, earlier than it’s made available on the free service,” said Dickins.Spotify has argued that its free, unlimited tier has been the key to persuading more than 10m people to upgrade to its premium version. It has also suggested that keeping albums off even the free tiers of streaming music service is harmful, because it weakens their ability to compete with places artists have much less control over: piracy sites and YouTube, where users can repeatedly upload full-album streams as videos.Bay acknowledged the latter point. “The same people who complain a lot about quote streaming don’t complain about YouTube,” he said. “People view YouTube as promotional in the same way they view radio. They say ‘Wow, I have a million views on YouTube!’ That’s a badge of honour. But if they have a million plays on a streaming service, then it’s ‘they should be paid more’.”Even so, he suggested that streaming music services may be heading more towards a model like Netflix – Bay used to work at Amazon’s digital video business, so he knows that market well – where release “windows” are commonplace, if sometimes also the subject of debate over whether they encourage piracy.“People don’t say ‘oh my God, the newest movie isn’t on Netflix!’. You don’t expect that. If you want to see it for free or on subscription, you have to wait. I think as the world evolves, for better or for worse, big artists in particular will start doing that with music, and she [Swift] certainly seems to be one that’s starting,” said Bay.Taylor Swift’s albums are still on Rdio.Photograph: PRIs that a good thing? Bay admitted that for selfish reasons, he wishes 1989 was available on Rdio’s premium service too, but said again, it’s a decision for artists and their managers to take.“It has to work for the artist, and if the artist thinks it works better for them to try to sell them [albums] first and then put them on streaming, that should be their decision. Most artists won’t do that, I think, because most artists are not Taylor Swift. They don’t have a million people ready to buy it,” he said.“Frankly, this is what happened 10 years ago with iTunes. People forget, but when iTunes came out, the premise was ‘oh my God, you’re ruining the business! They’re not the saviour of the business, they’re ruining the business because they’ll let someone buy a song and not the whole album’… And now nobody thinks about that. I think it [streaming] will evolve. It’s hard to predict, but it’s hard to imagine one price fits all.”Bay warned that the nuances of the artists and streaming debate shouldn’t be lost in any clamour for streaming services to pay out more money. “All the pieces have to work. None of the companies in our business are profitable, so it’s not as if the tech companies are getting rich off other people’s music for the most part,” he said.This is exactly the worry of some musicians, who fear that unsustainable streaming models will earn massive payouts for the streaming companies and (when applicable) the labels who have equity stakes in them, if and when they go public or get bought.Universal Music’s stake in Beats made it $404mwhen that company was bought by Apple, for example.To the harshest critics of streaming, the model’s current unprofitability fuels their belief that it’s a get-rich-at-artists’-expense scheme, rather than dampens it down. But Bay made a good point about streaming services responding to this “us-versus-them” situation by doing a better job helping artists sustain their own careers.“There’s a lot of things that we and other streaming music services are doing to link artists and fans,” he said. Bay sees a future when Rdio and rivals will all be helping musicians sell more gig tickets and merchandise, and understand their fanbases.“How does the data that we have help artists identify not just the 500,000 people who listen to them, but the ones who listen to them a lot? In a fundamental way, we connect people who create music with people who listen to music, and that equation has to work,” he said.Data as the musician’s friend“Part of the problem that people feel they’re not well-compensated by streaming is wheat other value they get. So to a degree, we’re able to say ‘here’s the top 500 people in Dublin who listen to your music, based on how often they’ve listened to your music’. Would it be useful for you to connect to these people, and would it be useful for those people to have a better connection with you?”“So far, you haven’t seen services like ours used in the way that people use Facebook or Instagram as that linkage, but I think that will start to happen,” he said. “There’s still a sense of us-versus-them when you hear the debates, as opposed to some holistic sense of how does it get better for everyone? How do companies like us help? How do artists make more money?”Bay also talked about how Rdio plans to punch its weight in 2015, with much richer rivals like Apple and Google in the market, as well as a possibly post-IPO Spotify.All of these companies will have big marketing budgets and the ability to throw money at artists in direct advance payments – this is going to be the big behind-the-scenes streaming music trend of 2015, by the way – to secure their music, sometimes exclusively. How can someone like Rdio compete?“The difference is we have to be better. Somebody has to find that the service we can deliver is better than what you can get from Google and Apple. I think you saw that with iTunes Radio: it came out, it was nice, but it didn’t eliminate the interest in other services,” said Bay.“It’s going to come down to doing a great job, making a great experience, and being completely, passionately, fanatically focused on that. Apple is selling phones: music is a means to an end. Music is not what they do. It doesn’t mean they won’t do it well, but it’s a side-product.”“The challenge will be if they at some point give it away for free in order to make a better iPhone sale. That would be sad. I don’t know: they don’t have a history of giving things away for free, but you can’t really worry about these things.”Giving music away for free is exactly what Apple has done recently:U2’s controversial Songs of Innocence album iTunes giveaway. But for now, it’s another artist – Taylor Swift – whose distribution strategy will have a big impact on how Rdio, Spotify and their rivals’ relationships with musicians evolve.•Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube and Spotify
Major new research into the effects of violent movies and video games has found no long-term links with real-life violence. The methodology of previous laboratory studies, which have used spikes in short-term aggressive behaviour to suggest a causal relationship between screened and real-life violence have also been questioned in the report,published in the Journal of Communication.Christopher Ferguson, a psychologist at Stetson University in Florida, carried out two studies into media violence. In the first, his team correlated US homicide rates between 1920 and 2005, with instances of violence depicted in motion pictures. Although there was evidence of a moderate correlation between a rise in screened and real-life violence during the 1950s, this reversed throughout the rest of the century, with instances of screen violence inversely related to homicide rates in the 1990s.In the second study, consumption of violent video games was measured against youth violence rates in the previous 20 years. The study concluded that playing video games coincided with a fall in violent crime perpetrated by those in the 12-17 age group.The research paper also questions the validity of previous studies into links between real-life and screened violence, which have largely relied on laboratory testing. The ways in which aggressive behaviours have been explored and measured in the past, with test subjects watching short clips of violent content and then carrying out specified activities, may well have led to results which have little relevance outside of the laboratory environment, the study suggests.“The degree to which laboratory studies faithfully capture the media experience is also debatable,” writes Ferguson. “Many such studies provide exposure to only brief clips of media, rather than full narrative experiences, in which violence exposure is outside of a narrative context. The resultant aggressive behaviors are also outside a real-world context, in which the aggression appears to be sanctioned by the researchers themselves, who provide the opportunity for aggression.“The close pairing of clips of media violence with sanctioned aggression asks may also set up demand characteristics that may explain the small effects typically seen from such studies. The degree to which such studies, regardless of their inconsistent results, can be generaliSed to societal aggression remains debatable.”The possibility of a link between real-life and screened violence has been a source of huge controversy since the 1970s. The “video nasties” scare of the early 1980s led to the Video Recordings Act of 1984, which saw dozens of horror movies denied video classification. Since then, a series of mass shootings in the US have been linked to violent movies and video games. The perpetrators of the 1999 Columbine High School killings, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold were said to have been obsessed with violent games such as Doom, while Anders Behring Breivik claimed to have played the military shooter Call of Duty in preparation for the killing of 77 people in Norway in 2011. In January 2013, Obama called for research into the effects of violent games after the Sandy Hook school shooting in Connecticut the previous December.However, despite years of research, definitive links have not been found, partially because laboratory tests into aggression can only measure short-term aggressive reactions, and partly due to the myriad other psychological and sociocultural stimuli that play a part in violent behaviour.“Society has a limited amount of resources and attention to devote to the problem of reducing crime,” said Ferguson ina press statement. “There is a risk that identifying the wrong problem, such as media violence, may distract society from more pressing concerns such as poverty, education and vocational disparities and mental health. This research may help society focus on issues that really matter and avoid devoting unnecessary resources to the pursuit of moral agendas with little practical value.”
Next time you find yourself on an aeroplane speeding down a runway, perhaps on your way to somewhere hot, consider for a brief moment that the jet engines taking you there will have already reached temperatures of 1,500C (2,732F). This temperature exceeds the melting point of the metals that make up the engine, and the fact that the whole thing doesn’t just turn into a molten pool of liquid is down to some nifty materials. So remarkable are they that when they were developed in the 1940s, the heyday of comic-book superheroes, the alloys were given the name “superalloys”. Unlike their fictional counterparts, the super powers of these alloys can now be understood rationally, although at the time they were a mystery.If you have ever blown up a balloon and then let it go, allowing it to zoom and fart its way around a room, you will have a good grasp of how a jet engine works. As your compressed breath shoots out in one direction the balloon is propelled in the opposite direction: it’s called Newton’s third law, which states that every action has an equal and opposite reaction. Fireworks and space rockets work in the same way except that they use chemical reactions to create the gas. It’s a simple but very inefficient way of producing thrust. If aircraft relied on this type of jet engine to get around, average ticket prices would be tens of thousands of pounds and the environmental impact would be devastating.It was the British engineer Frank Whittle who worked out how to solve this problem. He reasoned as follows: the sky is already full of gas so there is no need to carry it around with you, just compress it as you go, and shoot it out the back. This required a machine to be built that sucked air in at the front, compressed it, and shot it out the back. The compressor is what you see under the wing as you board a plane – it looks like a giant fan, and it is, but what you can’t see is that behind it are 10 or more fans, each one smaller than the next. Their job is to suck in the air and compress it. In the middle of the engine is the combustion chamber where the compressed air is mixed with fuel and ignited, producing a jet of hot gas that then shoots out the back of the engine. The genius in the design is that on its way out of the engine some of its energy is used to rotate a set of turbines – it is these turbines that rotate the compressors at the front of the engine. In other words, the engine harvests energy from the hot gas to collect and compress air as it flies through the sky.It’s a pretty neat trick, but you can immediately see the problem: the materials of the turbines have to take the full brunt of the combustion gases, which reach temperatures of more than 1,500C. Not only that, but they are rotating at tens of thousands of revolutions per minute, experiencing huge stresses. Whittle and the others looked around for answers from materials scientists. A candidate was stainless steel, which looked like it could resist the corrosive conditions inside the white-hot jet engine. But like most metals, it gets weaker as it gets hotter, losing up to 50% of its strength by the time it reaches 700C. The reason for this is that the strength of steel, like most metals, is governed by dislocations – a type of structural irregularity, like a ruck in a carpet, that moves like a Mexican wave through the crystal. As the temperature gets higher, so dislocations find it easier to move and so make the metal softer: this is why blacksmiths heat up metals before shaping them into things like horseshoes.Whittle’s search appeared hopeless, except for the discovery of a patent that had been granted in 1929 for a very unusual nickel alloy: a combination of nickel, chrome, aluminium and titanium. For some reason, this alloy could retain almost all its strength at high temperatures. No one knew why, and they had to wait 20 years for electron microscopes good enough to see what was going on. What they found when they finally could look inside the nickel crystals was that a whole forest of other crystals had grown. In other words, there were crystals within crystals. Called gamma prime crystals, these stopped dislocations moving extremely effectively and kept doing so almost up to its melting point that was, drum roll, 1,365C.Between 1960 and 2010 there was a 55% increase in the fuel efficiency of jet aircraft and much of this is down to improvements in these alloys: now the intricate alloy structure is beefed up by additions of exotic elements such as rhenium, tantalum and hafnium. The turbine blades are now grown as single crystals, laced with cooling channels and coated in ceramic to protect them from the gas temperatures above their melting point.The alloys are super indeed. In my opinion, the women and men who make them, in factories such as Rolls Royce in Derby, are also super. They are the modern blacksmiths, but instead of shoeing horses for a living, they shoe turbine jet engines.
A fun game to play with older children, or if just trying to cheer yourself up on a glum November afternoon, is: “Let’s try to name anything that a Roman emperor – the most powerful and privileged person in the world 2,000 years ago – might have had that we don’t.” Of course, social inequality is a terrible problem, and we know there are tens of millions of people in appalling poverty around the world. The point of the game isn’t self-congratulation, but to think about all the things we have in the west purely because we happened to be born here and now, rather than there or then. The point is to feel humble, and grateful.So. Access to citrus fruits all year round? We’ve got ’em. Frozen ice cream treats that the emperor would have had to send for ice from the mountains to make? Available in the corner shop. Books written by the greatest thinkers in history? They’re available for 1p online, or in any public libraries that still exist.Then you go on to consider all the things that a Roman emperor could never have had access to, no matter how absolute his power or despotic his rule. We’ve got anaesthetics and painkillers. We have antibiotics. We have modern dentistry. How happy could they have been at any point, those emperors, with sore gums and rotten teeth? We can talk to people around the world at the touch of a button. We have bright, non-flickering lights to read and talk by, even on the darkest night. We don’t need to be carried from place to place in a litter, we have trains and cars and buses and bikes. We have bananas and tomatoes and potatoes – treats they would never have imagined. And we have chocolate.Of course there are a few things Roman emperors had that we don’t, but they’re mostly somewhat suspect pleasures. The ability to put people to death at will? Sure, but you know, probably it’s better if you can’t do that. Ownership of slaves? Yeahhhh, the slave trade is corrosive to the mind and soul of all participants, along with the horrors inflicted on its millions of victims. Likewise, it’s hard to feel envious of the ability to marry one’s sister and make a horse a senator.All in all, this is a game that tends to make me feel better about life. Especially when I contemplate the most interesting category of all: things where we don’t have exactly what a Roman emperor had, but we have a “virtual” equivalent, which is probably even better. Augustus might have been able to order the greatest musicians to play for him at his whim, or the greatest actors to perform at any hour, day or night, but at a single click we can watch any of several million performances. We can replay the exact same performance as many times as we like, we can compare actors in the same Shakespearean role, we can listen to different versions of the same song. We can watch elaborately-constructed scenes shot in fantastic locations around the world. We might not be able to have the real actors in our living rooms, but the virtual versions of these performances can produce spectacles that the live versions couldn’t.This is a thought that occurs to me as well when playing video games – you wondered when I was going to get to video games, didn’t you? Sometimes people who worry about games – whether professionally, or on an amateur volunteer basis – say to me: “Well, it’s not the same as the real world, is it? Instead of exploring this virtual world, why don’t you explore the real one?” Of course, this is a false dichotomy. One can travel around the Arctic in real life as well as wandering through the digital ice landscapes of, for example,Elder Scrolls V:Skyrim; in fact I’ve been lucky enough to do both this year and can highly recommend each of them. But they are different, and provide different pleasures, just as a live theatre performance is different to a movie.One of the most popular iPad games of recent years isThe Room– and its sequel,The Room 2. They are games intensely interested in objects – the games are played by manipulating incredibly realistic wooden boxes, furniture, scrolls and brass eyepieces.The rendering is superb; you really feel that you’ve been holding that mahogany and gold box, that you found the hidden catch with your fingertips, that you yourself slid the secret panel up to reveal the concealed message. Similarly,Drawn: The Painted Tower, a top-selling iPad game, creates impossibly beautiful puzzle objects – ice-covered stones that must be shifted to make a pattern, carved writing that can be manipulated to reveal a message.One of the great pleasures of video games, in fact, can be the ability to “handle” virtual objects the like of which most of us would never see outside a museum.Video games, with their proliferation of scrolls, tomes, puzzle boxes and, yes, esoteric weaponry, give “the masses” access to objects that have only previously been available to the elite. And that’s if they exist at all! Because the most exciting thing can be, inThe Roomfor example, that the objects are impossible. With their magical properties and strange lights, they can only exist in the imagination. In games, we get to touch things that could never have been made – not even for a Roman emperor.
Mozilla is celebrating theFirefox browser’s 10th birthday, but it’s going on the offensive in the mobile market rather than resting on its laurels.Chief technology officer Andreas Gal claims that the company’s Firefox OS mobile operating system will bring much-needed change to the smartphone market by highlighting the transparency – or lack of it – from the software of industry leaders Google and Apple.While both companies are facing more pressure to open up on their relationship with governments following the Edward Snowden leaks about NSA surveillance, Gal suggests that both Android and iOS continue to share a common trait: their reliance on proprietary software with “almost a complete lack of transparency”.Gal told the Guardian that this should be a concern for people who want to know just what their gadgets are doing with their information. “Right now the user has a choice between one phone where you can’t tell what goes on inside it and another phone where you can’t tell what goes on inside it,” Gal said.He cited Google’sban of privacy-focused app Disconnect from its official storeas one example. Disconnect was designed to block apps from collecting information, but was removed from the Google Play store due to a policy that prevents apps from interfering with others.Gal thinks that if Mozilla were to make a mobile product similar to itsLightbeam software, which maps where people’s data goes when browsing the web, Google would ban that too.“What an Android phone essentially is, it’s like Google’s agent in your pocket… they don’t intend to put you first, they put Google first because Google needs to increase their value,” he said.“They’d like to know things about you and track you so they can target you. Google sets the rules that serve Google in the end, not necessarily the user.”Apple’s iOS has always been closed, and has shown some privacy-focused apps the door too, includingClueful, a tool created by security firm BitDefender that shines a light on what apps are doing with users’ data. In response, BitDefender released a new web version that could be accessed via the web browser.“We don’t think it’s a good idea that corporations rule these massive ecosystems with arbitrary rules that sometimes can be completely opposite to what the user wants,” said Gal. “The user should be able to know what is happening to their data and have some influence over it.Gal added that the debate about governmental influence on popular software in the wake of the Snowden revelations may encourage more people to turn to open source software as a better option for privacy – not least because it can be properly and transparently audited by researchers, who’ll then raise the alert if they discover suspicious code.Mozilla is hoping that Firefox OS will highlight the strengths and openness of the web, although for now the software is mainly being used for smartphones in emerging markets rather than countries like the US and UK.“That’s what we hope people will choose over these closed systems,” he said. “We can’t change the industry over night but we can move in the right direction.”•Firefox OS: ‘Suing us probably doesn’t make a lot of sense’
I’d always hoped I’d fly through a virtual reality environment on a Lambretta listening to some of The Who’s greatest hits before I got old. Now I have, courtesy of an official app being developed for Facebook’s Oculus Rift headset.The app, which is due to be released in early 2015, is preceded by a smartphone and tablet app forAndroidandiOS, which launched this week.Both apps are the results of a partnership between The Who, their management company Trinifold Management, label Universal Music and developerImmersive, tying in with a new compilation album and tour to celebrate the band’s 50th anniversary.The mobile and tablet app also takes the form of a 3D world, dotted with imagery from The Who’s career, as well as rare photographs from Roger Daltrey’s archives; and music courtesy of fans’ own iTunes collections, or streaming services Spotify, Deezer or Rdio.“We’ve kept it quite tight around The Who Hits 50 album, but the idea is to expand and use the technology to unlock different experiences as the tour evolves,” Michael Fenna, creative and production director at Immersive, told the Guardian.“The plan is to add a series of other experiences, including live performances. We’ve built it as an evolving thing: there’s a real chance to tell a narrative in a more engaging way than in a book or a film.”The app is free to download, but may in future charge for some of the extra content using in-app purchases. For now, links to buy tickets and merchandise, as well as music, will be how it makes money.The Who’s new mobile app also uses a 3D world.The Oculus Rift app is likely to be charged for when it launches in early 2015, although a limited demo may be released to the Oculus developer community before Christmas.The latter will be publicly shown to journalists at an event on Wednesday, but during the interview, I tried it out.You strap on the Oculus Rift headset and a pair of headphones, then find yourself flying through a world based on familiar The Who images, from bullseyes and magic buses to a Soho doorway.Lyrics from the songs flash up as you swoop through the environment, and at one point virtual instruments – bass, drums, guitar and keyboard – hover in the air ahead of you, with each turned up in the audio mix if you turn your head to look at it.It’s pretty fun, although limited at this stage: there’s clearly scope for lots more content in the final app, including perhaps more gaming elements. Whizzing round a giant pinball table as the ball might be a recipe for motion sickness, but it’s among the elements under consideration by the developers.“For me, the artist apps that aren’t so exciting are the ones that are basically a website. We’re trying to unlock new ways of expressing creativity, and experiencing an artist and everything around them in a new way,” said Fenna. “Music’s such a primeval thing, and there are some really exciting new ways of bringing it to fans.”Oculus Rift headsets aren’t on sale commercially yet, other than to developers, although the company’s$2bn acquisition by Facebookearlier this year may speed its path to market.Stare at each instrument to turn it up in the mix.Photograph: PRAt last week’s Web Summit conference, Oculus boss Brendan Iribe suggested thatthe first commercial version of Oculus Rift will be on sale in 2015. “We’re getting much closer: we like to say it’s months, not necessarily years away. It’s many months, not just a few months,” he said.For The Who and their label, working with the technology now is partly a good hook for the launch of its companion mobile app, but mainly about exploring the latest wave of virtual reality early, and learning the lessons.“Virtual reality’s been around a long time, but Facebook buying Oculus was a big step. There seems to be a wave where this new technology is finally being able to utilise content in a new and exciting way,” said Geoff Smith, head of digital for Universal Strategic Marketing at the label group.“We are on the cusp of it, so it’s exciting to be working with The Who as it reflects how the band have constantly pushed the boundaries both musically and with technology over their 50 years.”Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg recently said his companyhopes to have sold between 50m and 100m Oculus unitsover the next decade, taking the technology mainstream.The Who are not the first band to get in early on Oculus Rift, though. Japanese singer Kumi Koda’s recent Dance in the Rain songhad a video shot for Oculus Rift, while director Chris Milk’s Hello, Again concert documentary about Beckalso has an Oculus Rift version.•Oculus Rift – 10 reasons why all eyes are back on virtual reality
When it first appeared a decade ago,SingStardid something quite special, changing perceptions of what gaming might offer to mixed social gatherings. It made participation part and parcel of what many had viewed as a resolutely solo pursuit. Ten years on,SingStarmakes another debut, this time on the PS4, and also returns to the PS3. Available as theUltimate Partydisc – which largely includes a broad swath of contemporary pop – or as a free trackless download, both grant access to tunes for purchase.At its core it remains an entertaining, well-presented and functional karaoke game, but now bolstered by a handful of updated features. Sounding the death knell for the hairbrush’s reign as the foremost mock microphone,SingStarnow allows a smartphone to function as a workable mic via a free app. There are also social media functions, and PS camera owners can adapt basic videos.Of course karaoke games may feel rather pedestrian today, butSingStarserves its purpose perfectly, and many will no doubt revel in the lively night it promises.
At first glance, offering few clues as to exactly what type of game it is,Minutesmight easily be dismissed as an abstract curio. Which would do it a disservice. In fact, tiny studio Red Phantom has created a distinct, sometimes brilliant, action-puzzler that is as demanding as it is unpretentious. It presents the player with 60 one-minute-long stages – hence the title – which are built of ever-moving, intersecting lines, rotating outlines and drifting shapes. Moving a simple disk through each bristling maze gathers points from contact with colourful forms, while black figures eat away at a limited energy supply. Upping the disk’s size increases risk and score multipliers in tandem, while various power-ups offer fleeting defence against each stage’s claustrophobic tangle of lines.The clinical aesthetic sometimes feels a shade soulless, and the combination of a linear progression structure and a somewhat erratic difficulty curve means it can frustrate on occasion, but as a scoring-focused homage to the spirit of arcade gaming,Minutesis an absolute gem.
The way Facebook curates the news feed of its users – through an algorithm designed to prioritise 300 updates a day out of 1,500-plus that you could see from friends and pages that you follow – has often been controversial.Now the social network says it’s giving more control back to those users, oras it put it in a blog post: “more ways for you to control and give feedback on your News Feed”.How so? It’s all about the news feed settings page, which now makes it easier to unfollow individual friends, pages or groups, as well as re-follow those they’ve unfollowed in the past.From now, they can also provide more feedback when hiding something from their news feed, including choosing to see less stories from that user, page or group. The idea, seemingly, is more manual curation to tune the settings that Facebook uses to decide those 300 stories a day.Is this a good move, and if you use Facebook, will you use the new features? But will this fly over the heads of most of Facebook’s 1.3 billion users, given that many still don’t even know their feed is being bossed by an algorithm in the first place? The comments section is open for your views.Also on the technology news radar today:Apple has launched a new web tool, but this time it’s nothing to do with removing Bono from your iPhone. Instead, it’s to deregister old phone numbers from its iMessage system. Very useful if, for example, you’ve switched from iOS to Android at some point.DARPA is putting$11m of funding into a tool called PLINYthat it describes as “Autocomplete for programmers”. Which doesn’t mean inserting random, occasionally-comical errors into their code, thankfully. It aims to draw on past code: “We envision a system where the programmer writes a few of lines of code, hits a button and the rest of the code appears...”Blizzard CEO Mike Morhaine hascome out strongly against harassment within the games world. “Over the past couple of months, there’s been a small group of people who have been doing really awful things. They have been making some people’s lives miserable, and they are tarnishing our reputation as gamers. It’s not right...”Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi is on the rise, and now it’s apparentlyraising $1.5bn at a valuation of $40bn– a huge round that would fund the company’s continued efforts to expand into the West.Vanity Fair has a good piece onhow Amazon ended up such a divisive entity within the book publishing world, including its dispute with publisher Hachette. “In general terms, Hachette has claimed that the dispute is about money, whereas Amazon has claimed that it is about e-book pricing. These may sound like the same thing, but they’re not. At the same time, it is likely that the dispute is about both.”The European Space Agency is continuing to explore the potential to 3D print a Moon base from “lunar material”. Here’s its latest video on how it might work:Have your say about these or any other technology stories you’ve noticed today by joining the discussion below.
GLaDOS T-shirt, £20GamerPrintwww.gamerprint.co.ukGamerPrint, now in operation for more than five years, has a traditional offering of T-shirts and hoodies with prints designed to be recognisable only by those familiar with the game from which they draw inspiration. The customer favourite is the Fallout-inspired Nuka Cola T, though also popular are the Nintendo designs (inspired by the likes of Mario and Zelda) and this lovely Portal-inspired GLaDOS T.Street Fighter Xmas Jumper, £29.99Street Fighter Xmas jumper.Numskullwww.yellowbulldog.co.ukNumskull is part of Rubber Road, a company founded in 2012 by former Game executives. It produces licensed products from brands such as PlayStation and Ubisoft and has anew range aimed squarely at the Christmas shopper. Less subtle than the print T-shirts of other retailers, they include stocking fillers along the lines of PlayStation cufflinks and colourful Sonic the Hedgehog socks, as well as a range of Christmas jumpers: PlayStation, Sonic and Street Fighter.Gym Veteran Badge Set, £15Top Thread gym badges.Top Thread Clothingwww.topthread.co.ukIndependently owned and run, all of Top Thread Clothing’s T-shirts are printed in the UK. As with other retailers, it offers T-shirts with prints designed to be recognisable only by those familiar with the games, but it also has some unique items like Sonic the Hedgehog customised Converse shoes and Pokémon-themed gym badgesMinecraft Creeper scarf, £16.99Minecraft Creeper scarf.Gamerabiliawww.gamerabilia.co.ukGamerabilia is notable for its huge range of licensed clothing and its extensive fancy dress section, which features an Assassin’s Creed hidden blade replica, Borderlands character masks, and a foam Minecraft replica sword. The long list of games from which its offerings draw inspiration includes older titles such as Space Invaders and forthcoming releases like Assassin’s Creed Unity. The most popular range is Legend of Zelda, but parents looking for Christmas presents might want to check out the Minecraft range, including the Creeper scarf.Power Up Pac-Man leggings, £30Insert Coin Pac-Man leggings.Insert Coinwww.insertcoinclothing.comUnfortunately, Insert Coin no longer produces many T-shirts in women’s sizes, but there is a large range of men’s/unisex T-shirts with subtle game-themed designs. It also carries women’s clothes like a The Last Of Us-themed Ellie vest and the Power Up Pac-Man leggings, as well as treats such as a PaRappa the Rapper-themed beanie.La Liberté Assassin’s Creed jacket, £169La Liberté Assassin’s Creed jacket for women.Musterbrandwww.musterbrand.comMusterbrand offers high quality clothing for gamers not afraid to spend more for something special. La Liberté is its first Assassin’s Creed jacket for women. With a 100% moleskin shell it’s weighty and comfortable and has a tricolour lining and Assassin’s Creed logo buttons that will reward those who look closer. Then, of course, it has an oversized hood for those who want to play the stealthy vigilante.
Another nostalgia-bomb from Nintendo, this time with an eShop rerelease of what was once the original Game Boy’s most technologically impressive title. Considering that the battery-chugging grey monolith ran on a 4MHz processor, that Rare managed to squeeze pseudo-3D character models and expansive worlds into its ape-shaped platformer is almost a miracle.But looking at it now, the screen seems cluttered, with Donkey Kong and his sidekick, Diddy, too often blending into incredibly detailed backgrounds. The lack of colour doesn’t help, raising the question of why Nintendo is reluctant to release superior SNES versions of retro games on the 3DS –Donkey Kong Countrywould be a joy on the handheld.Although the visuals don’t retain their former glory, thankfully gameplay does. Perfectly timed jump or roll attacks, pixel-precise leaps and plenty of secrets to uncover are a reminder of the game’s core genius. It definitely shows its age, though, and will really best be enjoyed by players eager for a spot of nostalgia.
Ugh, monday.
Amazon’s Echo defies easy description. Actually, that’s not quite true: the easy way to describe it is “creepy as hell”. What’s trickier is explaining what it is.The Echo(below)is a 20cm-tall black cylinder, that sits in your home and listens to everything you do. You will want it to do this, if Amazon’s marketing is to be believed, because it will be able to answer questions like, “who is Abraham Lincoln?” and perform simple tasks such as adding ice cream to your shopping or playing a Taylor Swift track. (You have to say the “wake word”, “Alexa”, before it will act on what it hears).The device is like a hyped-up Siri or Google Now for your whole house. And it does have some impressive technology behind it, packing two speakers and seven microphones into its small case. But still, anyone who is comfortable with the idea of an always-on, Wifi-enabled obelisk listening to everything they say will probably be the first to die in the inevitable cyberwar of the 22nd century.And that’s before we get to the fact that one of Amazon’s selling points for the device is that it’s “always getting smarter”. (Isn’t this how Terminator starts?)But don’t think that just because you keep Echo out of your home that you’re safe. The same always-listening technology is already in a number of high-end mobile phones, from Apple’s iPhones to the latest Android phones from Google and Motorola (although it needs to be explicitly turned on before it will work). Even devices which you don’t purchase with the explicit aim of letting a major technology company track everything you say are still keeping an eye on you.The Amazon Echo – for customers who are comfortable with the idea of an always-on, Wi-Fi-enabled obelisk listening to everything they sayTake the humble TV. Ten years ago, it was a one-way device, with shows being broadcast into your home and nothing coming out the other way; the idea of a two-way telly was straight out of 1984. Now, though, we have “smart TVs”, which let you watch catch-up TV, YouTube videos, access Facebook and more, without needing a separate set-top box. And, of course, they can collect your data and send it back home to manufacturers.Last Christmas,British security researcher Jason Huntleyrevealed that TVs made by Korean firm LG were sharing information about what their users were watching, and also the names of files on any USB stick that owners plugged in. He discovered, buried deep in a settings list, an item labelled “collection of watching info”, which is set to “on” by default – but even after he switched it off, the TV continued sending data.LG apologised, and issued a firmware update to fix affected TVs, but the newest crop are hardly any better, putting pop-up ads on screen in the middle of shows and again making it less than clear how to turn them off.The list of items that will not track you is shrinking daily. It is already basically down to toasters and dishwashers – and I have seen companies announce “smart toasters” before. Maybe it is time to just give in now. Alexa? Tell Amazon that I surrender.
Moore’s law will slip within 10 years. In some products we may see signs of this soon. Replacing silicon with carbon nanotube transistors, and finding efficient ways to conduct electricity through narrow metal lines connecting the transistors, may extend the law by some years. But look beyond Moore’s law and at new technologies. Light will be increasingly used to transmit data from chips and new types of dense memory placed close to the processor will speed computation.Expect breakthroughs in cognitive and biologically inspired computing that, collectively, will tackle problems such as pattern recognition, inference and reasoning.Supratik Guha,Director, physical sciences dept, IBM Thomas J Watson research center, Yorktown Heights, New YorkMoore’s law has already started to fail. In the past, smaller transistors were cheaper, faster and more energy efficient. But now any further increase in performance comes at a premium in cost. Design costs have gone through the roof, too. Moore’s law originally related to the growth in the number of transistors that can be manufactured economically on a single microchip but some have misinterpreted it as being about the increasing performance of computers.I think we will continue to extract more performance despite the end of Moore’s law, through the use of 3D integration, improvements in architecture and, when all else fails, through better understanding of how to exploit parallelism and how to write more efficient software.Steve Furber,ICL professor of computer engineering, University of ManchesterIt is only resolute engineers infected with Moore’s law that want devices to forever be made smaller. That was key when size was the benchmark for cost and power savings. However, research groups are now looking at architectures for greater functionality/speed to replace logic gates. What we really want is more elegant computation architectures; something that emulates the brain. Let’s redefine what progress is rather than stick to Moore’s law, which is inappropriate now.Rona Belford,CEO, Belford Research
Microsoft has released its own fitness tracker – for the moment in the US only, which means I haven’t been able to lay my hands on one. But plenty of people have, and have written about the experience.The Microsoft Band is roughly what it says it is – a wristband with a screen that shows various bits of data, such as how far you have run or walked, your heart rate and smartphone notifications (email, calendar, messages). And it has its own GPS, so that it knows where you’ve been while wearing it.The problem that quite a few of the testers seemed to have was that they didn’t like wearing the band.“Uncomfortable,” said Jon Phillips at PC World, adding that after two days of testing, he thought he could imagine how Lindsay Lohan must have felt when forced to wear a police ankle bracelet.At theNew York Times, Molly Woodsaid “the band is uncomfortable to wear with the screen on top of the wrist. It feels like trying to fit a round wrist into a square band.”There are some obvious questions here, such as why is Microsoft making a fitness tracker? This is a company better known to people of one generation as the maker of Windows and Office, and to another as the creator of the Xbox. Neither quite implies connection to knowing how many steps you’ve walked today or what your heartbeat is (though it might be useful in the latter).One could argue that Microsoft’s new “devices and cloud” strategy – where both elements are primus inter pares, first among equals – means that making something that is physical, but which also connects to the cloud so that you know just what your heartrate was on 31 October at 3am, fits snugly around the picture of yourself that you want to build in the weird world that people who produce fitness trackers live in.And Microsoft fans – they do exist – have delightedly pointed out that the band is “sold out” on the online Microsoft store. How many were sold? Um, Microsoft’s not saying. I doubt there were many to sell in the first place. If the number bought by people outside Microsoft is in the thousands, I’d be slightly surprised.The Microsoft Band is ugly, clunky, and, according to reviewers, its heartrate monitoring is not particularly accurate. And the solid, non-curved screen on top isn’t highly rated for comfort.This is where we move into the real world that wearables have to fit into, or wrap around.Unlike a desktop or even laptop computer, which can look ugly but still be wonderfully functional, wearable computers have to look and feel good. They’re an expression of ourselves and our choices: if you choose something that doesn’t look good, it’s not an accident, and all the functionality in the world (and the band is said to have a great deal of it) won’t make up for the fact that you look as though you’re under house arrest. It’s a different era, one where designers’ skills will be at a premium.Microsoft hasn’t in the past impressed with its abilities here; for the most part it hasn’t had to, though the constant improvement in the Surface line of tablets suggests that its teams are at least refining their skills.But it’s not hard to think that it’s the companies with the best hardware design skills, allied to the best access to new technologies (note how Samsung has a curved screen on its Gear Fit, because it makes the screens), and the best software that will succeed in the wearable era.It’s still very early days, though. If this were the smartphone era, we’re still roughly in 2004 – when a tiny market was dominated by Nokia’s Symbian, RIM’s BlackBerry and Windows Mobile. There’s a long way to go.
1 SNES CDThe story of the SNES CD system is a long and complicated one. It started in 1988 with Nintendo partnering with Sony – then yet to be established as a console giant – to update the SNES. The idea was simple: Nintendo planned to embrace the rising CD-Rom technology by bringing on board the experts of the time, Sony. The SNES CD was to bolster the Super Nintendo with a drive for the discs that back then held the future within their gleaming metallic undersides. But the partnership soured, with some suggesting Nintendo also began talks with Philips without Sony’s approval or knowledge. Ultimately the companies parted ways. Philips was reported to have secured some of the weaker Zelda and Mario games out of the collapse, which appeared on the less than successful CD-i console. Sony gained what would eventually become the PlayStation. And, for the time being at least, Nintendo stayed with game cartridges, releasing the N64.2 Atari MiraiOf all the unreleased games consoles, Atari’s Mirai is perhaps the greatest mystery. There exist photos of a muted console shell sporting the word Mirai, and some pastel-coloured buttons. Every other detail about the machine is utter speculation. Some have insisted the colour scheme could only be made for 80s living rooms. Others point to a gaping cartridge slot meaning a partnership with SNK. SNK built the still-coveted NeoGeo, which took huge carts evolved from an arcade system. SNK has since refuted claims about its involvement. But with the statement coming from SNK Playmore – the original outfit having been transformed through acquisition and the decline of the arcade industry – rumours persist that the Mirai really was the NeoGeo reworked. If that were proved, a Mirai prototype might just be one of the most valuable gaming collectibles in existence, such is the thirst for SNK rarities.3 Sega NeptuneWhere today consoles are reinvigorated with slim redesigns, in the 1990s life was breathed anew through the cartridge slots of existing systems by add-ons; new sections that plugged into a machine to introduce facilities such as updated cart formats. The 32X was such a device; a mushroom of black plastic that sat ungracefully atop the MegaDrive, endeavouring to eke out the life of the core console until the Saturn arrived. The 32X, named to usher in the 32-bit era, impressed technically, but commercially, it failed. And so the sleek form of the Neptune, which combined MegaDrive and 32X into a single form, never made it to mass production.4 Panasonic M2The 3DO Interactive Multiplayer almost made it big. Designed by 3DO for licence to other manufacturers, it wasTimemagazine’s Product of the Year for 1994 but by 1996 it had faded away to nothing, a victim of the over-saturated console market. But the follow-up console, the M2, was being designed by 3DO around the same time. Eventually Panasonic acquired the technology, but before release, the company had cold feet about the system, despite having games already in development. The planned release was canned. Yet the core technology was not wasted, and appeared in medical and architectural multimedia players, an arcade system, cash machines, coffee dispensers and vending devices.5 Bandai HETWhen Bandai’s engineers began work on the HET, they created a huge laptop-like apparatus for playing SNES games. But as with the SNES CD, this partnership formed around the Super Nintendo was one that would not come to fruition. Shrouded in mystery, the HET was shown at the 1993 E3 video games expo, where a 10cm screen, built-in TV tuner and apparent support for faxes and printers was on display. Yet unlike the SNES CD there are no tales of the companies falling out over the HET; indeed, there are almost no tales at all. Just speculation that the success of the GameBoy at the time meant Nintendo felt it had portable gaming covered well enough to cast the HET aside.6 PhantomInitially touted for release in late 2003, the Phantom was a console with no support for physical media at all, instead opting to offer download-only PC titles. It was an idea a little ahead of its time, before game downloading was as established as it is today. In fact, many lambasted the console, even claiming it was unworkable, and labelling it as “vapourware”. Such allegations were fuelled by a stream of delays, with the system eventually disappearing from release schedules. The Phantom was shown at E3 2004, but even that display attracted accusations of fakery. A real keyboard was spun out of the project for use with multimedia centre PCs, suggesting some reality to the project, but any chance it had was long gone when the Phantom lost any and all real credibility.GamechurchGamechurch aims to spread the message about Jesus to gamers.Photograph: Danny Moloshok/ReutersAt the recent EGX gaming expo in London, a strange leaflet was being passed around. “Jesus, For The Win!”, its cover proclaimed. Surely not a pro-Christianity booklet targeting rather than vilifying gaming? Well, praise the lord and pass that ammunition for the win, so it is. Gamechurch is (of course) an LA organisation that appears to be moving in on the UK’s game playing public, spreading their message at events like EGX. In it’s promotional materials Gamechurch proclaims video games “have something to say about the way we live, love, hurt, struggle, and overcome, and that is something worth talking about”. It’s a reasonable point, but whether a shared love of gaming is enough to bring non-believers to their side remains to be seen.www.gamechurch.comHelix, Michael Broug, £1.99Developer Michael Broug doesn’t appear afraid of toying with the abstract, having already crafted several games that pay little regard to conventional design.His latest creation is Helix, which while a new title and released for iOS, has a distinctly retro feel. It is simple, and it is hard.The gameplay is rather minimal, asking the player to guide a contorted eye with the finger, banishing enemies by drawing circles around them. An entire game often lasts just seconds, as a barrage of absurd forms close in with speed.The art evokes a feel for graphical glitches from the Commodre 64 era, and the sound is crunchy and rasping. Helix, in its strange way, is a brilliant, smart and eccentric game.www.smestorp.com
A headline caught my eye last Tuesday morning. “Privacy not an absolute right, says GCHQ chief”, it read. Given that GCHQ bosses are normally sensibly taciturn types, it looked puzzling. But it turns out that Sir Iain Lobban has retired from GCHQ to spend more time with his pension, to be followed no doubt, after a discreet interval, with some lucrative non-exec directorships. His successor is a Foreign Office smoothie, name of Robert Hannigan, who obviously decided that the best form of defence against the Snowden revelations is attack, which he mounted via an op-ed piece in theFinancial Times, in the course of which he wrote some very puzzling things.Much of his piece is a rehearsal of how good Isis has become at exploiting social media. Its members “use messaging and social media services such as Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp, and a language their peers understand. The videos they post of themselves attacking towns, firing weapons or detonating explosives have a self-conscious online gaming quality. Their use of the World Cup and Ebola hashtags to insert the Isis message into a wider news feed, and their ability to send 40,000 tweets a day during the advance on Mosul without triggering spam controls, illustrates their ease with new media. There is no need for today’s would-be jihadis to seek out restricted websites with secret passwords: they can follow other young people posting their adventures in Syria as they would anywhere else.”All of which is spot-on. From the very beginning, Isis fanatics have been up to speed on this stuff. Which raises an interesting question: how come that GCHQ and the other intelligence agencies failed to notice the rise of the Isis menace until it was upon us? Were they so busy hoovering metadata and tapping submarine cables and “mastering the internet” (as the code name of one of their projects puts it) that they didn’t have time to see what every impressionable Muslim 14-year-old in the world with an internet connection could see?Having neatly deflected attention from an apparent agency failure, Mr Hannigan then switches tack in vintage I-say-Biggles-these-fiends-are-devilishly-clever mode. Bad guys have always been able to hide their evil communications, but “today mobile technology and smartphones have increased the options available exponentially. Techniques for encrypting messages or making them anonymous, which were once the preserve of the most sophisticated criminals or nation states, now come as standard.” Wow! Who knew?But the fiends would not be able to wreak their havoc without the tacit assistance of the big internet companies, which “aspire to be neutral conduits of data and to sit outside or above politics. But increasingly, their services not only host the material of violent extremism or child exploitation, but are the routes for the facilitation of crime and terrorism. However much they may dislike it, they have become the command-and-control networks of choice for terrorists and criminals.”Eh? If US companies are hosting extremist videos or child porn, then the US, UK and other governments have well-tried legal avenues for addressing the problem (subject to the vagaries of the US constitution, of course). It’s the “command and control networks” bit I don’t get. That sounds to me like a pretty specialised adaptation of general web services, unless all Mr Hannigan means is that the bad guys are using Flickr forsteganographyand encrypting their Gmail, in which case it’s difficult to see how the companies could help.In his peroration, the new head spook moves into statesmanlike mode. “GCHQ,” he intones, “is happy to be part of a mature debate on privacy in the digital age.” “But” – there’s always a “but” in these orations – “privacy has never been an absolute right and the debate about this should not become a reason for postponing urgent and difficult decisions.”Leaving aside the hubris of a non-elected official lecturing us on our rights, there is the small difficulty that the state of which Mr Hannigan is a servant is a signatory of theEuropean convention on human rights, article 8 of which says that “everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence”. And, with nicely coincidental timing, it just so happens that some interesting – and user-friendly – tools for encrypting one’s electronic communications, such asCryptocatandShadowCrypt, are finally becoming available.So if Mr Hannigan really wants to have a “mature” debate about this stuff, a good place to start would be with an assurance that citizens who use these tools simply to ensure that their private, lawful communications remain private will not be targeted for surveillance by his new subordinates. In an insecure world, cryptography is a tool for everyone.
Price £8,245MPG 68.9Top speed 99mphRemember your first car? Mine was a Renault 5 with foreign plates. Rust spread like impetigo round its battered grille; moss grew in the window seals. It had no heating, no stereo, one windscreen wiper and, towards the end of its short but joyous life in my hands, no starter motor. We had to jump it every time… But it was wheels and freedom and… I don’t think I’ve ever loved a car as much.I’ve been thinking about first cars this week as I have been driving thePeugeot’s new 108– a small city car aimed firmly at young people. The car was launched this summer and more than 5,000 have already been sold in the UK, almost all to young people who have never owned a Peugeot before. On average the new owners are seven years younger than the people who bought the outgoing 107. Manufacturers value these customers highly because, as car buyers, we are remarkably loyal. The hope is that if you snare a young driver he or she will stay with you for life, slowly working their way up through the various models in the range. (It doesn’t always work like that – I’ve never owned another Renault!)Inside story: the 108’s funky interior is orientated around its connectivity.With its sharp looks and plush options, including a fully retractable fabric roof, Peugeot’s 108 feels a bit too posh to be aimed solely at youngsters. Learning to rough it with an unreliable rust bucket is an important part of their education. How else are they going to learn an appreciation of the finer aspects of motoring – like not sweating at red lights as you wait for the inevitable stall; the dreadful slow bump of a dying battery.The 108 is a lot more sophisticated than the popular 107 that it replaces.Ivo Groën, the car’s designer, was set the goal of giving the 108 a more premium and upmarket feel, as well as differentiating it from Citroën’s C1 (which is cute) and Toyota’s Aygo (trendy). All three models share the same underpinnings and virtually identical interiors, so it is only the exterior dressing and the badge that buyers have to choose between. These cross-brand alliances are quite common and the unusual pairings you stumble across in the motoring world would make even a veteran swinger raise their eyebrows: Renault and Nissan; Fiat and Chrysler; BMW and Toyota… it’s all going on.Groën set about his task by creating a car with a chic “about town” character. At the car’s launch, he explained his thinking: “The 107 had a very cab-forward ‘mono-volume’ silhouette… We wanted to give the 108 more of a nose and the powerful feeling that comes with that. We wanted to reduce the glass and increase the sculpting of the body, and at the same time give it a timeless elegance.” Well, there you are…Blue-sky thinking: the 108 has a retractable fabric roof.The nose he developed is dominated by the same “floating grille” as seen on the 108’s bigger sisters the 208, 2008 and 308 – they do say noses run in families. The grille is flanked by a pair of smart bifocal projector headlights, while round the back the group’s “lion claw” lamps provide another link to the rest of the Peugeot range.Two engines are available – a 68PS 1-litre three-cylinder or an 82PS 1.2-litre three-cylinder petrol. Both are efficient and economy is up to 74.3mpg. But the 107 was cheap to run, too. The big difference here is that the 108 is a pleasure to drive. The three-cylinder engine means it makes a strange “thrum”, but you soon get used to it. I drove more than 200 miles in a day – taking my daughter back to university, which seemed a fitting journey for a car aimed at young people. It handled the motorway brilliantly and was small enough to dance through Bristol’s gridlocked streets and squeeze into a tiny space outside her student digs.Other than being small, cheap and available in dozens of personalised colour combinations, the most obvious youth-centric aspect of the 108 is its connectivity. In 2005 when the 107 was introduced no one had a smart phone, but, the 108 is all about your phone. A seven-inch touchscreen in the centre of the dash can be linked for all your music, media and maps. It feels like the heart of the car in some ways, as if the 108 is simply a large phone holder. Not so much Motion &amp; Emotion, in Peugeot’s famous tagline, as Motion &amp; Emoticon.A trip down Lego laneRush hour: Lego cars take to the capital’s streets.Lego and cars comes together once again as the newShell V-Power Lego Collectionarrives in petrol stations across the land. The range includes a Ferrari F138, Ferrari 250 GTO and Ferrari F12berlinetta. You may not be able to afford the real thing, but these little racers will only set you back £1.99 when you buy £30 or more of Shell’s performance fuelShell V-Power Nitro.Peta Todd in the Wales Rally GBPeta Todd with Tony JardinePhotograph: PRShe may be married Mark Cavendish, one of the world’s fastest men on two wheels, but no Peta Todd is getting closer to the action when she competes as a co-driver in theWales Rally GB, Britain’s round of the World Rally Championship, which gets underway on Thursday 13 November. Peta will be racing with Tony Jardine. Speaking ahead of her WRC debut, Peta said: “Mark is ultra-successful; we know that, his trophies are all over the house. I’ve decided it’s time to win a few trophies of my own, by taking on my own sporting challenge. Once he knew that I was taking on a navigators role in a rally car at 120mph in the World Rally Championship he was 150% jealous, he has already tried to push me out of the seat. I told him to stick to two wheels!” To experience the action yourself at Wales Rally GB, tickets can be purchased atwalesrallygb.comor via the ticket hotline 08448 472251Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Q I have an iPhone 5, and want to update to iOS 8, but it tells me that I don’t have enough space. I don’t really want to have to delete everything on my phone, so do I have any other options? asks BrianA When Apple released the update to iOS 8, it left many people seemingly unable to update due to the 4-6Gb of free space requirement for over-the-air updates. For people with 8Gb or even 16Gb devices, the update would not be possible without deleting many files and applications.Luckily, it is possible to update your device without requiring so much free space – by using iTunes on your Mac or PC. To update, first update to the latest version of iTunes, then plug your device into the computer using a USB cable and select “Check for software updates”.Q I would like to get the photos from my phone on to my laptop so I can email them to somebody. How do I do that? asks RobertA Getting photos from a phone to a laptop, depending on the type of phone and laptop, can range from being incredibly easy to incredibly annoying. I’ve found a range of solutions that work well depending on the platforms.If you use an iPhone and a Mac, then Photo Stream works really well: just open iPhoto on your Mac and it will probably have the photos you want already sync’d for you. If not, plug in your iPhone and it will ask to sync over USB. If you’re trying to sync from Android, photos can sync via Google+, with the advantage that photos smaller than 2048x2048 pixels in size do not count against your data storage. Otherwise the best option is Dropbox, at £7.99 a month for 1Tb of storage, with support for most platforms, you can easily upload your photos and access them from anywhere – you can also share the link to a Dropbox copy of the file, to prevent having to send the image alongside the email and without dealing with maximum email sizes.Q When people try to call my iPhone it takes a few attempts before my phone actually rings. Why is this and how do I fix it? asks JamesA Apple introduced a feature in iOS 6 called “Do not disturb” that means people to have to dial your number three times before it will notify you of the call – which is great if you’re sleeping or avoiding non-important calls, but annoying at other times. Fortunately it’s off by default, but when iOS 7 added control centre it became easier to accidentally enable “Do not disturb” by accidentally swiping up from the bottom and touching the crescent moon-shaped icon.You can disable the feature in the same way as enabling it: swipe up from the bottom of the screen and tap the crescent moon icon on the panel that displays.Control Centre also offers quick music control, access to the calculator, camera, compass, and a flashlight mode.Q I recently switched to Android, but still use my iPad and I’m looking for a way to sync podcasts between them. What should I use? asks JenniferA There are lots of podcast clients that can sync across Android and iOS using their own web sync services and all do things in their own ways. My favourite cross-platform podcasting app isPocket Casts, offering a nice design on both iOS and Android. It was among the first to integrate things like Android Wear, showing that they care about staying up to date as new things are released. It automatically downloads new episodes, syncs play position, settings, and is very fast.Q I want to update my computer to Yosemite, but I don’t want to lose all my files or make my apps not work. Will it break everything? asks RodolphoA Yosemite is the newest version of the Apple OS X operating system for desktops and laptops. Upgrading shouldn’t break anything if you’re already running a recent version of OS X, with most developers keeping their apps up to date, and the Mac App Store providing automatic updates to you. However, it’s always worth ensuring you have a backup of all your files to either a service likeBackblaze/Crashplan, and an external hard drive or network drive. You can use Time Machine on the Mac, or Windows Backup Wizard on Windows. Both will automatically back up your computer on a regular basis and offer restores if a hard drive fails. If you don’t have a backup yet, the first one might take some time, but it’s worth it. When you’ve backed up, you can update without worrying – if anything goes wrong, you can restore your files and not lose anything. If you rely on any software, there’s a couple of great tools for checking compatibility before you update, I tend to rely onroaringapps.com(crowd sourced app compatibility charts)
The non-profit advocacy organization Women, Action, and the Media (Wam) has created an “unprecdented” partnership with Twitter to tackle online harassment of women.Following a Pew study that showed26% of women aged between 18 and 24 have been stalked onlineand 25% have been targets of online sexual harassment, Wam has createda comprehensive but easy-to-use form, through which users can report harassments and threats that will then be “escalated” to Twitter.“There are a lot of different ways that women are getting harassed and Twitter’s current reporting system isn’t catching all of them,” said Jaclyn Friedman, executive director of Wam.The organization is aiming to cast a wider net when it comes to reporting harassment against women of color and from the LGBT community.The Wam form asks a more detailed set of questions thanTwitter’s ownin such circumstances, including “Do you fear for your personal safety because of this harassment?” and “How many times have you reported this harassment to Twitter?”It also allows a person to list multiple harassing accounts at once. As an authorized reporter, Wam has been granted the ability to “escalate” complaints it receives to Twitter in “24 hours max; hopefully much less than that”.“You might report one tweet, but that may not rise to the level of harassment,” said Freidman. “But if you paint a picture of other harassment, you get a bigger story.”The form has another purpose: gathering data about how harassers behave online, in the hope of helping Twitter to better understand the way trolls behave and perhaps take more concrete steps to stop them.In a statement, Twitter told the Guardian: “We’re always trying to improve the way we handle abuse issues, and Wam isone of many organizationswe work with around the world on best practices for user safety.”The responsibility of dealing with such complaints remains entirely in Twitter’s hands. However, the involvement of Wam raises the question of why Twitter does not simply host the new and improved form on its own site, replacing its current reporting process, to devote some of its own resources to fixing the problem.Robinson Meyerwrotein the Atlantic: “In other words, it’s understood to be a major improvement to the current situation, that two people will now be devoting serious time and attention to Twitter’s harassment problem – even though they work for a small non-profit that’s effectively donating that time and attention to Twitter, a for-profit and publicly owned corporation.”In the third quarter of this year, Twitter’s revenues were$321m.Some feminists are concerned about how much reform will come from Twitter’s involvement with Wam.“This must be more than just a plan to appease those of us speaking up about harassment in the short term,” said Emily Lindin ofThe UnSlut Project, who has experienced name-calling online and attacks by email and cell phone.“Threats on social media are real threats, and if those making them knew there would be consequences, they might make different decisions. As it is, reporting Twitter harassment is fruitless and blocking a user just puts a bigger target on your back.”Imani Gandy, senior legal analyst atRH Reality Checkand a prolific tweeter told the Guardian she wanted to see fundamental changes made to Twitter itself, such as making rape threats an explicit violation of its terms of service and making sure that a single, tenacious harasser could not create multiple accounts to get around suspensions.“The harassment can get so bad that it drives people to quit,” Gandy said. “And if Twitter wants to reach every single person on the planet, they’re going to need to figure out a way to protect half of the planet from rancid abuse by the other half.”
After shaking up the automotive world with his electric car venture, entrepreneur Elon Musk has set his sights skywards in a bid to bring the internet to the billions who still lack access.Musk is working on an embryonic $1bn plan to launch 700 satellites that are less than half the size of the smallest communications models currently in use.The Wall Street Journalreported that the owner of electric carmaker Tesla is working with Greg Wyler, a satellite industry veteran and former Google executive, whose company, WorldVu Satellites, owns a considerable amount of radio spectrum.Musk’s other venture, SpaceX, could be used to launch the satellites into orbit. The pair are considering building a factory in Florida or Colorado to manufacture the 110kg satellites. Two people familiar with the matter said WorldVu hoped to make the satellites for under $1m each – considerably less than they are currently made for.Wyler had been working with the Google-backed startup O3b Networks, and in June it was reported that the search giant planned to spend $1bn on 180 small, high-capacity satellites.The first four satellites launched by O3b were beset by technical problems, and Wyler quit Google after a year to join forces with Musk. Wyler has left O3b but remained a significant shareholder, according to the Journal. Google declined to comment.The venture would face considerable technical and regulatory hurdles, and SpaceX may not be ready to launch satellites until close to the end of this decade. O3b could face losing the rights to its radio spectrum by then.Satellite ventures are notoriously expensive. About 15 years ago the telecommunications group Iridium spent $5bn putting 66 satellites into orbit before collapsing into bankruptcy. The company aimed to create a telecommunications system that would allow users of handheld phones to make calls from anywhere on earth. However, just 55,000 customers were willing to spend $3,000 for a phone and pay $7 a minute for calls and a US judge ordered the firm wound up.Other, less expensive ways of bringing internet access to remote areas are being considered. Facebook has a team working on solar-powered drones that would fly at a height of 20,000 metres – around the same height that Google has proposed placing balloons with a similar aim.
“I’m a show-off. That’s what we do.” Mark Webb is not coy about the nature of modern BMX-riding; an intensely competitive sport that demands rigorous training, high risk and brazen showmanship. Though only 29, Webb has five world titles and a veteran’s understanding of the BMX world, testified by an unconventional skeleton that bears the evidence of two smashed knees, a broken back and a foot that “doesn’t really work anymore”.Film-making and extreme sports have always gone hand in hand and handheld amateur videos filmed in skateparks have long been the primary way for skaters and BMXers to gain exposure. “Ten years ago, you’d have that one mate with a Handycam who’d film a day’s session and spend a week editing it,” says Webb says. “That’s changed now. Everything’s become instant.” Mobile internet, social media and, now, tiny, durable, hi-res cameras have allowed riders like Webb to document their careers day by day, hour by hour, and to build huge, devoted fanbases online. This is also, Webb says, a large part of what makes him a bankable product. “Social media makes you who you are these days, it’s the be-all and end-all. Riders have to be taking photos, filming clips and uploading them every day, that’s where the value is.” We conduct our trial at a sparkling new indoor skatepark in Bognor Regis, and throughout the morning young fans sheepishly accost Webb for signed helmets and, inevitably, photographs. Webb grins gamely and offers fist-bumps. “Having loads of Instagram followers is almost more valuable than having five X-Games medals,” he says.Much of what makes video so important to BMXers is to do with evidence – the visible proof that a trick has been mastered or even pioneered. “You can’t just say ‘I’ve dropped a new trick for the first time ever’. Unless you can back that up with evidence, no one’s going to care.” Webb has created a number of tricks in his time, including, a few years ago, the death-defying Decade 360, in which the rider and then the bike spin around in mid-air. “Funnily enough,” he recalls, “that trick was leaked. I was practising it at a skatepark and some kid filmed it and the cat was out of the bag.”Though this lack of privacy is “frustrating”, Webb thinks action cameras are now an indispensable part of the rider’s toolkit, not only for POV shots, but as a replacement for all kinds of skate-park filmmaking. “You can hold them in your hand, throw them around and upload the footage immediately. It’s the only camera I need now.” So, with three cameras glued to his helmet, he pulls a pair of gloves over his tattooed hands and disappears over the crest of a quarterpipe.GoPro Hero4 SilverMarket-leading, multi-function camera with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity — shop.gopro.com, £289.99This is the one I know best and it works beautifully. Because it has Wi-Fi and Bluetooth you can turn the camera on and off with your phone, save the footage and instantly put it online. You can mount it to point in any direction and I’ve seen one get run over by a car and survive. The only problem is that, when you’re using the Wi-Fi, the battery drains quicker, and this new one has a screen which would drain more power.Polaroid CubeTiny cube with powerful magnet attachment – photojojo.com, £63, plus shippingThis is the one that immediately interests me – it’s so small you could eat it, and you could film without anyone realising you had a camera. The problem is, there’s not much variety in the way you can point it. The magnet’s very strong, but it fell off almost immediately when I stuck it to my handlebars.JVC GC-XA2BEURubberised, HD camera, shock- and splash-proof — currys.co.uk, £189.99It looks like a full-sized, normal camera which has been shrunk. It’s got Wi-Fi, which I think is the most important thing, but the mount moves around too easily in its socket. It also doesn’t have a case, which is fine but the lens itself looks a bit vulnerable – I think it could crack if you dropped it.Panasonic HX A500 EHigh-quality 4K unit with separate, head-mounted lens, cvp.com, £285This one’s offStar Trek, or maybeFun House. It’s 4K, so really high quality, but the design seems like a backward step. Everyone else is trying to get away from wires. If you’re doing an extreme sport, the last thing you need is a length of braided cable dangling around your head and neck. It’s impractical, it’s bulky and it looks bizarre.Sony HDR AS100VRSlim HD camera with sealed case and wireless, wrist-mounted screen — johnlewis.com, £299This, undoubtedly, is a good camera, and Sony is a very reliable brand. I can see why people might want a wearable screen, but it’s cumbersome and, for BMX, it’s just something else that can break. Also, this camera has Wi-Fi, so if you can connect the camera to your phone, the screen isn’t really useful.
OnEmbarrassing Bodies, you seem unembarrassable. What does embarrass you?From the medical point of view, nothing. But in a non-medical way, I definitely become embarrassed. If you are on television, it is thought that you must be outgoing and confident, but I’m actually shy; I was an only child. I grew up in a fairly academic background, surrounded by books. Television people don’t know much about the business of medicine, while I knew nothing about television and have had to learn.Has your medical career been entirely overtaken by being a media doctor?I still do two days’ work in the clinic I’ve worked in for years; normal doctoring. Television was always supposed to be on the side, but …Is the public’s fascination with bodies the same as a doctor’s interest?I don’t think a doctor has the sense of voyeurism which people have. A doctor has seen it all before. Doctors lust after the rare thing they haven’t seen in ages.Speaking of voyeurism, how would you answer the charge that your programme is sensational, making entertainment out of suffering?That has been talked about. The word “exploitation” has been used – it drives me up the wall. Television is a question of choice. I’d like to do a show about the show, so people could see what happens behind the scenes. Anyone who appears on the programme has to pass a psychiatric evaluation and understand how ruthless Twitter and social media can be.What is the most heartbreaking situation you have ever experienced during the show, and have you ever cried off camera?Yes. I’ve cried on camera too. The case of Charlotte with the appalling verrucas. When she took her Ugg bootie off, the camera was on my face and I was destroyed: her foot was consumed by verrucas, it was appalling. The GP had told her to scrub them with a kitchen scourer. I knew something was wrong beyond the verrucas. She had a rare immune deficiency and had to have a bone marrow transplant at Great Ormond Street children’s hospital.What makes a good doctor?Communication and empathy. Eighty per cent is communication. You don’t need a brilliant brain, especially given that information is now available online within seconds.Is it wise for people to self-diagnose online?Not to self-diagnose, though I don’t mind people looking things up – it keeps me on my toes. People need to consult a doctor because doctors have learned how to identify good sources. A doctor who pretends to know everything and never looks anything up is a dangerous doctor.Are you the only doctor who gives medical advice on Twitter?When I started, I got grief from other doctors who thought it totally inappropriate. But people are cottoning on. I’ll answer any questions on Twitter, no matter how trivial.There is no issue about confidentiality because I do not tweet about my patients. And if someone on Twitter asks an open public question and I answer in an open public way, they have waived the right to confidentiality.What do you think of people using gadgets to monitor health, exercise etc?It can be a wonderful excuse to do nothing. But get the balance right and it can be useful. It is great that people can check high blood pressure for instance. The technology is great. Some patients could helpfully be seen on Skype. But the medical profession is reluctant, incredibly slow, will say: this is not cricket. They’re incredibly conservative – [laughs] that’s why I never fitted in.Should smoking be banned in public places?It should. Smoking kills most smokers, but you can’t enforce something when your laws on alcohol and other drugs are so hypocritical. There is an endorsement of alcohol by the government, yet liver disease is increasing exponentially.Should the price of alcohol be increased and people who turn up drunk in A&amp;E be fined?We know that hiking up prices works. But you can’t fine people; again, because alcohol is endorsed by government.Christian Jessen with television co-presenters Dawn Harper, left, and Pixie McKenna.Have you met Jeremy Hunt and is he to be trusted?He is in a horrendously difficult position and will never get everything right. I would not want his job. The NHS is seen as this sacred cow that must not change. But it needs to move on, it cannot continue as it is. Medicine is becoming more and more expensive. When I suggested on Twitter that patients should pay £10 to see a doctor, it polarised people. There have got to be reforms. Obesity will cripple the NHS in 10 years’ time.What would you suggest to fix the obesity crisis?The only thing to do is to become even more of a nanny state. You need to legislate against manufacturers of food designed to make us eat more. We need to reduce our salt and sugar content, we need better education at school. Evolution has designed us to be fat because, as cave dwellers, food was not common.What does the Ebola crisis show us about our attitude towards disease? And should returning health workers be quarantined?From the first few cases, I was saying we needed to be far more worried than we were. Ebola is a terrible disease and the World Health Organisation’s response has been negligent. It is really worrying. Our attitude to the disease is a bit superior, as if we were in control. But nature is usually the winner. We should fear and respect it.By the way, I can’t believe this nurse threatening to sue [US nurse Kaci Hickox over her enforced quarantine in Maine]. Anyone who has been nursing and is in contact with Ebola knows they are at risk. A tiny bit of tiredness while taking off an isolation suit could be enough to be exposed.When I was studying infectious diseases at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine – 10 years ago now – our professor asked us what we would do in an Ebola outbreak. We said we would set up isolation units and so forth. He said: “No. You’d leave.”It was his way of spelling out that this is a serious disease, that you cannot be gung-ho about it, that there was little you could do.Is thescheme to give doctors £55 for each Alzheimer’s diagnosisethical?No, it is a terrible thing. They are being paid extra to do their jobs.IsNick Clegg right to argue that psychiatric illnessis a taboo that needs to be overcome?We could do much better over how we deal with mental illness. It is difficult to treat as it’s chronic, but so are eczema and diabetes. It has never been covered on television. It is tricky because you can’t get the consent of the patients – that is why we cannot do it. We did educate people about HIV to some extent, but mental health is not so cool or trendy and hasn’t got Elton John behind it.Why do members of the public frightened of going to the doctor with their medical problems feel willing to consult you on TV?If you watch a soap often enough, you feel you know the characters. People will familiarly chat with me in the street. I don’t know them, but they feel they know me.You’ve talked about body dysmorphia and of having experienced it yourself. What causes it? And do you still wrestle with it or is it something you grow out of?We don’t know. Genetics? Self-doubt? A bigger percentage of gay men suffer from it. Is it to do with feelings of inadequacy, comparing yourself with your father, self-loathing? I still wrestle with it, but have learned to manage it. On a bad day, the shadow of it is just over my shoulder. It is like the old adage: once an alcoholic, always an alcoholic. Once dsymorphic …You once described love as a “trick of your genes”. Explain.We think we are higher beings in control but are slaves to genetics. Love is to get us to come together, have sex, reproduce. We are designed to do it. The romantic poets wrote nonsense!Do you feel like the nation’s GP?Sometimes, though I wouldn’t if social media did not exist. It is a huge honour. I love the fact that the show has been embraced, and that there is a hunger for knowledge and for answers people can trust. And I think GPs should have open days where people could ask questions.Who do you turn to when you need answers?[Laughs] I look things up.Christian Jessen will present Fatonomics on Channel 4 in the new year
SingStar Ultimate Party has a simpler design than recent instalments but adds a fresh twist to the business of displaying song lyrics and judging how accurately you reproduce them. Now you can download a microphone app for your Android or iPhone, or dispense with mics entirely and sing to the PlayStation Eye camera, which makes a handy, excruciatingly embarrassing record of your drunken efforts. You can also replace your friends’ faces with weird-looking pop singing avatars, although that seems to sap much of the accidental comedy out of your Carly Rae Jepsen renditions.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKFantasia: Music Evolved, Xbox 360 &amp; Xbox OneFantasia: Music Evolved is a rhythm action game that uses Xbox’s failure-prone Kinect. Sensibly, it’s very forgiving, letting you miss each cue slightly and still be rewarded as though you’d done it perfectly. It also gets you to use broad movements unsubtle enough to stand a chance of detection by Kinect’s capricious motion sensors. The magic, though, comes from its carefully chosen tunes, which, when combined with choreographed arm movements and sparkly Disney graphics, manage to make you feel part of music that includes Mussorgsky’s Night On Bald Mountain and Bohemian Rhapsody. Its remix mode turns Mozart into muzak, but apart from that everything else about it is spot on.Microsoft, £34.99-£39.99Godus: Weyworld Update, Android, iOS &amp; PCFollowing its initial underwhelming release, Godus – the free-to-play game where you are the Almighty – has benefited from a major update. Now you can discover the site of an ark, which you build, stock with supplies and followers, then sail to Weyworld, where you’ll find some interesting new rules: in the reboot, each settlement you build increases the cost of the next one, making you think more carefully about what to construct. The limited supply of resources enforces a slower, more cautious style of play. Although Godus is clearly still in development, it is gradually evolving into a more focused, challenging and entertaining game.22Cans, free
After announcing less-depressing-than-usual financial results, Nintendo revealed its first non-gaming product. Branded as a “quality of life” device, it’s designed to sit next to your bed while you sleep, monitoring breathing, movement and heart rate so you can visualise each night’s rest. How this unnamed gadget will be used in practice isn’t clear but it’s a radical departure for the company. Release schedules have gone a bit quiet whileCall Of Duty: Advanced Warfare(Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4, PC) steamrolls its way into hearts and minds, but there are other games out this week; such as obsession-inspiringFootball Manager 2015(PC); the console release of emotionally chargedThe Wolf Among Us(Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4), and Disney film tie-in,Planes: Fire &amp; Rescue(Wii, Wii U, 3DS).
I still remember the car stereos of my youth – the way the buttons would half-stick in the cold, the swallowed cassette tapes, the static roar between stations. And the sense of magic when the music began:Paul Simon’sKodachrome, theJ Geils Band’s Centerfoldand Supertramp’sSister Moonshine. Driving with music is one of life’s great joys.A few Fridays ago I loaded three fellow music journalists into the deep belly of a SsangYong Rexton W and set off for Letchworth Garden City – not a rock’n’roll hotspot, admittedly, but the town to which one of us recently relocated, and a decent album-length’s drive from London. My plan was that we would review the Rexton’s stereo, but somewhere between sat-nav setting and the town’s borders, we fell to talking – about music, the media, men, mutual friends. And so vast is the distance between the two of us in the front, and the two in the back, that putting on the stereo would have meant practically zero chance of hearing what anyone else was saying.The Rexton is not simply a large car, it is big-boned and bonny – a seven-seater 4x4 sitting high off the ground. I’m taken aback by its proportions, in much the same way as when I meet someone’s unfeasibly large baby.Driving such a contraption is a little like being one half of a pantomime horse, in that you’re never quite sure where you end or begin, but also because its steering is wishy-washy, its automatic gears given to sudden jolts and its ride quality lollopy. That said, its size makes you a dominant presence on the road, but for such a sizeable beast it takesthe UK’s tiny first roundabout(found here in Letchworth) with ease. Plus it has parking sensors. And the stereo.The next day I sit in a side street and listen to Supertramp. I listen in the driver’s seat, the passenger seat, the rear seats, asBreakfast In Americaplays on a loop. It’s like standing in an empty nightclub, waiting for the dancefloor to fill, but with its Kenwood MP3 CD player, RDS radio, Bluetooth and six speakers, the sound is good throughout, solid and crisp and robust.And it is in its robustness that the Rexton prides itself. This is a cheap, sturdy bruiser of a car; it’s not elegant or attractive, but still I take a shine to it, the way you might to a well-meaning yet slightly oafish acquaintance. I imagine it happily tumbling around off-road, over rough terrain, oblivious and spirited, the radio turned up loud.Ssangyong Rexton WPriceFrom £19,944Top speed112mphAcceleration0-60mph in 9.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption32.8mpg (30.1 for top range)CO2 emissions229g/km (for the basic, 250 for the one I tried, which was the top model)Eco rating3/10Cool rating4/10On the stereoBreakfast In America by Supertramp• Follow Laura onTwitter
Up to a billion people using the internet in developing countries are ignored by web statistics, which focus on US-based servers and ignore mobile-only users and shared devices, says a new study.The result is a form of “digital imperialism,” says a new study by Global Web Index (GWI), a digital measurement company which provides information to a wide range of some of the web’s largest advertisers and brands such as Twitter. Because those users either don’t show up, or are believed to be in mature economies, they aren’t targeted for advertising - or the brand-building that is important to establish companies.Anew studyby GWI says that part of the reason is the widespread use of VPNs, or virtual private networks, which encrypt internet links and enable users to circumvent censorship systems and location-based blocking. As many as 416 million people are reckoned to use VPNs, it says.Another confounding factor is the sharing of devices between multiple people - which could mean as many as 417m are undercounted - and the widespread use in emerging economies of mobile-only internet, which is poorly measured by conventional web analytics, yet could be missing up to 168m people.It could also lead to a misalignment of aid and effort in building the web in developing countries if the actual use is not recognised.The direct effect, though, is to make advertisers and service providers think that the internet audience in emerging economies is far smaller than it really is. “We noticed a disparity between the geographical breakdown from other data collection organisations and our own data showing much larger populations in India and China, for example, than they did,” Jason Mander, GWI’s head of trends and a co-author of the report, told the Guardian.Aodhan Cullen of Dublin-based Statcounter, a real-time web analytics company, said: “It’s a very good report - it highlights important things that often get overlooked and that some people even try to hide.”According to the International Telecommunications Union, there are about 2.9 billion internet users, of which 639m are in north and south America, and 1.3bn in Asia and the Pacific. While the ITU data is collected directly from the countries involved, GWI argues that other measurement techniques - relied on by many advertisers to determine where to allocate spending internationally - is flawed.GWI actively collects data in 32 countries by surveying internet users, unlike many other measurement companies which collect “passive data” about internet use by looking at web analytics that rely on the IP address of an internet connection to determine the user’s location. Because huge amounts of data flows through US-based servers, or servers registered to companies which have US-based IP addresses - even if the server is not physically in the US - there is a huge disparity in measurement, the study says.GWI points to huge disparities in data collected by one web measurement service which suggests that in the first three months of 2014 22% of Facebook’s traffic comes from the US, 8% from India, and 4% from Brazil, with China making up less than 1% - which might be expected as the social network is banned there.But GWI’s own data, collected from users by asking them “which of the following sites have you visited in the past month?” during the same period, shows that the US would only be 15% of Facebook visits, against 13% for India and 13% for China, with Brazil making up 7%.That points to the importance of VPNs, which allow people to create encrypted “tunnels” from one point to another online - so that they appear to be accessing the net from the far endpoint of the VPN, rather than their own computer. Many Chinese users access Facebook and Twitter via VPNs to avoid the “Great Firewall”, which otherwise blocks them inside the country.“The highest use of VPNs among the population in percentage terms was Indonesia,” Mander said: 42% had used them there, or 25m internet users. China is by far the largest VPN user in absolute terms, with 166m users, representing about 36% of its internet population by GWI’s figures.“A third of the world’s internet users are in China, so when anything becomes big there it has a big effect on the internet worldwide,” said Mander, who says that user of VPNs is often driven by the desire to access locally banned social networks, or geographically restricted content such as the movie streaming service Netflix or the BBC’s iPlayer catchup service.Sharing devices within large households and the huge number of mobile-only users in emerging markets also leads to wide mismeasurement, GWI argues. Data from China’s three main telecoms companies, China Mobile, China Telecom, and China Unicom, suggest there are 540m mobile broadband users with 3G or 4G connections, and just under 420m fixed-line internet users. Though there may be substantial overlap between the two, mobile clearly dominates.But measuring mobile users is difficult because traditional cookie-based systems, used for PCs, are ineffective on many mobiles.For Statcounter, Cullen said that it was impossible to know if people were using VPNs, but that it was more important to focus on long-term trends in internet usage by geography than to attempt to calculate exact user numbers at any time. “What people want is a consistent methodology - we don’t weight by the population of a country, we just measure pageviews.”Recently, large internet companies have launched a number of initiatives to try to connect with users in Africa and the Asian subcontinent. Google has launched the Android One program in India, which aims to create a unified low-cost Android smartphone experience; it also has launchedProject Loon, which aims to bring internet connectivity across huge expanses by using floating balloons. Facebook is separately working onFacebook Connectivity, which aims to use drones to provide low-cost connectivity.That is important, says Mander, because otherwise people in those countries are ignored. “Their overall internet experience is poorer - with fewer services and less content available to them - because money that could be spent on fast-growth markets is instead being funnelled to mature internet nations where it is assumed - potentially incorrectly - that the biggest audiences are located,” he said.Internet use on mobile phones in Africa predicted to increase 20-fold in five years
Is the United Nations trying to take over the internet? Read anything in much of the western media about the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and you might think so, especially in the lead-up to the International Telecommunication Union’s (ITU)Plenipotentiary Conference 2014just wrapping up in Busan, Korea.If internet governance were a James Bond movie, ITU would be cast as the cat-stroking villain with an intricate and ambitious model laid out before her (we can always hope) plotting world domination through seizing control of global communications. “The whole world will listen to me, and only me! Ha ha!”The reality, as ever, is far less dramatic and not significantly less sinister. Internet issues do form a minor part of ITU’s mandate, and were overshadowed at the Busan event by a range of other issues: political disputes over Crimea and Palestine, resolutions to address Ebola and better ways to track planes, a four-year debate on how to define “ICT”, public access to ITU’s documents, and an unexpected 30m Swiss Franc reduction in ITU’s budget for the next four years.ITU is not taking over the internetMember States often presented as the foes of the internet (Russia, the Arab states, India and, on occasion, Brazil) submitted some proposals that had a few liberal western countries wringing their hands in earnest before theplenipothad begun.Russia proposed that ITU begin allocating internet protocol (IP) addresses, which is a function already performed by other non-intergovernmental organisations.The Arab states had submitted proposals that would have strengthened the role of governments in making decisions about the internet and would have given the ITU a role in developing legal and policy frameworks to combat illegal international online surveillance.Brazil made proposals for ITU to work on online privacy issues.And India submitted a last-minute proposal that would have required some major changes to the way the internet works. (The proposal aimed to keep all domestic internet traffic within national borders, so citizens would have to use a telephone-style international dialling code to access a site outside the country. Most of the proposal is possible to implement, but would require work outside ITU’s current mandate.)These were proposals that had the US administration in a bit of a spin, with Penny Pritzker, US secretary of commerce,telling a key group of internet folk at the opening ceremonyof the most recentICANNmeeting, “We will see proposals to put governments in charge of internet governance. You can rest assured that the United States will oppose these efforts at every turn.”However, anyone with any experience of intergovernmental negotiations knows that proposals start off fairly strong, then get watered down to the politically homeopathic levels. This is what happened at the plenipot. For example, both the proposals to give governments a more active role in the internet as well as the proposals to give non-governments a more active role in ITU kind of neutralised each other.Also, back room negotiations spearheaded by the US delegation meant many of the changes proposed by other countries were taken off the table. Those negotiations took placed behind closed doors, but it is understood that the US gave up its demand to have non-governmental groups invited into ITU’s council working groups, which were designed to be for governments only. In return, other states withdrew proposals about online privacy, cybersecurity and other internet proposals.No major threats to the internet have emerged as a result of the conference. Instead, many of the hottest internet issues have been shunted off to a small group of the ITU, known by the convoluted name of theCouncil Working Group on International Internet-related Public Policy Issues, or CWG-Internet for short. As a result of compromises made at the plenipot, this group, which is attended by barely more than a handful of states, will decide at the beginning of each year what its topics of discussion will be.ITU is about far, far more than just the internetThe feel-good resolution was about using technology to combat the spread of viruses such as Ebola. Unfortunately, none of the three countries most affected by Ebola attended, having beenasked by a panicked South Korean government to “minimise” their participation.Another notable new resolution was passed on global flight tracking. Malaysia’s very recent experience withflight MH370meant that although aviation isn’t usually part of ITU’s activities, member states found a way for ITU to, in a small way, work with the aviation industry to help improve flight tracking in future.Look, no vote! A present to me!The plenipot is the last meeting for the outgoing ITU secretary general Dr Hamadoun Toure, who wanted to go out in a blaze of glory. Toure did everything to ensure the event wasn’t a repeat of the highly divisiveWorld Conference on International Telecommunications(WCIT) in 2012 - and largely succeeded. No member states pushed for a vote, even on the Crimea and Palestine.Toure described this lack of voting as a wonderful present to himself at his last plenipotentiary as secretary general. But it’s unlikely that Ukraine, Russia, Palestine and Israel weren’t thinking of Toure as they engaged in very intense discussions in Busan.ITU is certainly not the correct venue to solve territorial disputes like Crimea and Palestine, but aggrieved countries in such disputes traditionally try to have any and all UN bodies produce resolutions that support their claim to sovereignty and disputed lands.Using ITU resolutions about recognising the right to use telecommunication resources (including phone numbers and radio spectrum) may sound like a fairly odd way to solve such disputes. Yet the USA has said it will withdraw funding from the ITU if Palestine is recognised as a sovereign state, while Russia’s President Putin sent one of his private secretaries to negotiate on Russia’s behalf - both demonstrating how seriously governments viewed the proposed resolutions.More difficult momentsIntense political negotiations about Crimea and Palestine were predictable. What the layperson may not have predicted were intense debates about the definition of “ICT”. One state asked if the term “ICT” meant the same as the acronym “ICT”: the next state on the microphone, perhaps as stunned by this question as many others in the room, suggested it was time for a coffee break.There were also intense debates about how to deal with counterfeit devices, such as mobile phones. Bean counters, though, could have predicted that the budget and a new office for ITU would be trigger points. Particularly given the fact that ITU was facing a budget reduction of 30m Swiss Francs in member state contributions over the next four years.Which states came out on top?Not the USA, despite the fact that Toure gave the USA credit for helping with the Crimea and Palestine negotiations. USA tainted its image early in the conference, when it criticised the chair of the group handling internet and cybersecurity related issues.The USA was also a little too aggressive in some of its responses to proposals it didn’t like and a bit too keen to hint to others that it had done deals to get proposals it disliked off the table. In contrast, Australia, New Zealand and Sweden all appeared to come out of the plenipot with greater respect of other member states, including some traditional foes of the internet.What’s next?Discussions on internet issues were intense, but the outcomes were fairly insubstantial. It suggests the internet cold war is definitely thawing after the key battle at WCIT in 2012. States will still need to posture and clearly state their policy positions in proposals, but are more willing to let them go by the wayside … as long as proposals by those with opposing views also aren’t incorporated. This doesn’t mean that states don’t want to pursue their goals - it simply means they are being more patient about how long it will take to get there.The next big meeting to discuss technology and internet issues in the UN world is the General Assembly’s special high-level meeting in December 2015. That will review a decade of activities since the World Summit on the Information Society was held in Tunis in 2005.It is at this meeting, the highest level of the UN family of agencies, that many governments may choose to take up internet issues again - though without secretary general Toure. In one speech in praise of him, a South African delegate said: “We’re not going to part with him. He’s just being recycled within the ITU space and the ICT space.”Samantha Dickinson is an internet governance analyst and writer. She blogs atLingua Synapticaand tweets from@sgdickinson•How to survive the Internet Governance Forum in Istanbul – and why bother?
The enduring appeal of video games is that they let you pretend to be someone you’re not. Roman emperor, Renaissance assassin and space marine are all standard-issue jobs for gamers. Not only that, most games sex up their subject matter, Michael Bay-style, with relentless, meaningless action and unnecessary explosions. Yet, despite all the high-octane thrills offered by much of the medium, a growing number of players are opting for a less fanciful form of escapism.The upcomingEuropean Ship Simulator, for example, places you at the controls of ferries, tugs and fishing boats, as well as vast, ponderous ocean-going behemoths.Euro Truck Simulator 2, meanwhile, features reasonably lifelike trips between neighbouring European industrial centres, its joy derived from the journey rather than constant gaudy fanfares of achievement. All of which raises the question: what kind of player could possibly find this plodding, accurately detailed depiction of real life more entertaining than the incendiary, brightly coloured fantasy offered by most games?“On the day we published Euro Truck Simulator 2, we had a phone call from an HGV driver of 25 years who said he’d booked the day off work so that he could play the game all day as soon as it was released,” says Richard Barclay of simulator specialist Excalibur. “He suggested that the only way it could be more realistic would be if idiots in small family saloons kept cutting in front of you.”A survey of forums for the gameFarm Simulatorreveals reasons for enjoying it range from “I’m a farmer, but it’s fun to play with friends on my days off” to those respondents who, for whatever reasons, can’t farm in real life. That may explain some of the appeal of hyper-realistic reality simulators, but that’s only one aspect of the genre. WhileIL-2 Sturmovik: Battle Of Stalingradwants to give you an authentic impression of being a second world war fighter pilot andStreet Cleaning Simulatordelivers all the stultifying mundanity of driving at walking pace sweeping gutters, there’s a new breed of sim that’s less concerned with verisimilitude.Surgeon Simulatoris dressed in the trappings of modern medicine but it’s set up for laughs, the intentionally wobbly control of your surgeon’s hands resulting in appalling injuries to every patient you attempt to treat. The forthcomingViscera Cleanup Detail, meanwhile, presents you with a scene of blood-spattered desolation in the aftermath of a first-person shooter. Where most games would send you off to the next level, this one gives you a mop and bucket and leaves you to scrub bodily fluids and brain particles from floors and walls.The runaway success of the silly simulation world isGoat Simulator, which combines everyone’s favourite four-legged omnivore with the kind of carnage normally associated with tornadoes or industrial accidents. “If you haven’t looked on YouTube for funny goat videos, you really should,” explains developer Armin Ibrisagic. “There are more videos of goats chasing people and head-butting cars than you might think.” The in-game goat goes a bit further than that, blowing up barbecues, interfering with amateur science experiments and taking to the skies in a rocket-propelled jetpack. Its success has been as much of a surprise to Ibrisagic as it has to anyone yet to experience its peculiar brand of idiocy. “If someone told me a year ago that we’d have hundreds of thousands of goat fans, I’d never have believed it.”Goat Simulator’s success is inspiring other animal sims, including the forthcoming Kickstarter-fundedBear Simulator, described by its creator as “Like a mini Skyrim, but you’re a bear”. As in Skyrim, players will run around unspoilt snowy wastes, but in this case they’ll be doing it on all fours, occasionally rearing up on hind legs to swat a bee’s nest or open a mysterious door. Though designed as a game, it’s significantly closer to letting you be a bear than Goat Simulator is to legitimate goatiness.The other burgeoning branch of simulation is space flight, which, for a change, doesn’t involve sub-orbital lasers or invading alien hordes.Kerbal Space Programis about overcoming gravity and getting spacecraft off the ground and into orbit, a process that’s more complex than you might imagine. Dry-sounding problems like managing fuel burn rate and ensuring your vector sends you into orbit rather than back to the ground in a mass of fiery debris achieve a thrilling and highly combustible reality when brought to life on a computer. And film lovers will be relived to learn that, unlike Interstellar or Gravity, even your most catastrophic decisions will be pleasantly free of soul-searing guilt or familial grief.The real success of simulators may be the result of fantasy fatigue. If you don’t play games to social life-destroying excess, you may not know the ennui induced by hundreds of hours spent slaying orc and dragon derivatives, driving fast cars and laying waste to the empires of ancient extraterrestrial civilisations. There comes a point where you’ve had enough, and the idea of spending a few hours as a farmer, ferry captain or ultra-violent goat makes for a refreshing palate cleanser, a break from the familiar exaggerations of mainstream gaming.But what about when even that gets too much? It’s OK. Knitting Simulator has got your back.Experience Euro Truck Simulator 2 and more here
Tess Ward documents her dating adventures in Grazia’s Date Night Dinners blogPhotograph: PRInternet datinghas certainly taken a new technological turn and is migrating from desktop to smartphone. Yet this isn’t solely inspired by convenience: developers have been quick to build apps that take advantage of the smartphone’s features to oil the dating wheels.They exploit the location tracking, the frictionless snap-and-send of smartphone photography and the always-on bantering of messaging software to create a less formal experience than web-based sites.Ease of use, slick design – often more like a game than just a useful tool – these apps provide not just a connective launch pad but a source of entertainment for their users.And unlike dating sites, most of these apps are free (though how their business models work is still rather vague).These apps are obviously popular: based on the number of users logging in and swiping their evenings away (Tinder alone has reported 75 million matches) but I have to wonder, is app dating becoming more of a game in itself, desensitising us from the real experience, or is it the key to successfully finding a match?TinderPhotograph: PRTinderFree, iOS, AndroidThe key to Tinder’s preposterous success is ease of use. Log in via Facebook, select a few pictures – adding a line or two of description of yourself is optional. You can start swiping yay or nay to what appears to be anever-ending supply of possible matchesgenerated by your GPS position and age preferences. One female-friendly feature is that guys can’t message you unless you’ve “liked” them, which reduces the lecherous spam. Works best in cities where there are more users.TinderlyPhotograph: PRTinderlyFree, iOS, AndroidFollowing the success of Tinder, a tiny ecosystem of apps has grown up to allow men, at least, to game the app. For example, instead of bothering to appraise every profile, this app allows guys to “like” in bulk, which enables them to wait and see which girls are keen. It also allows you to see who is Tindering in other places (helpful in deciding where to go on holiday or where to move, perhaps) and for the sentimental completists it keeps a history of every girl you’ve ever “liked”. The popularity of this app and similar apps may make Tinder a more irritating experience for female daters, so they may not be around for long.OKCupidPhotograph: PROkCupidFree, iOS, AndroidOKCupidrecently admitted that it had experimented on usersby deliberately putting the “wrong” people together. Their claim being “when we tell people they are a good match, they act as if they are – even when they should be wrong for each other”. Despite this, it is one of the most popular dating apps, with 30 million users and over 1 million daily logins. When you first join the app, you are asked a selection of multiple choice questions. Matches are made, based on the answers. The randomly selected questions determine matches, so the more of them you answer, the more likely it is you will find a match.GrindrPhotograph: PRGrindrFree, iOS, AndroidIn many ways Tinder’s precursor. Since its launch in 2009, Grindr has been popular with gay and bisexual men. The location-based app has been downloaded by more than four million people worldwide. It’s most popular in London, with 950,000 users passing through. Users have the option to chat and share photos – mainly of their abs and penises.HappnPhotograph: PRHappnFree, iOS, AndroidLike Tinder, it matches potential suitors by location and relies on Facebook for profile information; however, you don’t have to wait for a mutual like to contact. It allows potential matches to send “charms” before being registered as a match.It launched in France only five months ago, with 100,000 people signing up in the first five weeks.TickrPhotograph: PRTickrFree, iOS, AndoidTickr is a video-only dating app, relying on up to three 30-second movies to connect people. This idea behind the app, created by north Londoner, Daniel Freeman, is that it is a more truthful way of getting to know the personality of each person. He claims video clips will make it difficult for prospective partners to “hide as much”, enabling people to share more without having to answer questions. It is also that much harder to hide behind the flattering angled selfies which are often highly misleading with the photo-based apps. A good place to meet extroverts.HingePhotograph: PRHingeFree, launching in the UK early 2015Hinge may look a lot like Tinder and rely on Facebook to gather its information, but it digs deeper into the past, looking at the people previously dated, education, religion, profession and interests to find appropriate matches. Its creators claim this makes it more like a pocket dating concierge, as users are provided with a daily set of tailored matches and full screen profiles, instead of a stream of strangers’ random profiles. You can swipe to choose your matches, but you are visible to those whom you have friends in common with regardless of if you are a match or not.SoulmatesPhotograph: PRSoulmates£32 a monthYou read theObserver, so chances are theGuardian’sdating site, Soulmates, would be one of first your ports of call. It has a web app, ie compared to these others it is refreshingly quaint: essentially a smartphone-shaped version of the desktop site. Once you subscribe, you can find out more about other users and contact the ones that take your fancy. There are more than 236,000 members (the average user is 34). As theTelegraphdiplomatically put it: “They can’t all beGuardianreaders.”TastebudsPhotograph: PRTastebudsFree, iOSCould a passion for similar music lead to passion of a more carnal nature?This app could help you find out. It analyses the iTunes library on your iPhone (and, if you wish, info from last.fm and Songkick) and matches you with people on the basis of your musical taste. Filtering options mean that you have control over your matches. So don’t worry, you won’t get an ageing punk bothering you for a pogo.Plenty of FishPhotograph: PRPlenty of FishFree, iOS, Android, WindowsOne of the oldest dating sites (founded in 2003), it has a significantly older pool of users, with 44 being the average age. Free membership has made it the most popular internet dating website in the UK and the US since then. Around 80-85% of POF’s logins come from mobile devices. The signup alone takes an hour, supposedly to find a better match, so it is certainly for the more time-rich date seeker.
Daniel Rosenfeld is an endearingly chaotic public speaker. At the GameCity festival in Nottingham, he is supposed to be telling an audience about how he wrote the music and sound effects to the multimillion-selling building game Minecraft, but he keeps getting distracted. His sound files won’t load, then his computer crashes; his notes are on his mobile phone which seems to continually switch off. Yet the roomful of Minecraft fanatics hangs on his every word.The music is such an important part of this crazy gaming phenomenon. The wilting, minimalist tracks, slow-paced and slightly melancholy, recall the ambient works of Satie and Eno; they drift in the background as you build, sometimes just a few piano notes sounding as night draws in on your blocky world. The sound effects are weirdly evocative too – the staccato farm animal noises and groans of enemy mobs all contributing to the game’s unique atmosphere. Where did this perfect accompaniment come from?It turns out the minimalism was kind of unavoidable. “Minecraft has aterriblesound engine,” exclaims Rosenfeld, who grew up in east Germany, learning audio composition on cheap computer packages like Schism Tracker and Ableton Live. “Imagine a looping sound file that plays for two seconds and then just starts over. Let’s say it’s a rain sound effect and now you’re on a beach so you have wave sounds, too – but if you do that, if you play two looping sound files simultaneously, the engine crashes. And the engine only has 20 sound channels. So if you make a cow farm or a sheep farm, you can’t have all the animals making noises at the same time. Terrible.”There were other restrictions too. Each Minecraft world is created using graphical elements known as voxels, which are great for generating landscapes quickly, but make it difficult to signpost the properties of objects within the space. “So imagine there’s a creeper in that house way over there,” says Rosenfeld. “Technically, you shouldn’t be able to hear him because he’s right over there and there’s a wall between you. But in the game, youcanhear them because telling the program there’s a wall takes so much computing and processing power that it’s not worth doing it.”For similar reasons, Rosenfeld was unable to design echo effects for footsteps and music underground – because the game doesn’t know when you’re in a cave. He also wanted to create different ambient music for the game’s various biomes – like tundra, savannah, woodland – that make up the generated landscapes. However, players tend to move so eratically between them, that it sounded horrible. There were also plans for fighting music, “but we couldn’t do that because fights usually only last five seconds and no one wants to listen to epic fighting music for just five seconds.”The result is an eerily silent soundscape, interrupted only by stark discreet noises. Far from a hindrance however, Rosenfeld and the game’s creator Markus Perrson found that players appreciated the aural idiosyncracies – the rudimentary sound seemed to reflect and enhance the peculiar look of the world, with its endless blocks and pixelated flora.As for the music, Rosenfeld started on it very early in the game’s development, when there were only a couple of different block types. It reminded him of the cult PC title Dwarf Fortress, a ridiculously complex role-playing adventure that uses on basic ASCII art for imagery – so he decided to take inspiration from that. “The thing about it is, you play in this terrible DOS window, but you get this lovely guitar music playing and it makes the player think, ‘maybe I should keep playing, maybe there’s more to this game’.“I wanted to create the same feeling in Minecraft. Also, the world looks sort of 8bit, so people probably expected chiptune music, like Gameboy music, but I was like, no, I want to do something unexpected. So I decided to work with experimental simplistic acoustic music that doesn’t actually tell you anything about the game”.It works because the slower tracks give players permission to take their time – Minecraft is a game about making stuff, and Rosenfeld’s gentle minor key songs provide a peaceful sonic playspace.A soundtrack for every player momentHe also wanted the music to be unobtrusive enough to be easily phased out in the player’s mind. “I almost hoped that they’d only notice it when something interesting happens in the game,” he explains. “That way the player automatically identifies the music specifically with events that they themselves created. Imagine you’re building a house and the sun starts setting, and the theme the music comes in - or you go into a cave and there is lava and there are diamonds, and then the music plays. People still come up to me and tell them their story of how they did this or that and then the music came in and it was like magic to them – even though it’s completely random.”I ask about the mob sounds too. How did he make that quite startling creeper noise? “That was just a complete accident by Markus and me,” he says. “We just put in a placeholder sound of burning a matchstick. It seemed to work hilariously well, so we kept it.” And the scary zombies with their horrible groans? “I actually never wanted the zombies so scary,” he says. “I intentionally made them sound comical. It’s nice to hear that they work so well on you though, wimp.”He still uses the Ableton Live package. “However I have a ton of extra software and plugins for it,” he says. “They can be pretty much everything from an effect to an entire orchestra. Additionally, I’ve got some synthesizers that are attached to the computer. Like a Moog Voyager, Dave Smith Prophet 08 and a Virus TI.”He is currently working on a new album of original material, which may well run to two hours (“over three if I go crazy”), but he still has plans for Minecraft as the game continues to mature and develop. “I want to make sound effects for biomes,” he says. “If you’re walking along a river you hear the water, then in the forest you hear birds, but as night comes in, it becomes kind of weird, you can walk through a desert, a swamp, and the sounds merge and change with you.”At the close of his GameCity talk, he mentions therecent sale of Minecraft developer Mojang to Microsoft– a move that has caused some concern and upset in the community. “The days before the sale went through - I felt betrayed by Markus,” he said. “I was worried Microsoft would take my music. But ultimately I talked to the lawyers and I still own it. My music is not worth $2.5bn. And also, I’m not rich.”As for Daniel’s relationship with the Minecraft creator, with whom he struck up a bond on an indie games forum, a bond that led to their collaboration, it’s all okay now. “Markus just wants to be left alone to make little games that no one cares about. That viewpoint makes sense to me.”Minecraft: a crash guide to Mojang’s world-beating gameHow Minecraft has bewitched 40 million of us
Apple says it has blocked Wirelurker, the first piece of malware able to infect iOS devices and applications which have not been jailbroken.Identified by security researchers Palo Alto Networkson Wednesday, the malware has been spotted shipping alongside pirated copies of Chinese Mac apps, before jumping to iPhones and iPads over a USB cable.Apple says that it is “aware of malicious software available from a download site aimed at users in China, and we’ve blocked the identified apps to prevent them from launching.”The company did not elaborate on how it is carrying out the blocking, but did emphasise that “as always, we recommend that users download and install software from trusted sources”.The infected apps were discovered on the Maiyadi App Store, a third-party application store based in China which is largely filled with pirated and unauthorised copies of major apps, such as Dropbox, Spideroak and Autodesk.Wirelurker works by abusing capabilities in Apple’s operating systems designed to enable large enterprises to install their own applications on employees’ devices. That enables the malware to not only scrape data from affected users’ iOS devices, but even go so far as to install third-party applications on those devices, and infect installed applications.It is the first in-the-wild malware family that can do this, and only the second ever that attacks iOS devices through OS X via USB.A second Apple vulnerability disclosed this week, known as Rootpipe, remains unpatched. The researcher who discovered it has not revealed how the vulnerability, which lets attackers gain root privileges without entering a password, can be abused, and says he is waiting for Apple to issue a patch.The Guardian has asked Apple for comment.Double trouble for Apple, as two software security flaws discovered
