Another security hole found in AOL's ICQ following another security hole found in AOL Instant Messenger. AOL wants users toupgrade, reports Reuters.
Thisis very cool, no?
Web users attempting to trace their ancestors remained disappointed today when the public records office failed in its bid to get the massively popular 1901 online census back up and running within a week.BT, the internet service provider responsible for hosting the census website, asked the PRO to pull the site days after it was launched, when more than seven million people tried to access the site at the same time. The site was designed to handle only 1.2m visitors over the course of a day.The PRO said it hoped to have the site operating again early this week, ideally today. But the site's address, census.pro.gov.uk, continued to take users to an apology page this afternoon, or the page failed to load at all - indicating high numbers of users accessing the apology.Ongoing problems accessing the site have been a huge embarrassment for the PRO, which launched the census website among huge publicity two weeks ago. The website offers access, for the first time, to the details of more than 32m Edwardians. Genealogy is now second only to pornography in popularity on the internet.The site has been suspended since last Tuesday, while the PRO and its technical advisors, Quinetiq, formerly part of the Ministry of Defence, attempt to increase its capacity.Staff on the website's helpline were today unable to say when the site would be operating again.
Yahoo is disputing independent figures from Jupiter Media Metrix that show Microsoft has the most popular search engine, according to an AFP storyhere. The point is that Microsoft's dominant Web browser searches MSN by default, so visits may be involuntary ones. In the same way, MSN's portal figures are artificially inflated by Hotmail users who pay the site involuntary visits after signing out (which is why I make a point of closing the browser window immediately). It is easy to sympathise with Yahoo's point of view. But of course, it used to have a default search engine deal with Netscape when Navigator had a monopoly market share, and if you install Yahoo Essentials for Internet Explorer, it does exactly the same thing.
Computer viruses on the internet have risen fivefold in the past two years, with one security firm now finding a bug on clients' servers every 30 seconds on average.British analysts have examined emails sent and received in the UK and found that one in 300 is infected, compared with one in 1,500 in 1999. More than 400 new viruses are created every month, experts say.Security firm Messagelabs has warned of a surge in the number of viruses infecting clients' computers. While internet traffic has risen, it discovered that viruses were growing at a faster rate.Steve Trilling, director of research at the anti-virus company Symantec Security Response, said the situation would worsen dramatically as technology improved. 'New technologies will help these viruses become more dangerous. The potential danger to the internet and economy is greater than ever,' he said.Last year the Government's internet security service, Uniras, issued a record 26 alerts - high-level warnings about viruses that threaten the national infrastructure - three times as many as in 2000. It also issued a record 260 emergency briefings about virus threats.Messagelabs said the rise was often due to the increased lifespan of a virus. 'We see old viruses again and again that never seem to die out,' said Alex Shipp, its chief antivirus technologist. 'They keep propagating themselves to stay alive.'The potency of viruses has also increased. Richard Saunders, a spokesman for Symantec, said the greatest problem were 'blended threats' - viruses that used a variety of techniques to infiltrate a system. These include bombarding a computer with emails and leaving a secret program behind to cause damage later.Last week it was revealed that computer viruses cost firms more than &#163;18 billion globally in 2001. Independent researchers Computer Economics said the 'Love Bug' and 'Code Red II' viruses had caused considerable damage.nick.walsh@observer.co.uk
Online retailer Lastminute.com is offering staff a new incentive to stay with the company. The firm, which has seen its share price crash from about 500p in April 2000 to just over 30p now, plans to introduce a savings scheme giving employees options to buy Lastminute shares at a sizeable discount.According to the firm's annual report, the new share savings scheme 'will allow eligible employees to save from their salary to buy shares in the company on potentially   favourable terms'.The scheme will offer all employees the chance to buy shares at discounts of up to 20 per cent. Staff will be able to save up to &#163;250 a month under the plan, which has to be approved at the annual general meeting. A company spokesman said about 1,500 UK firms had introduced similar schemes.The lossmaking Lastminute is aiming to hit profitability in its French and UK operations this year. In the 12 months to 30 September 2001, its group operating loss was   &#163;57m, against a loss of nearly &#163;40m the year before.The annual report shows Lastminute's founder and chief executive officer, Brent Hoberman, earned a total of &#163;173,000 last year, compared with &#163;136,000 the previous year. Co-founder Martha Lane Fox was paid a total of &#163;138,000, up from &#163;114,000.The report also shows that director Pieter Bouw made a gain of &#163;264,131 on the exercise of share options after his resignation from the board earlier in the year.
A story for our dot.com times:The Rise and Fall of Michael Saylor, in four parts.
Poor Larry Ellison, boss of ultra-aggressiveOracle, just lost $578,831,948.65 according to CNet'sCEO Wealth Meter. Indeed, he lost about $21 billion last year. But don't feel too sorry for the guy: he's still worth $22 billion.
Does it flog designer gear for children on the net?Not quite, it is Europe's largest retailer of video games and computer software, operating from 311 stores in the UK and Ireland.What's with the youth in the picture, then?You really need to get out more. He is Harry Potter, depicting its top-selling game for Nintendo's Game Boy Advance Console. Players take the role of Harry Potter as he enrolls at Hogwarts and embarks on a journey to unlock the secrets of his own magical abilities.A young denizen of the new economy?A corporate child really, it has only been around since 1992 when the firm traded as Rhino Group. It operated a trading subsidiary called Future Zone Stores, which specialised in the retailing of computer and video games software. In the first quarter of 1995, EB Inc (US) acquired approximately 25% of the business and Rhino Group was rebranded as Electronics Boutique.Is there a lot of money in computerised toys?You bet. After announcing a record sales rise of 47% in the five weeks to December 29 early this week, shares were changing hands at 129p, valuing the firm at &#163;480m. Cumulatively, annual sales are up by 38% on a like-for-like basis, leaving the company on track to report a &#163;25.2m pre-tax profit for the current year.Any tips to impress its hiring squad?In the spring, when Microsoft joins the market with Xbox and Nintendo launches its GameCube, the sales figures for games and consoles will rise again. "We are entering a golden age of video games," says group chief executive John Steinbrecher. "You get a big console release and you sell a lot of hardware that year, and the following two years you sell a lot of software to support it."You should know that the board will seek shareholders' approval to change the group's name to The Game Group in due course. The Game brand already represents almost half of the UK store base and is used throughout the Swedish chain.The typical age of a computer game player used to be between eight and 18 years. Now it is 18 to 35, with women making up 25% of its register of loyal customers.The latest figures from industry research group Chart   Track show that total UK spending on computer and video game software has leapt from &#163;364m in 1995 to &#163;934m in 2000.Any chance of clicking on its corporate strategy?The company's ultimate objective is to be the shopping destination of choice for all games, PC software, hardware and peripherals.It has grown substantially since 1995, both organically and via acquisition. In May 1999, it bought its largest competitor, Game, and integrated its 82 stores into its existing infrastructure.And it has struck a marketing and distribution deal with America Online, the world's biggest internet service provider. The company gets access to AOL's 1.6m UK customers in return for promoting the internet company's Netscape Online service in its stores.Is the boardroom packed full of boys?Lisa Morgan is the highest ranking women executive. She was appointed to the main board as commercial director in January 2000.What are the chances of playing my way into a job?The hunt is on for ambitious bright sparks to staff its store expansion programme that will open 15-20 new stores a year.Group chief executive John Steinbrecher says: "Retailing offers great careers, our business is fast-moving with new products coming out every day. We are always looking for the right people to fill our management positions, from managers to regional managers. Our motto is to hire nice people and teach them to sell. We don't necessarily hire sales people in the first place. Ours is soft-sell so we want friendly sort of folk. We like customers to come in, look around and take their time."Do the executives download hefty pay cheques?The top two base salaries come out at &#163;348,000 and &#163;160,000.Give us a glimpse of workers' wage packet?The average starting pay for store managers is around &#163;15,000 - more in a big city store.Who fields job applications?Sarah Pook, head of human resources, EB Stores Group Ltd, Link House, Ellesfield Avenue, Bracknell, Berkshire RG12 8TB.
Judge Frederick Motz hasthrown outthe proposed class action lawsuit settlement whereby Microsoft would have donated $1 billion worth of IT to disadvantaged schools. The deal would have cost Microsoft relatively little, and might also have hastened Apple's decline in the American education market, where its proprietary lock-in has helped it maintain a large market share.
Napster, the once renegade music file-sharing service, flickered back into life yesterday after spending more than six months offline.The service, which attracted the unwanted scrutiny of the big five recording companies after becoming hugely popular with internet users, is testing a members' service with 20,000 volunteers.The muted relaunch is the first step towards turning Napster, founded by college drop-out Shawn Fanning, into a legitimate business.Napster was forced into a hiatus to comply with a court order in July last year to remove all copyrighted material from its service. Napster, the most prominent of the free file-sharing services, had become a focus for fear among the music companies that their business could be severely damaged by downloading from the internet.Before being shut down, Napster had attracted 85m registered users downloading as many as 3bn songs a month. More than 2m volunteers came forward for the trial.The pilot service will initially offer 100,000 songs from independent labels including Beggars Banquet and Matador.A full members' service is planned for the end of March and talks to license music from the five big recording companies are continuing. The five have indicated that they would be willing to provide material to Napster if it is a legitimate, copyright-respecting service. The test service will be free for volunteers but the plan for the full relaunch is to charge between $5 and $10 a month, allowing the user to download 50 songs.In a painfully long process, Napster has been settling legal cases with individual artists including heavy metal band Metallica as well as a number of independent labels.Konrad Hilbers, Napster chief executive, said the pilot was to "show the record companies that the technology works and the downloads are secure".
You saw thehampster danceand many of the next 5,000 imitations. Now there's one based on what may be only the world's second personal computer to ship with a flat screen on a hinged arm. Yes, it's theiMac Dance.
USA Today has been to theGoogleplexto report on the life behind the net's best search engine.
Is the Consumer Electronics Show going to take over from Comdex? Both shows are held in Las Vegas, attract many of the same speakers, and some of the same audience. ZD Net News, comparing the shows, reckons CES has won the latest round. The story,here, quotes a taxi driver at CES saying: "Comdex sucks. At least most of these people know what a tip is." Well, Comdex attracts more techical people and fewer marketing types. The geekier ones are supposed to arrive at Comdex with one shirt and one $100 bill and spend the week without changing either.
A London-based public relations company's use of the recent deaths of three rock stars to promote a new computer game has spectacularly backfired.Yesterday, just hours after the suicide of Feeder drummer Jon Lee was announced, Peter Noble PR sent out a press release for the new game title calling the deaths an "ironic twist leading up to the much hyped computer game release entitled Rock Manager".Today Peter Noble, the managing director of the firm, was forced to issue a grovelling apology to those on his mailing list.The press release started off by saying: "Today you probably heard about the untimely death of the drummer of rock group Feeder. Welsh-born rock star, Jon Lee, 33, is to believed to have committed suicide."It continued: "Lee's sudden death is the latest in a series of rock suicides.  Last week Zac Foley, 31, the bassist of EMF was found dead in England. Stuart Adamson, 43, the front man of Big Country and former guitarist for punk band The Skids, was found hanged in his Hawaii hotel room in December."Life goes on and some even say rock'n'roll never dies. How weird is that? It's no surprise that the recent rock suicides serve as an ironic twist leading up to the much hyped computer game release entitled Rock Manager."But not everyone was happy when they saw the deaths crassly linked to a commercial product.Mr Noble was forced to issue a grovelling apology after some recipients complained the press release was in bad taste.His apology said: "Following the email that I sent to you yesterday where I commented on the recent tragic loss of three rock stars - Jon Lee (Feeder), Zac Foley (EMF) and Stuart Adamson (Big Country), I sincerely apologise for any upset we may have caused you."It was not my intention to cause you any offence. My heartfelt sympathies go out to the three talented musicians and their families during this difficult time. Please accept my deepest apologies."The PAN Interactive game, which launches in the UK on March 21, challenges the player to develop a successful rock or pop act by recruiting band members, recording an album and hit record.
Britain's long-standing addiction to computer games reached new heights last year as the industry enjoyed its biggest ever sales boom, according to figures released yesterday.In the face of predictions that the market in this country had peaked, devoted players spent &#163;1.6bn on games and consoles in 2001. Driven by the success of the world-dominating PlayStation 2 console, demand for games and hardware leapt by 36% over the previous year.The figures, released by the European Leisure Software Publishers Association, confirm the UK's status as the third largest games market in the world after the US and Japan. Britons spend more on leisure software than on renting videos or going to the cinema.The sales boom is good news for the domestic games production scene, which has grown almost unnoticed from a cottage industry of enthusiasts into a multi-million pound global success with export revenues exceeding both the home grown film and television industries.Roger Bennett, director general of Elspa, predicted yesterday that within five years, games exports will have overtaken those of pop music."The industry has been growing for 20 years and these figures show that we are now in the realms of mass market. The British seem to have a cultural attachment to computer games: they love playing them and they also produce some of the best games in the world."Sam Richards, deputy editor of the Official PlayStation 2 Magazine, said: "The games market in other European countries is less developed in the same way that pop music is. The two are very similar, they are both cutting edge and the UK is at the forefront of both."According to Elspa, nine games sold more than 300,000 copies each in the UK last year, including American company EA's Harry Potter game which achieved platinum status in five weeks, making it the fastest seller of the year.British games were well represented among the top sellers. The second biggest hit of the year was Who Wants to be a Millionaire, published by Eidos, which is also responsible for the phenomenally successful Tomb Raider franchise. The latest instalment of Lara Croft's adventures was the fifth most popular game in 2001, while Grand Theft Auto 3, developed by Scottish company DMA and published by Windsor-based Take 2, ranked seventh.Serhad Koro, Take 2's managing director, said the success of the PlayStation 2 was the crucial factor behind the market's resurgence. "When Sony cut the price of the PS2 consoles from &#163;299 to &#163;199 in the summer, they just started flying out the doors. All it took then was a couple of killer applications, games like Grand Theft Auto 3, which were a huge improvement on the earlier versions on older consoles."Sales of personal computer games have remained constant, but it is the new consoles which have fuelled the boom. The popularity of PS2 -there are now 1.7m users in the UK, double that of the original PlayStation at this stage in its life cycle five years ago - made hardware sales the biggest growth area in 2001, with an increase of 121% on the previous year. On the back of this boom, there was &#163;711m worth of games sales, an increase of 26% on 2000.The Rock, Tarrant and HarryWWF Smackdown by THQFeaturing more than 35 WWF wrestlers, including the Undertaker and the Rock as well as commentary, arguments and tauntingWho Wants to be a Millionaire by EidosA 3D virtual Chris Tarrant asks the questions. Includes all the features of the TV show - except the moneyThe Sims by EA GamesPlayers take charge of a neighbourhood of Sims and run every aspect of their lives, from building homes to romanceDriver 2 by InfogramesHigh speed driving mayhem in cities across America, including Las Vegas and Rio de JaneiroTomb Raider 4 by EidosThe latest in the British gaming industries biggest hit, which has brought in more foreign earnings than the Spice GirlsTony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 by ActivisionSequel to the game inspired by the skills of the most famous skateboarding pro of all time. Features hundreds of new tricks, a graffiti mode and a hip hop/metal soundtrackGrand Theft Auto 3 by Take 2Full 3D version of the controversial car crime and   pedestrian carnage hit. Players earn cash by taking jobs from criminal gangs, stealing cars and muggingGran Turismo 3 by Sony Computer Entertainment EuropeThe PlayStation 2 version of the driving game, featuring more than 100 car models to raceHarry Potter - The Philosopher's Stone by EAThe digital version of JK Rowling's bestseller was fastest selling hit of the year.
History lessonOn Tuesday, BT pulled the plug on the massively popular 1901 census website, after an estimated 7m people tried to access the service at the same time.The Public Record Office (PRO) originally withdrew the service on Friday, although the site - which made available the whole of the 1901 census - had remained available during night-time hours. Since launching last week the site has simply been swamped with users keen to find out their family history.BT's action might be an embarrassment for the government, but it also proves that the British public has an overwhelming appetite for history and genealogy. Designed for 1.2m users a day, the 1901 census website has attracted as many in an hour.The PRO had hoped to have the site operating again early this week but I believe that the site will not be available until Monday at the earliest.http://www.census.pro.gov.ukWar gamesFew doubt that the war in Afghanistan has seen online media mature. But - as ever - part of the problem is that there is now too much information about the war, not too little. Now, a brace of US   websites are showing new ways to make sense of the masses of information pouring out of the Pentagon and other official sources.American artist John Klima uses official data from the US Defence Department's daily press briefings. The Great Game is an online "game" that uses a real-time map of Afghanistan as its board. Game pieces represent real munitions, aircraft targets and troop movements. It is updated every 60 seconds.Kilma has mapped similar territories before. His 1999 piece, Serbian Skylight, made similar use of US Department of Defence data to represent the estimated ordnance dropped on Serbia by Nato. Since then, he has busied himself representing financial markets in beautiful Java applets.The Great Game is a little clunky, it won't work on Macs, and doesn't like Netscape 6 at all. And it is not a game in the sense that you play it to win. But if it's an antidote to hastily rewritten press releases and empty political speeches you are after, then look no further.Meanwhile, Professor Marc W Herold of the University of New Hampshire also uses official Pentagon data in another original way. His site charts a chilling "death watch" detailing the thousands of civilian deaths caused by the US-led bombing. Herold believes that the western media is failing to report the war in Afghanistan accurately. Or at least, that details of the full extent of civilian casualties are being obscured from the public. He puts the number of civilian casualties at nearly 4,000. It makes for grim - if essential - reading.www.cursor.org/stories/civilian_deaths.htmwww.cityarts.com/lmnoClassic caseAn interactive animated version of Antonin Dvorak's Symphony No 9, From the New World, has just been released on Carnegie Hall's website. The animated symphony is the first in a series of online "listening adventures" by the venerable music hall. It is aimed at kids, but anyone with even a remote interest in   classical music will recognise its charm.On the other side of the classical spectrum are Mark Hansen and Ben Rubin. For their new work at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the pair monitored the activity in thousands of internet chat rooms and message boards, then converted these public conversations into a computer-generated opera. It is an unashamedly difficult but surprisingly rewarding piece.www.listeningadventures.orgwww.carnegiehall.orgwww.bam.org/asp/bam_frameset.asp" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;Brooklyn Academy of MusicSundanceThe Sundance Film Festival begins today. Those of us who cannot afford a trip to Utah can enjoy the festival on the web. This year's site includes a number of notable short films.Sundance Film FestivalWalk of lifeTen years ago, Austin-based film director Richard Linklater helped define much of the attitudes of the e-generation with his seminal debut film, Slacker. Even if it did fail to anticipate the coming of internet. Linklater   is about to return to the slacking theme with a new animated feature, Walking Life. The film is due for a spring release in the UK, but a sneak preview can be found online.www.wakinglifemovie.comBBCiMonday saw the quiet launch of BBC.co.uk, rebranded as BBCi. Europe's most popular destination has been restructured to allow users to move more easily across its 1,000 websites. I particularly liked Gwenan, a virtual newsreader and a welsh Ananova.www.bbc.co.ukBlock bookingBerlin has always had a notable digital arts scene, but a computer interface the size of an office block? No, make that an interface that actually is an office block. Check out the site of the biggest game of Pong the world has seen.www.blinkenlights.deLife tipsDespite the country teetering on the brink of recession, one part of the online economy that continues to flourish is personal coaching and luxury concierge services. In November, Lastminute.com launched a VIP concierge service for its regular users, while London's Quintessentially continues to do good business even though it costs &#163;400 before they even say hello to you.Slightly cheaper is the new 3courselunch.com, an online "personal trainer" dispensing advice on everything from how to get a promotion to health tips for a tenner a month.Last Minutewww.quintessentially.comwww.3courselunch.comBunk offEngland's World Cup campaign does not start until June, but with matches starting as early as 7.30am, it is time to start thinking about how to watch the games while holding down a job. Sportswear company, Umbro, has stepped in with a site offering the best excuses and even a faux doctor's note.www.umbro.com/bunkoffNew &amp; noted&#183;Multimap.com has launched a personalised service that allows users to save the maps they use the most. http://Multimap&#183;Play a film version of Fantasy Football atFantasy Film League&#183;Ridley Scott's Black Hawk Down trailer is now atBlack Hawk Down&#183;Learn to keep New Year resolutions athttp://resolution.freeserve.com&#183;Sick of the sight of BBC2's internet drama? Then go towww.everyonehates attachments.com
Update on that Blogger story below... Evan Williams has not launched a premium Blogger just yet, but it's on its way. There's a degree of debate springing up in places likeUK Bloggers, a mailing list, about exactly what Blogger will end up charging for. Initially, it'll just be for fast response servers (or, after recent system outages,anyresponse servers). Later, it'll be extra functionality which Williams hasn't had the time, or resources, to introduce.
David Coursey makes a couple of interesting points about this week's Apple launch in aCommentaryfor ZD Net News. For example, if Apple is really a consumer electronics company rather than a computer company, how does it manage to launch a new machine just after the peak buying season? Of course, like many journalists who made the trek to the show, he's clearly miffed that Apple pre-sold an exclusive to Time magazine, which then cocked it up. In passing, he also remarks that: "AnchorDesk's readership, for example, is predictably below average on days when Apple appears in the headline, which is consistent with the company's overall market share." It remains odd that when around 95% of readers really don't care how "innovative" Apple is with hinges and coloured plastics, the press keeps on writing vast screeds about the company. How many readers are we driving away? Hm, I plead guilty, too.
If you want to organise your life or just pour out your problems in purple prose, there is a plethora of software that will do the job. The bad news is that it will not make you a better person. If you are too disorganised to use a paper diary, you are even less likely to manage a computerised version. No electronic device is as handy as a pen and paper.But computer-based diaries do have advantages. Unlike paper diaries, the space allowed for entries is never too long or too short. Electronic diaries are also much easier to search, and they can be more secure. You can make as many copies as you like, and store them on a PC, on CD, and online on a server on the other side of the world. Yes, you can lose a Psion, Palm or Pocket PC, just as you can lose a Filofax, but you have only yourself to blame if you lose the data.Computers also let you encrypt, password-protect and otherwise lock up your personal information. That should avoid the dreadful day when, as inevitably happens, your best friend/spouse/visiting relative finds that your paper diary has accidentally fallen open at a particularly incriminating page.If you just want to record your daily thoughts, you don't need special software: any word processor will do. If you want something that offers more structure, including a calendar, there are lots of    cheap shareware programs. Examples includeMy Personal Diary,The JournalandDiary Keeper;e-Diaryis free.Numerous alternatives are listed at5 Star Sharewareand32bit.com.You can even find special-interest diaries on the web.Marco software, for example, offers diaries for gardeners, wine lovers and photographers. 32bit.com even lists Akasha Software's Dream Temple, a journal to help you record your dreams.And if you are a real exhibitionist, you can keep your diary online at one of the journal sites such as Diaristwww.diarist.netorDiary-x. The Diary Registry currently lists 4,854 online journals. Or you could use weblog software such asBloggerinstead. You don't have to make your weblog public, though lots of people do.There's a much bigger market for Pims or personal information managers, which don't have much of a diary function, unless you want to record what you are doing on a half-hourly basis. They pro vide appointment calendars, address books and to-do lists.I was converted to a Pim by Threadz Organizer, a British program that was bought by Lotus Development and is presumably still part of SmartSuite. This was attractive because the screen display mimicked my Filofax, and it let me print out Filofax-sized pages. But its limitations meant I soon moved on toACT!and then to Microsoft's Outlook.Outlook is very powerful, and also includes email software. You can even use it as a substitute for the Windows interface. But today, its real value is its ability to synchronise data with handheld computers and websites. Outlook will, for example, take an address from a Psion Series 5, add it to its own database, then send it to a PocketPC, as if by magic.There are lots of worthy Pims, and people who don't like Outlook have a wide range of options: seeDMOZfor a reasonable list.Above &amp; Beyondand Time &amp;Chaosboth have many loyal users, and home users could try Sexy (Cute, as was)Organizer.But today, it is not enough for a Pim to sit on a desktop computer. You need to be able to take it away with you, on a Palm, PocketPC, Psion or other handheld, and access it online, which means synchronising your data with a web service. Outlook is the best supported product, and every PocketPC comes with a copy.Finding a website is another matter. My first choices were Anyday and Visto, and both have recently become unavailable. Anyday was taken over by Palm, remade as Palm.net, then folded, while Visto has turned into a professional, paid-for service. Rivals? Amazon bought PlanetAll and closed it. Jump! looked good but its website seems to have disappeared, as have several others. WebAddressBook has changed intoJungleMate.The Franklin Planner sitehas tested synchronisation but has yet to offer the service.At the moment, I'm looking at two different services with exclamatory names: ReadySyncGo! andYahoo! ReadySyncGosupports Outlook and Palm-based handhelds, with PocketPC software "coming soon".Yahoo offers synchronisation with Outlook, Outlook Express, Palm, Lotus Organizer, and ACT! using Pumatech's Intellisync software, which you can download free.I know Yahoo isn't the prettiest service, but Intellisync works well, and you probably won't have to move to a different service in two or three years' time.
The British demand for computer games and consoles increased by 20% over the last year, with sales reaching an all-time high of £1.6bn, an industry body said today.Figures from the European Leisure Software Publishers Association (Elspa) indicated that the UK is now the third largest market in the world for computer games, after the USA and Japan. The British public spends more on leisure software than on renting videos or going to the cinema.Exports from the thriving home-grown software industry exceed those for both British film and television, according to Elspa.British consumers bought 4m games consoles last year, and that number may rise with the European launch of two new games consoles: Xbox from Microsoft and Game Cube from Nintendo.Microsoft said this week it had sold 1.5m Xboxes by the end of December after launching the console to much hype in Manhattan on November 15 2001. Xbox will be available in Europe from March 14.Roger Bennett, director general of Elspa, said: "The leisure software market has just seen its most successful Christmas ever, boosted by the launch of new consoles and fantastic games to go with them."The dramatic up trend in sales values confounds some analysts who thought the market had reached the end of rapid growth."According to Elspa, the most popular computer game last year was WWF Smackdown, followed by Who Wants to be a Millionaire? and The Sims. Harry Potter - The Philosopher's Stone was the fastest seller of the year.Top 10 GamesSource: Elspa, for week ending January 5 2002Grand Theft Auto 3Harry Potter - Philosopher's StoneFIFA 2002Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3007: Agent Under FireThe Sims: Hot DatePro Evolution SoccerThe Weakest LinkDevil May CrySSX: Tricky
It's official: the UK is a nation of gamers. People are now spending more money on computer games than on going to the movies or renting videos.Sales hit a record high in 2001 of £1.6bn, up 36% on last year - with PlayStation2 and Game Boy Advance doing particularly well. The trend looks set to continue into 2002, with Microsoft's Xbox and Nintendo's GameCube entering the UK market.Gaming is a huge business - but you may not have noticed. While the latest movie blockbuster will be widely covered, the equivalent gaming hit is likely to be ignored. Most newspapers, if they cover games at all, submerge reviews in the IT or kids supplements rather than the arts or entertainment section.Dave McCarthy, of respected gaming magazine Edge, blames widespread ignorance: commentators on the arts simply don't have sufficient knowledge of videogames; they seem incapable of contextualising the videogame industry in comparison with the early years of the movie industry.Computer gaming has been around since Space War in the early 60s. The phenomenon of Space Invaders in the 70s, and the home console and computer craze of the eighties, saw millions of gamers glued to their Spectrums and Commodore 64s.However, it wasn't until the mid 90s, and the release of Sony's PlayStation, that gaming really entered the mainstream.  Here was a console that was aimed at an older demographic and consciously marketed in clubs and style magazines. Twentysomethings flocked to the machine and gaming moved from the bedroom to the living room.The PlayStation 2 was launched in 2000, adding DVD playback to improved graphics and sound, as Sony targeted a joint gaming/film audience.The move from geek to chic has been reflected elsewhere. Historically it was movies that got turned into, usually dreadful, games.  Now Tomb Raider and Final Fantasy have returned the favour by inspiring some pretty dreadful films.Meanwhile, the London Design Museum is running a show of old pcs and game consoles, while the Barbican will be staging an exhibition examining the 40-year history of gaming.  Resident curator, Conrad Bodman, says the Barbican exhibition will "explain crucial developments in hardware technology, from the primitive, colossal computers of the early 60s to the GameCube".Forget misconceptions of geeks and kids, gaming is a cultural phenomenon that is increasingly difficult to ignore. Microsoft, with their $500m Xbox marketing budget, is certainly taking the market seriously. It's time the rest of us did too.
An obscure former Oxford don and Labour backbencher has been revealed to be the star of the world's best-selling army computer game.In a bizarre case of body doubling, James Plaskitt, the MP for Warwick and Leamington, has admitted to being the model for the platoon commander in Operation Flashpoint - a virtual reality video game which has sold more than 1m copies since the summer.The game sells at £35 and is supposedly so lifelike that the US military has ordered copies for training purposes.The strange modelling assignment came about when Mr Plaskitt visited Codemasters, a computer software company in his constituency last year.Mr Plaskitt, who lectured in economics and business at Oxford before becoming an MP in 1997, said: "When I arrived, they were taking a lot of photographs to go with this new computer game and asked if I would mind if they took some of me."I was delighted to help as they are a thriving local company but I had absolutely no idea that I would have a key role in this military video."David Solari, marketing director at Codemasters, said they had been looking for a distinguished older gentleman on which to model the cyber soldier - and the MP fitted the bill perfectly.The game has earned more than £35m since its release.The UK computer games market reached an all-time high last year, with sales totalling £1.6bn. Demand for software and consoles increased by 36% on the previous year, according to figures from the European Leisure Software Publishers Association.Mr Plaskitt added: "I have no idea if I am any good. I must be the only person who has never seen the video."However, the modest MP has pledged to get hold of a copy if the interest in it continues, but "it is not top of my list," he said.
Sad to say,The Playing Fieldshas gone into voluntary liquidation. This London basement has been a home from home for keen gamers since April 1997. Edward and Charles, the founders, say members should cancel their subscriptions as soon as possible as TPF will cease to exist on January 29. When I was roped into a networked Counter Strike at TPF, I apologised in advance to my team captain for the fact that I wasn't very good. "That's alright," he said, "we can use you as bait."
Return of the slasherDevil May CryPlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Capcom	***In the last few years videogaming has become increasingly mainstream. The success of the PlayStation and Lara Croft have taken the pastime out of the bedroom and into the living room. While this has generally been a good thing, some think that games have become a bit too easy. Well, Devil May Cry is far from easy. In fact Beelzebub himself won't be the only one weeping here.This is an old-school hack and slash affair that will see    you throwing your joypad at the telly on numerous occasions as you fail for the zillionth time to destroy an enemy. Of course, once you finally vanquish your foe, the satisfaction is immense, until    you realise that the next level offers more of the same. Basic RPG elements, where you can develop the character, and an in-game rating system, that evaluates your weapon prowess, offer a little depth,   but this is a relentless onslaught. Thankfully your character is more agile than the normal automaton, with numerous moves to master. Unfortunately the camera does its best to annoy, with battles made even harder by the constant view changes.Although the gameplay may be straight from the 1980's, the visuals are definitely modern day. There is a bit of elementary puzzling, but this is all about action. If your tastes include Civilisation or the Sims then perhaps this is best left on the shelf. If, however, you remember the days when games only involved reflexes, adrenaline and "continues" then Devil May Cry will offer some enjoyable reminiscence.
Today's issue of Guardian Online isonlinewith links.
To the delight of the Macworld hordes gathered in San Francisco this week, Apple boss Steve Jobs pronounced the "death of the cathode ray tube" in his keynote address.The comment came as he unveiled the radically redesigned iMac - the first complete overhaul the machine has had since it was launched three years ago."This is the best thing we've done," said Jobs, unnecessarily hyping up the already ecstatic crowd of Mac-lovers inside the Moscone Convention Centre. Jobs always says that about new products. But one thing is certainly true: this is easily the most visually striking new product Apple has ever produced - and for the company that brought you flower power iMacs and the Zen-like simplicity of the Cube, that's going some.The iMac's taken quite a makeover. From head on, the new 15-inch flat panel LCD display appears to float unsupported above a white plastic dome that houses the iMac's disk drives and other innards. From behind, you can see the chrome arm that holds the display, and allows it to spin through 360 degrees and a variety of angles with no more effort than the pushing of a finger. The ports for peripherals - including an ample five USB ports - are discreetly cut into the dome's rear.From side on, the new iMac looks like no other computer - a lot like a kitsch desk lamp, perhaps. It is already being likened to the animated lamp that appears in the famous promotional short film for Pixar, the animation company that created Toy Story. Steve Jobs is Pixar's chief executive, too.Whatever it resembles, it is an incredibly bold design for a computer that Apple needs to see attain mainstream success. During his keynote, Jobs touted the six million iMacs sold in the three years of its first incarnations, when the boxes went from old-fashioned blueberry to outrageous Dalmatian spots, via muted greys and vivid slime green. The machine had, said Jobs, "changed the way we look at technology, and had influence way beyond the technology industry".But the fact is that the iMac was long past the peak of its   popularity - although still Apple's top-selling computer, in the third quarter of 2001 shipments were down 49% on the previous year, to 294,000 units. The company badly needed a revamp, and a flat panel iMac had long been rumoured. The fact it wasn't announced last year was probably down to the high cost and restricted availability of quality LCD screens. Now it's here, the iMac will be expected to not only sell well into the Mac community, but help win new users from the Windows PC world and help break Apple out of its tiny, sub-5% share of the desktop market. And, aside from the new machine's quirky looks, the success or not of that drive will be down to the software it can run.Apple's big bet is on making the iMac - and its iBook portable cousin - the "digital hub" of gadget-filled homes. The company wants to make its machines the obvious place to manage your digital camera, camcorder and MP3 collections. For instance; you can cut a video tape full of birthday parties you never watch into compelling three-minute shorts using iMovie, Apple's free movie-editing software, and then burn them onto a DVD using iDVD, the free DVD-making package.Also announced this week was the final part of the i-software jigsaw - iPhoto. Long on Mac-users' wishlists, iPhoto is a fantastically easy way to catalogue, prepare and share your photographs. And for US users, includes - Microsoft Windows style - close integration with third-party's services. Using the one-click ordering made famous by Amazon, iPhoto users can assemble whole albums or even hardback books of pictures and order them from Kodak, to be dispatched to home, office or - in Jobs' case - his mother in law. This, however, will only work for US users initially - UK users will have to content themselves with producing online slide-shows automatically, or printing out their own albums at home.The new hardware and software announced this week fills in the gaping holes in Apple's year-old digital hub strategy. What remains to be seen is if the public takes to the hub as fast as it already has to the peripherals, such as the camcorders, DVD players and digital cameras, that feed into it.iMac:Completely revised, and set to appear in three versions, although it will take until March for all of them to be on sale. The old CRT iMac remains on sale for the time being, and continues to offer a sub-&#163;700 route into the Mac range.&#183;All the new machines sport a 15 inch LCD screen, with the equivalent viewing area of a 17inch CRTdisplay.&#183;The basic model has a 700MHz G4 processor, 128MB of memory, a 40GB hard drive and CD-RW. Sadly, it won't be shipping until late March. &#163;977.97, plus VAT.&#183;The middle version is simi lar, but have 256MB of memory and a "combo" CD-RW &amp; DVD player. Shipping late February. &#163;1105.53, plus VAT.&#183;The top of the range iMac has a 800MHz G4 processor, 256Mb of memory, a 60Gb hard drive and the Superdrive - a CD and DVD reader and writer. Shipping in 4-6 weeks, &#163;1,360.85, plus VAT.iBook:Almost ignored among the hype for the new iMac, Apple's attractive consumer laptop now has a new top of the range model with a larger, 14-inch display. The case has been proportionately expanded - and Apple claims this has the bonus of   allowing an extra hour of battery life - making six hours in total. It has a 600MHz G3 processor, 256MB memory, a 20GB hard drive, and is shipping. &#163;1,360.85, plus VAT.iPhoto:Apple's new picture organiser, editor and publisher makes managing your digital picture collection a lot easier. Rumoured to have been launched to the displeasure of Adobe, which makes the expensive pro-picture editing Photoshop software, iPhoto allows consumers to collect images off their camera, view thumbnail images and organise them with a single click. Further clicks and    pull-down menus make it easy to crop the images, publish the images to Apple's iTools service for the world to see over the web, or print them out. It threatens to take a lot of the tedium out of dealing with digital images. Free and available to download now fromwww.apple.comOS X:The new operating system, finally ready for prime-time, will be the default on Macs from the end of this month - although OS 9 will still be available for those who want it, and old OS 9 applications will still run.
Is it true your computer use began by sneaking on to the Utah University mainframe in the small hours?Yes it is. That was in the late 1960s. We played games and programmed anything.Was there a reticence to see computer games as viable business pre-Atari?Definitely. It was obvious to see that if we could transfer the games we were playing on the computers to the amusement park then they'd make money. However if you divide 25 cents a play into a $7m computer then it doesn't seem viable. As technology became cheaper, it became possible.What early computers/software were you using?We were basically buildingState machines, which were very special purpose pieces of hardware that executed the commands extremely quickly. My first video game was in 1971 and the 4004 microprocessor wasn't even built until 1974 - and even then they were very slow. Video RAIDs have extreme uses - even for the clunky machines.What led you to branch out from games into home computers such as the Atari 800?It sort of felt natural because games were much harder than the computers. We saw it as something easier to do rather than harder. I left Atari in 1978 and we designed the 800 (seeOld.computers.com) but I had no involvement in the marketing of it and the marketing strategy was really where the 800 failed. If you talk to anyone contemporaneous with the time, the 800 was a significantly superior machine to theApple.How do you feel about how the games industry has evolved?Of course I'm ecstatic with the wonderful things that can be done now technically. I've always been somewhat disappointed that technology was not used more to upgrade the education system around the world. I see games and learning as being very intertwined. We can have kids playing video games for three hours straight when they're diagnosed withAttention Deficit Disorder. What that says is they're misdiagnosed as they're really suffering from Boring Teacher	 Syndrome! I truly believe that games can be an extremely powerful learning tool.Did you ever envisage the games industry would be the way it is now?I always believed that computer and games platforms would converge and that networks would be important. We had a division called AtariTel and were working on ultra-speed modems in the 70s.What is Uwink's philosophy?The main philosophy is really to re-establish short-form games. Most people have a life and therefore can't spend hours learning a game. All our games can be learned by anyone in probably less than 15 seconds and played enjoyably.Visit:uWink.For further information about Atari:Atari Historical Society.
Devil May CryPlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Capcom	***In the last few years videogaming has become increasingly mainstream. The success of the PlayStation and Lara Croft have taken the pastime out of the bedroom and into the living room. While this has generally been a good thing, some think that games have become a bit too easy. Well, Devil May Cry is far from easy. In fact Beelzebub himself won't be the only one weeping here.This is an old-school hack and slash affair that will see    you throwing your joypad at the telly on numerous occasions as you fail for the zillionth time to destroy an enemy. Of course, once you finally vanquish your foe, the satisfaction is immense, until    you realise that the next level offers more of the same. Basic RPG elements, where you can develop the character, and an in-game rating system, that evaluates your weapon prowess, offer a little depth,   but this is a relentless onslaught. Thankfully your character is more agile than the normal automaton, with numerous moves to master. Unfortunately the camera does its best to annoy, with battles made even harder by the constant view changes.Although the gameplay may be straight from the 1980's, the visuals are definitely modern day. There is a bit of elementary puzzling, but this is all about action. If your tastes include Civilisation or the Sims then perhaps this is best left on the shelf. If, however, you remember the days when games only involved reflexes, adrenaline and "continues" then Devil May Cry will offer some enjoyable reminiscence. (GH)Silent Hunter IIPC	&#163;29.99 SSI/Ubisoft	 ***This submarine sim gets off to a great start. Stirring, atmospheric music. Impressive CGI explosions. A clear, concise manual. And the museum section, containing potted histories of the various ships in the game and an interview with hotshot U-boat commander Erich Topp, is fascinating.The game proper, then, can hardly help but disappoint. The graphics offer no improvement on the sort that have bedevilled simulators for years: the sea is matt and murky, and even at maximum resolution, the ships look like unpainted, hastily assembled Airfix models. The enemy AI is little short of woeful, allowing even the novice captain several chances to complete each mission.The interface, at least, is easy to get to grips with. Thanks to the training missions, you'll be sailing, diving, plotting courses, even firing torpedoes within minutes. Several useful features are   included: first, there's the ability (now standard in flight sims) to toggle certain "realism" switches on and off, allowing, for example, mistakes in loading torpedoes, or to making your crew bark their replies in English rather than German. Then there's the time compression command, which lets you speed through the boring bits (such as, say, a journey across the Atlantic to attack US coastal shipping). Just be careful you don't try to engage the enemy at 2,048 times normal speed.However good the implementation, there's no escaping the fact that, since you're far better off submerged during combat, you basically have to follow battles on dials, gauges and radar screens. A special effects bonanza this is not.For these reasons, reading about what actually happened in the historical battle is often more exciting than recreating the mission yourself.  (AB)DropshipPlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 SCEE/Sony	***Geopolitics have never been videogames' strong point. Dropship takes place in a near future where you must, for example, destroy the desert training camps of a terrorist leader or wipe out a South American cocaine trafficker.You pilot a Dropship: a fighter aircraft that can also hover and transport ground vehicles. The combat mechanics are exhilaratingly realised: holding down a button zooms into a "missile-cam" view, and dogfighting   vapour trails look mighty pretty against cobalt skies. As well as flying and shooting, you might have to drive a jeep or man a gun turret.The lengthy, multiple-objective missions slowly ratchet up the tension as you struggle to reach the end with a critically damaged hull. This   can be great fun, but it can also be frustrating: having to play the first three parts of a mission again and again because you fail the final objective gets dull in the end.The sound design is excellent, with realistic explosions   and ambient engine noise; the constant radio chatter from wingmen and commanders enhances the illusion of participation in a grand conflict. It reminded me a lot of Rogue Squadron on the N64.But Rogue Squadron had lasers and TIE fighters. Dropship has rockets and bland beige-coloured hardware. Its landscapes are largely repetitive, barren wastes of sand, rock or dry earth punctuated by enemy installations. Aesthetically, it's a triumph of pseudo-realism over imagination.Dropship feels like an uneasy hybrid of arcade shooter and serious military simulation, in which the virtues of neither genre can really shine to their fullest extent.  (SP)
A curious sign of the times is that people all over the world have been downloading high quality music from the web for nothing yet have been prepared to pay through the nose for simple ringtones to be sent to their mobile phones. The market for ringtones and logos - often costing from &#163;1 to &#163;3 a time - has grown from almost nothing to a billion dollar business in a couple of years. Even in a sophisticated market like Japan, where it is possible to send moving images from phone to phone, ringtones still rule the roost.The traditional ring of a telephone is being rapidly   replaced, especially among the the young, by samplings from the likes of Robbie Williams or So Solid Crew. The Finnish pop band Nylon Beat hit the number one spot with a recent CD after a taster had been released as a ringtone.A recent NOP survey found that 80% of 15 to 24 year olds downloaded at least one ringtone during the year. Exactly why they are prepared to pay handsomely for such an ephemeral thing as a ringtone while continuing to resist paying for music from the web is a bit of a mystery. It is part of the culture that persuades younger people to pay more for a T-shirt that advertises the maker's name in ever larger letters. In the old days   advertisers used to pay to advertise their wares - now we pay them.Ringtones have become a badge of passage, particularly having one of the latest ones - though how long the cult will last is a moot point. At the moment, the producers can't believe their cash machines. At a time when everyone else is unsuccessfully trying to work out ways of making punters pay for the web, young consumers are paying twice over - royalties for the content as well as the (premium-rated) telephone calls. If such a business model could be transplanted to the mainstream internet, it would transform the commercial prospects of the web.But how much longer can this last? It is so cheap to produce ringtones (virtually nothing once the infrastructure is in place) that new competitors are bound to enter the market driving the price down. In the short term, companies will try to keep prices up by bundling in new services enabled by technological improvements - such as animated cartoons and multimedia messaging - but prices are bound to be driven down.While ringtones are becoming ever more popular, and even addictive to young people, the older generation are finding them difficult to come to terms with. According to the same NOP survey, a third of respondents found   them infuriating. It may seem strange to older folk that while the mobile manufacturing industry seems to be going down the plughole, ring tones are booming. But what is wrong with them?Criticism is based on a mistaken notion of what constitutes a product.  If companies were manufacturing, say, boiled sweets they would be counted as part of the index of manufacturing industry and so a "good thing". But ringtones generate added value - and also export income - just like any other product, except that they do not devour vital raw materials other then intellectual property. And they don't rot your teeth, either.
More information has been collected in the past three years than since the beginning of time. So says Joe Tucci. And he should know. He is chief executive of EMC, which claims to be the world's leading data storage company. A survey conducted for his company by the University of California found that every year the world produces 250MB of information for every man, woman and child on earth.The interesting question this raises is not so much information overload - with which we are all too familiar - but the opposite: how much of this information will still be there in 20 years time, and will it be in a form that is accessible to us?Like most people I used to keep a personal diary for appointments etc in the form of something called paper. At the end of each year I would put my diary into a safe place - so I could always look back and hope that diary entries would jog my memory about something else.Then along came electronic diaries (for me in the form of a series of Psion palm tops) which I embraced with almost evangelical enthusiasm. What a wonder they were - you could run the same diary year after year with the ability to search for a particular entry through any number of past years. And all the data was backed up on your desktop so it could be restored if lost. It seemed like a glimpse of an electronic paradise.Except that, sadly, for me it has turned into paradise lost. It was always much easier in theory than in practice to back up data regularly, however much one tried to be   disciplined. And when my trusted Psion Revo finally gave up the ghost and crashed irretrievably (quite probably because of the rough treatment it had at my hands) then restoring data from the back-up computer became much trickier. There was nothing to restore it to.I could have bought another one - but now Psion has pulled out of palmtops completely, leaving me with a five year void in my diary. I could have changed to a Palm or similar model - but with no guarantee that similar problems won't arise in the future. I can understand why Neil McIntosh, deputy editor of Online, got a new toy for 2002: a Filofax.Nothing about this is surprising. Problems like this have been happening to practically everyone except the super-geeks who can find a way around everything. But no one likes to admit it, so seductive are the other charms of new technologyConsider: how much of the data you stored on your BBC B or your string of Sinclairs do you still have today? Even if you have kept the actual disks and they are not corrupted you cannot suddenly access them because computers do not have floppy disk   drives any more - they have moved on to CD-Roms and DVD drives (and they, in turn, will eventually be superseded by something else).You may, in the past, have preserved important letters - but how many emails from five years ago have you kept? There is constant pressure to empty your email boxes whether at home or work where big gaps in company histories are opening up as a result. No one writes memos any more.A new factor is that a market shake-up is causing email providers to close down - such as Excite UK, which shut its UK portal last month. When something like this happens, email records will be deleted unless you act quickly to sign up with another provider. Make sure you are not on holiday when they give you two or three weeks notice to back up your archive.Digital photos are the new   wonder of the web. With a half-decent digital camera you can take good photographs, plug the camera into your computer and view your masterpieces at once. But soon you have hundreds of digital photos with names like jpeg345 unless you have the discipline to file everything correctly.And how many of these will still be there in 30 years time when, if you are still alive, you will have had at least 10 changes of computers and suffered goodness knows how many upgrades in specifications? It will be interesting to see whether the tradition of handing down family photos survives.The information age could lead to less, not more, of the personal data we most treasure. There are still lots of ways to have an electronic diary (see Working the Web, page 4). But until someone devises one that can be accessed from the web - so it is not accidentally deleted - from a mobile phone (the natural place for a diary) in a user-friendly way, count me out.Now, if you will excuse me, I have to sign off. To go to WH Smith to buy myself something for 2002: a nice slimline diary.
Hype outThe hype cycle (Online, January 3 2001) wrongly presents the take-up of any new information technologies as inevitable, partly because it fails to address the non-technical issues that shape the adoption of new information technologies. These include user understanding of the technology, legislation and government intervention, social trends, usability and pleasure of use, and the requirement for supporting infrastructure (both technological and in business).The article assumes that because a technology can do something groovy there must be an implicit or explicit need for it. In fact new technologies have a lot in common with the apocryphal talking horse, which people ultimately judged on its rhetoric rather than its novelty. Finally, it is important that we differentiate business applications from consumer-oriented technologies, which are shaped by quite different dynamics.Nico Macdonaldnico@spy.co.ukUnix solution"Desktop Unix is another idea that seems to have fallen into a black hole... More than a dozen years later, it still doesn't seem to have taken more than about 0.25% of the market."On the contrary - 2001 was the year desktop Unix finally arrived in the   consumer-friendly form of Mac OS X.Gordon Barrgbarr@chem.gla.ac.ukTwilight zoneAccording to Telewest, I am in an NTL area. According to NTL, broadband is not available in my postcode zone. Plugging in a postcode for a neighbouring street, no more than a few hundred yards away, gets a hit. Emails to respective sales departments, asking what is so unusual about my street elicit no response.So, for the moment, it's 56k or nothing for me.Alan Wilsondralanwilson@btopen world.comFlying finishWith reference to the correspondence about whether BTInternet can or cannot provide a good connection. I was at the end of my tether, concluded I needed a faster modem, still couldn't get anything going - it all boiled down to a duff phone line, which BT phones sorted out quickly at the exchange - and I'm flying. I doubt if I'm the only one who hadn't realised that that was the problem.Claire Hodgsonc.mhodgson@btinternet.comBah humbug!I was given Windows XP for Christmas. You'll never guess what happened when I   loaded it, so, if you're sitting comfortably, I'll tell you. The following ceased to work. First, my Canon N650U scanner (Canon has no plan to upgrade the driver). Second, my Norton AntiVirus 2001 (Symantec: "Seize this opportunity to upgrade to NAV2002!"). Third, my modem (update... forget it!). I eventually fathomed out how to uninstall the monster (they didn't make that very convenient either). So, is Bill incompetent, unscrupulous, a charlatan, or what? No, he's a billionaire and, guess what, he don't care!David Cawleydcawley@btinternet.comTechie attackThere have been a number of snide and sharp comments about Jack Schofield's Ask Jack column (eg Graham Hibbert, December 20 2001) in recent weeks. I daresay that for the techie what he says is either obvious or simplistic. However, for the footsoldiers in the IT army like me, his columns are great and full of useful tips which I have followed with profit. Ask Jack is one of the best things about OnLine. Please keep publishing it and, Jack, don't be put off.Daniel Lamontdlamont2@compuserve.comFair solutionKarlin Lillington (December 20, 2001) provides an excellent insight into online copyright.Yes, publishers must be able to generate revenue from selling copyrighted material. But if the consumers cannot easily access it, then protection isn't going to do the publisher any good. Consumers can't be bothered to fight their way past the protection to access the content. They'll simply dig out their print book or drop a CD into their old college hi-fi system.When someone can sit down and demonstrate a simple and effective solution that enforces copyright in a manner that seems "fair" to both the consumer and the publisher, we can alter our focus.Martin LambertVaughanWilliams@heraldcommunications.com
The battle to dislodge Microsoft from its vice-like grip on personal computer operating systems seemed to be entering a new stage two years ago with the explosive growth of new companies using free software. The chief of these was VA Linux, launched at the height of dot.com mania.When dealings in the shares started on December 9, 1999 they soared from an opening price of $30 to a close of $239.25. That first-day gain of nearly 700% was the largest recorded, and many commentators took it as a clear sign that VA Linux   represented a new breed of second-generation net companies, those based up on open source software. Two years later, they are skulking at around the $2 level: a fall of over 99%. But this is not just another story of dot.com burn-out.At first, the market's bullish valuation seemed justified by VA Linux's growing success in selling its cheap but powerful computers - built around the free GNU/Linux operating system - to other net startups. But this strength also proved a weakness, as last year's dot.com downturn dealt VA Linux a double blow: investors not only lost faith in the company's original strategy, but many of its best customers went bust too.Revenues quickly fell. In 2000, sales for the third quarter had totalled $34.6m; in 2001 they were just $20.3m for the same three-month period. The worsening results prompted painful job cuts and dramatic strategic swerves. These culminated on December 5 last year with a symbolic change of name from VA Linux to VA Software, as the company sought to distance itself entirely from what many now perceived as a defunct business approach.Nor is VA Software alone in its woes. Even the bellwether free software company, Red Hat, which makes most of its money selling and supporting GNU/Linux, has seen its share price plummet to a twentieth of the peak value it had attained at the beginning of 2000. One of Red Hat's strengths is that it employs some of the top open source programmers, but starry talent alone is not enough to guarantee survival, as the story of another free software company demonstrates.Eazel had been set up in August 1999 by three of the big names behind the original Apple Macintosh, including the legendary programmer Andy Hertzfeld, whose job title in the startup was simply "software wizard". Their vision was to achieve for GNU/Linux what they had for the Mac: make it the easiest-to-use and coolest-looking desktop system around.It was a great idea, but in their new-found passion for open source, these top engineers had omitted to devise a business plan to sustain the company while making their product freely available. Despite backing from computer giants like Dell and Sun, Eazel folded on May 15, 2001.Against this dismal background, it might seem that open source was just another passing fad of those crazy dotcom days, destined to be consigned to the cyber dustbin of history along with push technology and portals. But closer inspection reveals a rather different picture.While it is true that, almost without exception, the new free software businesses are having a tough time, this does not mean that open source is fading from the commercial computer scene. If anything, its profile there is higher now than ever before.This is largely due to the uptake of free software by	 traditional computer companies, sometimes on a massive scale. For example, in December 2000, IBM's chairman and chief executive officer, Lou Gerstner, announced: "We're going to invest nearly   $1bn in Linux next year. Fifteen hundred IBM developers are dedicated to Linux-enabling our products and services."Thanks to the backing of companies like IBM, open source has become a respectable choice for corporate users. One of the most dramatic converts to free software is the leading e-tailer, Amazon.com. In a recent US stock exchange filing, it revealed that it had reduced "technology and content expenses" for its third quarter from $71m last year to $54m this year thanks "primarily" to its adoption of the GNU/Linux operating system.Enabling organisations with squeezed IT budgets to save money on both software and hardware is one of the chief attractions of open source solutions. Even the British government seems tempted. A recent consultative draft entitled Use of OSS &#91;Open Source Software&#93; within UK Government states that "UK Government will consider OSS solutions alongside proprietary ones in IT procurements. Contracts will be awarded on a value for money basis."Open source is flourishing, even if open source companies are not. A typical reaction to the failure of a free software startup provides a hint why. Within hours of the closure of Eazel, volunteers on an internet mailing list were offering to maintain 	various parts of the project: the licences under which free software - even from companies - is released, mean that programs can live on in this way whatever happens to the organisation producing them.Alongside such code immortality, another key reason that open source is thriving is because money has always been an incidental rather than primary motivation for its creators. Whether in a bull or a bear market, people go on writing software and giving it away much as they have always done.Sometimes they hone pre-existing software, as with theOpenOffice projectwhich uses code released as open source by Sun when it bought the StarOffice program. An end-user version of OpenOf fice is nearly ready, and looks set to be the first truly viable alternative to Microsoft Office - one that is almost entirely compatible and completely free.On other occasions, new free software projects are begun, largely because somebody somewhere sees a need and is prepared to start coding. A case in point isMonoan attempt to write an open implementation of portions of .Net, Microsoft's		 next-generation platform, which allows software to be sold as an online service.Nothing could typify better the extent to which the open source movement has become the second force in computing than this decision to confront Microsoft head-on by creating a free alternative to its latest technologies. This growing confidence and ambition may explain in part a notable change in Microsoft's attitude to open source.Initially, Microsoft dismissed free software, claiming that nobody used it. When it became obvious that this was untrue, Microsoft   shifted its attack to technical aspects. In particular, it claimed that open source software like GNU/Linux could not "scale" to handle serious, enterprise-level tasks.That this is certainly no longer the case was established definitively in August 2001 when IBM announced it was building one of the world's most powerful number-crunchers, the $53m 		Distributed Terascale Facility (DTF), which will be capable of performing 13.6 trillion calculations a second, and storing over 450 trillion bytes of data. The DTF will employ four interconnected GNU/Linux systems to form what is known as a computing grid. Moreover, the key piece of co-ordinating software, from theGlobus 		Project, is itself open source.In the face of this growing body of proof that open source is now far more powerful than anything it has to offer, Microsoft has changed tack again. It abandoned its arguments based on technology, and turned, with what looks like increasing despera tion, to the area of intellectual property. This new campaign culminated in the remarks of Microsoft's chief executive officer, Steve Ballmer, to the Chicago Sun-Times in June 2001, when he said that "Linux is a cancer that attaches itself in an intellectual property sense to everything it touches."The virulence of these and similar comments by Ballmer's senior managers is perhaps the clearest indication of just how threatened by open source Microsoft feels - and just how successful free software has become.Microsoft's unprovoked aggressiveness towards the open source world offers perhaps the best refutation to the contention that in the wake of the dotcom downturn, free software is a spent force. If it were, Microsoft's top officers would not spend so much of their valuable time vilifying it.&#183;To order a copy of Rebel Code by Glyn Moody, being republished on January 31, for £8.99 including p&amp;p, call the Guardian Book Service on 0870 066 7979
Detectives announced a breakthrough yesterday in the mystery of a woman's bound and gagged body which was stuffed into a suitcase found in a hedge in a country lane two months ago.The victim has been identified as a 21-year-old South Korean student, Hyo Jung Jin, after an anguished internet appeal from her family was spotted by a detective from Seoul studying criminal justice at Leeds University.The badly decomposed remains had baffled North Yorkshire police since their discovery on November 18 by a man out walking at Askham Richard, a village between Leeds and York which houses Askham Grange women's prison.The man became suspicious and made the gruesome find after he was unable to lift the case because it was so heavy.Detectives had asked for information about missing women of oriental origin, but their appeals went unnoticed in France, where Hyo Jung Jin had been studying French at Lyon University.Concerns were raised when she failed to return to for the new term in October, and South Korean embassies in Paris and London were told by her family that she had talked about a holiday visit to Britain.But an appeal for information by her brother on the Korean-language website snailhome.com was spotted by the South Korean detective in Leeds, who had read about the Askham Richard find.Detective Chief Superintendent Ian Lynch, leading the inquiry, said that the detective, who has not been named, contacted the North Yorkshire force, which was then sent the missing woman's fingerprint details from South Korea."That led to the positive identification which is a significant development in the case," said Mr Lynch. "We know the vic tim intended to travel to see the Korean community in London and officers are working closely with the Metropolitan police. The priority is to establish her movements in the UK."Anyone who saw her in London or knows about her movements should contact us. We do not know her reason for wanting to visit London, whether it was to see friends or as a tourist. Above all, we need to know how her body came to be on the outskirts of York."Hyo Jung Jin's family is to travel from South Korea to help with inquiries in Britain's small and largely self-contained Korean community. North Yorkshire police are meanwhile advertising in arts magazines for information about the unusual tape used to tie up the young woman.Designed by the artists Gilbert and George, it has a pattern of men's faces and is only sold at Tate Gallery shops in London, Liverpool, and St Ives.Inspector Ron Johnson of North Yorkshire police said only 850 rolls had been sold."We have heard from quite a few people who bought them, but not nearly as many as we would like. Even if someone just got a bit for wrapping Christmas presents last year, or whatever, we need to hear from them."
The quality of our web design is "fundamental to us", says Ally Gavigan, partner in Antonio Pacelli, a London-based manufacturer of Irish dancing shoes established by his parents.Despite the company's longevity, and the traditional nature of its product, he took seriously the stories of a web paved with gold and the promise of a global storefront. "A well-designed site means people will come, actually use it on their visit, and come back and stay," he observes. "It gives you credibility."Since launching the site, turnover at Antonio Pacelli has increased considerably. They have even realised unexpected marketing benefits due to the quality of the photographs on the site. "A lot of fanzine sites have asked if they could use them, which has raised our profile a lot", Gavigan reports.The value of well-considered design is tangible for non-retail organisations too. "We have always been strong on design", says Juliet Tizzard, director of the infertility information charity the Progress Educational Trust. "The way our organisation presents itself makes us look bigger than we are."Companies are losing out if they are using the web to assist their business without investing in design. With online retailing in particular, this loss becomes quantifiable. According to the New   York-based customer experience consultancy Good Experience $19bn was lost by US companies in online sales during 2000 "as a result of online shopping carts not working or being unusable, poor search, and cluttered home pages".While the nature of good design is a hotly contested issue, a well-designed website should meet the organisation's goals and utilise its resources to deliver a high quality of experience.The internet is a new medium and there is an inevitable learning curve for companies wanting to exploit the web. Having grown up in a technology-infatuated age, design for the web has been confused with the process of creating a website. Most companies would not ask a printer to design their corporate identity; neither should they expect a programmer to design their website .Although web design serves a company's goals in the same way as other kinds of design, there are more design considerations. Unlike two-dimensional print, a website has a third dimension of depth, created by a hierarchy of pages. It then has a fourth dimension of time, most vividly - and often irritatingly - demonstrated by Flash animations, and also a fifth dimension of user interaction.Most frustratingly for those familiar with print, the appearance of a website will vary widely depending on many factors including the operating system and browser   on which it is viewed and the speed of the connection.Web design is not mystical and the design process has a lot in common with other business processes (see left). It combines a logical process with lateral thinking and creativity, which itself can be evaluated and tested.Ultimately, to ensure the design of a website is effective and of high quality, there is a need to frame and evaluate the design in the context of overall objectives, and of audiences and their goals.For example, retail websites that make it difficult for customers to view the range of products or make a purchase are not effective.The value of good design isn't just in getting people to the checkout. The quality of the experience is also important, as is the overall impression of the organisation that the customer leaves with.Unless companies can learn to manage web design effectively they will continue to squander the opportunities the web offers their business.
The festive season was marked by warnings about a virus called SULFNBK.EXE, which is not a virus at all, just a normal part of Microsoft Windows. The SULFNBK hoax has done the rounds before, andappeared in this columnlast summer. At the time I suggested checking sources such asVmythsand anti-virus vendor sites before forwarding hoax warnings. The advice still stands.EuroHow can I type a euro sign?Jim DockingBuckland, BetchworthJack Schofield replies:Either press AltGr-4, or hold down the Alt key and type 0128 on the numeric keypad (ie with NumLock on), then release the Alt key. For details of how different versions of Microsoft Windows support the Euro symbol, see www. microsoft.com/windows/euro.asp This page offers patches you can download to update your system. For details of Microsoft Office support, and a Euro smart tag to download, go toMicrosoft office support. Microsft also has a usefulQ&amp;A.On an Apple Macintosh, press Option-Shift-2, and seeApple technical notesfor details of Mac support.Net speedI am becoming more and more frustrated with the internet. Everything is becoming increasingly slow. Is this because the net in general is becoming more and more congested or    should I try a different service provider?Terry DonovanTerrydonovan@Freeseve.co.ukJS:There are lots of sites that try to test the speed of your internet connection.Test My SpeedandBandwidthplaceare good places to start. Others includeDSL ReportsandMcAfee's Speedometer.To test your system with a UK server, tryZD Net. Brave British broadband users can also run the most thorough test I've seen at thespeed test centre, but it involves downloading a test program and possibly replacing some Windows system files. If you find your connection speed is rated poor, you can take this up with your phone company or ISP.You should also check your system set-up. Try to reduce the length of any phone extension cables, remove any connectors, and if possible, try a different cable. They vary.To find out if your PC is at fault, try using your current PC with a different online service, such asBT Open-world Pay-as-you-go; and try using your Freeserve account with a different PC.Mail questIn the build up to Christmas, BT's email service has been a nightmare. Can you recommend one that is: (a) free or inexpensive, (b) reliable, (c) has an easy-to-remember name, (d) is accessible from internet cafes when travelling, and (e) accessible via the BT dial-up freephone number?Mike GerrardJS:You could tryGMX, which is apparently Germany's biggest free email supplier, or Yahoo ( http://mail.yahoo.com ). Both let you access mail via the web or using a standard POP/SMTP program such as Outlook Express. GMX asks for accurate personal information but offers more storage space: 10 megabytes compared with Yahoo's 6MB.Cleaner clicksWhen I right-click to create a new folder or document in Windows Explorer, the   menu offers 25 other options, most of which I do not need. How can I remove some of them?TonyMeacock@compuserve.comJS:Your son, visiting for Christmas, answered this question before I did: use the TweakUI (user interface) 1.33 utility fromMicrosoft Windows helpThis works with Windows 95/98/Me and NT/2000. To run it, right-click the tweakui.inf file, select Install, and if it asks for a disk, browse to the current directory. XP users should downloadPowerToys for Windows XP.Backchat&#183;When travelling abroad, I suggested taking a modem cable with a US plug. Mark Ottaway says it is even more useful to have a female US cable. You can then unplug the cable from the telephone handset (not from the wall), and plug it into this cable, which plugs into your notebook computer. Since my notebook PCs already have US sockets for their built-in   modems, I have not needed such a cable, but it should help people with PC Card modems. Alternatively, a T-shaped double-adaptor with one or two US sockets should make the connection, if you ignore the prong (ie don't plug it into anything).&#183;Responding to the same answer, Angelika Voss thinksiPassis better than AOL for roaming. I am an iPass user too, but her experience has been better than mine.Net-Roameroffers an iPass service. Another alternative isGric, which now offers wireless roaming.
Here's a little Onlineblog.com exclusive: it's the beginning of theend of freeatBlogger. I've just been interviewing Evan Williams, brains behind Blogger.com, the weblog site which powers this and hundreds of thousands of other blogs. I'd dragged him away from development of Blogger's first premium service: fast-responding servers. Blogger, as Jack's posting below suggests, has been under great strain since October, when the US terrorist attacks prompted a surge in people wanting to create their own weblogs. Now Evan plans to start building up a premium service: in the next few hours, he'll launch a $30-a-year membership scheme, which will offer faster and more reliable service. The free Blogger will remain, but other - quite compelling - premium services will be rolled out quick-fire after that. Watch out for the full interview in Online soon.
Looking for updates? "Sorry, publishing is temporarily unavailable," says Blogger. "Blogger's servers are currently under too much load."Bud Tribbleis going back to Apple. This won't mean much to most people, but Bud was one of the original Mac design team, left with Jobs to found NeXT, became chief software architect at Sun, and most recently worked for Linux start-up Eazel. I interviewed him in Online in June 1996. And if it were possible to find it at Guardian Unlimited, I'd even provide a link. (Remind me to ask our IT department what they did with the archives from the Online Web site we had before Guadian Unlimited started.....)
Microsoft unveiled a new tranche of gadgetry this week, centring on a wireless home PC that will control an in-home entertainment and information system.In a keynote address at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, the chairman of Microsoft, Bill Gates, displayed a tablet-like device that is a cross between a handheld computer and a TV remote control.Code-named Mira, the concept device puts a home PC onto a mobile platform that delivers internet content, accesses music files and serves as a portable game player when used with Microsoft's Xbox video game console.The content would be displayed on the tablet, or in later versions of the technology, on new flat-screen televisions.Exact prices and availability dates were not disclosed, but Microsoft officials said consumers could expect to see such products within a year or so.The operating system will allow various people use various PC, internet and entertainment functions around the house at the same time, for instance working on the PC in one room while someone else listens to music over the same system in another room."It goes anywhere in the house ... entertainment will never be the same," Mr Gates said.While Microsoft's vision puts the PC at the centre of the digital home, start-up company Moxi Digital unveiled its own vision on Monday, of an 
all-in-one digital entertainment set-top box that performs much the same function.Across the Consumer Electronics Show, companies were displaying solutions to the problem of high-tech gadgets that do not inter-operate, such as DVD players that cannot play picture CDs.Microsoft's Windows-based solution is but one being displayed across the trade show's 1.2m square feet of exhibit space, and it remains to be seen if consumers will find Mr Gates' case the most convincing.
Scientists must use alternative media, such as broadcasting on the internet, to deliver their message accurately to the public, says Nobel Prize winner Sir Harold Kroto.Ahead of a lecture he is delivering tonight on science communication at University College London, Sir Harold, professor of chemistry at the University of Sussex, attacked mainstream newspapers and television for poorly communicating science to society.Sir Harold believes science is poorly represented in the media. He said: "The media doesn't understand science, so they don't think anyone else will."If you look at television discussions on GM foods, it usually doesn't include a scientist - the people who might actually know what they are talking about."He went on to compare media practitioners who report on science without the necessary training with a "tone deaf" manager of the Royal Opera House."Science is poorly represented in the media, partly because scientists don't have access to the communicating mediums," he said.Sir Harold is a trustee of The Vega Science Trust, which aims to create a platform for the science and technology communities, enabling them to communicate their fields of expertise using television and new internet opportunities. The trust has made more than 40 programmes, 30 of which have been broadcast on the BBC's learning zone.Sir Harold was a joint winner of the 1996 Nobel Prize for chemistry, awarded for the discovery in 1985 of the structure of buckminsterfullerene, a form of carbon.The lecture, to be delivered tonight on behalf of The Save British Science Society, is titled The Internet and Science, Technology and Engineering in Education.Sir Harold said its main focus will be on using the internet as a broadcasting medium for scientists.
The online version of the 1901 census has been pulled from the internet after BT warned that the system could not cope with the enormous demand for access.BT, the internet service provider responsible for hosting the census website, revealed yesterday that it had advised the public record office to pull the plug when more than 7m people tried to access the service at the same time after its widely trumpeted launch last week.The website, offering access for the first time to the details of more than 32m Edwardians, has been suspended for a week while the public record   office and its technical advisers, Qinetiq - formerly part of the government's defence evaluation and research agency - attempt to increase its capacity.The site was designed to handle a daily 1.2m visitors, spaced evenly throughout the day."We advised them to take down the site because it was not robust enough," a BT spokeswoman said yesterday. "When you have millions of people worldwide trying to get into the same internet space at the same time, that is going to create problems for the rest of the net."The problems have been hugely embarrassing for the public record office, which has been criticised for generating   so much publicity to accompany the launch before demand for the site had been gauged.There have also been claims that geneaology and technology experts warned before the launch that the website would struggle to cope with the enormous demand from enthusiasts attempting to trace their family history.Genealogy is now second only to pornography in popularity on the internet.A public record office spokeswoman said: "The site remains unable to meet continuing levels of demand. The PRO has agreed with Qinetiq's technical team to close internet access to the site for one week for enhancements to take place."
It might take a while for you to decide whether or not you like the newiMac, but two of Apple's other announcements from yesterday are dead-cert Good Things.iPhotois a new, easy to use photo editing system: the missing link in the i-software lineup. Like the other i packages, it's free - part of the system on new Macs, or available to download. But don't let the lack of a price tag fool you - it's a lovely piece of software, full of nice touches. Simply plugging in your digital camera to your Mac prompts iPhoto to do a bunch of tedious things automatically: like downloading, cataloguing and thumbnailing. One click publishes your photos to the web (only to Apple's web service, granted) any the potentially complex business of persuading an inkjet printer to do justice to your snaps is also simplified. Using your iTunes music collection, you can even add a soundtrack to a slideshow of images. Meanwhile, theiBookrange gains a new top-end machine with a 14-inch display. The case is, obviously, going to be larger, but the bigger footprint is a price worth paying.
Metropolitan Police claims last week, that soaring street robbery could be blamed on the need for increased security patrols since September 11, do not stand scrutiny.Although offences more than doubled in the year to December 2001, the figures are consistent with a long-established increase in this type of crime.In the first six months of 2001, street robberies in the capital rose by over 20%, to some 5,500 offences in July.  The average monthly figure of 6,400 after the US attacks shows therefore a similar rate of increase.Claims that robbery has been fuelled by mobile phone ownership are more justified, with more than 28% of offences now involving a mobile phone. This, however, does not in itself explain why robberies are increasing.According to the Home Office, street robberies have increased nationally by 13% over the last two years.  Had robberies where only phones were stolen been excluded, the figure would have been 8%. The increase in street robbery cannot, therefore, be blamed entirely on mobile phones.Even were this to be the case, it would not excuse the apparent inability of the criminal justice system to combat such offending.Another oft-heard "explanation" is that much of street crime is "kids robbing kids", and, by implication, somehow of less consequence. In a society where violent crime is normally regarded as more serious when against children, this apparent reversal of logic in the case of street robbery seems bizarre.Nor should it be forgotten that a number of people each year actually die in such incidents - a figure likely to rise with an increased use of firearms, such as the shooting of a female victim in London on New Year's Day.Asking what is to be done about street robbery is, of course, easier than providing useful answers.As with all issues, the extent and nature of the problem need first to be ascertained. In this, the Home Office has taken an important step with the publication today of a report entitled "Mobile Phone Theft".It makes grim reading, but contains no surprises for those involved in combating street robbery. Police officers often ask why those researching crime so rarely seem to consult officers or the offenders themselves, rather than academic theorists. This paper makes no such mistake.Street robbery, as with other crime, can only be tackled successfully with a multi-level approach, not all of which is within the power of the police to deliver.Thus, for many years it has been known that one of the main problems in tackling phone theft has been the ease with which a stolen handset can be re-used. In theory, each set has a unique electronic identification - the IMEI number.A service provider can block a handset from being used, once notified of its theft. The IMEI number does not have to be known by the loser, as it can be obtained from the victim's ordinary mobile number.  Once blocked, a mobile phone cannot function, regardless of the SIM card used.Unfortunately, it is a simple matter to alter the electronic identity of a phone. Service providers also state that manufacturers may give more than one phone the same IMEI number - meaning that to block a stolen phone could inconvenience several customers.These are issues that only the industry can resolve, but Vodafone point out that even the facilities it offers to track stolen mobiles are under-used by police.Nevertheless, the suspicion remains that, as was once feared the case with car stereos, manufacturers are reluctant to lose the repeat purchases that enhanced security would clearly curtail.It is often suggested that thefts of mobiles occur because the victim has what the thief does not.  Experience suggests otherwise. Much phone theft is a highly organised business, with the robbers giving the sets to handlers who, after any necessary modifications, sell them on wholesale, often for export.Targeting such handlers is hard work and resource intensive, with convictions difficult to secure. But a successful operation to remove a prominent handler, while not producing numerous clear-ups, will often have a marked effect in reducing crime.Of course, removing a handler is not the same as convicting him. Courts have a vital role to play in ensuring that handling stolen goods carries more risk of a greater sentence than pure theft, as sentencing guidelines suggest.The courts also have a role in passing sentences against robbers to protect the community at large.The Home Office paper faces up to the thorny question of who is committing street robberies, and why. It identifies that, in most areas, young black males are overwhelmingly responsible.Without acknowledging this - so difficult for the police - very little progress can be made in tackling street crime and its causes. In London, 71% of those charged with such offences are black, although only 8% of London's population is black.It is not enough to say that poverty alone is a reason for such criminality. The boys who steal do not, generally, have any more materially difficult lives than those on the same estates who do not. Experience suggests, however, that many are excluded from school, and even more are missing a positive male role model.In resolving street robbery, there are factors at work beyond the ability of the police alone to control.  The issue is complex, and separate from that of mobile phones. It involves uncomfortable truths of victimised society in terms of both victim and perpetrator.Regardless of those complexities, the inexorable rise of street robbery marks the apparent inability of society and, in particular, the criminal justice system, to adequately deal with juvenile violent crime. This, rather than the technical properties of phones, is the key issue to be addressed.&#183;Charles Shoebridge was a serving Metropolitan police officer from 1988 to 2000
Microsoft has duly announced its Mira and Freestyle initiatives at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, taking the PC further into the TV/entertainment arena. You can read about the eHome division's effortshereandhere, courtesy of Microsoft's press office. ZD Net News has an independent report ofBill Gates' keynote; and no, the press office hasn't yet managed to put a transcripthere. (It's there now.)
A growing number of charities are exploiting information and communications technology (ICT) to give stakeholders a louder voice in their work and communicate more effectively with their user groups.A recent report by the office of the e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, highlighted the poor level of ICT infrastructure in the voluntary sector, with many organisations limiting their use of the internet and other technology for fundraising and marketing.However others are improving their links with stakeholders through email networks and user support groups, telephone and video conferencing and online training opportunities.One such organisation is Help the Aged. When the charity planned an international conference last December to celebrate its 40th anniversary, the charity was keen to ensure delegates - mostly older people - were able to voice their concerns.So rather than presenting them with tedious presentations and questionnaires, the charity gave each group of delegates a couple of laptop computers that were used on the day to collect and relay opinions and ideas.The result was a highly interactive and lively event, which led to the charity formulating the key messages it will take to the UN Assembly on Ageing in Madrid this April.Chris Bray, senior event organiser at Help the Aged, teamed up with Crystal Innovation to provide the interactive conference. Two laptops were given to each group of eight or nine delegates. These were used to input feedback from discussions in breakout sessions and brainstorming activities.This information was then projected onto a large screen at the front of the room so other delegates could view colleagues' feedback. At the end of the day, all information was saved to disk for reporting purposes."Using technology is potentially a bit of a stumbling block because of the initial fear factor but by the end of the day, you couldn't get people off the computers," said Mr Bray. "With around 90 people involved in the event, it condensed the day and ensured that a handful of people didn't dominate which is often the case. It's empowering and very immediate."Anxiety disorder charity No Panic employs teleconferencing to support its user groups. The charity works with people who cannot get to face to face groups or hospitals so most of its work is done by telephone and mail. Working with teleconferencing specialist Community Network, No Panic runs its support and recovery groups by teleconference. Management meetings and volunteer training are also done this way for convenience.      The National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC) has been test marketing a new service since last year called There4me.com in 179 schools. To be launched this spring, the service has been developed with the help of Microsoft as an interactive website specifically designed for 12- to 16-year-olds. The site offers information, advice and counselling on a broad range of issues of interest to this age group."The site complements other NSPCC services that are being developed with the aim of improving access to services by children and offering them 'someone to turn to'," says a NSPCC spokeswoman.Improving online communications with members is the focus of a current project by the National Council for Voluntary Organisations (NCVO). Online consultation was launched last year and to date the policy, governance and campaigns teams have used this technology to support their work. Consultation documents are emailed to the target members and can include links to relevant NCVO briefings and websites.Head of policy Ann Blackmore says online contact encourages people to respond more quickly than normal. "It's an additional tool that makes it easy to respond and we're getting different and smaller organisations using it."
Intel's announcement of a 2.2GHz version of the Pentium 4 received very little coverage, considering the chip will sell more than 100 million units, and -- since it uses a more advanced process technology -- will lead to dramatic reductions in Pentium 4 prices. At leastAPmanaged a story, which also included new AMD processors. Part of the problem is that we've been hearing roughly the same story -- Intel produces faster chip -- for 30 odd years. Still, if you bought a 1.3GHz PC a year ago, you can buy a 2.2GHz model now. And yes, they are available today.
(From SF): Steve Jobs has unveiled thenew iMac- flat panel display, nippy G4 processors and a pretty... um... far out design. It was leaked by Time magazine, and even made acomic strippre-keynote. When it was all confirmed, in many ways the announcement went much further than expectations. Flat panels are there across the line, the G4s are good news and the prices - including a good value $1799 for a very full-featured top-end version (including CD &amp; DVD-writing superdrive) - are lower than many expected. Design wise, it reminded me a little too much of a kitch desk lamp when it was unveiled on stage. Having had a play with one, it does look better in the flesh. Among the Mac press here, there's nothing but praise for it - but then this is MacWorld, Mac fans' twice-annual love-in, and they could have unveiled the Apple Lisa again to whoops of delight from the assembled masses. I'm still in two minds. What do you think? Blog your comments below...
Immediate concern was cast today over plans by the leader of the Commons, Robin Cook, to bring in voting on the internet in time for the next election.In an interview with the Guardian today, Mr Cook raised the prospect of Britain leading the world in e-technology, with electors being able to vote online in time for the next general election.Local pilot schemes are already in place for electronic voting in this year's local elections.But today the Electoral Reform Society  poured cold water on the idea of the UK being ready for online elections by 2005 - the likely date of the next general election.Ken Ritchie, the chief executive of the ERS, said: "We welcome moves to make voting more convenient."However, there are legitimate questions about the security of internet voting and about access to the technology.""These can only be answered by piloting new voting techniques and paying attention to the lessons learned from the pilots. Whilst we appreciate Robin Cook's enthusiasm for reforming the voting system, we would not want to see the results of the pilot projects pre-judged.""The Electoral Reform Society has set up an independent commission of experts to look at all the issues arising from the new voting techniques."They have been working for the past year and will publish their report on February 5. I hope that the government will take account of this and other expert views before deciding whether or not to press ahead with more internet voting."Mr Cook said the present polling booth and pencil are "astonishingly quaint".He added: "I suspect for anybody under 40, polling day is the only point in the year when they actually see a pencil stub, and that's probably why it's tied to a piece of string, because it's so rare and they might pocket it as a souvenir."He told the Guardian he wanted to see voting online, although it was a "tough call" to get the technology in place for the next election.In fact, the Department for Transport, Local Government and the Regions has responsibility for electoral systems. And there is one country that already votes online - Estonia.
Campaigners for the single currency in Britain today unveiled their latest weapon - an online game where users "splat" Eurosceptics such as Iain Ducan Smith and Tony Benn.The interactive game - from online satirists spinon - opens with a parody of the Dad's Army map of Europe, before allowing players to shoot down anti-Europeans as they appear from their bunkers on a map of the UK.Among the targets are the former SDP leader and anti-euro campaigner David Owen, and former Tory leader, William Hague, whose "save the pound" campaign did not reverse the Tories' fortunes at the lastgeneral election.Other victims include Margaret Thatcher dressed as a mummy, Mr Duncan Smith in military uniform and Mr Benn in a dressing gown and pipe.
Britain will become the first country in the world to use the internet for voting, as part of radical changes to the political system, Robin Cook, the leader of the Commons, has told the Guardian.In an interview, Mr Cook is scathing about the culture of parliament, describing its procedures as antique, ludicrous, Dickensian and as ritualised as 18th-century duelling.Mr Cook intends to "enfranchise" those who want to vote online as a way of drawing back under-40s to the democratic process. Pilot schemes for local elections begin in the spring, with a chance that voting by internet could be in place for the next general election, though Mr Cook admits that that is a "tough call".Among his other plans is the use of the web for daily feedback to parliament on policy choices before MPs. He also   confirms his determination to press ahead with increased powers and greater independence for select committees, despite the worries of Whitehall officials, the Speaker, Michael Martin, and some fellow cabinet ministers.Although the Commons leader has spoken before of his disquiet about parliamentary culture, leading to a package of reform proposals unveiled in December, neither he nor any other serving cabinet minister   has gone as far in public before. He will not have calmed uneasy MPs by bluntly warning them that they "often appear longwinded" and must consider shorter, more relevant debates and shorter speeches.Mr Cook is reacting in part to the disastrous slide in turnout at last year's general election, which fell to 59%, the worst since universal suffrage was introduced. He believes that part of the reason for the   disconnection between MPs and the people is the way visitors to Westminster are treated: "The way we treat the public is deplorable. Anybody watching the public being herded around the House of Commons would not come to the conclusion that these are the people who pay for us, that these are the people who elected us," he says.
