&#183;Are you worried  about your company's communications? According to a survey by Emphasis Training, you probably ought to be, since it found that one in five business documents was badly written. This might not seem to matter much except that the cost to the economy is, claims the training company, costing billions per year. The waste comes from people having to wade through the many badly written documents and work out what they actually mean. Chief among the faults were bad grammar, unexplained acronyms and misuse of jargon. The survey was launched to coincide with the 25th anniversary of the Plain English campaign.&#183;Insurance company AXA has issued a report that suggests there's a new risk to business: the rise of the litigation culture. The company's survey said 36% of SMEs believed litigation was a threat, and 23% of senior executives had been involved in litigation of some sort. Only 69% of companies appeared to be aware of their liabilities and only 47% had taken out any insurance to cover litigation. Many of the respondents felt litigation was on the increase - one, for example, cited a Scottish employee who had taken legal action over her boss imitating her accent, and won.&#183;The Institute of IT  Training is to kick off a new award scheme for "freelance trainer of the year". It will be sponsored by freelance training agency Broadskill. Judges will be looking for excellent references, proven case histories and some sort of consistency in the quality of the training on offer. More information is available at www.ittrainingawards.com.&#183;It's looking safe to say August has, for parts of the UK, been a pretty typical British summer, with heavy rain and serious floods. It is, therefore, worth considering what a company would do in the event of a flood, which has led specialist document recovery company DocumentSOS to make flood recovery the theme of its "Keeping Afloat" event this year. Set to take place at London's Royal Geographical Society on November 2, anyone signing up early can get in for £70, which includes six months' DocumentSOS membership. Further information is available  atwww.documentsos.com.&#183;Communications specialist  izR Solutions has launched what it describes as the UK's first low-cost broadband package, although since many are now around at under £20 a month, you'd have to query that. The unique thing about izR's offer is that it's a pay-as-you-go set-up, and will be suitable only for the business owner/manager since it's available only in the evenings and weekends. The idea is to use some of the spare bandwidth available when the company's core business customers are offline. BT has responded with its own pay-as-you-go package, which it is reportedly testing.&#183;Small software house LookOut has been bought by Microsoft. The company will continue to give away its LookOut searching software, which can be added to Microsoft Outlook and a number of other email systems; with it, searching through an archive of emails and a hard disk full of documents takes a fraction of the time it normally would. The software is available for free atwww.lookoutsoft.comand will turn up on the MSN website as well. It's hoped they'll make it sensitive to UK date formats as well as American ones as it becomes used more widely. It has a new competitor, however, in the shape of Blinkx, which searches the web, publicly available video and the local disk as well.&#183;People who complain about the UK's data protection laws may be getting a fillip from an unlikely source; the EU is concerned that British law might be out of step with the European directive on the subject. The query came over the definition of "personal data" following a case involving the Financial Services Authority. It is known for certain that the commission has written to the data protection registrar, but the content of the letter has yet to be placed on the record.&#183;It's official: online conferences don't work for business. At least so says Doctor Mark Smith, chairman of Nemisys Enterprises and one of the pioneers of online conferencing. Having run the first online conference in 1997, you might expect him to push the idea as being a cert for making a profit, but he has now announced he's seen too many online systems packed out with spurious advertising and extra content which bankrolls the technology but distracts the participant. He believes that the best use of online conferencing now is in a not-for-profit area, in which making money isn't as important as sharing information.
Waiting up to five working days for a cheque to clear is annoying enough when it comes to personal banking. The funding gap is all the more galling when it is your business that suffers thanks to an outmoded and inefficient system.Business customers in Britain currently have to wait longer than almost all their western European counterparts for funds to pass through the clearing process. It takes at least three days for your money to be credited, whether the payment is by cheque or electronic transfer. Where cheques are used, it is more likely to be four or five days. Small firms can wait for up to 10 days for cheques to clear into their accounts, which is bad news for those with tight margins or cashflow.The Cruikshank Report of 2000 was highly critical of the fact that banks control the networks that channel money around the economy, but little has changed since then. Earlier in the summer, Bank of England governor Mervyn King expressed his disappointment over our sluggish clearing system to assembled bankers at the Lord Mayor's Banquet in the City of London. Somewhat controversially, King asked why banks could not put the same "innovative flair" they displayed in making money to use in improving the clearing system.There were no reports of any of the bankers skipping pudding to get started on the problem, but when you consider the fact that payment delays save banks millions of pounds in interest each year, that's hardly surprising.The Federation of Small Businesses, a lobbying organisation that represents 185,000 of Britain's SMEs, was quick to praise King's stance. National chairman Carol Undy said: "The UK is now taking longer to clear payments than almost any other G10 country. It should, given today's technology, not take three days for a customer to clear a cheque or receive an electronic payment."Why does clearing take so long? With cheques, there is a physical transfer as well as an electronic exchange of funds. According to the Association of Payment Clearing Services, which operates the UK's clearing systems, paper transactions are processed in a three-day cycle. On day one, the cheque is processed and the information is passed electronically through a data exchange network. The next day, the cheque is delivered to a centre where banks exchange customers' cheques. On the third day, bank staff review the cheque presented for payment and make decisions about whether to pay or return it. Settlement between the members, for the net values of the cheques exchanged between them, takes place over their Bank of England settlement accounts on day three.In total, nearly 12m cheques are written every day and about two-thirds pass through the inter-bank clearing. Given the volume of exchanges and the physical element of a paper transaction, this can never be an instantaneous process, so a two or three-day delay is understandable.The same cannot be said for electronic payments. While cheque writing is a dying art, BACS handles 3.5bn transactions a year. This number is to increase to 5bn by 2006. On a busy day, the system deals with 60m transactions. But why does it still take up to four days for a BACS payment to clear? Unsurprisingly, it all comes down to making money.The Federation of Small Businesses has accused banks of stalling the process to gain extra profits, and the Consumers' Association estimates that banks make more than £30m a year in interest from investing money sent by electronic transfer.The good news is that the Office of Fair Trading has set up the Payment Systems Taskforce to look at the clearing issue over the next four years. With members drawn from banking, finance, consumer and business bodies, the taskforce has had two meetings this year and has the power to bring in legislation to speed up clearing if there is not an improvement in the system in the next four years.On the electronic side, a £75m overhaul of the transfer system has begun, but the result, says BACS, will be a shaving of just one day off the current waiting time for funds. For the moment, unless you can find someone to do business with who deals solely in hard cash - which is, perhaps, inadvisable - the only solution is to grin and bear it, and make sure your cashflow can accommodate delays.Useful tips&#183;The clearing system isn't going to speed up any time soon. Until it does, you must do everything you can to ensure your cashflow can handle delays.&#183;Firstly, be aware of how long you may have to wait for monies to appear in your account. Give yourself at least seven working days' leeway and ensure you have sufficient extra to cover any temporary shortfall.&#183;Ensure you have a good relationship with your bank. An agreed overdraft facility will absorb any funding gap caused by delays in clearing.&#183;Having a range of clients helps, as this will stagger the payments coming into your account.&#183;Online banking is a useful way of tracking your cashflow to see whether funds have cleared. When looking for a business bank account, shop around using the independent financial data websitemoneyfacts.co.uk.
Malware explosionThe average PC could be carrying about 26.5 bits of spyware, according to 2.1m internet scans by Webroot Software in tests run in conjunction with Earthlink. However, the reality is less scary, because 42.7m of the 54.8m spyware compromises are just cookies left by websites, and most of the rest are the 11.4m adware programs often installed with free software such as KaZaA. None the less, the SpyAudit detected 366,961 Trojans, which implies that up to 17.7% of the PCs tested (assuming one Trojan per PC) could have been seriously compromised. However, this is a self-selecting survey, so the results don't tell you anything about the real level of infection, only that there's a great deal of spyware around.Code OrangeOrange and PalmSource are looking for killer wireless apps for the Orange Treo smartphone, right, and have launched a competition for PalmOS wireless applications using PalmSource's software development kits and GPRS networking. The overall prize in the Smartphone Application Contest is a Segway Human Transporter, but there are also four Treo 600 smartphones for the winners of each contest category. Categories for the competition are: localisation; best use of a wireless network in a standalone application; most innovative use of a data network; and best phone utility. The winners will be announced at the Orange Code Camp in Poitiers on September 13-15.www.palmsource.comRoaming Wi-FiLumison, the internet service provider formerly known as EdNet, is making it simpler for "road warriors" to use Wi-Fi while out of the office: it has launched a pay-as-you-go roaming deal in association with iPass, the global roaming provider. This could ultimately work out cheaper and be more flexible than taking out monthly subscriptions to separate services. Lumison's service covers more than 10,000 Wi-Fi hotspots across the UK, Europe, North America, Australia and Asia.www.lumison.netCrystal clearLiquid crystal technology will almost double its colour range following a breakthrough that brings cinematic standards to the LCD screen. Israeli   firm Genoa Color Technologies and Holland's Royal Philips Electronics have developed a way to add secondary colours to the primary red, green and blue of RGB. This increases the range of possible colours from 55% of the visible spectrum to 95%, promising more vibrant and brighter images. Genoa will start shipping its multi-primary colour (MPC) chips towards the end of this year, and Philips plans to use the technology in its LCOS (liquid crystal on silicon) display screens.www.genoacolor.comBionic antispamIBM Research is refining its spam filters in a combined product called SpamGuru. The antispam software adds a bioinformatic technique to the standard methods of detection - commonly used words, known message variations and address analysis. Chung Kwei, the new technology in SpamGuru, borrows from DNA matching principals to detect patterns in email style to produce a "spamminess" rating. IBM claims SpamGuru can detect up to 97% of unwanted messages with a very low rate of false positives. A prototype of the software is available under the name of Intelligent Mail Filter in Lotus Workplace 2.0, IBM's messaging and collaboration package.http://www.research.ibm.com/spam/filtering.htmlBlueprintThe Society of Information Technology Management is distributing a report to help local authorities fulfil the requirements of the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (ODPM) e-government initiative. Delivering Local e-Government is a response to the need for each council to create an e-delivery board covering key functions to ensure a "people" element in the strategy. The report addresses the roles and relationships that will lead to good practice in managing e-government. The authors look at all the ODPM requirements and the skills needed for each. The report is free to SocITM Insight subscribers and &#163;175 for non-members.www.socitm.gov.uk/Public/insight/orders/publications%2B.htmExclusion includedThe Social Exclusion Unit, part of the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, has opened a website looking at how social exclusion is tackled across government, rather than just covering the unit's own work. The site is organised by themes including health, education and crime, and will host online consultations, questions-and-answers, case studies, discussion forums and an email newsletter by the unit's head Claire Tyler. It also includes an online version of the unit's quarterly magazine, Inclusion, as well as links to news stories on social exclusion, including some from the Guardian.www.socialexclusion.gov.uk
HardwareSynchronicityInformation Appliance Association (IAA) has developed an application that enables owners of Apple Macs running OS X (10.3 or higher) to synchronise their data with BlackBerry mobile phone handsets.PocketMac BlackBerry Edition can upload and download data and is compatible with Microsoft Entourage, the Mac OS X address book, Now Contact, iCal and Now Up-To-Date. It works with BlackBerrys connected either by USB or serial connectors. However, handsets that connect via a serial socket won't automatically synchronise and require an additional serial to USB cable. PocketMac BlackBerry can be downloaded via IAA's website and retails for $29.99.www.pocketmac.netZodiac on wayThe Tapwave Zodiac, the PalmSource OS-based PDA that doubles as a handheld games console, is to be launched in the UK in the autumn. Available in the US since November, the Zodiac runs Palm's 5.2T operating system, is compatible with Palm applications, sports a 64K colour 3.8in TFT display and features up to 128MB of memory. Around 30 games have been launched for the console, including Doom II and Duke Nukem Mobile. The Zodiac, which also features an MP3 player and Kinoma video software, retails from around $300 in the US.www.tapwave.comJust the TonicUK distributor Tech Tonic has unveiled a DVD player that can be integrated into a home network to stream audio, video and image files from a PC to a home entertainment system. The &#163;160 Trans Gear DVX-500 can either be configured as part of a wired system through its Ethernet connection or operated wirelessly via the addition of a &#163;40 802.11g wireless Ethernet Bridge. It is on sale now.The streaming facility, which is compatible with DivX, MPeg 4, Windows Media and MP3, is controlled via the company's Media Server PC software. The DVD player is also compatible with a range of CD and DVDs, including discs loaded with DivX movie files.www.tech-tonic.comSmart phonesLighten the loadThe latest in Orange's series of SPV smartphones, the C500, goes on sale this week. Retailing from free to &#163;80, depending on contract, the phone is considerably smaller and lighter than predecessors. It weighs 100 grams and measures 108 x 46 x 18mm.The C500 runs Microsoft's Windows Mobile 2003 second edition software and offers pocket versions of applications such as Outlook, Internet Explorer and Windows Media Player. Other features include still (VGA) and video cameras with images/ footage displayed on the phone's 64K colour screen, Bluetooth, a Secure Digital card slot and an integrated speaker to enable hands-free conversations.www.orange.co.ukDigital camerasTake fourCanon has unveiled four new digital cameras. To go on sale next month, the &#163;500 PowerShot S70 is the step up from the company's S60 camera. The   two models share a range of high-end and semi-professional facilities, although the S70 takes 7.1 megapixel images, compared with the S60's 5.1 megapixel, and sports a more compact design. Billed as a super compact for professionals, the &#163;600 PowerShot G6 is the successor to Canon's long-standing PowerShot G5. The new model takes 7.1 megapixel images (an upgrade from 5.1), features a faster auto-focus and boasts a 30% improvement in start-up time. It also goes on sale next month. Also slated for a launch next month is an entry level camera, the &#163;149 A400 and a new compact, the &#163;319 PowerShot A95.www.canon.co.ukStat of the week:Where do you get your news?The web is becoming increasingly important for news and commentary, according to a recent US study by New York's Pace University. It showed the net is almost as important as papers - especially for new voters, with 44% getting their political information online.
Surfing through videogame news sites everyday is a time-consuming activity, and can become soul-destroying when all you discover are three new screenshots of San Andreas and a Wings of War trailer. So why not let us do it for you? Every Thursday we're going to take a quick tour around the week's biggest videogame stories, selecting the absolute cream of the crop - or at least the daft ones that interest us. And this week that means football superstars, rappers and hamster simulations.Thierry Henry becomes the face of Pro Evo 4.This is quite a remarkable turn around for Konami. In the past, only the faces of elderly football legends and bald referees have graced the covers of the Pro Evolution Soccer series. But now the company has smashed open its corporate piggy bank and secured arguably the hottest name in the sport to endorse the latest edition. "I am very excited to be involved with a game of this caliber and look forward to working closely with Konami of Europe in the coming months," said Henry in his cheeky Gallic drawl. What's he going to be doing – coding the AI? Or will he perhaps turn up for a photo shoot one afternoon, pose for a few pack shots and then drive off quickly in his Renault Megane. "Bobby, what is French for 'easy money'?"Black Eyed Peas move in with the Urbz.Another big celebrity endorsement - this time it's the chart-topping rap combo signing up to produce music for EA's cool urban version of The Sims. This follows Shystie'sdealto appear in frenetic boy racer sim, Juiced. You're simply not a rapper these days unless you're in a videogame.Midway announces LA Rush.It's a new knockabout racer in Midway's longrunning Rush series. Due out in Spring 2005 on PS2 and Xbox, the title features a fully explorable future LA and boasts 50 vehicles. The last title in the series, San Francisco Rush was designed by Atari legendEd Loggwho worked on the likes of Asteroids and Centipede, and we liked its brash, manic approach to the genre (like Midway's similarly hectic Hydro Thunder and Arctic Thunder). Wonder if this one has more to offer than 'me too' features like non-linear circuit design and customisable cars.Doom 3 tops the sales charts in Europe and the US.Blimey, what a shocker.Game Stars LiveIt's shaping up to be an unmissable event with Halo 2, Pro Evo 4, Second Sight, Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap, Splinter Cell 3, Prince of Persia 2 and Championship Manager 5 all on the show floor. Quite a respectable line-up for a consumer show (the industry's biggest Shangri-La, E3, is industry-only). With this and the recent Edinburgh Games Festival attracting plenty of interest, it seems gaming is making another slow, shuffling move out of the shadows and into mainstream culture. Don't worry, someone's bound to ruin it soon by announcing a topless pole-dancing game in which you also pointlessly murder punters with an axe... (Don't even think about it Rockstar, I've copyrighted that one.)Data Design announces Habitrail game.In what is quite possibly the most bizarre licensing agreement the videogame industry has ever seen (and that's really saying something), UK based studio Data Design announced on Tuesday that it had bought the rights to create a hamster sim based around the Habitrail brand of hamster balls and other rodent peripherals. Early screenshots suggest a cross between Super Monkey Ball and Micro Machines. You have to wonder what kind of crazed brain-storming session this one emerged from.BBC picks up virtual girlfriendA fun little story about Hong Kong developer Artificial Life announcing a Tamagotchi-style dating game for 3G mobile handsets. Users are able to buy their cyber girlfriends flowers and chocolates using real cash, although it won't get them very far – this is apparently a respectable family game. Shame. Dating games are of course nothing new, but the fact that this one looks to squeeze a regular income out of its troubled fans is quite interesting.Magic Box takes Acid testThe unmissable videogame news site Magic Box has some details on Metal Gear Acid, a new Sony PSP edition to Konami's massively successful stealth series. It looks like the game will employ a card battle system, perhaps influenced by the likes of Yu-Gi-Oh and its ilk. Metal Gear? Card battles? Will we be challenging each other to games of stealth snap?Okay, what have I missed? Add your favourite news - and a link, of course - to the comments section below.
Late last night - after getting back from watching anothershocking performanceby Southampton FC - I was listening to Radio 5. They had an interesting piece on about a cabbie in Newcastle who had installed a "karaoke machine" in his cab. It had become hugely popular, with back seat divas now singing along rather than throwing up. What was really interesting were the songs mentioned - Elvis-Suspicious Minds, The Darkness - I Believe In A Thing Called Love. Ring any bells? Sounds like Sony's fabulous musical party gameSingstarto me. What a great idea though. If it was a PS2 he'd installed in his cab- and they didn't say on the radio - then think of the options. Pro Evolution Soccer on the way home, or maybe passengers could compare driving skills over Gran Turismo. Crazy taxi indeed.
For those folks who are awfully keen, you can almost place your orders for Sony's next-next generation consolehere, at least one year before it hits the shelves.fromCNetviajoystiqIn other Sony console-related news, specs on the forthcoming PSP handheld have beenreleasedmaking it approximately as powerful as the black box underneath the TV, but you'll have to wait for it; the launch date has been pushed back to beyond physical ken...thanks toThe Register
"Microsoft has been reprimanded over misleading advertising by the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA). The UK watchdog upheld complaints about a magazine advert which claimed that the open-source operating system Linux was more expensive than Windows," reports theBBC."Referring to research, it read: 'Linux was found to be over 10 times more expensive than Windows Server 2003'."A graph used in the advert compared the cost in US dollars per megabit per second of a Linux image running on two z900 mainframe CPUs, with a Windows Server 2003 image running on two 900 MHz Intel Xeon CPUs."Comment:What a stupid thing to claim, though I suppose they might have got away with the usual weasel, "up to10 times more expensive". Of course, I'd also expect similar research to show that running Linux on an IBM mainframe was more than 10 times as expensive as running Linux on Intel chips: it's the move to Intel or AMD servers that is saving IT departments pots of money, rather than the move to either Windows Server or Linux.
Is your Design Museum Award a sign of how important the integrated net has become to "real" life?Yes, and that of multimedia generally. I think the award going to a new media designer is a good sign for the industry, which is only just shaking off the negative reputation caused by the collapse of the dotcom boom.What's the idea underpinning your Play/Create work?I saw how MTV had created a consumer audience for music videos, and how graphic design/arts has become commonplace   in popular culture - on T-shirts etc - and thought it a small leap to add computer game technology and interactivity to create a new genre of entertainment.Is your talent the product of a mis-spent youth on a Spectrum?Definitely ... and before that a Commodore Vic-20 and then the Atari ST. Although my accountant would probably argue it apparently wasn't that mis-spent.Were your design/computer skills self-taught?Almost - I never trained formally. There are four people who can take the credit for my achievement. My father for inspiring my interest in computer graphics, Eric Masaba for teaching me how to really program, and the late multimedia pioneer Roy Stringer for nurturing my talent and employing me atAmaze. The fourth person, my mother, a maths teacher, taught me how to solve all the   mathematical problems that those glittery, spinny patterns involve.How did you first move into working on your seminal Noodlebox?Noodleboxstarted as an extra curricular research project. I was creating little applications to demonstrate what a then-new technology could do. As their numbers increased, I decided to put them all together and present them almost as a curiosity. It was a friend, James Tindall, who said it came across as a product experience, like buying a new CD and avidly opening up the cover sleeve for the first time. And that gave me the idea for Play/Create.How has the digital world changed since your early work?In those days, websites were inherently experimental and so one could try new things. Today, there are usability standards, such as   the fact that users are only willing to click once. So regarding commercial work, where the client always wants the largest possible target audience, it limits what you can offer a user. I think we're moving out of this phase now. New generation phones with things such as photo-messaging have taken off, and complex applications such as peer-to-peer software are becoming mainstream. As a result, I think the public is showing designers there is a willingness to learn when the reward is there.Advice for anyone looking to work in web design?Come up with your own style ... The great thing about new media is that by its very nature, it's not a fixed format.Visit:www.danielbrowns.com&amp;&lt;A HREF="http://www.play-create.com""&gt;www.play-create.com
"Microsoft is planning a new branding campaign similar to Intel Inside for its Windows Media audio and video technology, hoping to highlight the near-ubiquity of its multimedia technology, sources familiar with the plans say. The 'Plays for sure' campaign will include a logo on devices that support Microsoft's Windows Media and will be advertised by download services that distribute files in that format, sources said. Although not specifically using the Windows Media brand name, the campaign is aimed at assuring consumers that all services and devices carrying the logo will be compatible with each other," reportsCNet."To qualify for the 'Plays for sure" mark, a company will have to be certified that its products were compatible with other products using the logo. Some people familiar with the plan said it appeared to be aimed at highlighting the breadth of support for Windows Media, contrasting that with companies including Apple Computer and Sony, which tie their portable devices to specific music download services. "Comment:Nothing athttp://www.playsforsure.com/at the moment.
European Union regulators yesterday flexed their muscles by ordering an in-depth inquiry into plans by Microsoft and Time Warner to buy one of the world's leading providers of anti-piracy software.The deal to acquire Maryland-based ContentGuard was waved through by American regulators but yesterday the European commission said it was launching a four-month investigation into the deal because it could give Microsoft a dominant market position.ContentGuard produces digital rights management (DRM) software, which has become big business as content owners try to combat online piracy. Its technology has been licensed by groups such as Sony. DRM technology makes it possible to "hardwire" anti-piracy measures into digital content to prevent illegal copying.In April, Time Warner and Microsoft, which was already an investor, announced plans to buy Xerox's stake in ContentGuard for an undisclosed sum, thought to be about $80m (&#163;44.5m).The EC said yesterday: "After a preliminary review, it appears to the commission that the transaction might possibly create or strengthen a dominant position by Microsoft in the market for DRM solutions."It added that "this joint acquisition could also slow down the development of open interoperability standards". Such standards are seen as crucial if legal paid-for services offering music downloading and films over the web are to take off.The commission dealt a further blow to Microsoft by adding: "In the course of the investigation, the commission will also investigate further competition concerns related to the vertical integration of Microsoft in other markets."Both Time Warner and Microsoft have previously fallen foul of the regulator.This year Microsoft was fined &euro;500m (&#163;330m) and ordered to change the way it sells software for abusing its dominant position in the market for PC operating systems. Four years ago Time Warner had to drop its planned acquisition of EMI in order to obtain approval for its merger with AOL.
By this time next year, the digital divide between town and country will almost be closed. Broadband internet access - a download speed of at least 512 kilobits per second (kbps) - should be available to 99.4% of the UK's population, primarily through ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line), a service that piggybacks on standard telephone lines.But is a new divide about to take its place? Now, a few internet service providers are offering download speeds of several megabits a second, but only for those connected to the right telephone exchange or cable network - usually in cities.Andrew Ferguson, staff writer for ADSLGuide.org.uk, says complaints about lack of access to broadband are dropping, and speed is becoming more important. Users get accustomed to 512kbps and then want more, he says. "Businesses will be happy enough for a year or two, then they find it's grinding slowly."So how do you move into the fast lane? One way is through ADSL itself, which, by next July, will be available at exchanges serving 99.6% of the population, compared with 91% now. These allow services running at 1 or 2Mbps, and last week BT said that from September 6, the range for 1Mbps will lengthen from 2.5 miles (4km) to the telephone exchange to 3.7 miles (6km), leaving just 4% of an average exchange's users out of range. The 2Mbps range stays at 2.5 miles, excluding 20%.BT also announced that the 3.7-mile range for the basic 512kbps service will be abolished on September 6. Just 0.2% of those connected to   ADSL-enabled exchanges will be unable to gain access. BT says distance can be a factor, but so can use of aluminium in the normally copper wires or a large number of junctions.Even with the extension, the faster broadband services will continue to miss many rural businesses. Charles Trotman, rural economy adviser at the Country Land &amp; Business Associ ation, says that of the association's 40,000 members, 13% are outside the 3.7-mile range of the 1Mbps service."If you're a small IT company, and you can only get 512kbps, you will either have to get a leased line or an alternative method," he says.Another problem for businesses wanting to send, as well as receive, a lot of data, is that with ADSL, the   asymmetric element refers to the fact that data is downloaded faster than it is uploaded. BT also offers Symmetric DSL (SDSL) wholesale at up to 2Mbps in both directions, but only at 184 exchanges - a small percentage of the total. This figure will soon rise to 300, but that still means mainly cities.Local loop unbundling (LLU) may help. For many broadband connec tions, BT sells the ISP a link from the customer to the ISP's network. With LLU, ISPs install their own equipment in BT's exchanges. This allows for much faster services.Naturally enough, ISPs tend to equip the most commercially viable - urban - exchanges first. But LLU looks set to spread. "It's widely accepted that the first attempt at LLU wasn't as successful as it might have been," said telecoms regulator Ofcom, adding that two things will help extend its use: BT is cutting fees for switching a line to LLU by 70%; and the appointment of Peter Black as independent telecoms adjudicator.The other option is to escape the phone network. The OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) recently reported on the UK's increasing number of wireless ISPs (Wisps), such as wncb.net (West Norfolk Community Broadband), which has 10,000 households in range. This opened in January and has 70 customers - with 50 on the waiting list - paying &#163;24.99 a month for 2Mbps in both directions. Aerial installation averages &#163;135.Will Newman, the managing director of wncb.net, says a 2Mbps service adds little to the cost, as the amount of data transferred is not greatly affected by the connection speed, after an initial splurge. However, as the owner of a software firm with technical expertise, Newman was able to start wncb.net at a low cost."It's an add-on business," he says. "Many people have tried to do it from scratch and failed." Those startup costs, along with the fact that local ISPs are vulnerable to ADSL appearing at the local BT exchange, make wireless broadband a risky business.OECD reporthttp://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/38/40/31718094.pdfADSL coverage checkerwww.bt.com/broadbandNews on ADSLwww.adslguide.org.uk
As gatekeepers of the world wide web, internet service providers (ISPs) play a vital role in reducing spam in your inbox. But the lack of a real consensus over how to tackle spam has led to a mixture of approaches being adopted.That is set to change as a result of a "get tough" policy agreed at a meeting of the umbrella organisation the London Internet Exchange (Linx), which handles 90% of the traffic between ISPs in the UK.Under the new policy, 150 ISPs have agreed to shut down websites run by spammers. These include content sites referred to in spam emails or sites that sell spamming tools, such as CD-Roms containing millions of illegally collected email addresses.Linx regulation officer Malcolm Hutty, said the policy represents part of an ongoing strategy against spammers. "It won't be the end of spam, obviously, but it will make life more difficult for them."But the policy is as much about getting ISPs to face up to the legal issues around closing down spammers' sites. According to Linx, this will encourage ISPs to rewrite contracts with customers to include clauses that will allow them to close down sites if they are seen as supporting spam."With a policy like this, it supports the technical teams at an ISP who decide that a site must be shut down. Now it will be harder for management to hold them back because it becomes part of the status quo," said Hutty.Linx has had some success with a best current practice policy it released five years ago. The following year it was endorsed by Ripe (Reseaux IP European), an international forum that manages the operation of the internet. As a result of the policy,   ISPs tightened up the ways their mail servers could be illegally used by spammers - so called "open relays".Linx estimates that only about 1% of spam originates in the UK, and although many spammers are based in the US, they use mail servers in other countries.Linx is pinning its hopes on the new anti-spam task force set up by the OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development), which takes input from governments and meets for a second time on September 9 in Korea. "We are taking soundings from consumer and industry groups and are looking to export whatever is best practice," said Jean-Jacques Sahel, head of international communications policy business relations at the Department of Trade and Industry, which will provide UK input.But many in the security industry remain concerned that spammers are always one step ahead. "This is encouraging, but unfortunately spammers are like cockroaches and it will only slow them down for so long. They will re-host their sites and find new ways to get their spam out," said James Cowper, a senior technology consultant at Mirapoint, a messaging security vendor."This won't prove in any way effective unless they can persuade their European and global counterparts to follow suit," said Nick Scales, chief executive of managed email service provider Avecho.com.A scheme to make it harder for spammers to forge email addresses is gathering pace. Known as Sender Policy Framework (SPF), it has been endorsed by Microsoft Hotmail, Yahoo, and Google's Gmail. SPF works by ensuring that incoming email is identified against new Domain Name   Server databases. In essence, it is as if your ISP is telling other ISPs that if they receive email from you from any other server than its own, it is a fake.Many agree that widespread adoption of SPF could make it easier to identify spam, worms, viruses, and "phishing" scams where spammers simulate emails from banks to gather password or credit card data. The beauty for users is that there is no work to do, since the databases are created by ISPs and domains sharing data on acceptable users.In addition, 80 members of the US-based Email Service Providers Coalition recently gathered at Microsoft's campus near Seattle for a summit on Sender ID, an authentication system that combines Microsoft's Caller-ID email technology with SPF. It is being evaluated by the Internet Engineering Task Force as a possible industry standard.Cloudmark, DoubleClick, IronPort Systems, Sendmail, Symantec, Tumbleweed, VeriSign, and Microsoft are all developing products and services that support Sender ID.Yahoo is also testing an authentication system called DomainKeys. This creates an encrypted email address signature, which is then checked by the receiving domain.But Michael Chissick, head of technology law at Field Fisher Waterhouse, says that implementing Sender ID in Europe may not be straightforward. "It may be that ISPs will need subscribers' permission to use this due to our laws on data protection and human rights. There is also the matter of what ISPs do when they block mail on behalf of subscribers. What if it is mail that you wanted and you can prove you suffered a loss by not receiving it? The ISP may end up being liable."
With the average lunch break down to just 23 minutes, work-life balance now means not spilling coffee over the keyboard while we eat our sandwiches and catch up on email. Businesses look to technology to improve productivity and save money; most users prefer the idea of it saving them time. Research In Motion claims its BlackBerry handheld can do all three.According to figures in its latest survey, most BlackBerry users are not just more productive - by up to an extra month's work a year - but they have more free time, too: as much as 13 days a year.Such results may be one reason for the huge growth in BlackBerry sales: RIM shipped more than half a million units in the second quarter of this year. That's up 289% from last year, and accounts for most of this year's 12% growth in the Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) market, after two years of falling sales. But with more and more PDAs being bought by businesses, carrying a connected device might look like just another way of taking work home.BlackBerry user Jamie Duc, infrastructure manager for Superdrug, disagrees. He spends some of his commute dealing with emails. That means he knows about problems before he gets to the office, so he can deal with them straight away.Duc also gets to leave the office earlier, especially on days when he has a lot of meetings, because he can stay on top of email during the day or on the train home. Differences in time zones mean he usually gets support requests from overseas staff in the evenings or on Saturday mornings; the BlackBerry gives him the choice of dealing with mail straight away so he does not face an overwhelming inbox on Monday mornings. He might take some work home, but at least he gets to leave on time.The on-call support team at Superdrug is even more grateful for BlackBerrys that run the software they use to manage and even reboot servers across the network. Duc says the team can now fix most problems   without getting out of bed. And because team members rarely have to go into the office, there's little travelling time to pay for, which has helped reduce support costs.Superdrug did not adopt the BlackBerry for convenience, though. Duc explains: "Over the past five years we've looked at everything, trying to reduce remote user dial-up costs." The company was also keen to wean area managers away from their laptop screens and get them back into the stores.Introducing BlackBerrys for the area managers has cut dial-up costs by &#163;800 a month. Says Duc: "Fifty area managers and no support calls is amazing, because their laptop support costs were huge." Just as significant for the business is that the change has made email into a tool managers can depend on. Instead of relying on phone calls and messages sent to individual stores, which are time consuming, head office can distribute urgent information such as product recalls instantly by email.Consumer versions of BlackBerry handhelds mean small businesses can get the advantage of mobile email relatively easily. However, many people need more than email, and enterprises are starting to take the next step: taking line-of-business applications mobile.While the corporate BlackBerry does not have the similarity to the Windows platform that makes developing applications for Windows Mobile smartphones a familiar experience, it supports Java and secure web connections. It is therefore possible to move key applications to the BlackBerry, as long as you bear in mind its strengths and weaknesses.Apart from using it as a phone,   there is not much you can do with a connected PDA that you could not do with a laptop with a mobile phone or cellular PC card as a modem, but you have to do it on a much smaller screen. Still, a handheld is smaller, lighter and switches on and off far more quickly, and you do not need a table to rest it on. All this makes it much more convenient when you only have a few minutes to spare, and because it is so small and light, you are more likely to take it with you.One key advantage of the BlackBerry is that email comes to you. The BlackBerry also scores over rivals by compressing email significantly, so that messages download quickly; PC email clients are far less efficient.The battery life of a PDA is far better than any laptop, and the BlackBerry's battery lasts nearly a week. Unlike the numeric keypad on many smartphones, the Qwerty   keyboards on devices such as the BlackBerry, Nokia's Communicator and upcoming Windows mobile smartphones such as Motorola's MPX, mean many users can type quickly enough to respond to email. One BlackBerry typist has clocked in at 48 words a minute.Getting the most from technology often needs a shift in attitude, or even a change in the way you do business: going mobile is no exception. Connecting mobile workers with head office more easily and cheaply is not the same as giving workers who are normally in the office more opportunities to get away from their desks.Companies are often suspicious of letting people work from home because managers worry they will not know who is working and who is popping out to the shops. The culture of "presenteeism" means people can end up working longer hours, not because they have more work to do but because they do not want to be seen to go home before the boss.Having a connected handheld that   lets managers reach workers when they need to could make it easier to trust they will be available when they are supposed to be. Being in contact also means your absence does not hold up the people you work with. Corporate versions of the BlackBerry let you open standard Microsoft Office applications, and if you cannot work with an urgent document directly on the device, at least you know it is there so you can load it up on a PC.Jonathan Wood, senior partner at law firm KSB Law and an enthusiastic BlackBerry user, thinks it is up to us to be disciplined about when we work. "I rarely look at mine outside office hours, the point being that I really have caught up with my emails so I can switch off. The intrusion of technology is huge, but it is a question of managing your day." Or, as RIM's Charmaine Eggberry puts it: "The most important key on any technology is the Off key."Stopping work taking over your life could be as much about self-control as unreasonable expectations.
From the Isle of Wight to Ibiza, from Glastonbury to Leeds, if you've been to a big music event this summer, you will have noticed some new features alongside the camp sites, catering vans and chemical toilets.Also present - and spending a fortune for the privilege - have been the big mobile telephone brands. Nokia was at the Isle of Wight festival, Orange appeared at several of the big summer events around the UK and Virgin Mobile had its own V festival last weekend.All are there for a multitude of reasons - not least because the crowds are exactly the youthful, mobile-addicted generation they want to sign up. But this year, they also have a new motivation, because the mobile phone world does not just want to support the music business, it wants to become a part of it.They already are, in profitable but low-profile ways. According to Ovum, a research consultancy, ringtones brought in up to $3bn in revenues last year. As we get more used to personalising our phones, that figure is likely to grow. Ovum even suggests it could double in just four years.New services will spur that growth. These include personalised ringtones where the caller hears the receiver's choice of music, rather than the traditional ring. It might sound unlikely, but mobile users appear keen to inflict their taste in music on their callers. "These things were launched two years ago in South Korea and became a huge success," says Dario Betti, a senior analyst at Ovum."We don't expect the same level of interest as we've seen in Asia, but already T-Mobile, in six months across Europe, has half a million   subscribers. It didn't really have too much promotion, but they managed to hit the spot there."The mobile business is as keen on ringtones as its customers, because we are willing to pay comparatively large amounts for them. On our PCs, we can download a full track from an online music store for around &#163;1 - often less. Walking down the high street we can buy a physical CD single for &#163;1.99.Yet, on mobiles, customers are willing to pay &#163;2.50 for an often unconvincing ringtone arrangement of a tiny portion of a song, just to project a little bit of personality every time someone calls us.The only people unhappy with this arrangement are the record labels. That's because those screeching tones being sold in their millions were (obviously) not actual recordings - just arrangements of their hits. Ringtone vendors did not need to pay the labels for rights - just royalties to the composers and song publishers. The labels were cut out of the equation, and it cost them millions.Labels are more keen on full song downloads, and for excerpts to be used for ringtones and ringbacks, because they collect royalties. Combine this with mobile phone makers, who make money from us upgrading our handsets, and networks, who want us to download more over their networks, and suddenly there are a lot of people eager to see music downloads start happening.O2 has been an early leader in full track downloads, offering its digital music player since late last year. The device is not a phone, but connects via infrared or cable to a GPRS handset (or a PC) which does the downloading. New handsets from the company now sport similar music   capability in a single device. T-Mobile currently only offers music clips via its Ear Phones service, but plans to offer full-length songs next year.Amid the stampede, Orange has managed a distinctive offering that includes music downloads but also adds the innovative Fireplayer application. This lets users of certain new handsets remix ringtones, adding drums, raps, solos and other effects using their keypads.Mark Ashford, the head of entertainment at Orange, points out that this is augmented by large amounts of content available on its Orange World portal, and adds: "The whole focus of the mobile industry has been the coming together of the phone, the personal digital assistant and a music player. Clearly, they're all starting to come together now."But is this really a mass market application? After all, PC music downloads are themselves at an early stage, and mobile innovations typically follow after applications   have settled down and become popular on home computers.Orange's Ashford admits it is "early days" in terms of digital music, but adds: "To say this is an experiment is to underestimate what we're doing.""Mobile music has huge potential," says Megan Forster, music marketing manager at 02. But, she says, the technology has a little way to go to meet the aspirations of the mobile networks. "The reason it's not mass market yet is because the handset manufacturers haven't caught up," she says. "We've got quite a complex music download system set up in the background and, to be honest, we're waiting for the handsets to catch up so we can roll out this service."Some industry observers reckon it will take years for the mobile music industry to settle down. Ovum's Betti recently warned that enthusiasm for mobile music downloads has been "misplaced" because of technical limitations. But he also says it is vitally important for mobile opera tors and handset manufacturers to get into this emerging business, and carve out a place for themselves in the digital music future that may eventually arrive."The &#91;current&#93; services are not that appealing unless you're really into your technology," he says. "If you're a technophile and you really want to go and discover them, maybe. But if you're not into gadgets, you will not find them as appealing, as interesting, as convenient."Operators need to learn how customers use the services, and they also desperately need to make sure their customers see them as being cool and sophisticated."Operators are now fighting for mindshare," says Betti. "Virgin Mobile tries to appeal specifically to young customers, and have been quite successful in getting those users to its network. What players such as O2 are afraid of is that if they're not as successful at being seen as cool as Virgin, they might actually   have migration of customers to other players."So it's not necessarily the additional things you can do with your phone, but also how people look at you - as a more innovative, more interesting kind of operator."This jostling for position is affecting more than just the mobile operators. Some analysts believe the recent assault on Apple - makers of the market leading iPod music player - by streaming media company Real Networks is largely to do with the approaching mobile music battle.Real has ambitions to supply its software to mobile operators and handset manufacturers. But Apple has threatened to get in the way, doing a deal with Motorola that will see its iTunes music software made a standard feature on their phones. Apple insists the new phones will not replace the iPod - the devices will hold dozens, rather than thousands, of songs - but will give mobile phone users "a small taste of what this digital music revolution is about", according to Apple chief executive Steve Jobs.Meanwhile, Nokia - the world's largest mobile phone maker - and digital media company Loudeye, which recently acquired UK-based music downloads company OD2, have also announced plans to work together.And Sony - the creator of the original mobile music device, the Walkman - has been busy, too. Its new StreamMan service, announced in June, sends a personalised radio station to users of certain GPRS handsets, in what is claimed to be FM-quality sound. It's only available in Finland for now, although Sony -   and its technology partner, EndtoEnd - are in talks with operators around Europe.The key to all this activity, according to Atte Miettinen, EndtoEnd's chief marketing officer, is that operators and music companies are waking up to the fact that mobiles are developing rapidly."The market has taken huge steps forward in the past six to 12 months," he says. "One of the most interesting things ... is where the mobile phone is effectively going. Internally, at Nokia, they've stopped using the term 'phone', and now call it a 'terminal' because, from their point of view, we've already evolved away from the phone towards a converged device that combines things such as FM radio, digital camera, MP3 player."That, combined with the fact that in the next 12 months we can expect to see Wireless Local Area Network combined into mobile phones, will fundamentally change the way the device is being perceived and used, and it opens up huge opportunities for things like music. The whole industry is buzzing about it."Further innovations, including tiny hard drives fitted inside mobile phone-sized devices, only add to that buzz.But we should not get too carried away. As Betti points out, the technology - while improving - is young, and still does not work well enough. For all the hype, there are too many drawbacks - poor storage, battery problems and slow downloads - for mobile downloads to take off just yet."It will be three years," predicts Betti, "before we see something that's a bit more competitive."
Also in today's Guardian is this snippet:Hartlepool Lib Dem blogs her way into byelection history"Jody Dunn, a photogenic barrister and mother of four who hopes to wrest Peter Mandelson's constituency from Labour, will daily detail what she has been doing, and reply to voters who log on."The blog is thought to be a first in the field of byelection electioneering."www.jodydunn.org.ukis expected to charter her schedule as a candidate while coping with motherhood and a career as a family lawyer."Comment:Hopefully this will continue to be a little more than just the extremely loose interpretation of blogging which some other Lib Dem campaign teams seem to have latched onto (Simon Hughes: I'm looking at you). Those interested in the race for Hartlepool are reminded to take a peek at the ever-interestingGuacamoleville.
"European Union regulators yesterday flexed their muscles by ordering an in-depth inquiry into plans by Microsoft and Time Warner to buy one of the world's leading providers of anti-piracy software," reports today'sGuardian."The deal to acquire Maryland-based ContentGuard was waved through by American regulators but yesterday the European commission said it was launching a four-month investigation into the deal because it could give Microsoft a dominant market position."ContentGuard produces digital rights management (DRM) software, which has become big business as content owners try to combat online piracy. Its technology has been licensed by groups such as Sony."
All formats chart1. Doom 3 (Activision)2. Athens 2004 (Sony)3. Spider-Man 2(Activision)4. Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 3: Black Arrow (Ubisoft)5. Driv3r (Atari)6. Shrek 2 (Activision)7. Need For Speed Underground (Ea Games Platinum)8. The Chonicles Of Riddick: Butcher Bay (Sierra)9. Formula 1 04 (Sony)10. Fifa 2004 (Ea Games Platinum)Featured chart: PC entertainment1. Doom 3 (Activision)2. Championship Manager: Season 03/04 (Eidos)3. The Sims Triple Deluxe (Ea Games)4. The Sims (Ea Games)5. Far Cry (Ubisoft)6. Csi: Dark Motives (Ubisoft)7. Soldiers: Heroes Of World War Ii (Codemasters)8. Counter-Strike Condition Zero (Sierra)9. Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising (Novalogic)10. Call Of Duty - Game Of The Year Edition (Activision)Source: Elspa, compiled by Chart Track
It sounds like a sci-fi nightmare, but it could be every teenage geek's dream: a computer worm that can wriggle into bedrooms and secretly hijack webcams to spy on people.A warning was issued yesterday about a new "peeping Tom" computer virus that can take over computers and invade homes and businesses.The Rbot-GR worm installs itself in users' machines like a normal virus, but then secretly takes control of the webcam and microphone, sending images and sound back to the hacker who dispatched it.The virus enables hackers to see everything another user does in front of their computer and hear everything they say without their knowledge if their webcam is switched on, according to Sophos, an Oxford-based anti-virus firm.The worm, which affects only personal computers with Windows software, can also look at information on the hard drive of an infected computer and steal passwords.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos, said Rbot-GR had been detected in the past few days, but it remained a rare virus at this stage.While the worm could be a lucrative tool for thieves and hi-tech industrial espionage, it is likely to prove more popular   with teenage hackers who want to snoop around strangers' bedrooms."This particular worm can capture what is on your webcam," said Mr Cluley."Even if the camera is switched off, it will try switching it back on."Whether this worm is the work of professional snoopers or lusty teenagers - it is hard to say for certain. My theory is that the average hacker is a young male and the thought of spying on other people's bedrooms can be quite intoxicating."I think it is mostly out of curiosity. Previously worms have been programmed to look at your hard disk, but this one can look in the room around your computer."Computer users, particularly those with machines in their bedrooms or a broadband connection which permanently links them to the internet, are advised to ensure they have the latest anti-virus software. Users can also protect their privacy by ensuring their webcam is unplugged or the lens is covered with tape when it is not in use.As news of the worm spread around the global internet community, users on the message boards of Slashdot greeted the news with glee.One said: "I think I speak for the majority of geeks who can't get any when I ask: where can I get said worm?"
Dying PsionsI have a Psion Series 5mx, which suits me admirably, but I have had to have it repaired three times, so it is getting expensive. Is it time to move to a PDA, and if so, which one should I choose? At the moment, I don't use a desktop PC.Gerald RamshawJack Schofield replies:The Psion was designed to work as a standalone computer, and none of the modern devices really does that job quite as well. Today's PDAs (personal digital assistants) tend to work best when seen as companions to desktop computers, where you drop them into a cradle every night to synchronise data and recharge them. (You can't get Psion-style battery life if you are driving a bright, backlit colour screen.) However, if you like Psions, I think your best bet is a Nokia Communicator, which is based on the Symbian operating system - derived from Psion Epoc - and comes with a good suite of software. It also has a built-in phone. The Nokia 9500, due out later this year, has a colour screen, 80MB of memory and a VGA camera, and it supports four wireless standards: GSM, GPRS, Wi-Fi andBluetooth. Apart from the keyboard, which is not up to Series 5 standards, it looks like today's ultimate upgrade for Psion users. However, it does far more than you need.A cheaper option is to switch to a new system, where the main choices are Palm-powered and Windows CE-powered devices such as Pocket PCs. These are now more or less equivalent, though I'd expect a    standalone Psion user to have a preference for the Palm interface. Have a look at the Palm Tungsten T3 and any of the Pocket PC handhelds. The best value at the moment is probably the Dell Axim X31.Alternatively, you could extend your use of Psion handhelds by shopping on eBay. Series 5 machines typically go for &#163;40 to &#163;50, and even clean-looking late models go for less than &#163;100. Although Psions have known problems with hinges and screens, you can probably buy two second-hand models for the same price as one repair.SP2 or not SP2?Shall I install XP SP2 or not? My computer is working so well at present, I'm reluctant to do something that appears likely to cause disruption. I don't have broadband, and my Virgin.net account is pay-as-you-go.Naomi ConnellyJS:Every Windows XP user should plan on installing Service Pack 2 at some point, but it is going to take Microsoft a long time to upgrade 300m machines, and you don't need to be at the front of the queue. If you have a brand new machine (and therefore a standard software installation) and a broadband connection, get SP2 as soon as possible. If you have an older system with malware problems, it is worth getting in the queue now. If you don't have problems, you can certainly wait until any glitches are ironed out. And if you don't have broadband, wait until SP2 becomes widely available on CD. Microsoft UK is planning to distribute SP2 on a million CDs, and you will soon be able to order a free copy (no charge for post and packing) fromwww.microsoft.com/uk/windowsxp/sp2.Pest controlI would like to get rid of the ISearch toolbar, which I inadvertently must have downloaded.   I have looked on the web and discovered numerous sites that claim they can remove it, but I'm not sure which ones I can trust.Peter CopperwheatJS:Usually the best place to start is the supplier's website, and ISearch does offer a guide touninstalling its toolbar. With parasites, SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy and Lavasoft's Ad-aware are trustworthy: both are free, so if you are asked for money, you are at the wrong site.For those in funds, I recommend Pest Patrol and Webroot's Spy Sweeper. Any of these should remove ISearch. Also seewww.wilderssecurity.com/.Backchat&#183;Ian Richardson wanted to use the net while travelling. Brian Seavers says: "I recently visited Spain and can recommendwww.gonuts4free.com, a free ISP service using Spanish local rate numbers, which are very cheap off-peak."&#183;Jonathan Carr's PC had a wavy screen, and I suggested he check the monitor cable, among other things. Andy Munro, from Munro Acoustics Ltd, says: "Another potential cause of monitor interference comes from loudspeakers, even shielded ones. Decent speakers (with large voice coils) send out an electro-magnetic pulse when hit with a heavy current. This can travel several metres and cause CRTs to distort. We often resort to LCD screens in recording studios to avoid the problem."Mark Sheldrake adds: "I had similar trouble with a 'wobbly' monitor, but cured it by not using the microwave in the kitchen at the same time as I was using the PC: they backed on to the same wall!"
Burnout 3PS2, Xbox &#163;39.99 Criterion/Electronic Arts,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;With franchise merchants such as Electronic Arts coming under much criticism recently for failing to come up with new intellectual properties (deemed particularly important with the next generation of consoles looming), the third instalment of a driving game would not appear to hold much appeal. But Burnout 3 flies - or rather crashes, extravagantly, with a series of barrel-rolls - in the face of such conventional wisdom.It adds few features from previous versions - apart from support for Xbox Live and the ability to steer your car even in mid-crash - but is more polished and much improved structurally. In gameplay terms, that adds up to the most adrenaline-infused and addictive game released this year.As before, you face a series of challenges on road circuits full of traffic that moves incredibly realistically. To charge up your turbo-boost, you must drive on the wrong side of the road, slide round corners, narrowly miss oncoming traffic, get airborne and take out rival road-racers.The pleasingly non-linear structure sees you taking part in races, where you must try to force your opponents to crash; eliminators, where the last car is blown up at the end of each lap; and crashes, where you seek to cause spectacular pile-ups. There are great team-based online games, too, but what really motivates is the style of the crashes. Add a great indie-rock soundtrack, featuring the likes of Franz Ferdinand, and you have a must-buy package.Steve BoxerGhost Recon: Jungle StormNokia N-Gage, &#163;24.99 Gameloft/Gameloft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;After a rocky start, the restyled N-Gage is beginning to shine. Spiderman 2 was a cracker and this latest incarnation of Tom Clancy's jungle warfare sim is just as good.What strikes you is how good a job the developers have done on the 3D, with buildings scaling smoothly into view, and above-average animation. There's even the odd cinematic set-piece and the kind of fine detail that usually gets left out in the transition to smaller formats, such as Clancy's traditional obsession with big guns, offering plenty of weapons to choose from before each mission.What problems there are have more to do with the N-Gage design. Moving and strafing without a proper raised joypad is hard enough, but aiming with the left hand at the same time makes negotiating the busier levels more a matter of memory than skill. However, you do get eight large missions with consistently varied objec tives - from rescuing hostages to the usual raising hell - and your three colleagues do a pretty good job of supporting you on their own initiative.The music and sound are top notch and there's even a multiplayer mode. This is an impressive conversion that will be familiar to fans of Ghost Recon on other formats. In the absence of a GBA rival, it's the best handheld version of the franchise.Mike AnderieszSudekiXbox, &#163;39.99 Climax/Microsoft,&#42;&#42;&#42;Crazy name, pretty decent game. Sudeki is a Western take on the Japanese role playing game (RPG) genre. Players control a party of four, each with different skillsets, such as shooting or hand-to-hand combat.As with all RPGs, the plot is important, driving players on to the next area or challenge. Unfortunately, Sudeki's is a slightly disappointing cliche, although ex-Doctor Who actor Tom Baker's narration adds gravitas.In reality, it is the combat and pretty graphics that are the pull. From the start Sudeki looks gorgeous, with wonderfully realised environments that give a sense of space and disguise the linearity of design. And then there is the combat. There are a lot of opponents in this game as, in true RPG fashion, players need to kill these to gain the experience points to "level up". Do this and greater powers and weaponry become available.It is a good job, then, that the combat system is such fun. By tapping buttons in time, players can perform powerful combo moves. Then there are the special skill strikes that slow game time down with devastating effect. Sadly, the first person shooting elements of two of the characters are a disappointment and out of place in an RPG. Also poor are the puzzles, which are so elementary as to be pointless.Ultimately, Sudeki lacks a bit of soul, with none of the attachment to characters that great RPGs engender. For all that, it offers a good-looking summer adventure on your Xbox.Greg Howson
Well, afterbloggingabout the questionable creative state of the increasingly corporate computer games industry I did a bit of digging and discovered a few avenues for free-thinking games developers who may not have the big budgets to put their big ideas into place, but have that crazy indie spirit. Hopefully some of these projects will grow into the Cannes, Sundance and Venice of the computer games biz and will shake up the interactive milkshake to produce some truly innovative alternatives.The Independent Games Festivalis associated with the Game Developers Conference held each year in the Northern Californian springtime. In 2005, the event will take place between the 9-11 March in San Fran and the winners will be announced at the GDC. If you want to submit, get your skates on. Deadline's 1 September. Cash prizes to be won.Slamdance Big C Bawls Independent Games Competition 2005is a new offshoot of the Slamdance Film Festival, started in 1995 when a bunch of young upstarts wanted to indie Robert Redford's Sundance. This year's showcase will be held in LA between 21st-29th January at the Film Festival. Early deadline is 1st October, final deadline is 1st November. Top prize is $5000 in cash and prizes. I'm very pleased to see established film-makers celebrating games.CheersJoystiq!Dare to Be Digitalis open to teams of five students in Scotland's Unis and Art Colleges. It's been running since 2001 and the work is showcased at the annualEdinburgh International Games Festival. Entry deadlines are in April each year, and if your idea is picked you get to spend ten weeks of the long summer days in Dundee... apparently the sunniest city in Scotland.... Ah, just think about the cash prizes.Any others?
"In a decision that could expose U.S.-based Web sites to free speech laws of other nations, a federal appeals court on Monday found that Yahoo could not escape legal action in France for violating a French ban on the sale of Nazi-related items," reports, erm,Yahoo."The case stems from a fight over whether Yahoo could be sanctioned by the French courts for allowing the sale of a host of Nazi items, including copies of Adolf Hitler's "Mein Kampf" and materials alleging that the gas chambers of the Holocaust didn't exist."Comment:This long-running battle between Yahoo and the French courts highlights several important questions that could drastically affect the web's future.Who governs the internet, and what laws should it conform to? After all, few suggest that China's draconian internet regulation is anything but anti-democratic censorship - but seen in terms of the Yahoo decision, is the Chinese restriction of "free speech" so different from the French?In a global environment, we seem confused about how to enforce the law across national borders. Do you abide by the law's "lowest common denominator"? (in which case horrific regimes could try and enforce their laws on other nations) Or do you play to a new set of rules? (which could drastically affect existing national laws). Or, as some libertarians might argue, do you leave it totally unregulated?Where do we draw the line?
"The vast majority of consumers are unaware that an Apple iPod digital music player will not play music files from other digital music providers, while a smaller majority agree that it is within RealNetworks' rights to develop a program that will make its music files compatible with the iPod. Those are among the findings of a new study on consumer perceptions about music download services scheduled to be released today [Monday] by Insight Express," reportsMediaPost."According to the survey results, only eight percent of respondents were aware that files from other digital music stores were not compatible with Apple's iPod. However, once they were alerted that several weeks ago, RealNetworks announced that it had figured out a way to re-create Apple's proprietary technology, enabling it to sell iPod-compatible songs without Apple's permission, a 46 percent majority agreed that RealNetworks should have the right to do so. When asked if Apple should have the right to a proprietary format, 28 percent agreed, while 52 percent were either neutral or unsure."Comment:I left this one on Monday, thinking that eiher more information would be available by now, or other publications would pick it up. So far, nothing....
The battle for broadband Britain intensified yesterday as Wanadoo, owned by France T&#233;l&#233;com, doubled the speed of its cheapest offering in direct response to recent moves by rivals BT and AOL.For &#163;17.99 the company is offering a broadband service which operates at 1 megabit per second - twice the speed of more expensive offerings from its rivals. The service replaces its existing, loss-leading entry-level 512 kilobits per second broadband offering as Wanadoo looks to increase its 375,000 broadband customers to challenge market leader BT, on more than one million customers, and second placed AOL, which is expected to have 500,000 by the end of the month.Philip Mehl, managing director of sales and communications for Wanadoo UK, said the product was designed to attract customers on to broadband ahead of new services such as internet telephony and TV down phone lines over the next few years. He said: "We're doing this for the long-term game. We are making broadband available for the masses when it was just available for early adopters."Two years ago all but the most tech savvy consumers were facing prices above &#163;30 for fast, 24-hour internet access through their existing phone line. Following AOL's market-moving decision to stop charging for installation in early 2003 and a substantial advertising campaign from BT nine months later, take-up has steadily increased.But now the battleground has moved to under &#163;20. First to crack was Tiscali which launched a service priced at &#163;15.99 in October last year. At 150 kbps, however, it was about a third the speed of the broadband services rivals priced at &#163;29.99.As take-up of this "almost broadband" service rocketed, BT responded with a "true" broadband product at 512 kbps for &#163;19.99 in March this year. But BT demanded cus tomers pay &#163;80 for installation. Moves under &#163;20 by AOL and Wanadoo followed swiftly and BT was forced to dump its initial charge in late June.But there is a catch. Many of these new cheap offerings have caps, meaning customers can only download a certain amount of information per month.Exceed the quota and they could be charged extra money, receive a warning email or maybe even see their service revert to the slow speed of traditional dial-up access.Michael Philpott, senior an alyst at high-tech consultants Ovum explains "internet service providers want to reduce their prices so they can continue to grow the number of customer but not at the cost of ruining their business models".The new Wanadoo service is capped at 2 gigabits of data per month - roughly equivalent to sending and receiving 400 emails a week or surfing up to eight hours a day.BT's broadband basic package is capped at half that level. Tiscali's &#163;15.99 product does not have a cap but is a third the speed of BT Broadband Basic. It's cheapest true broadband service is priced at &#163;24.99 and not capped.AOL, which does not cap any of its broadband packages, reckons the industry risks confusing consumers. David Carr vice-president of broadband for AOL UK, said: "It is like the pay-as-you-go era all over again, where people suddenly found bills soaring as they spent more time online. The same could happen with capped broadband services, except this time consumers are committing to these limits in 12-month contracts."
"Cape Giardeau, MO., August 23, 2004 – When a demolition crew set off an explosion to bring down an old highway bridge on the Mississippi River, newspaper photographer Don Frazier was so close that his hair stood on end. His digital camera, positioned on a tripod at an even closer point to remotely capture the event, fared much worse. It was blown to bits. But to Frazier's amazement, there on the ground, inches from the shattered remnants of his new pro-level camera, was his SanDisk® 256MB CompactFlash® card, which he had owned since 1999. Surprisingly, except for a few nicks, it was unscathed, even though it had been blasted from the camera chamber. And when he inserted the card into a PC reader, up popped an image that has astonished everyone who's seen it," says a SanDisk press release,here, which also includes the photos.
Okay, so Greg might not like the adverts, butGame Stars Liveis clearly going to bethevideogame event of the year with games like Halo 2, Pro Evo 4, Splinter Cell 3 and Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap all being shown off in the UK for the first time. There's also a retro gaming zone, a 'groove zone' filled with the latest dance games, and loads of game challenges and competitions (Eidos is giving away £500 a day for the best score in Crash 'n Burn, the company's forthcoming street racer).And you could be there!We have 50 pairs of tickets to give away. All you have to do is mail your name, address and telephone number to us at gamesblog@gmail.com. The first 50 to arrive will get the goods. Just make sure you can be in London between 1-5 September, and that you know how to find the ExCeL venue (clue: there's a map on the Game Stars Live website).As well as hundreds of new games, you can expect to see a fair few pop bands and plenty of celebs, as well as grown men dressed as videogame characters. You may even see my fellow bloggers Aleks and Greg (if he isn't barred), although I'll be back in Bath trying to finish The Official Football Manager Magazine issue 2 before it finishes me...
Mary Meeker, the Morgan Stanley research analyst dubbed "Queen of the Net" during the boom years of the late 1990s, has broken her silence, speaking of her regret for the millions of small investors who lost money when the internet boom crashed.Ms Meeker was one of a handful of analysts including Henry Blodget of Merrill Lynch and Jack Grubman of Salomon Smith Barney who became celebrity cheerleaders for internet and technology firms. As the internet fell out of favour, so did they.In an interview with Newsweek she said she still feels guilty. "It's not easy for me," she said. "People did lose money on the stocks that I recommended and I'm sensitive to that. I wish we would have downgraded them, and I'll have to live with that the rest of my life."Morgan Stanley was part of the Wall Street settlement of conflicts of interest in research departments with New York state attorney general Eliot Spitzer at the end of 2002. Unlike Mr Blodget and Mr Grubman, she was not singled out and is the only one of the three still in her job.Ms Meeker said she was initially angered by Mr Spitzer's campaign but no longer blamed him for taking an interest in Wall Street. She was part of the investigation but never charged.It also emerged in the Newsweek interview that she played a crucial role in securing the Google flotation for Morgan Stanley through her personal relationship with the founders. "I'm not hiding anymore," she said.Ms Meeker says the internet remains a good investment long term. "As far as the internet is concerned we're still in the second inning."
"US software giant Microsoft and Swiss telecom company Swisscom said Tuesday they would begin the first commercial trial of Microsoft television delivered to the home over [ADSL]. The four-month trial in 600 Swiss homes, scheduled to start in September and evolve into a fully commercial offering by 2005, underlines the eagerness of telecom service providers to move into media services to offset declining voice call revenues," reportsReuters."Swisscom, through its subsidiary Bluewin, will provide consumers with up to 30 channels, including five pay-TV channels and a set-top box from France's Thomson that can record shows on a computer-like hard disk."
Anyone seen the tube and poster ads for next week'sGame Stars Liveshow? Isn't it good to see that they aren't pandering to stereotypes. One poster has got 20-yr old Liu telling her competitors to "kiss your butt goodbye". Another features a tear stained 20-something crying with joy as he "reaches the last level". Female game players only Asian? Gamers all emotionally stunted obsessives? Blimey, why don't they just have a poster with a bearded male mumbling something about "destroying the Zutrons" to fully complete the image. Oh, they already did. Don't be surprised if the ad team concerned approach the Guardian with a revolutionary poster idea involving sandals, lentils and left-wing teachers.
France Telecom-owned internet service provider Wanadoo today fired another salvo in the ongoing broadband price war, steeply undercutting its rivals by slashing the price of its standard package to just £17.99 a month and doubling the connection speed.The move by the company, which changed its name to Wanadoo from Freeserve earlier this year, is likely to spark yet another round of cost-cutting among its rivals.In a bold move Wanadoo has axed its standard 512k service for new customers and will offer them the faster 1Mb line instead in preparation for the launch of new services such as cheap voice calls and video-on-demand.Wanadoo, which was initially slow to compete in the broadband market, has been catching up with its rivals such as BT and AOL since first cutting its prices when it rebranded earlier this year."We are bringing 1Mb to everybody who is able to receive it at an affordable price," said the Wanadoo chief executive, Eric Abensur."We believe 1Mb is a basic right for all internet users, so everyone can enjoy the benefits of faster browsing and downloading, higher quality sound and video, and the enhanced online experience that 1Mb broadband provides."The competing ISPs have employed different tactics to persuade customers to upgrade to broadband. While some have offered slower connections at rock bottom prices others have followed Wanadoo and insisted that all broadband offerings should connect at 512k or above.A spokeswoman for Wanadoo said the new £17.99 service, which has a 2Gb limit on the amount of data that can be downloaded in one month, would be suitable for 85% of the population.Higher priced options, at £22.99 and £27.99, will cater for heavy users such as those who download hundreds of music tracks or those committed to online gaming.All three options undercut BT's £29.99 per month for its 1Mb product.The move is seen as the precursor to the launch of Wanadoo's LiveBox, the company's bid to establish a "home gateway" that will provide its customers with wireless internet access in the home, video-on-demand and cheap voice calls over broadband.There are now almost 5 million broadband subscribers in the UK.BT announced last week it had 3 million broadband subscribers over its telephone lines while cable companies NTL and Telewest have 1.7 million high speed internet customers between them.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
My word. Whatever will they think of next?Available fromHot Topic, but only in-store. This product is sold out online.Thanks toGizmodo.
Google, the search engine which floated on the Nasdaq market last week, has the worst corporate governance structure of any company in the S&amp;P 500 index, according to an influential investor advisory group.Institutional Shareholder Services, which advises pension funds on how to vote at annual meetings, gives Google a withering 0.2 out of a possible 100 for effectiveness of its governance structure.It identifies 21 weaknesses, including too few outside directors and a capital structure using two classes of shares which allows the founders to retain control. However, the shares continued to attract buyers yesterday and were $1.09 higher at $109.40 by the close in New York. The shares floated at $85. The brokerage Jefferies initiated coverage of Google yesterday, setting a price target of $115.In an interview with the Financial Times, Patrick McGurn, senior vice president of ISS, cited perceived problems, including a compensation plan that allows the company to reprice stock options if the shares fall below a certain value and a lack of share ownership guidelines for executives or independent directors.Google was forced to pare back the price range for its IPO, as well as cutting the number of shares on offer, due to apparent lukewarm demand. The company deterred many institutional investors with its unconventional Dutch auction, an attempt to circumvent the clubby world of Wall Street and open up the IPO to as many small investors as possible.Would-be investors were also made wary by a series of bungles, most recently the publication of an interview with the company founders in Playboy magazine, breaching rules on the promotion of IPOs. The securities and exchange commission is still investigating.The company also failed to register share options awarded to staff and consultants.However, the first days of trading have been a different story. Jefferies analyst Youssef Squali said that Google's founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, had "undoubtedly bequeathed their entrepreneurial spirit and innovative nature to their company and its employees".
I am absolutely tickled pink, purple and blue;Mark Mothersbaugh, lead singer of 80's avant-rock groupDEVO, has been announced as lead composer on the forthcoming Electronic Arts title, The Sims 2.Not only am I a big fan of his Whip It!-era music, but I've also enjoyed his soundtracks to the Wes Anderson filmsRushmoreand TheRoyal Tenenbaums. Mothersbaugh's music is flippant, lighthearted and, as expected, rather quirky. It's just lovely. Heaven only knows what he'll be doing to those poor little computer people, but I expect some serious vogue-ing on the virtual dance floors.As I bloggedearlier, EA is making a massive push to include top musical acts in its interactive titles. Only a few years ago, the musak associated with most games adhered to the plinky-plonky variety (there were notable exceptions, and I have the soundtracks from Parappa the Rapper, Space Channel 5 and Jet Set Radio to prove it), but the Canadian publishers were keen to do something about it. They pulled in Steve Schnur from Columbia Records to take over music placement and acquisition. Since he adopted the post as Worldwide Executive of Music and Audio, A-Listers like Mothersbaugh and DJ Paul Oakenfold have jumped on the interactive entertainment wagon to try games composition on for size.According to Mothersbaugh, "Computer games are just another vehicle to express my creativity and allow my fans to enjoy my music." Whip it good.Some other games music composers of note:Kojo Kondo: resident Nintendo composer. Credits include all of the Marios and all of the Zeldas. I highly recommend a listen to the Super Mario Bros. theme tune played by the London Symphony Orchestra. Inspirational.Nobuo Uematsu: composer of the much-adored Final Fantasy games series music. The entire collection was played in concert at theWalt Disney Concert Hallin LA in May 2004.Masaya Matsuura: award-winning composer of Parappa the Rapper (1&amp;2), Um Jammer Lammy, Vib Ribbon and others.Help me out here with some Westerners...
A couple of weeks ago I posted astoryabout the faintly satirical mobile game Bush vs Kerry Boxing, currently available over in the States. The game cashes in on the short development times and high concept-driven nature of mobile titles to get a few laughs out of the US election battle, and I wondered if we'd see any similar titles over in the UK. Well, developer Mobobo has just announced Big Boss Bash, a very simple puzzler where you lob water balloons at a series of world leaders including Tony Blair and George Bush. It works like a cross between Breakout and Bust-A-Move: you have to get the trajectory and power of your shot just right to make the balloon bounce around the obstacles and finally smack the offending caricature.It's highly amusing and works as a quick puzzle game. But it's hardly biting satire. We'd like to see something with sharper teeth, a mobile game that takes a currently popular title or genre and subverts it for genuine topical effect. Something along the lines of:Tony Blair's UnderhandIt's the ultimate skating (the issues) sim! Pull a series of neat tricks to extricate yourself from blame on the gnarly Hutton Report level. Then attempt the ultimate special move – taming the awesome Butler Enquiry!The Price of Persia: Sands of CrimeOur athletic presidential hero must twist and turn through a gigantic moral maze as he attempts to seize control of the mysterious gulf and its magical treasure: black gold!Conflict: Vietnam RecordAs a Democratic hopeful you must dodge bullets of doubt and missiles of accusation as you attempt to exploit your military past in this tense elect-'em-up. The exciting replay mode lets you direct your own commercial, carefully highlighting the risks you took on the Mekong Delta!But can you think of any funny ones?
"Intel this week is expected to introduce a chip that adds support for a relatively obscure version of Wi-Fi, analysts said on Monday, in a move that could help ease congestion on wireless networks," reportsReuters."Endorsement last year by the world's largest chip maker of the wireless communications technology known as Wi-Fi helped turn wireless networking into a must-have for notebook computer users. But as wireless networks have popped up in homes, businesses and public places, some network administrators have begun to warn of network traffic jams."In a press briefing scheduled for Thursday, Intel is expected to announce the availability of a 'tri-mode' Wi-Fi chip that supports the two most popular wireless data technology varieties - 802.11b and its speedier cousin, 802.11g - and the less-used 802.11a. Intel's current chips support only the "b" and "g" varieties."
Early summer record sales gave the beleaguered UK music industry a fillip yesterday by showing improved album sales, a sudden upturn in legal music downloads and an increase in singles sales for the first time in five years.The 15% increase in singles sold, with an 8% rise in value, in the second quarter of this year came after the industry launched its two-track single initiative this year to stem declining sales.Peter Jamieson, chairman of music trade body the BPI, said: "For years, we've read stories about the death of the single. The single never died."Sales were further boosted by the controversy - and attendant news coverage - over the best-selling single of the second quarter: Eamon's F**k It (I Don't Want You Back). The single sold well over half a million copies and was number one for four weeks before being knocked off the top of the charts when FURB (FU Right Back) was released by Frankee and marketed as a direct response from a former girlfriend.FURB was the third biggest-selling single in the three months to the end of June.Singles have declined as consumers increasingly turn to online downloads to sample music, or buy lower-priced al bums in an increasingly competitive market.Yesterday's figures also showed that the total number of online downloads sold so far this year went through the 2m barrier. The BPI called it "a significant breakthrough for the legal downloading of music".The success of the iPod and Apple's iTunes online music shop helped increase the number of legal downloads, although industry evidence suggests that many younger lis teners continue to file share and use illegal services.In July, after the launch of the iTunes Music Store Europe, Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said: "Piracy is the big enemy - the market has shrunk in France and Germany and seen zero growth in the UK."The first official download chart will be released on September 1.The effect of the singles squabble, reminiscent of in creased sales attending the stand-off between Blur and Oasis in the mid-90s, prompted analysts to suggest the upturn could be a one-off.Even Matt Phillips, a spokesman for BPI, sounded a note of caution. "It's too early to say whether this is the new dawn for singles. We are still cautious." However, the success of the twin-track single appeared to be continuing into the current quarter.The 4% increase in total sales for April-June to &#163;231m, compared with &#163;222m in the same quarter last year, reinforced the feeling that the industry is on the way back up.Album sales, which make up 95% of the industry's total &#163;1.1bn in annual sales and are therefore of far greater financial importance, rose 3.7% over the same period a year ago.Mr Phillips said: "These figures represent good news all round, but particularly that album sales are holding up."Single sales have halved since the early 80s but album turnover has more than doubled over the same period from just over 90m units in 1983 to 235.6m in the year to the end of June.Many blamed the industry practice of releasing cut-price singles which were intended to boost sales of albums. That served to devalue the singles charts at the same time as giving a brief burst of support to album sales.
Sports fans may be racing to the internet to read about the Athens Olympics, but this year's British sportsmen and women are already proving an online turn-off.While newspapers devote their front pages to the likes of Paula Radcliffe and Matthew Pinsent,  research shows fewer than half of the top 10 UK internet searches in the first week of the games were for a British sports person, while not one was for a male British athlete.By far the most popular among British internet users were the Australian swimmer and twice gold medal winner, Ian Thorpe, and his American rival, Michael Phelps, who between them accounted for more than 50% of all searches, according to research from internet search provider Overture.Despite her early exit from the games, the 2000 champion athlete Denise Lewis was the most popular British sports person among web users with 11% of the searches.She easily surpassed Pinsent, the only winner of a 2004 gold medal to make it into the top 10, with just 2% of searches for the champion rower.Darren Campbell, the sprinter who represented Britain's biggest male hope in the athletics, only made it into 19th place in the league.Overture, which produces the survey with media agency Initiative, said it would update the research at the end of the games."If similar results are found then, they will raise questions with regards to the attractiveness of using today's male athletes as the face of consumer brands," said the report.Even more worryingly for Britain's Olympic hopefuls - and their sponsors - the figures show the athletics stars of yesterday are still far more in demand than their younger counterparts.Linford Christie, Daley Thompson and Sebastian Coe all scored far higher than any of the leading male athletes in this year's British team, and together accounted for more than 50% of searches. The Samsung-sponsored Campbell managed just 8%.The pattern was repeated in other sports, with the retired oarsman Steve Redgrave proving much more sought after than this year's rowers.Despite the British team's thrilling victory in the coxless fours, Redgrave, who bowed out after winning the gold at the Sydney Olympics in 2000, accounted for more searches than the whole of the 2004 men's crew put together.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Eidos was on the slide yesterday, unsettled by reports that a French rival had decided not to make a takeover offer for the accident-prone computer games company.According to La Tribune, Ubisoft has decided that Eidos, worth about &#163;150m at the close of play last night, is too expensive.All of which came as something of a surprise to many City dealers, who believed recent reports in the UK that Ubisoft was the front runner to acquire Eidos and was prepared to pay as much as 150p a share for the company which created cyber heroine Lara Croft.Eidos put itself up for sale earlier this month after concluding it was not big enough to compete with larger rivals such as Ubisoft, Electronics Arts and THQ.Eidos shares closed 8p lower at 106.5p.
I missed this last week when I was away. A forthcoming videogame developed by the UN aims to teach children about global hunger. Called Food Force, the game is described as a "mix between Tomb Raider and a lecture from the World Food Programme". Find out morehere.
It was actually sunny this weekend so I took quirky Game Boy Advance titleBoktaiout in the garden. This is a game that has a unique light sensor on its cartridge and requires sunlight to play properly. It's not a bad stealth adventure, although it does feel gimmicky. The rainy British climate doesn't help either. But my two big games this weekend were Sudeki and Ico.I am reviewingSudekifor this Thursday's Online. Developed by the Climax guys in Portsmouth, this is an action RPG that attempts to mix East (spiky haired characters, convoluted storylines) with West (belting countless baddies around the head). And so far I'm quite enjoying it, even though there isn't enough freedom to stray away from the main storyline - unlike the mightyMorrowind.Unfortunately for Sudeki I chose this weekend to dig out one of my favourite game ever,Ico. As I said in my blog on Saturday, Ico is a unique experience and essential for anyone interested in videogames. So while Sudeki and Boktai are decent enough titles, this weekend has been dominated by a game over 2 years old.
"When Mayor Mary Anne Clancy of Newburyport, Mass., a married mother of three, engaged in a brief e-mail dalliance with a married gym teacher earlier this year, neither could have imagined the public embarrassment that would result from their private exchanges. But after Mrs. Clancy's husband, Brian, discovered the romantic e-mails this month, he allegedly assaulted Jason Beauparlant, the teacher, and was arrested. The ensuing headlines exposed the cyber-tryst," writes Marilyn Gardner, The Christian Science Monitor."The incident spotlights a largely hidden but rapidly growing phenomenon: cyber-affairs, romantic liaisons conducted via computer. Although a majority of such encounters never lead to a physical relationship — causing some observers to dub them "safe infidelity" — cyber-betrayals can seriously damage and even destroy the marriages of those involved, according to experts."Continued atUSA Today....
Wired Newscatches the right angle on the current dispute between Apple and Real, which I mentionedlast week."RealNetworks badly needs a PR coup to regain credibility with music fans, but its latest "freedom of music choice" campaign is missing the mark, critics say."...Instead of a groundswell of support, Real was skewered as a false advocate for open standards and mocked for its history of being unfriendly to its customers. Not surprisingly, a good chunk of the criticism came from Apple users who are legendary for their loyalty to the brand."Despite the criticism, Richard Wolpert, chief strategy officer for RealNetworks said 'the feedback we're getting is great.'"Never one to shirk the tough questions, former onlinebloggerNeil McIntoshalso gets his tuppence worth in.
If a relative of yours has died in  armed combat, fighting for  their country, it is now possible  to check the details on the  internet. Of course many people  will read that and say it's  callous, relatives should be told in  person, and they'd be right except in  one detail: the deceased, in this  instance, are casualties from the Boer  war and first and second world wars.1837online.comhas added about a  million records, all referring to members  of the armed forces who fell in  these conflicts, so relatives can  search, find and note details of where  their relative - or, more likely, ancestor  - fell.Morbid? Not at all. This facility,  which, until recently, would have  involved a trip to a public record  office here or abroad, is fuelling the  colossal interest in genealogy online.  And customers are sufficiently engaged  to pay for the service, which  they won't do for every service on the  internet.This raises the questions of  what it is that makes genealogy on  the net so compelling, why people  will part with their money when they expect everything else to be free and  whether sellers of other services can  learn anything from it.Anthony Adolph, the author of  Tracing Your Family History (published  by Collins next month), is in  no doubt. "It's because it's all about  you, trying to find out about where  you come from and where you fit in,"  he says. But it does not capture everyone's  enthusiasm in the same way, he  admits; there are people who will  write the whole thing off as a waste of  time, but once the idea has become  established in someone's mind it's  difficult to shift."You can see what's out there  immediately," says Adolph. "GenesReunited, for example, has done  loads to bring people to the area."  Adolph does have a bias as resident  genealogy expert for the GenesReunited  site, but he also has a point.One avid online family tree  builder is insurance sales manager  Dean Woolf, co-proprietor of thewoolffamily.co.uksite, which is  aimed at attracting Woolfs to the  door. He sees the web as an excellent  way to build contacts because it requires much less effort than time consuming  visits to an archive centre.He started by looking for people  with the same surname and eventually  found a third cousin. They set up  a modest reunion for family members  who had never met, which is to  be followed by a larger event next  March.  His experiences, though, highlight  a possible loophole in the fascination  with tracing your roots,  whether on the net or elsewhere;  someone, somewhere, might be fibbing  about who they are, and it can  be difficult to spot."My grandfather's  nephew thought he knew who  his father was, but we found documents  that proved he'd been born  seven years after his 'father' had died in a war," says Woolf. This hasn't  curbed his enthusiasm, however.  "It's the same in modern life - you  can only trust the birth certificate or  a DNA test, depending on how far  back you're going."This, Adolph suggests, highlights  the difference between a family tree  writer - who is essentially making a  list - and someone writing a family  history. A similar case involved a  child being born to a 'father' who'd  been at sea for two years before the  child arrived, for example."It depends  on whether you're going into  the records to really find the truth,"  he says. "If you just accept the birth  certificate, you'll get one family tree;  if you check harder you might ask  why the father was at sea, what he  was doing, why he accepted the new  child, and you find out more about  the people."Whether people take the 'birth  certificate at face value' route or  check further into their family histories,  there can be no doubt that the  internet is becoming a catalyst in  getting people involved.Michelle  Barker heads GenesReunited, which began in November 2002 and grew  to 1.5 million users within 18 months,  without any advertising. "The internet  makes genealogy available to  anyone," she says. "Before you might  have had retired or wealthy people  who could visit a public record office,  now you can check things while  you're sitting down."And, thanks to 1837online and  similar companies, there are increasing  amounts of public records available  from your desktop. Despite the  failure of initial attempts to put old  census results online, the quality and  quantity of original documents available  is increasing.Julie Pease, marketing  manager for 1837online, confirms  that the robustness of most  sites like it has improved over the  past two years; customer testing is an  important element of the business  and the range of information is  increasing. Pease says there are more  plans in the offing, in addition to the  war records the company has made  available in the last week or so,  although she remains tight-lipped as  to what they might be.There is a surprising amount of  social history in genealogy sites.  Pease has noticed that in the company's  documents on maritime births  and deaths, there appears to  have been a tradition to name  babies after the ship on which they  were born - so if you were born on  a ship called the Britannic and your  name was Robert Brown, you'd have  been recorded as Robert Britannic  Brown.She was also interested in  tracing the records of the victims of  the Titanic in the same maritime  records, and was surprised to find  there were none: "I thought, what's  wrong with these records? But it  turned out that it was the captain's  duty to record births and deaths on  board, so when the captain went  down with the ship there was  nobody charged with keeping  records." Surprisingly this ruling  held sway until the 1970s.Although many participants concede  that genealogy on the internet is  not an exact science - to be positive  that your family tree is accurate you'd  have to be utterly certain of the sexual  fidelity of entire generations of  people you can never have met - it's  an appealing way of placing yourself  in a historical context, and also finding  other family members who are  doing the same.Adolph confirms that he's known  people to double the size of their  family trees overnight, simply by  finding an unknown relative who is  working in parallel. "It's quite gripping  once you start," he says. And  once you hear of a few success stories  - including the GenesReunited customer  who understandably refuses to  be named but who found that he was  due a large inheritance of which he  would have been unaware if not for  the site - it's difficult to imagine it  going away.
Interactive television has tried all manner of new media services searching for its "killer ap" but it now seems clear the frontrunner that television executives should be putting their proverbial shirts on is one of the oldest forms of entertainment - gambling. As HSBC this month joined a list of banks who have ditched the medium, casinos and bookmakers look set to start filling the void. At the front of the pack is William Hill which within two or three months will take over and brand a channel dedicated to virtual gambling, which has already been set up by DITG, the company behind the bingo and virtual casino television station Avago.At the same time, plans are being drawn up for the country's first 24-hour celebrity poker show that will be broadcast in 2005. The show, which Challenge TV sums up as where Big Brother and poker meet, is the result of a deal with a fledgling gambling channel in America, CGTV. The latter has bought Challenge's programme library, which includes several poker shows, as well as going halves on new programming, including the planned show Poker Hotel."There's a real buzz about poker among the public so we're going to get four or five celebrities and pitch them up against the best poker players in the world," promises Jonathan Webb, Challenge's Controller."We're going to put it in a classy place, probably a hip hotel, and you'll be able to really see what the celebrities are like. The top players have a poker face you can't see past but it's when a celebrity is bluffing on his last bit of stake money that the tension really shows and they're stripped - it's that democratic nature of poker that makes it so popular with viewers."For those who want to play as well as watch poker on their television, Challenge is due to launch Casino Casino, which allows Sky viewers to press red and get dealt a virtual hand for fun, rather than money stakes."A great encouragement for us is that on Sky, where play-along is offered, viewers stay for twice as long as cable, where it isn't offered," says Webb. "It's illegal for us to allow people to play for money so it's just for fun. With the proposed relaxation of gambling laws, we'd hope to one day offer poker for real money, but not for the time being."Although changes to the country's gambling laws being debated in parliament are not expected to be implemented until 2006, there has   already been some relaxation in attitudes that has allowed one channel to offer the first real (rather than virtual) play-along casino game.Last month's launch of roulette on iSports was important for interactive television, according to Damian Cope, the managing director of the channel's operator DITG. Although roulette has always been one of the most popular games on the net, television broadcasters are banned from allowing the public to gamble on live, real card and casino games."The main regulatory concern is that games have to fixed odds, just like a bet on which football team will win on Saturday," Cope explains."Obviously card games aren't based on fixed odds because there are so many variables. Roulette is fixed-odds, though, because you can see all the numbers and there are only so many slots the ball can land in, and so, after some discussions, we were allowed to put the game up."This has come in time for William Hill's planned branding of the channel in either October or November. David Harding, the bookmaker's CEO, reveals that he decided to "launch" a television channel because online has worked very well for the brand and showed no signs of "cannibalising" its high street business. Hence he is confident that television gambling will be huge, and not at the expense of the bookmaker's shop, internet or phone operations."We've been looking at interactive television for quite a while," he reveals. "It has always been too expensive in the past, but now you have what I call a "gatekeeper" like DITG that can sit between someone like us and Sky and have a channel already set up for them, it has become a much more affordable option for us."Soon after William Hill rebrands the iSports channel, DITG will begin trials of fun poker on its Avago channel, which it hopes will then be taken up next year by William Hill.The interactive television broadcaster also launched the world's first real-life game where viewers can   guess which pig - numbered one to 10 - will be picked out of a pen by a farm hand. The Squeal of Fortune game was launched last week to viewers watching Teletext through C4 on the Sky platform.According to Robin Bosworth, director at the television and telecommunications consultancy Schema, the huge growth in gambling and betting on interactive television stems from Sky's success with its Sky Bet service. This offers fixed-odds betting on many popular sports and provides the odds for C4's Attheraces channel, and has proved to other operators how receptive the public is to pressing red and placing a wager."The UK is unique in that you've got digital television in more than half of households and you've got one of the most liberal gambling regimes in the world," Bosworth says. "So, it was always going to be the leading market for interactive TVgambling and Sky Bet has simply shown the way and it's not surprising that others are following."In fact, the market is so huge that Bosworth estimates it will be worth &#163;600m this year and will increase 70% next year. This is appealing to bookmakers and casino operators, he believes, because the growth does not come at the cost of online or high street betting because it appeals to a new market."The really interesting thing is how television is changing the dynamics of the market," he explains. "In the high street only around 5% of customers are women but with television that jumps to around 20-30%. It also appeals to people that would not normally think about going to a betting shop but are open to watching sport or a virtual casino game and having a flutter."The really clever thing the likes of Avago are doing is building up a community side where people can 'chat' via the show so they've got a feeling of being among friends."The huge growth Bosworth predicts for the market not only comes from continued enlargement of today's services but also through combining gambling and television shows, such as the planned Poker Hotel. "When you look at it, the biggest thing on television now is participation television," he says. "Whether it's Big Brother, Restoration or Strictly Come Dancing, people want to interact with a show. If you add gambling to the voting those types of shows offer, then you're going to get phenomenal growth."
The finest technology wizards at the BBC have been working for almost two years on a gizmo called the interactive Media Player (or iMP) that will allow licence-fee payers to watch BBC programmes at a time and place of their choosing. And it's not too fanciful to suggest that they could hold the future of the corporation in their hands. If that sounds a touch over-dramatic, consider this. BSkyB chief executive James Murdoch has bet his reputation on pledging that at least 2.5 million subscribers will have Sky Plus hard-disk recorders by the end of the decade, dramatically changing the way they watch TV.At the same time Wanadoo, BT and others are poised to invest tens of millions in delivering video-on-demand services to the 4.7m broadband homes in the UK. And, geeky as it may sound, the networked home is no longer science fiction but mainstream fact. Within a couple of years, wi-fi will provide the low-cost means of bridging the divide between PC and TV, or set-top box and broadband connection, in millions of homes.Whether you accept Murdoch Jnr's argument that "storage trumps bandwidth" or agree with the ISPs that the delivery of TV over high-speed internet lines will triumph in the long term, one thing is clear: linear TV is, sooner or later, on the way out.Recently, I had my first glimpse of the BBC's response to these trends. Together with the Creative Archive, announced this time last year by the then director general Greg Dyke as a vast public archive of BBC footage, the iMP sits at the heart of the corporation's strategy for the decade that will be covered by the next charter settlement.The iMP player is based on the successful radio player but is even easier to use. A simple electronic programme guide lists all the BBC TV and radio shows scheduled in the previous seven days and all those coming up in the next week.At the click of a button, the user can download any programme that has already been aired or mark a forthcoming show for download as soon as it is broadcast. Most people will use it this way - marking future shows for download in the way they might once have ringed programmes in the Radio Times and then coming back to their PC to find them ready to watch.The really clever stuff is the technology that lies behind the service. Using an enclosed, legal version of the peer-to-peer principle popularised by the likes of Kazaa, the corporation hopes to avoid overburdening its own servers, which would end up costing a small fortune. Over a normal broadband connection, the BBC estimates that it would take about 24 minutes to download a half-hour show in VHS quality. These speeds, and the quality, will increase as the cost of high-speed access comes down.If the opening episode of a lauded comedy or drama passed you by, no longer would you need to slope away from the water-cooler in shame. And if you're a particular fan, you can "series link" a show to record every episode. This move to retrospective viewing is just one of a number of huge, if subtle, shifts that technology like iMP could bring about. The device allows you to search by genre and interest area. In time, you'll also be able to tag anything on particular topics.Central to iMP is the BBC's "anytime, anyplace, anywhere" philosophy. The idea being that you can download shows to a portable device - be it a mobile phone, laptop computer or one of the so-called "video iPods" starting to emerge. The notion of thousands of people sitting on the train catching up on their previous night's viewing may seem fanciful - until you look around and notice how many people are already fiddling with their mobiles, watching DVDs on their laptop or listening to their iPod on the way to work.The benefits of such technology are obvious for the BBC and the viewer. But the potential challenges are more complex. For a start, the BBC's determination to pour resources into projects such as this is bound to cause further consternation among rivals.They worry that the BBC's superior resources will enable it to build a technological lead that will end up siphoning off their viewers. Sensibly, new media chief Ashley Highfield has moved to head off criticism by insisting that other broadcasters are welcome to come on board. Then there is the danger that it could further widen the digital divide. If this service is only available to those with broadband, what of those who can't afford it on top of the licence fee?There could also be commercial issues. Will people be as keen to purchase DVDs of their favourite shows if they can tap into anything from the previous week at will? And what happens if some enterprising hacker finds a way around the digital rights management? These questions will take on added significance if BBC Worldwide is sold off, in full or in part, at the end of its review. And they could be more pressing than you think. I was told that the launch of iMP, already deep into technical trials, could be just nine months away.
A state-backed electronic marketplace billed as a way to help the unemployed return to work, drive down prices and generate more business opportunities could be launched as early as next year.Akin to a more sophisticated version of the online auction phenomenon eBay, it would trade in services as well as goods. Downing Street policy advisers are discussing pilot projects to test the idea.Known as National E-Markets, the idea has been in circulation for some time. But it is the success of eBay, with more than 105 million users worldwide, which has convinced researchers that the time is right.Its supporters argue that the scheme is now technically and economically feasible because of advances in computing power and the fact that more than 50% of households have an internet connection.Under the model being considered, e-markets would expand into sectors as diverse as tuition, vehicle hire, babysitting, overnight accommodation and office rentals. It would use a specialised search engine to put on screen any list of services required, grading them by past reliability, location and price. It would also allow those offering services to move up grades as they accumulated satisfied customers.The system would, like the National Lottery, be authorised by the government but run by licensed private contractors.Unlike eBay it would involve regulation of service providers with built-in recourse to small claims courts to resolve disputes.Dubbed "People's Markets", the system was devised in the dotcom boom and has languished since the boom's collapse.The notion of state-endorsed-markets has continued to attract influential support from key Labour policy and computer industry figures.The chief proponent has been Wingham Rowan, a former presenter of the TV programme Cyber.Cafe, who has written several books extolling the possibilities of e-markets.He believes the scheme could be Labour's next big idea. "The right legal framework would incentivise private firms to build the infrastructure," he said."Their return would come from a pre-agreed percentage mark-up on each transaction - likely to be below 1% of the purchase price."Assuming such markets were widely used they would bring new resources into the economy, drive down overheads, invigorate localised traders, cut public spending and create a more responsive national economy."He believes that by providing a sophisticated marketplace in which people might sell part-time professional and labouring skills those on the social margins could be encouraged to quit the black economy and return to more productive employment.New computer technology has also brought the massive calculating power required to run a national e-market system within affordable reach.Pilot projects are being discussed with several local authorities.One likely sector is what Downing Street has called "slivers of time working" - supporting more flexible employment practices.A spokeswoman for Number 10 told the Guardian: "It's an interesting idea, one among many. We are not in a position &#91;yet&#93; to say whether it's definitely happening or not."
If you were seeking a case study in  schadenfreude,  then last week's coverage of the Google flotation in the financial media could hardly be bettered. There were acres of solemn coverage recycling the opinions of investment bankers to the effect that the young geeks who run Google had had their comeuppance.After pondering the results of the Dutch auction, in which would-be investors were invited to bid for shares, the company sharply cut the number it was offering then set the price in the band of $85-$95 a share - considerably lower than the top of the $108-$135 range it had once expected.This valued the company at $24.4 billion, down from the $33bn it would have been worth at the mid-point of the earlier price range. Wall Street could barely contain its glee at this turn of events, and the financial media duly reflected its vindictive sentiments.To understand the bile, you have to know the background. Google has always been an unusual company, and when the time came for a float, it approached the task in an unorthodox way. This basically involved repudiating the corrupt way in which technology IPOs had traditionally been handled by Wall Street.Hitherto, what happened was this. (There's a wonderful description of the process in Po Bronson's book The Nudist on the Late Shift.) A technology company would go cap in hand to the Street's bankers and brokerage houses, often doing six months of elaborate presentations, beseeching these guys to take some of the shares.The institutions would then take large blocks of shares and parcel them out among favoured big clients. Small investors were entirely excluded and were generally unable to get even small allocations prior to the launch.Meanwhile the banks' analysts - eagerly abetted by the financial press - would hype the impending flotation, creating a frenzied mob of salivating customers awaiting Launch Day.Come the day, and thousands of small investors would pile into the market, often driving the share price to insane levels in the first hours of trading. At which point, the aforementioned clients of the aforementioned institutions unloaded their allocations, pocketed vast profits, and walked away.It was money for jam, as easy as taking candy from babies - and was how the technology boom of the late 1990s worked.With the bursting of the bubble, this source of easy pickings dried up. But when the prospect of Google's flotation was mooted, however, Wall Street began salivating again. Given the company's dominance of its market, this would be a Really Big One. Google would be worth zillions - I can remember numbers such as $15bn, $30bn and even $50bn being bandied about by respectable sources.But then Google snubbed the Street, turned its back on the flotation racket and instituted instead a Dutch auction in which the price of its shares would be set by what individual small investors said they were willing to pay.To add insult to injury, the Google prospectus also revealed that the company's shareholding structure would be arranged in such a way that it would continue to be run by its founders, rather than dominated by the short-term obsessions of institutional shareholders and Wall Street analysts. And the co-founders declared that the company's motto would be 'do no evil' - at which point investment bankers had to go and lie down in darkened rooms.The fury of the US financial establishment at Google's cheek had to be seen to be believed. Wall Street never likes to be mocked and has no experience at all of being denied anything that it sees as its rightful plunder.From then on, a baleful spotlight shone on Google as it inched towards flotation. There were some cock-ups - for example, over share options and an interview that the co-founders gave to  Playboy - which were gleefully seized upon and reported.We suddenly began to hear mutterings about the 'threat' of competition from other search engines, not to mention Microsoft. Then came the magic moment when the Google team announced they were setting the price much lower and selling fewer shares - at which point Wall Street's cup ran over. Those Stanford brats had finally been taught a lesson.But hang on a minute. What's happened is that Google set a price based on serious empirical evidence (provided by the auction) rather than finger-in-the-wind guesstimates of investment bankers and bent analysts.Sure, this values the company at less than the wilder fantasies of Wall Street, but also means that a dotcom has finally come to market with a realistic initial valuation.This is a great advance on the nonsense we saw in the 1990s, when companies with no profits and few employees were briefly more valuable than General Electric (and in some cases are now worth less than stock exchange minnows).And guess what? On its first day of trading, Google shares went up to $100, better than the $95 which was the top end of Google's final estimate. Smart lot, the Dutch auctioneers.&#183;john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Are you the kind of person who struggles to make a decision? Do questions such as, 'Tea or coffee?' and, 'Brown or white toast?' drop you into a brain-stalling panic? Could cardigan versus pullover see you standing at the wardrobe for 15 minutes before opting for a jacket instead? If so, Citro&#235;n's new Pluriel is definitely not for you.The latest incarnation of the hugely popular C3 - which has the distinction of being Citro&#235;n's fastest-selling car ever - is a brave effort to be all things to all drivers. It's a feisty four-seater, a fun sports car, a chic cabriolet and even, with a lot of imagination, a miniature pick-up... It's a motor that would have no trouble winning the New Labour seal of approval, as it offers choice with everything - from seat position to the angle of the steering wheel, from where you put the ashtray to which parts of the boot you want to leave behind. And it's very nice and self-empowering being offered so many car-enhancing choices. However, the make-your-mind-up dilemma reaches Herculean proportions when it comes to the car's roof.It's a soft top with eight settings - eight! On top of that, you can fold the top into the boot. Then, if you're feeling ambitious, you can unclip either or both of the roof's side arches. These have to be placed in smart nylon bags and dumped in your garage, or in your hall, or under your bed (you see, there's even choice here). Of course, if you take off the roof arches and hit the open road, you have no protection against the vagaries of the British weather (another thing that can't make up its mind). But the clever people at Citro&#235;n have thought of that, so you can stop and pull a large mac over yourselves. Which is another first for the Pluriel - a car with its very own cagoule.Once you've decided what to do with the roof, and actually get into the car, you'll find a long list of ticks in the Pluriel's 'yes' box. It's packed with little extras that seem eager to please. Everywhere you look, a thoughtful designer's hand seems to have played a part: two-tone seats and leather door grips, digital speedo, dimpled headlamps, circular air vents.Even better, the Pluriel is also, officially, the safest car in the supermini class when it comes to crash tests. It's cheap to run, too, doing 43mpg. And all that for £11,995 - which, for a fun-packed 'multicar', seems not as expensive as it might be.Ticks in the 'no' box? There are a few, of course. It's a bit under-powered, even for a supermini. Four adults, admittedly all spreading into middle age, challenged its 1.4-litre engine when it came to hills; the engine seems to make that slightly unnerving high-pitched noise; and overtaking was definitely a case of playing chicken with the oncoming traffic. Small cars should be nippy, not sluggish. Visibility for the driver is a bit limited, too, which is something you put up with in reverse. But when it occurs going forwards, it's probably not ideal.So, should you buy one? Well, you'll have to make up your own mind about that.
"Hunger for nostalgia drew scores of video game fans to the Classic Gaming Expo at the San Jose McEnery Convention Center this weekend. And for younger gamers, the event was a trip back through time, when austere games like Space Invaders and Centipede delivered the excitement of a new technological frontier," reportsThe Mercury."The expo features a keynote speech by Apple Computer co-founder Steve Wozniak today. Atari and Activision founders and programmers were also present to meet fans and sign autographs."
