How often have you had problems after hiring a car? Unexpected insurance, a string of hidden charges, and worst of all, being charged for damage to the vehicle caused by the previous renter.If Jobs &amp; Money's postbag is anything to go by, those hiring cars at home and - in particular - abroad, are largely at the mercy of the hire car company in question.Car hire rental agreements all include the right to pass on charges incurred after the rental period has ended. The problem for the consumer is that once you have signed the agreement, this effectively gives the company carte blanche to put through a host of charges. Armed with your personal details, money can be taken off your card at a later date - and there is little you can do can do to stop this happening.And the problems are not confined to small operators. Even the well-known firms will quote one price for the rental and then try to sell you extra insurance when you pick up the car. Some impose exorbitant charges for the smallest things, others hit you for providing child car seats that bear no relation to their true cost. Once you are in the office, in need of a car, you are unlikely to walk out.Here we present our top 10 rip-offs and offer some tips on how to avoid some of the worst excesses of an industry that at times, can make rogue plumbers look like angels.1 Collision damage waiver (CDW)Anyone hiring a car is automatically insured to drive the car but is required to pay the excess (between &#163;300 and &#163;500) on the policy if they cause an accident. You are under no obligation to take extra insurance. However, most will want to reduce their liability in the event of an accident by paying an extra fee - known in the trade as the collision damage waiver.Ten years ago, those who took out CDW (costing a few pounds a day) received full cover that meant they paid nothing in the event of a crash. However, over the past decade that has been steadily eroded and those taking out CDW with most hire companies today are now required to pay the first &#163;200 of any damage caused.The problem is that the lots of hire firms don't make this clear when you ring up for a quote or search the web. They often give you a price and claim that it includes all insurance, but when you get to the desk in the airport they demand a &#163;300-&#163;500 authorisation on your credit card to cover the excess.If you protest, they will sell you what has become known as SuperCDW or   damage excess waiver. For an extra &#163;2-&#163;12 per day they will reduce the excess even further. For example, Avis in the UK charges &#163;10.50 per day to reduce the excess from &#163;600 to &#163;200, or &#163;12.90 to reduce it to &#163;100.When we rang a Hertz branch we were quoted one price to rent a car for two days. Only when we quizzed the salesman hard on what was actually covered did we find out that we would have to pay an extra &#163;12 a day for full insurance.The solution:CDW and SuperCDW can easily add 30% to the cost of renting a car at the cheaper end of the market. The trick is to compare the true cost of renting once the extra waivers are included.Holiday Autos is one company that offers full cover and its super waiver is one of the cheapest at &#163;2 a day for its smallest cars. This company block-books cars from the established providers - renters have to pay the excess in the country of hire (in Italy it is &#163;230) but can claim it back upon their return in the event of an accident. Do a quick price comparison and its cars can look expensive, but once all the add-ons are included its prices can be much more competitive.2 The child seat racketChild seats are now mandatory across Europe, and for the car hire firms this is very lucrative. All the big firms say they will provide them, but the charges vary enormously.This is also a major area of frustration for parents as the supply of car seats often runs out in peak periods, and it is very common to get to the front of the queue only to be told there are none left - often after you were assured one would be available.Some firms charge per rental, while others do so by the day - the length of your rental may decide which firm you wish to rent from. Holiday Autos charges a hefty &#163;28 for a child seat per rental - even if it is just one day. Hertz in the UK charges &#163;5.50 per day and Avis imposes a &#163;23.50 charge per rental.The solution:Much the best thing to do is to take your seat with you. The lowcost airlines will take child seats and assuming you are inside your baggage allowance, it is free. If you book one and are let down, simply go to the nearest Mothercare equivalent - it may well be cheaper to buy one rather than rent the car hire firm's. The same goes for snow chains: take your own.3 Unseen damageThis is a major frustration particularly if you are innocent. Car hire firms will try to get anyone to pay for scrapes and dings, particularly if the car is about to be de-fleeted and sold on.   When you pick up the car, go round it noting every slightest scratch. Pay particular attention if the car has alloy wheels, which are easily damaged and expensive to replace.This can be difficult if it has been raining but don't be rushed by the hire staff into signing for an unchecked car. If you are not shown to the car, go back to the office to point out any damage. Always check the spare wheel is present and fully inflated.The solution:When you return the car get the member of staff to check it is clear of damage and sign the form accordingly. Make sure you keep it safe as you'll need it if the company tries to charge you at a later date. If you are dropping it back to an empty office, and you have a digital camera, why not record its condition? If you get charged for damage ask to see receipts for repairs if the charges seem excessive - and if you didn't cause it, fight it.4 Petrol chargesHire companies quite reasonably want renters to return the car full of fuel. However, if you are late for your flight they will charge you to fill it up. Alamo currently charges &#163;1.15 a litre to refuel while Holiday Autos imposes a surcharge of &#163;11 plus the cost of the fuel. More worrying is the fact that some firms have later charged customers even though they left the car full.The solution:Always keep your refuelling receipts as proof you filled it up.5 Personal accident/ belongings coverAll firms flog extra insurance that can cost upwards of &#163;5 a day. For most people it is a waste of money - particularly if you already have travel insurance.The solution:Decline it.6 Mileage limitsStill beloved of van renters but increasingly dropped by car hirers.   Always establish early on that it is unlimited mileage, as charges per mile can add a huge amount to your bill.The solution:Do the sums before you sign.7 Drop-off chargesThese are incurred by those who rent a car at one depot and drop it off at another. No one objects to a charge if you rent in Aberdeen and return it in London, but central London to City Airport? Rental companies may charge as much as &#163;40, even if you want to leave it at Heathrow - which has to be one of the busiest rental sites in the UK.8 Extra driving licenceMost hire firms will let you list two drivers for free, but not all. EasyCar, for example, charges &#163;23.50 per rental to add other drivers.The solution:Check before you book.9 Booking aheadOne of the odd things about foreign car hire is that it is usually much cheaper if booked at home before you travel. This is especially true of car hire in America but also in Europe. It also varies considerably according to volume. Car hire in Nice is cheaper than other cities along the French Riviera - worth considering if you have a choice of flights.10 The small printNot the sort of thing you'll want to read on holiday, but it could come to your aid. Rental agreements are stuffed with caveats too numerous to mention. Tyres and wheels are never covered and ripe for extra charges - as is damage to the car's interior or the windscreen. Take particular care of keys as they are often excluded from insurance and, lastly, check the oil. You'd be amazed at the number of cars sent out without any in the sump - and if the engine seizes during your rental, guess whose likely to be held responsible?Case study: The rental firm that stalled over a billOne hire car customer who was hit with an unexpected charge is Andrew Philip. The 27-year-old video editor who lives in south-east London found a &#163;222 charge placed on his credit card by Enterprise Rent-a-Car in spite of the fact that he hadn't used the firm for six months, and owed it nothing."Periodically I have hired cars from two branches in east London, and al ways found them good value. As soon as I saw the &#163;222 amount I knew it was a mistake but all my efforts to get the matter resolved proved fruitless. I rang up the branch and was told someone would look into it and get back to me. Of course, nothing happened. I rang again, and nothing. Next I rang accounts at head office and it was the same story. After six unreturned calls I gave up, cancelled the card, and reported the money stolen," he says.After J&amp;M got involved, Enterprise's manager for the south-east, Chris Adams, resolved the matter.He says: "It seems we had two renters with very similar names and we charged the right amount, to the   wrong customer. In 16 years in the business I have never known this happen before."However, we should have dealt with the matter better and his treatment was not up to our usual high standards. We have refunded the charges and to say sorry have offered a free weekend rental (in a Mercedes) to make it up to him."Meanwhile, Mr Philip says he will rent from the firm again but is annoyed it took the Guardian's intervention to sort it out."My credit card went over its limit because of this and I was lucky the company raised it - it was all so unnecessary, " he says.Don't let them get away with itChallenging a charge that appears on your credit card takes time, but it is worth pursuing.Anyone who feels a charge has been falsely applied should contact their credit card provider, dispute it and ask for a "charge back".Most card companies demand written details but, once presented with the evidence, will conduct an investigation.A spokeswoman for RBS   NatWest says it can't adjudicate in a dispute but it will act."If the cardholder can show it is a spurious charge we would go back to the company to ask why it had made it. If a charge was made as a result of damage to a vehicle we might ask to see receipts for repairs."She says if the car hire firm fails to respond to this request, or the matter requires   adjudication, it will be passed on to the card network - Visa, or similar. Visa says it processes thousands of "charge back" requests every year but the process is complicated."We don't reimburse the customer but get the merchant, or its bank, to settle. We simply route the money back through the system so that it ends up back in the   customer's account. Some banks will pay up rather than go through the process as it can cost more to fight it rather than dispute it," said a spokesman.&#183;The British Vehicle Rental &amp; Leasing Association (bvrla.co.uk) will mediate between company and renter if the car was hired in the UK from one of its members.m.brignall@guardian.co.uk
American McGhee Presents: ScraplandPC, XBoxAnyone with the misfortune to have bought a previous product with the consumer warning message "American McGhee Presents" on it will already assume this game represents dubious style over substance and is just another stop on American's unstoppable global self-publicity tour. Set in a magnificent-looking free-roaming sci-fi metropolis populated entirely by robots, Scrapland's gentle humour and lovingly animated characters give an initial impression of a kind of Grand Theft Auto with hovercars. Sadly, missions are grossly    repetitive, the control scheme stubbornly refuses to become intuitive and the best part of on-foot missions (being able to change into other robots) is scandalously underused, giving way instead to hours spent running slightly too slowly down miles of empty corridors.&#183;Deep Silver, £35 &amp; £40Brothers In Arms: Road To Hill 30PC, PS2, XBoxFollowing the decline and fall of Medal Of Honor and Call Of Duty's competent but slightly dry console reworking, it's a brave developer who still wants to fight them on the beaches. But Gearbox's take on the true story of a group of American soldiers arriving during D-Day manages to feel at once atmospheric and gritty, without giving you the feeling of being mindlessly herded from one pre-scripted event to the next. Mild tactical    involvement through a Full Spectrum Warrior-lite suppress-and-flank mechanic overcomes most enemy emplacements,    and the weapons and aiming system feel utterly solid and realistic. Varied missions, believable acting and frequent   checkpoints make this a splendid way to dispatch the virtual Nazi menace.&#183;Ubisoft, £40Republic CommandoPC, XBoxThere was a time when the Star Wars franchise could do no wrong. But even before the arrival of Jar Jar Binks changed all that, games based on Howard The Duck creator George Lucas's most lucrative film series had begun to head south, with lame releases like misguided fighter Masters Of Teras Kasi. Recently, role-playing game Knights Of The Old Republic and its sequel    brought redemption to the increasingly tawdry Star Wars genre, but Republic Commando is nowhere near as good, with clumsily executed first-person shooting and merely a quick nod in the direction of team tactics. Thankfully though, it's nowhere near as bad as Jedi Power Battles or the dreaded Star Wars: Obi-Wan.&#183;LucasArts, £40
Apparently there is a whole new dialect being spoken in south Wales entitled Wenglish (talktidy.com) that's neither Welsh or English but sounds a bit like the Nadsat language spoken in the Korova milk bar in Clockwork Orange (http://www.soomka.com/nadsat.html).Meanwhile, to travel back in time and relive the insults of your childhood, go to the Online Dictionary of Playground Slang (odps.org), which also has a great section on ghastly games such as "Viking Football" and "Nicky-Knocky-Nine-Doors". Prior to hanging out with cool hipsters, it's advised you consulturbandictionary.comso you know the difference between an "Abercrombie bitch" and a "Funky Mcbuttnugget".Finally, a shrine to the dearly departed don of word manifold atstanleyunwin.com- all deep joy and thorkus for great laugh'n tittery. O yes.
"Imagine a buddy-list on your television that you could bring onto your screen with the merest tap of a 'friends' key on your remote control. The buddy list would be the first stage of an interface that would let you add and remove friends, and see what your friends are watching in real-time - whether they be watching live television or something stored on their PVRs. Adding friends would be simple - you could enter letters on screen using your remote, or browse your existing friends' contact lists," writes Tom Coates on his blog atPlasticbag.org."Being able to see what your friends were watching on television would remind you of programmes that you also wanted to see, it would help you spot programmes that your social circle thought were interesting and it could start to give you a shared social context for conversations about the media that you and your friends had both enjoyed."You can download the core part of the material as a PDF file,Social Software for Set-Top Boxes.Comment:People with Microsoft Media Center PCs already have instant messaging and other internet features on their TV sets and it's dead easy to add a webcam, so it would be interesting to hear if some are using them for TV-related social networking. The Linux crowd is also developing something similar withMythTV.
w00kie has posted a greatphotoset on Flickr(not all his own work). Then go look atTransparent Screens / Pool, where there are lots more like this one fromBen Seese:
Sony has done its usual proprietary thing with the PSP but Sajeeth Cherian has developed PSP Video 9 so you can convert MPEG-2, MPEG-4, AVI etc to PSP format and synch it with your PC.Wired Newssays "this, of course, is a wet dream for porn fans. Once you get your porn on the PSP, delete it from your hard drive, and you can enjoy your porn in private while keeping the family computer freed up for other things. Like games."But that's not all. Like blogging and audioblogging (or podcasting), PSPcasting offers a platform for creating and distributing video, not just downloading and viewing it.With PSPcasting, enterprising actors, models, escorts or other adult talent could market their services in a big way if the PSP becomes the iPod of portable video. (And it might, if Apple continues to be so reluctant to make the iPod the iPod of portable video).All it would take is a regular video stream available through BitTorrent, maybe two or three minutes long, à la Danni Ashe's virtual lap dances. Performers could let their personality shine through, help viewers get to know them, flash their URL a few times. It's entertaining for the viewer, profitable for the performer when it results in future business, and it's a way to reach a new audience -- one with money to burn. Hey, they bought mobile entertainment devices, didn't they?The author of the piece,Regina Lynn, is Wired News's Sex Drive columnist.
Not content with using mobile phones to text and email, play games, take photographs, shop and check the news and weather, Japanese youngsters now have another reason to stay glued to their handsets: full-length novels. Though the market is in its infancy, publishers are responding quickly to a growing interest in entire works of fiction and non-fiction that can be read on mobile phones.Hundreds of titles are on offer on subscription websites, with new releases appearing every month. Barely a genre has failed to make it from the bookshop shelf on to the miniature screen: classic novels, new fiction, erotica, essays, dictionaries, academic and self-improvement texts, anything to satisfy a growing demand among Japan's 85 million mobile-phone owners.The domestic market in ebooks was worth 180m yen (&#163;900,000) in March 2004, an increase of 80% from the previous year, and industry watchers predict the figure will be many times higher by the end of the decade.Traditionalist bookworms may be appalled, not to mention a little dizzy, at the thought of reading a classic novel on a tiny screen, but devotees of the new medium say it is a habit that is easily acquired."The biggest attraction is the convenience of being able to have your favourite books with you all of the time," said Bandai Networks spokeswoman Mari Kobayashi. "Unlike printed titles, novels and other works can be made available to subscribers as soon as they are ready. The speed with which people can get their hands on new titles is a big factor."Almost two-thirds of subscribers to Bandai's site are women - 60% of all readers are in their teens and 20s, and 70% log on daily, the firm said.Miona Yamashita is a typical ereader. She is young, urban, very fond of her mobile phone, and desperate to find new ways to while away the time she spends on Tokyo's heaving commuter trains."My eyes sometimes get tired but I like the idea of being able to read on trains when they are so packed there isn't even space to open a book," said the 24-year-old   office worker, who has just made a start on a murder mystery by the noted thriller writer Seishi Yokomizo. "But I also like dipping in and out of books, rather than always reading straight narratives."Improvements in display technology and features such as automatic page-flipping (as opposed to scrolling down line by line) have made reading novels less arduous.Rather than constituting a threat to the traditions of the written word, ebooks are seen as an opportunity to draw in a new generation of readers, with several well-known Japanese publishers setting up subscription sites.Bandai Networks' Bunko Yomihodai (All the Paperbacks You Can Read) features about 150 titles and has attracted 50,000 subscribers. Users pay a flat rate of a few hundred yen a month. They can search for books by author, title or genre, and are encouraged to post online reviews. Several authors write short, racy novels specifically for handset reading. The most popular writer, known simply as Yoshi, took enovels to a new level with Deep Love, a story of a 17-year-old Tokyo girl who finds romance through a chance encounter.Instalments of the novel started receiving millions of hits, mainly from teenage girls, many of whom wouldn't touch an ordinary book. It proved so popular it was made into a film, and the print version has sold more than 2.5 million copies.Unlike authors of traditional novels, Yoshi knows immediately when his readers are getting bored: they either stop visiting his site or email him directly. Because he writes in instalments, he can meddle with the storyline at any time.While the phenomenon is catching on in China and South Korea, there has been limited interest in Europe and the US.But that may be about to change. Last month the US publisher Random House announced it had bought a "significant minority stake" in Vocel, a San Diego-based firm that provides applications for mobile phones. Under a joint licensing agreement, mobile phone users will gain access to Random House's foreign-language study material.Random House said it wasn't ready to enter the e-novel market, though. "The screens are inappropriate for that kind of sustained reading," Richard Sarnoff, Random House's president, told AP. But he added: "We'll keep an eye on that area, and if something happens, we'll respond."Other publishers, such as Oxford University Press and Simon &amp; Schuster, have also expressed an interest in moving into the phone-text market.Venerable publishing houses such as those may be pleased to learn that, despite their novelty value, ebooks are helping revive time-honoured reading habits among traditionally book-shy teenagers: the back-lit screens on mobile phones mean they have become popular reading matter beneath the covers after lights-out.
The designer of the Palm and Handspring handheld computers, Jeff Hawkins, is ready to go public with his latest design: a brain.Business Week Onlinereports:With his new company, Numenta, which he'll unveil on Mar. 24, he's trying to do no less than create machines that work just like the human brain. "This could radically change the way that computer systems work," says Harry Saal, a Silicon Valley veteran and one of a handful of investors in the company.Hawkins and an associate, it says, "have come up with a way to translate his theories into electronic terms. Their company will license -- for free, at least for the first few years -- technology to others who may want to create what he predicts will be truly intelligent machines."
With Carphone Warehouse claiming to be the biggest camera retailer in Europe, Nokia saying it is the biggest camera manufacturer in the world, and shares in photographic retailer Jessops taking a tumble, some are penning obituaries for the standalone digital camera.Are they premature? Judging by the parade of cameraphones at the recent CeBIT exhibition in Hanover, Germany, traditional photographic equipment manufacturers have much to worry about.After developing a five megapixel cameraphone late last year, Samsung displayed a seven megapixel model at the show. The picture resolution is better than standard &#163;300, four or five megapixel compact cameras from mainstream brands.The SCH-V770 is more of a camera that has been fitted with a phone, than a phone with camera added. It is designed to be used horizontally, so the user can take steady images and use the screen as a monitor in landscape mode. Samsung has also added a 3x optical zoom, the first on a phone, and an auto focus and flash. It is also the first cameraphone to feature manual controls and be compatible with wide-angle and telephoto converters.The SCH-V770 will not reach the UK until early next year, but both Samsung and Motorola will have three megapixel camera phones this year.The chief executive of Carphone Warehouse, Andrew Harrison, has predicted that "people just don't want or need two devices, and as no one leaves home without a mobile phone, this is how people will take photos in the future". Could this be true?Some people question the quality of cameraphone images. Andrew Parker, marketing communications manager for Olympus UK, says: "Without the supporting technologies throughout the product - for example, lens, processor, flash - the consumer will not reap the benefits of this advancement."Companies such as Canon are banking on the phone evolving to suit different roles (phone plus camera, phone plus music player, phone plus digital TV tuner etc), leaving plenty of space for standalone cameras.Are they right? There is much evidence to show that consumers want every gizmo on their phone. Also, companies such as Nokia and Motorola don't have to worry about phones cannabilising margins from existing markets as, until recently, they had no presence in camera or audio markets. In theory, they can pack their phones with as many applications as the format will allow.It is too early to pen obituaries for the digital camera, as it is for the hard disk personal audio player, but manufacturers in both spheres face an interesting future.&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Great news for fans of old skool 2D fighting games who now own Xboxes and like to play three dimensional manifestations of their favourite titles! King of Fighters: Maximum Impact is coming to Microsoft's console."Sporting online versus play and the capacity to take screenshots and save replays, SNK is pulling out all the stops on this eagerly awaited Xbox release. Maximum Impact features new characters and gameplay modes alongside an option to enable the original Japanese voices, to create the authentic Eastern experience. The PAL release boasts full 60hz compatibility for those with suitable hardware," shouts thepress releasein the style of a woodenly voice-acted anime cartoon.Cult favourite King of Fighters is one of the longest running videogame series' of all time, a darker, less immediately accessible half-brother to Capcom's Street Fighter canon. Read a brief historyhere.This release got me thinking about the most hardcore gamer's games of all time - the titles that have most successfully combined obscurity with depth and difficulty. The likes of KOF '97, Gate of Thunder, Ys spring immediately to mind. Suggest your own and I'll write up a top ten over the weekend.
In about 1997, when the internet first began to transform into a global shopping mall, economists gushed that Adam Smith's dream of a perfect market would come true. And it did, in the sense that every buyer has all the information about every seller, no matter where they are in the world. But this free flow of information did not lead, as Smith predicted, to a satisfactory outcome for all. In fact, some empirical studies have shown there is no significant difference in prices across sales channels. The online bargains we dreamed of are a chimera.But if consumers can easily compare prices, why is this not leading to more competitive pricing? Waleed Muhanna, associate professor of management information systems at Ohio State University's Fisher College of Business, decided to find out why.Muhanna, with researchers from Rutgers University and the University of Texas in Austin, built an analytical model, using game-theory, to predict the behaviour of online retailers. "We think the model we used is more realistic &#91;than the current static model&#93; and will deliver results that are more faithful to reality," he says. What the model showed is that making it easier for consumers to compare prices may result in higher prices. So much for "frictionless commerce".The results will be in this month's Management Science journal. Although the maths is abstruse, the reason the perfect market hasn't emerged is quite straightforward. When every competitor can see what their rival is up to at the click of a button, prices don't move a lot. Each online retailer is too scared to lower their price in case they start a price-cutting bloodbath, which would hurt them and their competitors. Only buyers would be happy, because they'd pick up an iPod for &#163;10. "If I know you can nearly instantly detect my attempt to undercut your prices, and that you will match or beat the new price immediately, there is a lot to lose," says Muhanna.Before the internet arrived, if a product line was selling badly, a retailer could cut its price to below that of competitors, leaving an interval in which they could compete before the other company found out. That window of opportunity has been closed in cyberspace. Comparing prices, for both buyers and sellers, is a cinch. Price comparison websites, such as Kelkoo, Dealtime and Pricerunner, abound, as do "pricebots" that scour the web for the best bargain.Sadly, all this price watching is leading to what the researchers call "tacit collusion". "It is as if they &#91;the sellers&#93; had got together to coordinate prices, but each is acting independently of their own self interest," says Muhanna. Which makes it hard for governments to enforce anti-trust laws. And even Adam Smith recognised that the "invisible hand" of market forces was fallible and needed to be guided by government action.But how do anti-trust agencies prove collusion in this case? And how do you make sellers change their prices? Unfortunately, Muhanna and colleagues don't have a solution.In the mean time, if you are looking for a bargain, visit your high street.&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The PSP launches in the US today and Keithhas a lookat the gorgeous-ness that is Sony's new handheld. Not mincing his words, he is clearly a fan. "While the Nintendo DS is an eccentric and fun little games toy, PSP is an ambitious portable entertainment platform, a true cultural successor to the Walkman". Thegame reviewsthis week include one of the biggest releases of the year so far - Gran Turismo 4. I reviewed it and while I appreciated it - and the graphics and physics are impressive - I stand by what I said. You'll only love GT4 if you worship cars.More inclusive is Timesplitters: Future Perfect, the new first-person shooter from the guys who made Goldeneye on the N64. Timesplitters has always been a bit of gaming snack - perfect to scoff between more substantial titles without ruining your appetite. The latest version seems more of the same, although the online elements look like adding some longevity. Steve Boxer was quite impressed. "Solid, finely crafted fare that should put a grin on your face" he said.Last up is Robots, the game based on the film. As you may expect this is a 3D platform game aimed squarely at children. It won't be troubling the game of the year polls but Rhianna Pratchett was happy. "There is more than enough to keep the kids amused" she said.
Thursday comes along, and this week'sOnline print supplementcomes bouncing into the world.This week the lead story is Jack's exploration ofLong tail theory- the reason why web retailers should spend more time concentrating on the misses rather than the hits. A big huzzah for obscurity and the reason the fringe may become more important than the mainstream.Following that up, ourSecond Sightcolumn looks at why internet retail may actually keep priceshigherthan the high street.GamesbloggerKeith Stuart plays with thenew PlayStation portable, Jack reports fromEmerging Technology 2005, and Ashley Norris wonders whether reports on the death of the camera aregreatly exaggerated.Plus all the regulars: justclick herefor the complete listing.
There's now some press coverage of the Our Media site (below), andMercury Newssays:The Ourmedia site puts few limits on the type of content that people can submit, beyond a prohibition on pornography and already copyrighted material. How-to videos are as valid as home video of Little League baseball games, student films or political videos. Original music by independent artists is welcome.The site is not limited to amateurs. Recording artist David Byrne recently uploaded a new single, ''My Fair Lady,'' for example.The article also says:Much of Ourmedia's vision is shared by another site called NowPublic (www.nowpublic.com) that launched this week. Based in Vancouver, B.C., the site allows everyday people to act as editors, reporters and photographers. A user submits ''assignments'' requesting information about a particular topic or event, and others upload video, photos or text to complete the story.
What were the highlights of ETech, the Emerging Technologies conference?A general theme was the blurring of the real world and the net - with network-enabled devices looking more mainstream and embodied interaction starting to appear everywhere. Nokia demonstrated near-field communication and RFID stuff - ways of transmitting data by touching your phone against objects. And Applied Minds and Microsoft showed off fascinating new displays, including rich graphical maps that you controlled with hand gestures. The topography physically changed so you could touch mountains and valleys. The highlight was Evan Williams' demonstration of Odeo (www.odeo.com). I was suspicious of the podcasting concept, but the product he's going to launch has the class of Flickr and could open up a new space for amateur or semi-professional audio programming and distribution. The idea of having a tiny audio studio inside your web browser is cool.Any thoughts on social software?Social software is a conceptual rather than a technological challenge. Often the technological part is comparatively easy. This makes it a really exciting space to work in, because you can build interesting demos pretty quickly once you've come up with an idea. And the ideas are at the core of everyday lives - how to talk, collaborate and play with each other. When you get your idea out (and it's working) then people can use it to create much more value using the tool you've made than you could ever accomplish alone.Is blogging mainstream?It is going mainstream. The weblogs we tend to talk about are unrepresentative. Millions of webloggers don't get thousands of visitors a day - and they're the normal ones. Those of us who get large amounts of traffic are the weirdos. The mainstream webloggers are used by people to express their opinions to friends and family or to a small group of people who share their interests.Is it Movable Type all the way?Movable Type and TypePad are pretty much the state of the art in weblogging, but it's not at the end of the road. Weblog software development has stalled. We need to stop building in new publishing features and start looking at how the sites interact with each other. I think there's a much simpler and more social model out there.Is Flickr going places?It's almost the first site that's come along since I started weblogging five years ago that I've wanted to play with every day. The feeling I get from posting photos reminds me of the initial excitement I got writing for my site. And again, it's the social aspect that makes it so cool.Apple versus the bloggers?I'm uncomfortable with the idea that journalists get rights not afforded to others writing in public. It's Apple's responsibility to fix leaks - and the weblogger's/journalist's responsibility to tell the truth.Visit:www.plasticbag.orgLinks Tom Coates' bookmarkswww.flickr.comwww.we-make-money-not-art.comwww.pvrblog.comhttp://del.icio.us/www.37signals.com/svnwww.wikipedia.orgnews.bbc.co.ukFavourite webloggersLance Arthurwww.lancearthur.comDan Hillwww.cityofsound.comJason Kottkewww.kottke.orgMatt Webbwww.interconnected.org/home&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Mobile phones are something of a mixed blessing to most businesses. They have made staff far easier to contact, but because they don't integrate with the office phone system, it can be time-consuming and costly to track people down. There is also the administrative headache of managing mobile phone use.The obvious solution is to patch mobile phones into company phone systems. But how? Telecoms systems vendor Avaya believes it has the solution, and is working with Nokia to enable Series 60 platform mobiles to be used as desktop extension phones. As part of the deal, Avaya has also joined the Symbian Platinum Programme, which is significant because Symbian is the operating system software used on most smartphones sold today.In practice, anyone using an appropriate mobile with Avaya's IP-based Communication Manager software will be able to use it as their desktop phone. With Avaya's software installed, the phone can operate like an extension, and make or receive internal calls. All the functions available to an extension phone should also be available to a connected mobile.Avaya believes there could be cost savings, as well as being more convenient. Being able to route calls through the office PBX internal telephone system means you can apply least-cost routing to get the best deal.Nokia believes it will benefit from increased brand loyalty. "Extending the capabilities of Avaya Communication Manager to Nokia devices will hasten their use in business," claims Gerard Bruen, Nokia's director of enterprise solutions.Paul Underwood, networks and telecoms infrastructure leader at consultancy C&amp;C Technology, says Avaya has stolen a march on some competitors. "Avaya is probably the first traditional PBX voice company to have its own PBX features and functions extend to a 'neutral' mobile device. Ericsson has the same ambition, but is using its own mobile devices."Other vendors are working on cheaper solutions that link mobiles through Wi-Fi connections. For example, 3Com is working with RIM, which makes the BlackBerry, to deliver such a system for campus environments such as hospitals, universities and large manufacturing facilities."These kinds of locations often have coverage blackspots," says Mike Valliant, 3Com's international market development manager, enterprise voice solutions. "All they have to do is wire the location for Wi-Fi and put software on the phones, which then connect to our wireless switch." 3Com expects to have a test site in operation by the end of the year.Valliant adds that another benefit of having full access to data services via BlackBerrys is that people could use them instead of laptops. There will be less need to lug around a laptop.Chris Locke, a principal analyst at Gartner, says that blending mobiles into office systems is a hot topic. "It's on everyone's radar, but with so many options being discussed, it's difficult to see the wood from the trees."For me it is about verticality - it will be far more appropriate in some settings than others, notably those where critical savings can be made by making certain people more available. For many others, the cost doesn't justify it. Then there remain issues about ownership of the phone and roaming that need to be sorted out. The industry is just as focused on 'presence', which will make an enormous difference - knowing whether someone is there before you make a call."Michael Chissick, a partner at law firm Field Fisher Waterhouse, a heavy user of mobiles and BlackBerrys, says the firm will consider the ability to link mobile devices into the office PBX. "It would certainly be very useful, but it looks like it is going to be more useful the bigger a firm is," he says, "partly because they will benefit from re-routing calls."I have noticed that increasingly, people are phoning other people on their mobile even when they are in the same building so it would be useful if that were an internal call."But Mitel reckons there are weaknesses in Avaya's technology. "It should be device independent, so it doesn't matter what mobile you are using," says spokesman Simon Gwatkin. "But it is clearly the way forward for the industry. The aim is to have one number regardless of device and to offer 'presence' so you know whether the person is available before you call."But the quest to combine mobiles with office switchboards may take some time to play out. At Avaya's launch, a company spokesman conceded that mobile operators may not be too keen on a system that takes some of their call traffic away, but added: "This is the way customers want to go so I think the operators are going to have to accept it."Avaya expects its system to be available in the third quarter of this year.&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Star clusterDid you know there are at least 167 branches of Starbucks within a five-mile radius of Regent Street in central London? According to Starbuck's online store locator, London enjoys the second-highest Starbucks density in the world, just after midtown Manhattan. The store locator also lets you search for branches that offer lunch or wireless internet access. And it gives the location of planned openings.The number of Starbucks percolating big cities has many worried. Last year, the caffeine juggernaut got its own non-affiliated blogger. US journalist Jim Romenesko, who writes a column for Poynter, began covering Starbucks because "somebody has to monitor America's greatest drug dealer". A good joke, but not quite as witty as The Onion, which last year splashed their front page with the headline: New Starbucks opens in the restroom of existing Starbucks.www.starbucks.com/retail/locator/default.aspxhttp://tinyurl.com/6ndp4http://starbucksgossip.typepad.comwww.theonion.comWhat your MP saysKeeping tabs on what your local MP says in parliament is difficult for anyone outside the Westminster village. Since June, TheyWorkForYou has been making the task easier by opening up the pages of Hansard to the online public. Now, the clever cabal of volunteers behind the innovative site has expanded the service to include written ministerial statements and Westminster Hall debates. There is also a new email alert service that notifies you every time your local MP speaks in parliament or on any keyword of your choosing. Scrutinising parliament just got a whole lot easier.www.theyworkforyou.com/alertAdvance yourselfThe UN's Human Development Index (HDI) offers an alternative method of assessing how advanced a country really is. The standard way of assessing a country's wealth is to compare gross income per capita, but this makes the Gulf states, for example, seem a lot more developed than they really are. The league table is published in the summer, but the site has added a raft of features that allow you to manipulate last year's data. The HDI can be downloaded in a variety of formats or you can build your own tables on screen, making it a valuable resource .The site also excels with its range of animated graphics, mapping out individual countries' development over time. The UN's agenda is to establish the link between investment in human development and economic growth. The criteria on which the UN judges development include living a long and healthy life, the acquisition of knowledge, and access to "the resources needed for a decent standard of living". Norway scored highest on the HDI last year, closely followed by Sweden and Australia. The UK slipped one place to 12th last year, one place below Switzerland.http://hdr.undp.org/statisticsNoise annoysThe London Noise Map web viewer, recently launched by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, displays levels of road traffic noise across Greater London throughout the day. The site allows you to discover the level of traffic noise on individual London streets, searchable by post code, street name or grid reference. However, the map only displays road traffic noise. Aircraft or noisy neighbours are not included, but the map is the first stage of a larger Noise Mapping England project.www.noisemapping.org/frames/Map.aspHow they workDon DeLillo still uses a manual typewriter. JG Ballard sets a daily quota, less "all you have is empty wine bottles". Artist Tracey Emin asks her mum to sew her blankets.http://rodcorp.typepad.com/rodcorpMillion facesMillion Faces is an online petition with a difference: the site is building a gallery of self-portraits and photographs of people opposed to the arms trade. More than 200,000 have signed up and the aim of the site, which is supported by Amnesty and Oxfam, is to get more than 1m by the time the UN meets to discuss arms reduction next year.www.controlarms.org/million_faces/en/index.php/register
The ability of users of internet bulletin boards to remain anonymous was placed in serious doubt yesterday after Terry Smith, chief executive of City firm Collins Stewart Tullett, won a landmark libel settlement.Mr Smith and his firm won "substantial" damages from Jeremy Benjamin, a fund manager who posted false allegations on the Motley Fool web site using the invented web name "analyser71".The claims were described in a high court statement yesterday as "serious allegations of criminal and dishonest financial wrongdoing by Mr Smith and the claimant companies" and "a grave slur on Mr Smith's personal and professional integrity".Mr Benjamin, in the same court statement, said he "now accepts his serious error in publishing these libels". His claims were made in September and October 2003.Mr Benjamin was traced after Mr Smith's lawyers, the City firm Rosenblatt, won a court order forcing Motley Fool to reveal what details it held on "analyser71", including the identification number of his computer and his email address. Motley Fool had refused to volunteer the details without a court order.The computer was traced to Mr Benjamin's employer at the time, Kyte Fund Management. He has since left the firm.Mr Smith's lawyers were able to establish that the bulletin board postings were viewed from 49 computers before they were removed by Motley Fool. Oliver Smith, of Rosenblatt, argued that the relatively small number did not diminish the seriousness of the libel."Forty nine may not seem to be a large number, but they could have been 49 influential people in financial services and they could have copied the messages and sent them to other influential people," he said.As well as undisclosed damages, Mr Benjamin has agreed to pay the claimants' legal costs, which are understood to be three times as much.Mr Benjamin is thought to have been a friend of James Middleweek, the former Collins Stewart employee who last year settled his own 18-month dispute with the firm and Mr Smith. In that case, no money changed hands.Mr Benjamin's comments on Motley Fool's discussion board related to the Mail on Sunday's coverage of Mr Middleweek's allegations against Collins Stewart.Mr Smith and his firm are pursing the Financial Times for alleged libel in articles that reported the same allegations. The FT has defended itself vigorously and the case is due in court in November.The Benjamin case is thought to be possibly the first internet-related case in which a defendant has settled publicly after making comments anonymously.Rosenblatt's Mr Smith said: "In September and October 2003, he may have thought he could say these things anonymously and would not have expected that in March 2005 it would end up costing him a substantial amount of money."Mr Benjamin's admission of libel was comprehensive. The court statement said: "He recognises the significant damage they &#91;the libels&#93; have done given that the website in question is aimed at and used by professionals in the financial services industry working in the City of London where the claimants carry on business."The defendant is here today by his solicitor to withdraw the allegations unreservedly and to apologise publicly to Mr Smith and the other claimants."
Parents of newborn babies receiving intensive incubator care can now keep in touch with their little ones on the web. BabyLink, developed by The Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, publishes regular updates of infants' progress, together with photos, in a language parents can understand.Reports include "baby diaries" with entries such as: "Hello Mummy and Daddy, today a doctor took pictures of inside my head with a special machine! Hope you're all ready for our first big cuddle today."The Edinburgh doctors who developed BabyLink say the service reduces anxiety among parents with premature or poorly babies. In the past year that the service has been on offer, only two of the 500-odd families that have passed through Edinburgh's neonatal care unit have declined to take part, says Dr Andrew Lyon, a consultant at the hospital.There is no danger of unauthorised access, Lyon says. "Each mother dictates their own user name and password, which is entered at the cot-side." Many parents circulate the log-in around extended families, reducing the number of phone calls they have to deal with.Parents can also post questions about their child directly to the clinical team in charge. The Edinburgh team stresses that parents will always receive bad news face to face rather than over the web.Few parents will appreciate the really clever bit about BabyLink: it creates no extra work for the hospital. Its reports are compiled from routine clinical information entered into the baby's electronic medical record. This week it won a prize at the annual healthcare IT effectiveness awards, which recognise the IT-based innovations that are beginning to change the NHS.The big prize, for the best use of IT in the NHS, shows some of the potential. By using "workflow" software to plan procedures, a team at Good Hope hospital, Sutton Coldfield, says it has cut the cost of treating leg ulcers by 26%. If extrapolated across the UK, that would add up to &#163;150m in savings a year.Other teams won awards for new ways of spreading health education through IT. Dr Vinod Joshi, a consultant in restorative dentistry in Bradford, is promoting awareness of mouth cancers to patients and dentists over the web.The city of Glasgow, meanwhile, is providing information for cancer patients through its internet kiosks in bus stations and other public areas."We are trying to target people who have just been diagnosed with cancer," says John Legg, head of Glasgow social work services. "They are in trauma - everything else the doctor tells them goes straight through their head." The kiosks also give people a chance to find out about conditions they are reluctant to ask about in person - men are notoriously shy about prostate and testicular cancers.In another Scottish innovation, "telecare" technology in West Lothian has enabled elderly people to be discharged from hospital after an average stay of 30 days rather than the Scottish norm of 112 days.This year's awards, the 10th, were notable for the strong showing by organisations in parts of the UK outside England. This may be because English NHS organisations have other IT matters on their mind - turning the &#163;6bn national IT programme, the world's most complex single IT initiative, into reality.At this week's healthcare computing 2005 conference in Harrogate, the programme chief, Richard Granger, unveiled the government's latest idea for improving the programme's fortunes - From April 1, it will have a new name: Connecting for Health.But better news came from another quarter. A major study reported in the British Medical Journal provides the first rigorous scientific evidence that electronic health records - the main aim of the programme - actually improve people's health.The study was of 400,000 patients in the US, where until recently doctors lagged behind their NHS counterparts in using computers.However, the US's largest all-round healthcare service, Kaiser Permanente, has eliminated paper records in two of its regions, Colorado and north-west US. In the study, researchers measured the impact on the quality of care before and after.They found that, when the service was computerised, patients needed to visit their doctors less frequently. Doctors were more likely to be able to solve problems at the first appointment, or over the phone.The study also suggests that electronic records cut the need for x-ray examinations (down 14%) and laboratory tests (down 18%).The trial was significant because of the large size and the fact it was "controlled": results for the areas using electronic records were compared with those on paper records. The authors concluded: "At a minimum, we can assert that electronic health records ... do not reduce the quality of care and may in fact increase appropriate use of healthcare resources."Ministers who agreed to spend &#163;6bn on electronic health records without such evidence will no doubt be sighing with relief at the growing evidence that IT can seriously improve your health.Links:www.babylink.info/edinburgh/NeonatalUnit/Welcome1.aspx&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Keeps perfect timeTimeSplitters: Future PerfectXbox/PlayStation2/GameCube, &#163;39.99Free Radical/Electronic Arts,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The third TimeSplitters game - made by the renowned Free Radical team that made the seminal GoldenEye when it was at Rare Software - is also the first published by Electronic Arts, which cheekily poached the franchise from Eidos. Fans of previous TimeSplitters games will find it pleasantly familiar.It has a time-travelling plot that lets you visit various eras, such as the 1920s and 1960s, which provide a backdrop for gentle humour and lots of first person shoot-'em-up action. There are a few puzzles, and frequ-ently Cortez, the meat-headed hero you play (who has a strong resemblance to Vin Diesel), interacts with past and future versions of himself.The game has Free Radical's trademark ultra smooth control system, which has a bit of snap to help you aim. The weapons are spot on (each level requires different shooting skills) and there are subtle pastiches of other games, most notably Halo 2.While the single-player game is fun and nicely realised, it isn't as long as it could be and doesn't really break new ground. But since this is the first version of TimeSplitters that can be played online, there is a plethora of multiplayer modes and a map-maker that pretty much lets you design your own levels.Myriad bot-match modes cater for all tastes, and provide perfect practice for playing the game online - where it is sure to be a mega-smash. Solid, finely crafted fare that should put a grin on your face.Steve BoxerMechanic's dreamGran Turismo 4PlayStation 2, &#163;39.99Polyphony Digital/Sony,&#42;&#42;&#42;When is a game not a game? Gran Turismo 4 is as good an answer as any. This driving simulator series has been so successful mainly because of the fans' love of cars, and not because of any gaming desire in the traditional sense.GT4 is only recommended if you have a compulsive fixation with motoring and like to spend hours fiddling under the bonnet. But don't think you can go straight in and be the best. Instead, you have to pass tedious licence challenges, ranging from the ridiculous - driving in a straight line - to the more strenuous. Then the real action begins, with cars to buy and money to earn.Starting with a small hatchback, you earn cash by racing and use it to upgrade your motor. As before, this is a mixture of addiction and frustration, with the time taken to earn the goodies just outweighed by the satisfaction of doing so.The graphics are stunning, sharp and realistic, but it is when driving that the real achievement shines through. The handling and feel of the cars is very accurate and you can really feel the difference your modifications have made. There's no doubting the quality, and fans of previous titles will be happy. But the fact remains - it is easy to admire GT4 but you'll only love it if you worship cars.Greg HowsonIdeal for kidsRobotsPlayStation 2, &#163;29.99VU Games/Eurocom Entertainment Software,&#42;&#42;&#42;While the Pixar and Dreamworks animated films have always had one eye firmly on their adult audience as well as younger viewers, the Ice Age and Robots movies have had more of an unashamed made-for-kids feel to them. Consequently, the tie-in game for Robots has been developed primarily with younger gamers in mind.Robots has a series of missions that follow the young robot Rodney as he leaves home for the big Robot City. There are no real surprises in the watered-down Ratchet &amp; Clank platform-style gameplay, with the usual shenanigans such as double jump and ledge hanging. The scrap metal launcher, Rodney's primary weapon, takes a bit of practice to aim, but ammunition is in plentiful supply, and so are save points and health packs.Rodney also has his own little flying wonderbot sidekick, who comes in handy later on and can be upgraded and taught new tricks. The latter aren't always useful, but they add silly humour to the game.The graphics are probably the best feature - they are bright, colourful and lively, and include extracts from the film. But, bizarrely, there are only voiceovers, which feels a bit mean spirited. More experienced platform gamers are likely to get frustrated by the repetitive "find the bits" missions, but there is more than enough to keep the kids amused.Rhianna PratchettTop 5 games All formats1.Gran Turismo 42.Fifa Street3.Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 304.Championship Manager 55.Resident Evil 4&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, (C)2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Folksonomy was the big, bad, buzzword at O'Reilly's Emerging Technology conference in San Diego, California, last week. I don't mean the most frequently used. Most of us said "tagging".Folksonomy is a form of "communal categorisation" that emerges from the bottom up. This is different from a taxonomy imposed from above, like the Dewey Decimal system for tagging books. Users can tag things however they like, and if you have enough users tagging enough things, patterns will emerge.Folksonomies have become a big deal over the past few months partly because of the success of websites such as Delicious and Flickr. Delicious lets users tag and share web links, while Flickr lets them upload, tag and share photos.They are also important because this is probably the only viable way of tagging billions of items on the net. No one is going to hire millions of trained librarians to do the job.Of course, users can't be compelled to tag things either. But Flickr, Delicious, Technorati and other social software sites have shown they will do it to help themselves.If you want to be able to find your own photos, for example, you will probably tag them in some way. You might use the name of a person or a place, the subject matter, the colour, or whatever else means something to you. If you share your photos on Flickr, the same tags will probably mean something to other people, too.Searching Flickr for Paris, for example, will find all the images that people have tagged with the word Paris. It won't find every picture of Paris, but since it finds more than 18,000 images, you won't care. Also, Flickr will suggest related tags such as notredame, eiffel and seine, so you may want to narrow your search that way.It's not a system that would impress a librarian, but it's better than nothing.Folksonomies work because although users can choose idiosyncratic tags, most people tend to use fairly obvious ones most of the time. In fact, tags seem to follow a Zipf power law distribution, with a long tail.They also work because many tags have a social context, as Clay Shirky of New York University showed during one of his talks at ETech 2005. A taxonomist might want to collapse several terms into a single category; one of Shirky's examples was: homosexual, gay, queer. But, he argued, these words have different meanings, and someone searching for one of them might not be interested in the results for another.One reason for rigid taxonomies was that in the old world, things could only be in one place: a book on a shelf, a folder in a filing cabinet, etc. In the new digital world, there is no shelf. If you give something multiple tags, it is, in effect, in multiple places at once.Don't dump your filing system just yet, but folksonomies are worth watching. Rather than being a passing fancy, they may herald significant changes in the way we do things.LinksBroad and narrow folksonomywww.vanderwal.net/random/entryselFolksonomies - Cooperative Classification and Communication Through Shared Metadata by Adam Matheswww.tinyurl.com/4vrc7Folksonomy, or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Mess (ETech discussion)www.craphound.com/etech2005-folksonomy.txtClay Shirkywww.shirky.comwww.corante.com/many/archives/2004/08/25/folksonomy.phpFlickrwww.flickr.comDelicioushttp://del.icio.us&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
'Don't fight it, feel it," Primal Scream once demanded - and those worried about supporting Sony's ever-tightening stranglehold on the videogame business should pay heed. The company launches its PSP handheld console in the US today and few gamers or gadget hounds will be able to resist this lustrous piece of consumer electronics genius.For those who haven't spent the past few months poring over tech specs, PSP features a powerful 333MHz processor, widescreen TFT LCD screen, dedicated 3D graphics processor, Memory Stick Duo support, MPeg4 and MP3 playback, and 8011.11b Wi-Fi connectivity.Impressive enough on paper, but when the machine is powered up and the sleek black fascia gives way to a 480 x 272 display of momentarily overwhelming vibrancy, all the data becomes insignificant. Play the game Ridge Racer for five minutes, and you may well be ready to sign your children over to Sony in gratitude.The design strikes the right balance between ergonomics and aesthetics. PlayStation veterans will recognise the control set-up with D-pad and analogue controller on the left, and the familiar triangle, circle, square and cross button on the right. There are only two shoulder buttons, but as the unit is just 23mm deep, this is understandable - and it will encourage developers not to terrify us with complex controller configurations. Headphone, power adaptor and USB ports line the edges.Games come on Sony's dinky little UMD format - a 65mm disc that can hold up to 1.8GB of data. Each UMD is protected in an oddly shaped plastic jacket - don't embarrass yourself trying to remove it, it doesn't come off.Of the 24 titles lined up for the US launch, at least three are indispensable. Namco's Ridge Racer is a stunning portable realisation of its arcade racing legend, with spot-on drift handling and stunning visuals; Wipeout Pure looks to be as exciting as its predecessor was on the original PlayStation; and Lumines is a puzzle game that may well challenge Tetris for sheer compulsion.Many of the launch titles also support the "Ad Hoc" Wi-Fi mode that allows you to compete against up to eight players within 100ft (as long as they all have copies of the game). PSP can also achieve an internet connection via any wireless router or hot spot, and Sony is set to start providing downloadable content soon. This could be anything from new levels and weapons, to games, firmware updates, music files and videos.Transferring MP3s and JPegs to PSP involves inserting a Memory Stick into the machine, then linking up via USB cable to a Mac or PC. A PSP icon appears on your desktop to which you drag your favoured media files. These can then be accessed from the machine's simple, but beautifully presented, on-screen menu system.Getting MPeg4 video files on to it may well be a different story. With Japanese import machines, it is necessary to convert files to a specific resolution before creating a new folder within the PSP directory and using a complex naming convention to store your files. If Sony has any sense, it will make things easier for the US launch.A 32MB Memory Stick will store a few short video clips, but owners of Japanese PSPs are happily compressing full movies on to 512MB Sticks. Sony has also promised that films and albums will be released on UMD, and is encouraging record labels and movie studios to support the format.Negatives are few and far between. Music file storage is more slapdash than with an iPod - it is tough to segment into easily searchable playlists. Some concerns have also been expressed over battery life - a single charge will get you between four and six hours of gaming (less if you have a Wi-Fi multiplayer session on the go) and about two hours of movie watching, but it is possible to lower screen brightness to prise out a few extra minutes. Programmers will in future write more efficient game code that saves on power consumption, but for now, you are going to have to carry a spare battery around for those long-haul flights.But if anything can convince the buying public of the benefits of convergence, it is this beautiful machine. While the Nintendo DS is an eccentric and fun little games toy, PSP is an ambitious portable entertainment platform, a true cultural successor to the Walkman. Even if most users never go near an MP3 or MPeg4 file, the astonishing visuals (on a small screen, to all but the most demanding eyes, they are PS2 quality), strong publisher support, and multiplayer possibilities are reason enough to make the $250 (&#163;132) investment. The rumoured June UK launch can't come quickly enough.&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The internet is changing the entertainment business from one that is driven by hits to one that will make most of its money from misses. This is good news for consumers, because it means more choice, and we all like things that will never make the best-seller lists for CDs, books or movies. And although it might sound strange, this "new economics of abundance" is already the basis of the net's most successful companies, such as Amazon, eBay and Google. Internet start-ups are now asking one another: "Are you long tail?"The phrase was popularised by Wired magazine's editor-in-chief Chris Anderson, who started the ball rolling last year with a series of talks and a long article called The Long Tail. That caught the imagination of the bloggers, who circulated and applied the meme."The day I knew I was on to something was when people saw the applicability in places I hadn't anticipated," says Anderson. "It's become, in some sense, an open source meme. They're doing a lot of research and feeding it back to me. That's why I started the Long Tail blog and, unbelievably, it works."The long tail is named after the type of power law curve you get when you plot the sales of CDs, computer games and other products, or the popularity of websites, or the frequency of word use in a language. This is where George Kingsley Zipf, professor of linguistics at Harvard, observed it.To put it crudely, there are a small number of words that appear very frequently: the, of, to, and, a, in, etc. After that, there is a steep decline, followed by tens of thousands of words that appear relatively rarely: palimpsest, lapidary, rodomontade, epalpebrate, and so on. When you graph what is now often called the Zipf distribution, these rare words form the long tail that tapers off to the right.The Zipf curve turns out to be at least as common on the internet as it is elsewhere. You might suppose, for example, that since all websites are more or less equally accessible, visitors would be evenly distributed. That is not the case. Research by Lada Adamic and Bernardo Huberman showed that, in fact, "the distribution of visitors per site follows a universal power law, characteristic of winner-take-all markets".In other words, a small number of sites have tens of millions of visitors each month - Google, Yahoo, MSN, etc - while millions of sites attract only a handful each. Counter-intuitively, the more choices there are, the more extreme the curve becomes. Life isn't fair. This knocks most naive ideas of competition on the head.What interested Anderson, however, was what happens when something moves from the physical world of atoms to the digital world of bits. That's where the "long tail" effect starts to make a real impact.Anderson points out that, in the real world, there are physical limits on how many titles a shop can stock, or a cinema can show. These are the economics of shortages. For example, an average American movie theatre can only show films that will attract 1,500 people over two weeks, and almost all of those will live within a 10-mile radius. It is hardly surprising that relatively few movies ever get a showing, and cinema distribution has almost no tail at all: you go straight from hero to zero.It is not that cinemas wouldn't like to serve these markets, just that they have no economic way of doing so.Sell movies on DVD, however, and the economics are different. A movie that wouldn't fill a local theatre can still sell 1,500 copies across America. And instead of making a couple of hundred movies available, like a cinema, a typical Blockbuster can stock 3,000 titles. Most sales will still go to the big Hollywood hits, but at least we can see the start of a tail.Sell movies online and the equation changes again. On Anderson's figures, for example, Netflix offers 25,000 DVDs. The 24,000 or so titles in the tail may not sell many copies each, but they add up. (Most of Amazon's sales are of titles the average bookstore just doesn't have room to stock.)With the move to digital downloads, however, Anderson argues that the misses can be as important as the hits. "With no shelf space to pay for, no manufacturing costs and hardly any distribution fees, a miss sold is just another sale, with the same margins as a hit. Suddenly, popularity no longer has a monopoly on profitability," he wrote in Wired.Where a retailer might offer, say, 30,000 songs on CD, an online music store can offer a million. The hits will still sell far more than the misses, but since almost every download finds someone willing to give it a try, the long tail could provide the majority of sales. "Now we could look to the right &#91;of the graph&#93;, which could be as economically valuable as the left," says Anderson.The entertainment industries provide an accessible illustration of the long tail, and Anderson reckons these will take up about half his forthcoming book. However, he also cites Google as a long tail business, because of its contextual advertising. The first big internet sites aimed to attract millions of users so they could sell banner ads to major brands. Google's AdWords, by contrast, are so cheap almost anyone can buy them, and they can be targeted at a handful of users. Google's financial success therefore comes from aggregating lots of small adverts shown to small audiences - a long tail effect.EBay is another long tail business. It is not about auctioning a few old masters for &#163;20m apiece, it's about providing a market where huge numbers of people can sell almost anything for a couple of quid.None of this means Hollywood studios will stop trying to make hit movies and make misses instead. However, Anderson refers to the long tail as "a million billion products can be profitable, if they can find their audience - or vice versa.Mass market advertising is clearly out of the question for niche products, but internet retailers have already developed ways to make them visible, particularly Amazon. One example is the social software that does "collaborative filtering". Other people who bought x also bought y: your taste may be similar. Getting buyers to write reviews and create their own hit lists and wish lists also helps buyers to find people with similar tastes, and perhaps to try their recommendations.But the process only works if a website offers a full range of products. "Hits still matter," says Anderson, because they are needed to attract mainstream buyers. After that, recommendations can encourage them to try niche products, driving them down the long tail. Offering only hits, of course, does nothing to expand the market and change consumer behaviour.Another question is: "What does the tail do to the shape of the head?" This is one of Anderson's research projects. At the moment, on the Pareto principle, the top 20% of titles probably bring in 80% of the revenues. Will there be a levelling of the graph if more demand moves to the long tail? Anderson thinks so.Finally, there's an apparent conflict between the economics of the long tail and the progress made over the past few years by Creative Commons, a copyright reform movement started by Lawrence Lessig, a Stanford University law professor (and Wired columnist). This has been driven by the argument that, for example, out-of-print books are not worth anything, so copyright owners may as well give them to the community for re-use.The long tail argument, in contrast, suggests that copyright owners should make everything available online, as cheaply as possible, because it will still find buyers, and the aggregate sales could be significant.Anderson tackles this problem on his Long Tail blog, where he points out that the people who usually find new commercial outlets for the back catalogue are the ones who repurpose and/or remix it, not the original copyright holders.With both Anderson and Lessig speaking at the O'Reilly Emerging Technology 2005 conference in San Diego, California, last week, it would have been interesting to hear them discuss the problem. Alas, it didn't happen.However, the issues are closely related. At the moment, the major film studios and record companies are pricing their online, digital products (if any) to defend their retail sales, not to exploit the low cost of doing business over the net. The obvious and perhaps inevitable result is rampant piracy.At ETech, Lessig said the big copyright holders were trying to blind the technology to conform to 18th century law, rather than reforming the law. Maybe they'll read Anderson's Long Tail book, when it comes out, and see the light. If Anderson is right about a change from the old economics of shortages to a new economics of abundance, will they have a choice?&middot; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Free at what costAny unsigned musician thinking of signing with the TuneTribe download site (Get in on the act, March 17) should read the small print.Submitting one track to TuneTribe gives the company exclusive internet rights to that track for a year, to every new track you record in that year, and to every track you have recorded in the past. You will not be able to offer music downloads on your own website and will have to remove any recordings you have on other sites, including those of radio stations such as the BBC, which provide genuinely free exposure.While some may be desperate enough to accept such restrictive terms, any unsigned band should think twice before signing away their entire back catalogue.Richard GregoryLondonPager vs textsI understand our IT people don't like BlackBerrys because they rely on pager-style push technology (Push for mobile mail, March 17). When an email is received in the office, the computer pages the BlackBerry, which then collects it. This makes it very battery efficient. They prefer technology where the mobile phone asks the computer fairly frequently if there is any waiting email, which uses up the battery very quickly.However, the question is how long will this survive with texting as its rival? Is BlackBerry technology outmoded?James WattersLondonOn the mapI believe licence terms imposed by Ordnance Survey can get in the way of the public getting copies of plans based on OS maps when fighting planning applications - or at least that seemed to be our experience with Test Valley Borough Council. Also, we made use of GetMapping aerial orthophoto and Nextmap digital terrain model data when fighting an application and found both useful.Tim CoffeyAmesbury, WiltshireWanadoo supportAndy Williamson comments on Wanadoo UK's tech support and their attitude to Mac users (Feedback, March 17), but I am pleased to report that my experience was different.Before signing up for broadband, I emailed Wanadoo to ask if they supported Macs. They apologised that they didn't, but attached a document that told me how to set my Mac up with their modem and connections. Notwithstanding the disclaimer, it worked perfectly. And the same system works with my wife's XP laptop and our Win2000 desktop.Tony GibbsLondonGood homeI have an old 4400 Mac that I would like to give to some good cause. Any ideas?Bernard SmythBristolBlogbackI am beginning to doubt whether Ashley Highfield, the BBC's director of new media and technology, gets any sleep (In the public eye, March 17). Poor guy: if his operation does any good, he gets slammed. Anything bad, he gets slammed. Pressure from the EC is building up on the public service, with Germany and the Netherlands asked to review how they fund the online activities of their public service broadcasters. And it may affect the BBC and its online activities.www.paidcontent.orgOrganised crime is increasingly using the internet to promote criminal activities (Stealing the limelight, March 17). Although this is a growing development, there seems to be a certain Luddite stream running through these articles. It is almost as if the authors are telling us these things are new because of the internet. Nevertheless, these fears may be warranted, as the online world brings a new scale to this issue.www.technollama.blogspot.comNot everyone is 100% super excited about this year's Bloggie Award winners. Bobbie Johnson in Onlineblog writes: "Are three Gawker blogs really the best in their respective categories?" And Ken Lebow, the author of bestselling internet guide books, said that if you check out this year's winners, "it's the same ole, same ole blogs".So maybe the Bloggies do need some new blog blood, or maybe the bloggers covering the blog industry are just ahead of the trends and things will be different next year. At a minimum, they could probably use a few more subject categories - more than just entertainment, food, politics and technology.www.bloggersblog.comI have just used the excellent service provided by WriteToThem.com to raise my concerns about the European Commissions proposals for software patents (second Sight, March 10). I suggest you read up on this topic, whether you are a web developer, designer or potential client.www.pidster.com
Gamasutra.comhas a superb article on the prospect of game industry unions, comparing the interactive entertainment world with the Hollywood world.From Hal Barwood's contribution to the article:"Most of the violence in our business takes place in our imaginations, but overturning the current work practices of studios and publishers will jolt us all, so get ready for reality - struggle and strife. In my conversations, I hear developers yearning for three things:strict limits on time worked pay for time worked production organized well enough to eliminate "crunch time." "Will all this talk turn into walk or are developers barking up the wrong tree?
Swedish telecoms group Ericsson is trying to stop Birmingham-based mobile phone manufacturer Sendo making any more handsets, claiming that the British firm has infringed its patents.Sendo hit back yesterday, saying that it has tried to reach a deal with Ericsson over a "fair and reasonable" royalty fee to use the company's technology but has been unable to secure a deal.Sendo, which is a David to Ericsson's Goliath, has also complained to the European commission alleging that the Swedish firm is part of a "cartel" which is keeping new entrants out of the market."Smaller or new companies coming in are being asked for excessive royalties," said Sendo's chief executive, Hugh Brogan. "We absolutely think there is a cartel going on."Ericsson is one of several companies, including industry heavyweights Nokia, Motorola and Alcatel, that were called in by the EEC 25 years ago to help produce a standard technology for mobile phones.Creating the standard, known as GSM, involved the solving of a number of technical problems and the companies involved patented their solutions.The European authorities, however, wanted to make the GSM standard a legal requirement and demanded that any intellectual property generated during the creation of the standard should be available to anyone on a fair and non-discriminatory basis and for a reasonable fee.Unless a company can get hold of this intellectual property, partly funded by the European taxpayer, it cannot produce mobile phones to the GSM standard. There are already well over one billion GSM users worldwide.Mr Brogan said yesterday that from the start the com pany had told Ericsson "we are not looking for a free ride, we will absolutely pay you a fair and reasonable royalty".But he said some of the original GSM players were asking for royalties of over &#163;10 a phone, more than is paid to many microchip designers whose kit finds its way into recent consumer devices such as Apple's iPod.Sendo's complaint to the European commission, which was made several months ago but only made public yesterday, says that the excessive royalty rate being demanded "restricts competition and excludes new market entrants from operating effectively or at all in the GSM market".A spokesman for Ericsson said yesterday that the company was committed to making its technology available on fair and reasonable terms, adding: "We're not trying to put anyone out of business."He refused to give any details of the prices Ericsson charges other companies to use its GSM patents. Ericsson has filed its case in the British, German and Dutch courts and is seeking damages as well as an injunction to stop Sendo selling any more phones.Sendo shipped 5m phones last year and made sales of $420m (&#163;225m). There has been talk recently that the business could be headed for a trade sale or flotation.This is the second spat with a massive rival that Sendo, Britain's only mobile phone maker, has found itself in since it shipped its first phone in 2001.Last year the company settled a dispute with Microsoft that at one stage looked as though it could bankrupt the business. The dispute had centred on allegations that Microsoft had passed intellectual property generated by Sendo - when the two companies were working on a mobile phone design - to a Far Eastern manufacturer.
The government made a U-turn yesterday to avoid a crisis in its &#163;6.2bn IT programme for the NHS by changing rules that limit the choice of computer systems available to GPs.John Hutton, the health minister, was threatened with a mutiny of family doctors, who were told last year to prepare to abandon the Emis computer system, which most use.They objected to scrapping equipment that worked in favour of systems preferred by Richard Granger, head of the NHS computer procurement programme, the biggest civil IT project in the world.A Guardian-sponsored poll of GPs found support for the IT project fell from 56% in January 2004 to 21% a year later.The survey, by the medical pollsters Medix, found about 70% of GPs thought patient records would be less safe. Only 5% felt adequately consulted.Mr Hutton responded yesterday with a promise that GPs could keep the Emis system or opt for alternatives from any of the five local service providers in England.The concession may rescue plans to introduce an electronic booking service, allowing GPs and patients to fix an appointment at the most appropriate local hospital - a key element of government plans to increase patient choice.Ministers wanted the system up and running everywhere in England this year, but the National Audit Office said in January that it worked hardly anywhere by the end of last year. Instead of reaching a target of 205,000 successful online appointments, GPs managed 63.The programme is also meant to transfer information between GPs and transmit prescriptions. The first transmissions started last month.Mr Hutton said: "We have listened carefully ... GPs have told us they want a wider choice of   systems to use and I am pleased we can deliver this."The British Medical Association said: "This is a possible way forward that helps to address our concerns. We will want to see more detail."Richard Vautrey, the BMA's information technology negotiator, said: "Many GPs will be anxious about patient data being stored in a remote location away from the practice."Welcoming the concession, the shadow health secretary, Andrew Lansley, said: "Unless ministers urgently address my remaining concerns on security and patient confidentiality, user involvement, simplifying the booking system, and controlling the escalating costs of the project, then I fear we could be heading towards another government IT disaster."Mr Hutton also announced an overhaul of management.
MP3 playersTravel lightKorean company Ezmax has come up with an innovative addition to its Flash memory-based MP3 players - Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). The EZMP-4200P, which goes on sale in Europe in May, can be used to make VoIP calls by connecting the device to the USB slot of a PC and using the player's integrated microphone. When plugged in, a dialling icon automatically appears on the screen. Ezmax expects the player to prove popular with travellers who don't have a microphone integrated into their laptop. Prices will range from $150 for a 256MB player, up to $220 for the 1GB version. The player also features MP3 and WMA compatibility and an FM radio.www.ezmax.co.krSeeing is believingMuro has become one of a small group of manufacturers to offer tiny Flash memory-based devices that play back video as well as audio files. The Muro Color, expected in Europe in the summer, sports a one inch 65k colour OLED screen on which users can play back MPeg4 movies or view JPeg images. The Color supports MP3, WMA and Ogg audio formats, and includes an FM tuner and recorder and voice-recording facilities. Battery life is rated at about 13 hours. The price has not been confirmed, nor have the details of storage capacities.www.muro.co.krMobile phonesFlying the 3G flagNokia has started to ship its flagship 3G handset, the 6680, for the first part of the year. The Symbian Series 60 OS 6680, expected to be available via O2 early next month with other networks soon after, is Nokia's first handset to include a pair of cameras that can deliver true person-to-person video calling. The 6680's main camera is a 1.3 megapixel model that features a 2x digital zoom, a flash and the Pictbridge application that makes for fast and easy printing of images. Other features include Bluetooth, POP3 email compatibility, a Wap/XHTML web browser and an MP3 player. Battery life is rated at between two and six hours talk time, depending on whether the phone is on a 3G or GPRS network, and between six and 11 days standby.www.nokia.co.ukDVD recordersIn the marketIt has been a busy week for DVD recorders, with Philips revealing a model featuring a built-in Freeview decoder - meaning you can record free-to-air digital TV channels at the drop of a hat. The DVDR7200 is slated to go on sale in May for about &#163;400. JVC, meanwhile, unveiled its range of hard disk/DVD recorder combo units. The DR-MH models have between 80GB and 250GB of hard disk space, with various rates of compression to squeeze your favourite shows on to DVD.www.philips.co.ukwww.jvc.co.ukDigital camerasCompact contestThere is a serious battle emerging in the ultra-compact digital camera market, with Sony and Nikon set to go head-to-head with two models announced last week. Nikon unveiled the Coolpix S1, a five megapixel camera with a 2.5in LCD screen that will sell for less than &#163;300 next month. It faces tough competition from the Sony DSC-T7, the latest in the company's series, which also boasts a 2.5in LCD screen and takes five megapixel snaps. The ultra-slender camera - at its thinnest, it is less than a centimetre in depth - is set to debut in May for about &#163;300.www.nikon.co.ukwww.sony.co.ukCommanding PDA cut down to sizeCut-down PDA, or super-sized smartphone? The E-Ten M500, on sale in the UK for &#163;364.25 Sim free, certainly is a curious size. It has many PDA-style features and even runs the Pocket PC version of Microsoft's Windows Mobile operating system, yet is still small enough to put in your pocket. Its 2.8in, 240 x 320 pixel, 65k colour screen is also significantly larger than the average smartphone, enabling it to deliver an excellent web surfing experience via Microsoft's Pocket Explorer software.Making its UK debut on the phone is Voice Command, a feature that enables the user to tell the device to start voice calls, check email/text messages or open applications just by barking into the handset. E-Ten has also included Bluetooth and a fairly good quality 1.3 megapixel camera. On the downside, there's no keypad for dialling numbers, and the built-in speakers are poor quality. But if you want PDA-style features and don't want a bulky MDA/XDA, the E-Ten M500 is just the ticket.www.smartdevicesdirect.comStat of the weekWhere the time goesTthe amount of time users spend online could be levelling off. The UK, Germany and Sweden were among the countries that did not register the double-digit growth of previous years, while in the US, the average time spent online actually declined.&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris and Bobbie Johnson
About: BlankCan you tell me how to get rid of About: Blank, which has hijacked my computer?Amanda Hood, John Davison and othersJack Schofield replies:For reasons unknown, the About: Blank home-page hijacker seems to have discovered a new lease of life in the past six weeks. It appears to be yet another variant of the nasty Cool Web Search hijacker, which is hard to remove. PC Hell explains how to remove it manually atwww.pchell.com/support/aboutblank.shtml, and also says: "A new adware removal program called Adware Away has proven very successful in removing the About:Blank homepage hijacker along with many other hijacker-type programs." It costs $29.95 but there is a trial version. Seewww.adwareaway.com.Adware Away also checks for Trojans and key-loggers, and if you submit a report for your PC, the company will produce a customised clean-up tool. The standard programs - SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy, AdAware and JavaCool's Spyware Blaster, followed by CWShredder if necessary - are all free, with WebRoot's Spy Sweeper the main commercial alternative.Keeping a copyCan you recommend an external CD writer for my Compaq Evo N110 laptop? I only want to store photos and Word and PowerPoint files in the event of a problem with the hard disk, so super-fast copying and DVD writing are not necessary.Simon BarlowJS:External CD-Rs seem to be a vanishing species, and most external drives now are CD-RW and can often read (but not write) DVDs. Some are also designed to be small enough to carry around.I haven't used enough of these to be able to suggest a brand, but Plextor has a good reputation, and the Argosy DR-768 is Amazon UK's best-seller, for what that's worth.I bought an Iomega CD-RW Plus because it was cheap and also reads CompactFlash and other storage cards (though this requires a second USB cable). It has worked well, but the bundled HotBurn Pro software is horrible. If bundled software is a consideration, look for Nero (or at least Nero Express) or Roxio's WinOnCD.A gem shortHelp, I can't get past level one of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets on the Game Boy Advance. I know it sounds pathetic, but I can't find the fifth gem.Alissa LeverJS:When I'm really stuck, I usually go to the GameFaqs website, so in this case, you could start atwww.gamefaqs.com/portable/gbadvance/data/562350.html.Some sites offer "walkthroughs", so searching for walkthrough and the name of the game often provides a solution. On Google, the first hit for this game is Bella Online, which looks like a good site. Seewww.bellaonline.com/gaming/w/hp/strategy_lib_hpwalk.html.Guardian searchI am writing about Grayson Perry, artist and Turner Prize winner. I remember you published an article titled If I Had a Hammer ..., but I have visited your website archives and cannot find a copy. Am I doing something wrong?Francesca MertonJS:One of the problems with the Guardian's search engine is that you have to tell it specifically to search for something AND something else. Using square brackets to show what you type in the box, if you search for &#91;Grayson Perry hammer&#93; then you won't get any hits. If you search for &#91;Grayson Perry AND hammer&#93; you will get seven, including the one you want. (The AND command does not need to be in caps: it's a Boolean tradition.) The syntax is explained in the tips on the search page atwww.guardian.co.uk/Archive.Alternatively, you can search for Guardian articles in Google, by including the instruction site:guardian.co.uk in your search. The drawback is that not all Guardian articles are indexed on the search engine.Backchat&#183;Mike Cox asked for a website that would compare smartphones, and after spending some time with Google, I failed to find one. Mario Menti suggests ShouldIBuyOne (www.shouldibuyone.com), which is much the best I've seen. It lets you compare three phones side by side with a decent amount of detail, and the Phone Chooser page (www.shouldibuyone.com/MobilePhoneChooser.do) would be perfect if it included the same level of detail. Paul Neve suggested Esato (www.esato.com/phones), which is also worth a look. Mike Dyer mentioned the smartphone comparison grid atwww.3lib.ukonline.co.uk/grid.htm. Thomas Hallauer recommendedwww.infosyncworld.comas "by far the best website to review smart phones and PDAs", and having been a reader for several years, I also recommend it.&#183;Arvind couldn't read some of the DVDs he'd created - he was getting a Cyclic Redundancy Check error message. Jason K. Scott-Taggart says: "I had almost exactly the same problem and CD Check software managed to recover the data for me." Seewww.elpros.si/CDCheck
Whither NetWareNovell is pressing ahead with its push into the Linux and open source world at its BrainShare conference in Salt Lake City, Utah. Despite the resignation of chief technology officer Alan Nugent on the eve of the show, Novell's chief executive, Jack Messman, made a series of announcements. Having ported NetWare to Linux for larger companies, the company is launching a Linux distribution for smaller businesses. The Linux Small Business Suite bundles Novell's SuSE Linux Enterprise Server with GroupWise, Linux Desktop, eDirectory and iManager as a preconfigured package. In summer, a Linux version of the cross-platform ZenWorks management suite will be shipping, but other key elements such as Hula, Novell's open sourced competitor for Exchange/ Outlook, still seem some way off.www.novell.co.ukJBoss boostNovell is contributing heavily to the open source community through the expansion of its partnership with the JBoss development platform. Novell is contributing code to the JBoss Enterprise Middleware System (Jems) and getting involved in other initiatives, such as the JBoss portal for Linux. JBoss will be used to swell Novell's exteNd middleware connectors and as part of the company's newly announced Identity and Application Services Foundations products. Beyond this, the key messages from Novell's BrainShare conference this week was the important role that identity management, based on e-Directory, will play in providing a secure basis for existing applications and in web services.www.novell.co.ukNHS speakScanSoft reckons it can help solve the problem facing the NHS as it tries to get data into its Care Records system: voice recognition, using its PC-based Dragon Naturally Speaking software. It has formed the Dragon Healthcare Solutions Partner Forum, comprising 12 companies across the UK who will attempt to sell speech recognition systems to the NHS. Pathologists at the West Suffolk NHS Trust are cited as enthusiastic users.www.ScanSoft.co.ukCustodian wantedThe Local e-Government Standards Body (e-SB) is looking for an organisation to take over its work in developing, certifying and promoting standards in electronic local government systems. The successful candidate will adminis ter and develop the current repository, Custodian. The new service provider will work with e-SB from June to the end of the year. A membership base comprising local authorities, their partners and suppliers would be formed to drive the adoption of future standards. The e-SB is supported by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and led by the London borough of Bromley.tinyurl.com/6k7asBot nationSymantec says the attempted Sumitomo Mitsui bank robbery is not surprising as threats to privacy and confidentiality are the most rapidly increasing cyber security threats. This is one of the conclusions in Symantec's biannual Internet Security Threat Report. The UK is also a hotbed of bot activity. (Bots enable hackers to gain remote control of a computer to steal passwords and financial data.) UK PCs account for 25.2% of all bots, with the US a close second at 24.6%. Trailingin third is China at 7.8%.tinyurl.com/58rgkDual benefitsIntel will demonstrate the power saving capabilities of its Yonah dual core processors for notebook PCs in the next two weeks. Dual core processors combine two central processors on a single chip, and power saving enables one of these to be switched into slow operation mode, a process known as Dynamic Power Coordination (DPC). Intel claims that Yonah will use less power than single core processors when computers based on the chip arrive about the end of this year. The goal is to enable the processor to run on batteries for eight hours on a single recharge.www.tinyurl.com/4z9kkISP malware filterAlthough many internet service providers shy away from actively filtering email, Checkbridge is continuing to argue its case with improvements to its hosted filtration service. The company is improving its Border Scout anti-virus software by adding Cloudmark's Authority spam and anti-phishing package. By offering this as a hosted service, Checkbridge enables ISPs to offer filtering as an opt-in service or as a mandatory filter for email systems. Clara.net, a large European ISP, is the first to offer the combined protection. The company says filtering not only offers additional revenue but increases efficiency by cutting back the emails flowing through its servers.www.checkbridge.comWiki worksSocialtext, which sells Wiki-based groupware, has relaunched its product line to focus on business users. It offers Socialtext Enterprise for high-end users, Socialtext.net for small-to-medium size businesses, and Socialtext.org, for non-profit organisations and educational users. Prices range from $5 to $40 per user per month.www.socialtext.com&#183;Contributions from Eric Doyle and Jack Schofield
Can't believe I've only just spotted this on Wonderland - atranscriptof Warren Spector on blistering form at GDC, kicking the crap out of the games industry, especially the fact that retail chains more or less dictate content. His argument (backed up later by another angry industry veteran,Ron Gilbert) is that the industry needs an alternative distribution channel to cater for non-commercial, low budget projects. The internet aggregator system used by today's indie games developers just doesn't reach a large enough potential audience. And I'm pretty sure thereisstill an audience for games that aren't a) sequels, b) film tie-ins, c) stealth shooters, or d) GTA clones.The again, I could bewrong.UPDATE: Thanks to Richard Sandford for pointing outthisresponse to the GDC discussion written by an independant developer. Some very interesting points from a rarely heard perspective. This is clearly a very complex subject, but there's always room for polemical attacks like Warren's.
"Shall we up the ante and build a global gathering place, online and off, virtual and real, for women bloggers: Bloghercon 2005?" asks Lisa Stone atSurfette."I'm talking about a conference that enables women bloggers to tesseract toproactivesocial and intellectual networking with each other. Women bloggers have much more enticing sashimi to gobble than Summers and Drum--politically, economically, socially and personally."Comment:If it goes ahead, will men be allowed to attend? Was this why Ben Hammersley bought a dress to wear during ETech 05? ;-)
From theWelcomepage:Ourmedia.org is an open source media project that seeks to expose, preserve and advance works of grassroots creativity. [cut]Ourmedia is three things in one:1. a destination web site at ourmedia.org that serves as a repository; we offer free storage and free bandwidth for your media, which gets exposed to a global community; 2. a media registry based on open schemas that will let other web sites tap into the network and share their own media content; 3. soon, a not-for-profit organization dedicated to advancing amateur, hobbyist, semi-professional, and professional works.Unlike other initiatives that are pure-play stand-alone web sites, Ourmedia's vision is to bring personal media to millions of desktops through playlists, video jukeboxes, visual albums, and built-in media libraries. Members upload works with a range of rights, from Creative Commons-licensed works to public domain works to fully copyrighted works.Brewster Kahle and the Internet Archive are supporting this project with free storage and bandwidth for grassroots media.
"Yahoo on Tuesday said it plans to once again boost its free e-mail storage limit--this time to 1GB, the same amount offered by archrival Google," reportsCNet."Beginning in late April, Yahoo will upgrade free users to the new storage limit of 1GB, up from its current 250MB. The company said it will take about two weeks for all Yahoo Mail users to see the boost."
EA hasrevealedthat John Millius, director of Conan the Barbarian, and screenplay writer on Apocalypse Now and Clear and Present Danger, will be providing the script for Medal of Honor European Assault. He joins a growing list of Hollywood talent who have crossed over to games - no doubt for considerable financial recompense. Recently, Sopranos executive producer Terry Winter agreed to supply the script for the forthcoming 50 Cent game, and of course, the Wachowski brothers provided the words for the risible Enter The Matrix.Does this actually add value to the games in question, or is it just an attempt to bring legitimacy and gravitas to a project? With pre-release hype becoming ever more vital, a celebrity script writer is another handy bullet point on the press release treadmill, alongside the usual star-studded voice over cast and expensive licensed soundtrack.On the subject of desperate attempts to garner kudos, Gizmondoapparentlypaid Jay Kay £800,000 to turn up at their launch party this saturday. £800,000. For Jay Kay.£800,000...
Peripherals manufacturer Fire International has released a handheld version of theNES. The Blaze Pocket Fami can play European, Japanese and American NES carts, all of which you can pick up cheaply on Ebay or your local car boot sale."The compact design features a 2.5" TFT screen, d-pad and standard and rapid-fire button configurations. The BLAZE POCKET FAMI also boasts the ability to function as the original console and connect to a TV with the included cable, with the option of connecting 2 NES compatible Joypads into the console," says the press release.Retro gamers can find more infohere.
I've written recently on here about how people might considerchanging the interface- moving on from the old mouse/keyboard model of computing and into other interfaces that could have an effect across the whole electronics industry.Whether it'smotion sensing,voice activationor simplybreathing, there are new ideas being concocted all over the place.So it was interesting last week when I saw a couple of posts byMattWebb, who described an iTunes interface which usedAmit Singh's hacks of the Powerbook's internal motion sensor (which is usually used to protect the unit when it tips). Matt wasn't the only one taking up the challenge, asWiredreports:[Peter] Berglund's reaction when seeing the code that Singh had produced was typical of many coders working on tilt-sensitive projects: "I thought it was amazing -- I got the same feeling of awe as the first time I saw a color screen and the first time I saw a QuickTime clip," he said. Out of this evolvedBubblegym, which Berglund believes is the first tilt-sensitive game for a computer. Berglund's work earned praise from Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, who wrote a personal e-mail of congratulations -- something that Berglund described as "a cooler thing than any game or technology itself."Like all the best hacks, Singh's exposure of the motion sensor is both simple enough to be exploited easily and clever enough to inspire some interesting uses. Take, for example, the Python script thatMatt Webbcreated in a few minutes that uses the motion sensor to control iTunes when the PowerBook is bumped. Or the challenge from Tucows'Joey deVillafor someone to link the motion sensor to the Trash, so that when you shake the PowerBook it empties like a high-tech Etch A Sketch.Now, I'm not clever enough to know how to put any of these things together myself, but one thing is clear: people are learning how to develop actual, usable alternatives to traditional input methods.Roll on the future!
Phone company Ericsson are taking legal action against British rival Sendo for what they claim is an infringement of patents.Here's the story onCellular News:The complaints allege that Sendo's mobile phone products infringe certain Ericsson patents covering GSM and GPRS technologies.Ericsson said it seeks both an injunction against the continued sale and marketing of Sendo's mobile phone products, and monetary damages. "We believe that Sendo is using Ericsson patented technology, but they have so far not signed a license agreement with Ericsson. Under these circumstances we have no choice but to take Sendo to court," said Kasim Alfalahi, vice president of Patent Licensing.
A battle worthy of Lara Croft erupted yesterday for control of the heroine's creator Eidos as rival computer games group SCi Entertainment topped an existing bid from US venture capital outfit Elevation Partners.Aim-listed SCi, creator of Conflict: Vietnam, has tabled an all-share deal valuing the Tomb Raider developer at &#163;76m, or 53.6p a share. The offer from SCi, which is considerably smaller than Eidos, is backed by a placing to raise a further &#163;60m to fund future development of the business.SCi's approach tops a &#163;71m all-cash offer from Elevation Partners, a venture capital outfit that has U2 frontman Bono as a partner, made on Monday night.That deal valued Eidos at 50p a share. Shares in Eidos closed up 12.5p at 57.25p yesterday as traders speculated that the bid war could flush out another bidder.The level of both offers highlights the reversal of fortune experienced by Eidos, which was worth more than &#163;10 a share at the height of the dotcom boom. The great hope of British gaming has been brought low by delays to games such as Championship Manager and the failure of crucial titles.While the board of Eidos, which own 2% of the company, has recommended the Elevation offer, SCi has gained the support of Eidos' largest shareholder, Schroder Investment Management, which holds 21.9% of the shares."We had suffered as Eidos shareholders, and we feel that under a new management team, we could get some value back," said Schroders fund manager Andy Brough.Eidos chief executive, Mike McGarvey, said management will meet with SCi to discuss its offer as "the board is going to want to understand the pa per offer because it gives less certainty than cash". He said in the meantime the board will retain its recommendation of the Elevation offer.If Eidos' management does decide to switch horses, it will have to pay the American venture capital firm a break fee of more than &#163;700,000.Eidos has already paid Elevation $1m (&#163;530,000) as an incentive to carry out due diligence on the company.A spokesman for Elevation   said the payment of such incentives is "very common" when a private equity firm is considering whether or not to carry out due diligence."Our bid is cash which provides a lot of certainty, who knows about paper offers where the value can fluctuate," he added.But SCi's finance director Rob Murphy said Eidos' shareholders should feel "cheated" by the Elevation deal."Many investors invested at   a much higher level and to get 50p back ... is very disappointing. Once we have turned Eidos into a profitable business, investors will be able to enjoy the upside."SCi is looking to save &#163;12m a year through ending Eidos' full listing and sacking its senior management. It does not envisage major job losses among the rest of the staff. Elevation has said it will retain some key senior managers.Mr McGarvey said: "We are   a company of 875 people all of whom are 100% needed to build games."SCi is a minnow compared with Eidos. Last year it made pre-tax profits of &#163;4.5m on sales of &#163;31m, Eidos made a pre-tax loss of &#163;2m but its sales were &#163;134m. Carrying out the deal would increase SCi's shares in issue by 83%.The minnow is capitalising on its share price, which is close to an all-time high at 333.5p, up 12p, yesterday.
The web's chatting away to itself in the wake of Barry Diller's£1bn acquisition of search engine Ask Jeeves.Big questions include: What does it mean for Ask? What does it mean for Google? Are we ready for a full-on search war? Why do my new shoes hurt so much?*Some of the best coverage has been aggregated over atPaidContent.org, including positive reactions, negative ones and some interesting analysis.Meanwhile, I scribbled a piece that went up late yesterday on Guardian Unlimited about whether this latest feeling ofacquisition fever indicates a new dotcom bubble.I'm not sure the Ask deal changes any of that, but it's likely to be a question that comes up in a few columns over the next few weeks and months.* It doesn't say this of course, though the question still remains. Whydothey hurt so much?
3 has launched a new multiplayer games service for customers of its 3G network.One of the first titles to be available is Cannons Tournament, the addictive four-player battle strategy title from Macrospace.Graeme Oxby, Marketing Director, 3: "As the success of our music service demonstrates with over 10 million downloads in 6 months, 3 has learnt how to package and deliver compelling products over 3G. In Gaming, we are doing the same thing – picking the right games for 3G and delivering services that are immediate, fun and accessible at affordable prices."You can read the rest of the releasehere.I'd love to be able to tell you what else 3 has in store, but unfortunately they failed to invite me to their press event - just as they have failed to supply me with review handsets, or news on any of their entertainment services, since I first contacted them in June 2003.UPDATE: There's more detail on 3's line-uphere. As well as offering multiplayer titles, they also have a selection of 'near console quality' games. They use the phrase 'near console quality' about eight times in the release. It's an arbitary boast, but I think it can be translated as 'rudimentary 3D visuals'.
Electronic Arts have announced a profit warning for the fourth quarter, with sales falling significantly short of expectations. Forget all the guff about "difficult market conditions", the main reason is the quality of titles EA released in this time. Worst offender was Goldeneye: Rogue Agent, which sullied the name of theseminal N64 game. Other releases such as The Urbz and FIFA Street have been equally poor. Looking back further there was the rushed and buggy Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban which lacked the polish and composure normally associated with EA games. Historically though, even the more underwhelming EA games have still sold, so it's good to see that some punters have had enough. Of course, this is all relative, with Need for Speed Underground 2 doing great business over Christmas and Burnout 3winning a pileof BAFTA awards. EA are far and away the biggest publisher and will be so for a long time. But the recent lapse in quality control needs to be reversed, and quickly.
Contrary to previousrumour-fuelled postsabout EIDOS' fate at the hands of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp, and further to Greg's earlierannouncementabout EIDOS' huge losses, theBBChave reported that a takeover bid by US-based Elevation Partners has been accepted by the UK publisher.It seems fitting that the venture capital group has taken on the parentage of Lara Croft. Rock star Bono, who took the top-heavy character around the world with him in 2001, sits on the board of directors.Update: The latest news is that UK-based publisher SCi have taken up a call to arms and have outbid Elevation Partners for fellow British company EIDOS.According toReutersandgamesindustry.biz(thanks Kafuffle), SCi raised the 50p per share offer to 53.6p per share, valuing a total of £76 million pounds. This reads good news for EIDOS' share price, which has rocketed up since the takeover bid announcement this morning.EIDOS is considering the bid and will make an announcement shortly.Old news: What exactly this means for the UK's games industry is uncertain. In a recent report, games analystsScreen Digestargued that the region is in need of governmental support. While the UK is responsible for a greater number of exports - particularly skewed by the immense success of Scotland-based Rockstar North's Grand Theft Auto series - the squeeze on developers is resulting in swathes of employees looking to other shores for a decent and consistent income. According to Roger Bennett, Director General ofELSPA(from the BBC):"Our greatest asset is our creativity and in recent times we have seen this talent being leeched away through lack of funding and more attractive prospects overseas"As multi-national publishers become more conservative and home-grown industry powerhouses get swallowed by North American organisations, the UK industry feels a little bit wobbly.
The iTunes hack PyMusique - which we blogged aboutat the weekend- has been knocked for six after Apple closed the loophole which allowed it to download DRM-less tracks, reportsZDNet:Apple Computer has closed a security hole that allowed an underground program to tap into its iTunes Music Store and purchase songs stripped of antipiracy protections.The PyMusique software, created by a trio of independent programmers online, emerged last week as a copy protection-free back door into the popular iTunes store. One of the creators was Jon Johansen, the Norwegian programmer responsible for releasing DVD-copying software in 1999.The only problem is that fixing the hack needs all iTunes users to upgrade to version 4.7.1 if they want to be able to buy tracks from the iTunes Music Store - a version which has limits on, for example, the amount of sharing you're able to do.Sympathies are likely to be unevenly split: anti-Applists are likely to point the finger at the firm for using this as an excuse for greater control, while others will shake their fists in fury at DVD Jon for making them lose out.Update, March 23:Techwhackis reporting that PyMusique has come up with another workaround. If that's the case, it looks like we're in for a protracted battle - but as much as DRM gets my goat, I'm increasingly unsure that this will end in anything positive - just further clampdowns on consumer freedom.
Google Newshas been making headlines rather than simply displaying them this week. We notedpreviously on the blogthat French news agency AFP was taking Google to court because they say the serviceinfringes their copyright.Now for something altogether more unsavoury: BritbloggerHarrypoints out that Google News is using the far right American white power magazineNational Vanguardas one of its news sources.Some sample headlines from a search conducted just now:· Drug feud claims life of anti-white activist· Florida's whites build racial consciousness on St Patrick's Day· France: Young white demonstators viciously attacked· Witnesses claim GOP strategist participated in gay orgiesWhat's the position on this? Is Google right to take in this information and repurpose it through Google News? Should they be more discerning about the sources they draw their information from?As Harry pointed out, you can make your thoughts felt to Google through theironline complaints form, though I'll be following it up as soon as I've got a chance.
IAC/InterActiveCorp, the American online conglomerate run by the media mogul Barry Diller, took another step towards web domination yesterday with the $1.85bn (&#163;1bn) acquisition of the internet search engine Ask Jeeves.The all-share deal is further evidence of increasing confidence in the potential of internet advertising and search engines. It will also position IAC directly against the likes of Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft.The deal is the latest in a string of acquisitions by Mr Diller, who has built an internet empire that spans travel, concert and theatre tickets, finance and dating.Mr Diller said that Ask Jeeves, one of the few internet site engines surviving from the dotcom boom, "has the potential to become one of the great brands on the internet and beyond". Analysts said the deal could raise concerns for Google, which generates about two-thirds of Ask Jeeves' revenues by brokering advertising deals for the site.A strengthened Ask Jeeves, they said, may be able to squeeze a better deal out of Google.Mr Diller wants to extend the reach of Ask Jeeves, which launched in April 1997, by moving it into new areas such as searching via mobile phones. IAC also intends to place the Ask Jeeves search function on its existing sites, which receive about 44 million visitors a month.Among IAC's stable are the travel website Expedia and the ticket retailer Ticketmaster. It also owns Match.com, CitySearch, LendingTree and the Home Shopping Network. Earlier this year IAC announced plans to buy the catalogue and online retailer Cornerstone Brands for $720m.IAC is splitting into two divisions, with its travel businesses within Expedia and its retail, financial and entertainment operations within a new IAC. Mr Diller, who has garnered a reputation for being a hands-on manager, intends to take a lead role in both businesses.Ask Jeeves, which also owns the Excite network and announced its first profitable quarter in 2002, will remain a separate business based in California but will become part of the new IAC business."Joining IAC will enable us to play on a much larger field," said Steve Berkowitz, chief executive of Ask Jeeves. "Ask Jeeves will now be in an even stronger position to aggressively grow market share."As well as the United States, Ask Jeeves operates in Britain and Japan. Adrian Cox, the chief executive of Ask Jeeves' operations in Britain, said: "Linking in with IAC should help us accelerate overseas." In Europe the business is intending to move into Spain, where a test site is already up and running, alongside Germany, Italy, France and the Netherlands.The ride, however, has been somewhat bumpy. Last year Ask Jeeves was forced to make some redundancies among its workforce in Britain as it switched from relying upon advertising for revenues towards "sponsored links", in keeping with many rival search portals. Asked whether the IAC deal could lead to further job losses, Mr Cox replied: "Absolutely not, this is very much about building the business."IAC intends to buy back at least 60% of the shares it is issuing to carry out the deal, using its own cash to offset the detrimental effects of the stock dilution resulting from the acquisition while still tying Ask Jeeves' management into the merged business.
If you have an import PSP and have tried downloading MPEG-4 clips onto it, you'll know what an absolutenightmarethe process is. Luckily,this siteis coming to the rescue with PSP Video 9, a free downloadable app that - likeiPSP- converts most PC video files so that they'll work seamlessly on your fussy Sony handheld. However, PSP Video 9 can also be combined with another package called Videora allowing you, "to download, convert and copy video to your PSP, automatically using BitTorrent and RSS technology."And if you're interested in PSP videos, check out the fabulous Japanese sitePSPunch- here you'll find a collection of short movies, submitted by amateur filmmakers and designed specifically to be viewed on PSP.
According to new stats from Symantec, British computers are the most hacked in the world.Computer Business Reviewtakes up the story:Research out this week from Symantec places the UK at the top of the league table of countries that have lots of PCs participating in networks of "bots" -- compromised computers that malicious hackers can control to send spam or attack others.Symantec's Internet Security Threat Report for the second half of 2004 said that 25.2% are located in the UK. That now puts the country ahead of the US (24.6%), China (7.8%), Canada (4.9%) and Spain (3.8%), Symantec said.And why? The firm speculates that it is because of the sharp uptake of broadband services... and it's certainly true that one of the dangers of high-speed, always-on internet is that it leaves you open to more attacks (asJohn Naughtonnoted in the Observer recently).So - what do you do to protect yourself? We've got some rudimentary tips on ourHow To pages, but essentially it comes down to this: don't leave yourself without a firewall and keep an eye on your system.High speed, low education is a recipe for disaster.
Regardless of whether the traditional classical music community appreciated theSan Francisco Dear Friends concert, Final Fantasy maestro Nobuo Uematsu has announced another date to his diary.More Friendswill feature another selection of top hits from the role playing game series at Los Angeles' Universal Theatre. The new event, supported by rock versions of FF songs by Uematsu's bandBlack Sages, will take place during the annual Electronic Entertainment Expo in May.Two questions arise: When will the Europeans get a chance to "experience" an Uematsu gig of their own (do they want it?), and is this a gimmick that will die out once people have a taste of their favourite tunes?I'll say it again, it was one of the most surreal classical concerts I've ever been to...
The British video games maker Eidos, creator of Lara Croft, has agreed to a &#163;71m cash offer from a unit of the US private equity company Elevation Partners, the companies said late last night.The buyer, which counts U2's lead singer Bono among its managing partners, was founded by John Riccitiello, the former president of video game maker Electronic Arts.The 50p-a-share offer price was a premium of nearly 5p on Eidos's closing price last night of 44.75p.The move is likely to surprise the market, which had suspected a tie-up with its rival SCi Entertainment, the group behind the Conflict battle series. Eidos has been looking for a buyer. The former gaming flagship has seen delays to key games, such as Championship Manager, eat through its cash while takeover talks with potential bidders dragged on for months.The Royal Bank of Scotland, which has loaned Eidos &#163;23m, had given the company until Friday to clinch a deal or get funding from elsewhere, otherwise it was to demand that Eidos sold off parts of its business.Last night John van Kuffeler, chairman of the board of Eidos, said in a statement: "The board firmly believes that shareholders' interests are best served by a sale of the company."Shares in Eidos plunged to a 10-year low on March 10 when it announced a larger than expected pre-tax loss of &#163;28.7m for the six months to end-December compared with a profit of &#163;7.8m in the previous year.Sales of &#163;31.4m were well down on the &#163;78.7m recorded in the previous year. Sales of titles such as Get On Da Mic, Backyard Wrestling 2 and Crash 'n' Burn were also below expectations.The company has said it was hit particularly hard by weaker sales in its top market, the United States.Poor sales and delayed games releases meant the company's cash had dropped from &#163;37.4m at the end of June last year to &#163;11.8m six months later.To conserve its money the company has been forced to delay the release of new Lara Croft and Hitman titles until later in the year.A number of trade buyers were also mooted as being interested in Eidos including Ubisoft, Europe's third-largest games developer, and Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.
