Given that both are such strong visual mediums, video games and films have endured a surprisingly fractious relationship. Yet it is one that neither seems willing to walk away from – the&nbsp;symbiotic allure at its heart is just too strong. The games industry brings&nbsp;ready-made scenarios, characters and a fanbase to movie producers, while exposure on the big screen feeds back into game sales.Tempting, yes, but the relationship has been repeatedly tarnished,House of the DeadandWing Commanderbeing prime examples. Now, however, the very model of how film is made and distributed is being examined anew. In Microsoft's first foray into the market, it has chosen to debut its films based on theHalogames not at the cinema but in the form of a free-to-view online series that begins on Friday.AHalofilm was in the offing several years ago but the project was dropped, largely over disagreements about finances and the level of artistic control Microsoft wanted to retain over its franchise. Instead of revising its demands on Hollywood, the company has chosen to makeHalo 4: Forward Unto Dawn, a series of five 15-minute live-action episodes that will air once a week on YouTube, the video game website Machinima and Microsoft's own Xbox Live platform. The story is presented as a prequel to the three existingHalogames and also a lead-in to the fourth: alongside the Master Chief, it will feature characters playing as recruits who will appear in theHalo 4game, to be released in November, when 15 minutes more footage will be added and the whole will become a single feature, effectively the firstHalofeature film.Microsoft is not alone in taking this route. Warner Brothers recently aired a web-only series based onMortal Kombat, as did Ubisoft withAssassin's Creed, the latter currently being redeveloped as a film without a Hollywood studio. It is not only games, either. A new series ofArrested Developmentis under way for online distributor Netflix, as is a remake by David Fincher of the British seriesHouse of Cards.There remains a nagging doubt, however. Last year, the cyberpunk authorWilliam Gibson, revisiting his 1999 essay on digital technology and film, noted the "problem that a lack of broad theatrical release is still taken to mean that your film didn't really happen". Perhaps, with Microsoft premiering a high-end franchise such asHaloin the online market, that perception is beginning to change.In almost every way, outside distribution,Forward Unto Dawnis a full-scale production. At the shoot on location in Vancouver last May, it was clear that the crew were industry professionals and that their attention to detail, with&nbsp;hardcore fans in mind, was high. There may be no cinema release but in every other sense this new media approachishappening.DirectorStewart Hendler, who recently completed the ambitiousH+, another online series produced byThe Usual Suspects' director Bryan Singer, has witnessed this first hand."I did my first web series two years ago and it was slightly unclear where the art form was heading," he says. "Now they're putting in real resources – these things are being made at the level of TV pilots and feature films."Chris Symes, the supervising producer onForward Unto Dawn, who has been making films since 1994, echoes this view. "There is," he says, "a real sense that this is the future, not a one-off. This will be copied as a business, film-making and distribution&nbsp;model."It is also, of course, a marketing tool for the new game. But that is not to demean it. The attitude of British actor Anna Popplewell, who played Susan in theNarniaseries and here takes the role of one of the recruits, was echoed by many others on set. "I don't mind how it is distributed, if it's a good product. For me, it's not so important how people watch this, it's more important that it's good."Preview: Halo 4: Forward Unto DawnSettingHalo 4:Forward Unto Dawnis a prequel to the firstHalogame, set at the beginning of an interstellar war between humanity and an alien alliance known as the Covenant.PremiseA section of cadets at the United Nations Space Command (UNSC) military academy are training to&nbsp;be the next generation of soldiers in the ongoing war with insurrectionists in the outer colonial planets. Cadet Thomas Laskycorrect struggles with his doubts about the war and his potential role as a leader until the arrival of the Covenant forces him to take action, taking inspiration fromHalo&nbsp;hero&nbsp;the Master Chief.How to watchEach episode will air once&nbsp;a week from Friday, available directly through YouTube.com, atyoutube.com/MachinimaPrimeWaypoint, and athalo.xbox.com/ForwardUntoDawn. The special-edition full-length version will be launched whenHalo 4, the game, is released on 6 November.To view an exclusive preview of the Halo 4: Forward Unto Dawnseries on our website, click&nbsp;here
Hacking comes in three varieties. The first two that came to our collective attention are bad. One is an invasion of privacy practised mainly by middle-aged men on celebrities and the vulnerable; the other is carried out mainly by teenage boys on the military-industrial complex. Both are well-documented and often result in a court appearance. But there's a third kind, a good kind, so far unfeatured onNewsnightand mainly practised mainly by young men with enthusiastic smiles and creative facial hair who know their Python from their Ruby on Rails (they're programming languages, dummy). The good kind is about taking something apart – a computer, a line of code, a set of data – and rebuilding it, hopefully making it better, giving it a new function, or just doing something surprising and disruptive.When these good hackers meet up it's sometimes called a hackday or a codefest, but more often it's called a hackathon. These events have been around for a while: the word was coined back in 1999. Since then hackathons have flourished. Hackers love to meet other hackers, team up and collaborate – and then show off the results.Here in the break-out area of the donated London headquarters of Mozilla – the maker of the Firefox web browser – nearly 80 people have assembled for an all-weekend hackathon. It's Friday evening, and the event doesn't end till 9pm on Sunday: many of the participants have come prepared with sleeping bags, energy snacks and anti-perspirant. The majority are male and under 30, dressed in check shirts or tees with geek-joke slogans, such as "Señor developer" or "Munch my data".The event's organisers are called3 Beards, though it turns out there are four of them and only three have significant bristles. They also organise a Friday-night meet-up for technology types in east London called theSilicon Drinkabout; aDragons' Den-style event for tech startup businesses calledDon't Pitch Me, Bro!, and something called theDigital Sizzle– a tech event with a barbecue as its defining feature. This is Digital Sizzle number 6: the first one that isn't free (tickets are £45) and the first one to take the form of a hack.Hackathons come in many varieties: they can be themed around a particular programming language; focused on creating stuff for a particular platform, such as Android; or a company might invite hackers to build new things using its content – Yahoo! has run an open hack day since 2006. The 3&nbsp;Beards thought London hackathons tended to concentrate on creating startups. "They are mainly focused on creating a business idea, then pitching it on the final evening, along with all the relevant trimmings – revenue plan, target market, etc," says 3 Beards's Michael Hobson. "We thought that by making the output purely artistic, it would foster more creativity and allow people to really run wild with their ideas."So this hack has a theme: art meets tech. The aim of the weekend is to encourage the hackers to take some of the masses of data living on the internet, or even create some of their own (in one case with goldfish), and present it in new, unusual ways, to make something from it – a piece of music, an artwork, a machine, a game – something that brings the data to life. Not everyone here has a computing background: a smattering of artists, designers, musicians have signed up to collaborate.Some hackers have come prepared with an idea. About a dozen take turns to explain their plan to the rest of the group, hoping to fire imaginations and recruit fellow hackers to their team.The DataDress, woven from social media pictures generated during London Fashion Week. Photograph: Paul Clarke/paulclarke.comRachel Taylor, an artist, says she wants to make a dress from the social media generated by London Fashion Week. She would like to remind the nerds of the age-&nbsp;old link between weaving looms and the computer.Stef Lewandowski describes himself as a hacker and knows how to work a crowd of geeks: "What we need is lasers!" gets a cheer. He's booked time on Saturday with a laser-cutting workshop. His plan is to turn tweets into wearable jewellery.Developer Gavin Clark says he has two ideas. One is a "death clock", which will use basic personal information to calculate when and why you will die – and use a projector to display an image of, say, a heart attack on to your body. He also wants to make a machine that will reproduce the weather from somewhere else in the world using lights, fans and a hose.Other hackers say they plan to do work with football data, or make art from Transport for London information. Another suggests turning "emotional data into liquid".For inspiration, the crowd watch aTED talk from Google data artist Aaron Koblin, whose team worked on theArcade Fire/Chris Milk film for We Used to Wait, which allowed you to incorporate Google Street View images of your home town into the video – an exemplary instance of tech meeting art. Wrapping up, Benjamin Southworth an ex-3&nbsp;Beard who is now deputy CEO of theTech City Investment Organisation(Tech City is what the government wants us to call Silicon Roundabout) implores the gathering to "take something that's raw and honest, turn it into magic".Tonight the hackers have to go home, but, after they return at 9am on Saturday, they don't have to leave until Sunday night. The organisers have supplied everything a hacker could possibly need: powerful Hewlett Packard PCs, XBox Kinects, various bits of hardware they might need to add GPS, lighting and sound to their projects. There are mentors from cloud communication firmTwiloand social media monitoring specialistsBrandwatchgiving expert advice and access to their web services. There is a generous supply of beer, coffee, burgers and Mexican food. And there's one shower.Yet participants aren't here for the new toys, diabetes-inducing diet and natural odours. A hackathon is about much more than that. As Michael Hobson explains: "The participants get an experience which is hard to find elsewhere. It's only in this high-pressure, time-sensitive environment that you can really come face-to-face with yourself, and see what you're capable of. People surprise themselves with what they can output over a weekend… At the very least, it can give them a thirst to be more productive in their day-to-day life."There's also a brand of tech speed-dating going on. "As well as the 'inward' development," says Hobson, "they also form close bonds with the people they collaborate with. It can go either way – if you really get on with the person, you'll have a great friendship, but, if they get on your nerves, then it will come to the surface much quicker."By Sunday, the sense of bonhomie is palpable and rather surprisingly the sense of body odour is not: these are clearly quite hygienic people. The 20 teams are given three minutes to present their hacks to the audience. Judges are going to select a number of the works for a one-night-only show at the Whitechapel gallery, who, like theObserver, are sponsoring the event.Rachel Taylor and her team present their dress made entirely from Instagram and Flickr pictures, a mask made from faces, and a hat made from tweets – all grabbed from London Fashion Week. The death clock was jettisoned very early on, but Gavin Clark and his team have a rudimentary weather machine to show the crowd. It works like this: the audience vote by text for the city weather they would like to witness (Jakarta, New Delhi, Rio, Cape Town and Beijing are on offer), then, with the help of a lamp, a fan, a strobe light and pond pump that streams water down a plastic sheet, they get to see 10 days' worth of weather in 100 seconds. Beijing wins, and each time it rains there's a big&nbsp;cheer.Stef Lewandowski (who worked alone; he calls this a "solo hack") asks for six women – which is most of the women in the room – to model his data jewellery. Some is in the form of coloured acrylic strands that hang from a necklace, some cut from felt and sitting on the collarbone. His wife's past 3,000 tweets are visualised as a necklace ("The length of the strands corresponds with how chatty she is in a given period"), while a "necklace of death" uses red acrylic strands to visualise how many people are talking about death on a given day, and includes an engraving of the name of someone who appeared in theGuardianobituaries that day. After some deliberation, the judges decide on three winners: Stef's necklaces, the See-Thru Planet iPad app, and the RSVP Network.Ten days later, 600 people turn up to see the projects at theWhitechapel galleryin east London, not far from Silicon Roundabout. The teams have had a chance to polish their work and get it ready to show off in the gallery's vast white spaces.Stef, a veteran of many hackathons, tells me that that is what made the Digital Sizzle hackathon unique. "This event raises the whole thing. Instead of making something that only my fellow hackers see, I'm making something that is worth someone else's time to look at."Some of the projects have already attracted commercial interest. Stef has had orders for his necklaces, and "the wife of someone famous" has expressed an interest in investing. If that doesn't work out, he's thinking of raising funds whenKickstarterlaunches in the UK. The weather guys have set up meetings with Virgin Atlantic and Emirates, which are both interested in the idea of machines in airports that simulate the weather in travellers' destinations.The tech-art culture clash has pleased Iwona Blazwick, director of the Whitechapel, who says: "We have been so impressed with the entrepreneurial spirit as well as the sheer speed at which the techies work. Everything is possible! The results demonstrate how the collaborative power of artists with technology experts can make us see our world with fresh eyes."3 Beards's Bryce Keane is sipping on a well-earned raspberry beer. Plans are already being made to turn it into a annual event with a longer two-week exhibition. "I don't think we imagined it would be this successful, but we're really happy that it is. It shows the London tech scene is alive and well."The organisers would also like to thank headline sponsorsWPS Challenger, along withMind Candy,Wirehive,Hewlett Packard,Diginate Printers,Casio ProjectorsandLeaderboarded
Almost without noticing it, our world crossed a significant threshold last week. Jerry Brown, the governor of California, signed into lawa billthat will allow driverless cars on to his state's roads from 2015. Insofar as most people noticed this event at all, they probably sniffed derisively. For some, it'll be seen as an example of techno-hubris – "flags on the moon stuff" – as one of my acquaintances put it. For others, it will be seen as yet another confirmation of the proposition that the continental United States slopes gently from east to west, with the result that everything with a screw loose rolls into California.Governor Brown signed the bill at Google's HQ in Mountain View. This was good PR on his part, but it also made sense because Google has led the charge into autonomous (aka driverless) vehicles. For several years, Toyota Prius hybrids that have been specially adapted by the company's engineers have been driving the roads of California. To date, they have logged 300,000 miles with only one accident – caused by a human-controlled car that ran into one of them. And they have now logged 50,000 miles without a human having to take the wheel.At the ceremony in Mountain View, Google's co-founder, Sergey Brin,announced the company's intentionto bring autonomous vehicles to the market in five years. In a pre-emptive attack on critics, he pointed out that autonomous vehicles would be significantly safer than human-controlled ones. That seems plausible to me: 40,000 people are killed every year in road accidents in the US and many, if not most, of those are caused by human error. "This has the power to change lives," Brin said. "Too many people are underserved by the current transport system. They are blind, or too young to drive, or too old, or intoxicated." He also argued that manual operation of cars was inefficient: autonomous vehicles could make better use of the road and reduce the size of car parks by fitting into smaller areas than humans could get them into.Ignore the evangelism for a moment and think about what Google has achieved. Its engineers have demonstrated that with smart software and an array of sensors, a machine can perform a task of sophistication and complexity most of us assumed would always require the capabilities of humans. And that means our assumptions about what machines can and cannot do are urgently in need of updating.This isn't just about cars, by the way. Economists in the US are increasingly puzzled by the fact that even after its recession officially ended, the rate of job-creation is much lower than expected and the mean length of time for which people are unemployed has rocketed to 40 weeks, twice as long as that observed during any previous postwar recovery. Economic theory (and history) says that when companies begin to grow or become profitable again, they buy equipment and hire workers. But that isn't happening. Companies are still buying kit, but they're not employing workers.So where did the jobs go? As you'd expect from economists, there are lots of theories. The most intriguing explanation, for my money, has been offered by two MIT academics, Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee, in their bookRace Against the Machine. Crudely stated, their view is that advances in computing of the kind embodied by the Google self-driving car represent the next wave of job-eliminating technology. Many skills that were hitherto deemed secure (such as driving) may be devalued and might eventually become worthless, at least in the job market.You don't have to subscribe to techno-utopian dreams such as Ray Kurzweil's idea of the technological "singularity" – the point at which artificial intelligence (AI) surpasses human intelligence – to see that Brynjolfsson and McAfee might be on to something.Moore's law, which says that computing power doubles every 18 months, is still doing its stuff. And lots of things that we once thought required fancy AI turned out just to require massive processing power. Think of Siri on the iPhone or the Dragon Dictate software that I'm using to "write" this piece.And as for those sceptics who think that driverless cars are too anodyne to appeal to most motorists, there is the uncomfortable fact that, at least in the industrialised world, the carhas peaked. We're driving less, year on year. Gridlock drains the romance from driving. And young people are not lusting to own cars like they used to in the era portrayed in the filmAmerican Graffiti. All that remains is for us to file a Sorn (Statutory Off Road Notification) for Jeremy Clarkson and we're done.
What happens once iPhone and iPad users update to iOS 6 and try the Maps app? Do they stick with it, or do they decide - in line with chief executive Tim Cook's "extremely sorry" letter on Apple's site - that it isn't up to standard?Snappli, which makes a data-compression service for iPhone users (so in that sense rather like what RIM provides for users of its BlackBerry handsets) has been monitoring what has been happening over the past week since people began upgrading to iOS 6, and in particular with the change from offering Google data to Apple's own data.The graph is below:Snappli data on maps data use in iOS 5 (blue) and iOS 6 (red)Eldar Tuvey of Snappli says the figures are as follows:• 64% of our users in the past week are now on iOS 6 (UK and US) - in fact 16% upgraded to iOS on the first day• Before the upgrade to iOS6, 25% of our users were viewing Google maps at least once a day• Once they moved to iOS6, that immediately went to 35% of users using Apple Maps• However, over the next five days that drops down to 4%In summary, says Tuvey, "Before iOS 6, one in four people were using Google Maps [daily]; after iOS 6, one in 25 are using Apple Maps daily, and that figure is falling…."On its face, this is pretty damning: people aren't downloading any data through Apple Maps. So they can't be using it, surely?Except there's one confounding factor: Google's maps on iOS 5 useraster graphics; Apple's Maps on iOS 6 usevector graphics(the same format as Nokia, and as Google's Maps on Android).Raster, vector, dataThe key difference between raster and vector graphics is that raster graphics are a fixed-frame set - essentially, a picture - whereas vector graphics are files where the images they encode can be scaled up or down without requiring any extra data. There is a cost in terms of CPU to using vector graphics - but the big advantage is that you don't have to download any extra data once you have the tile.LetWikipedia explain it:Vector graphics is the use of geometrical primitives such as points, lines, curves, and shapes or polygon(s), which are all based on mathematical expressions, to represent images in computer graphics. "Vector", in this context, implies more than a straight line.Vector graphics is based on images made up of vectors (also called paths, or strokes) which lead through locations called control points. Each of these points has a definite position on the x and y axes of the work plan. Each point, as well, is a variety of database, including the location of the point in the work space and the direction of the vector (which is what defines the direction of the track). Each track can be assigned a color, a shape, a thickness and also a fill. This does not affect the size of the files in a substantial way because all information resides in the structure; it describes how to draw the vector.The key difference is that Google Maps on iOS 5, because it uses raster graphics, needs repeated downloads. You'll see this if you load a page on maps.google.com in iOS 5, then turn the phone to Airplane mode - so the Wi-Fi and data connections are off - and then try to scroll off the page. You'll hit a blank spot because there isn't any data.By contrast, the vector graphics used in Apple Maps don't require extra downloads. You can confirm this by loading a page (choose your own location, for simplicity), and then turning the data connections off. Now try scrolling across the page: it will load. You'll be able to see detail in your surrounding area. You'll be able to zoom in and out. If you're in a car or train, you should find that you can track your travel - even plan your route, to some extent - with zero extra data. The whole of the UK is encapsulated in less than 200MB, according to data from CoPilot.Korea factorThat was certainly my experience earlier this week in Korea, where on a visit to Samsung I had an iPhone running iOS 6 which had no data contract. One evening I looked at the overview of North and South Korea (it turns out Apple's Maps offer more detail than Google does for North Korea; the latter's is just a white blank). The next day, with zero data coverage, we were taken on a coach trip to a Samsung production facility.The phone tracked our entire journey, with street-level data including the names of shops, all the way. And all the way back. And then, later, out to the airport. All that, without getting a single extra drop of data.The day starts in Seoul, on a bus. I took more than 100 screenshots during this trip with zooms at all sorts of levels of detail. This is only the tiniest, illustrative selection.Seoul, mapped on an iPhone on iOS 6 with no data. Note the "No Service" note in the status bar at the top.We then head south. But let's zoom in to see the road detail.Zooming in - without any data download - in Seoul on Apple MapsAnd zoom out again. The bottom edge of the screen hasn't refilled - but it does after a moment.Heading south from Seoul; no data downloadA zoom in just to check where we are. Again, this is all done by the vector data that came with the original download the night before.Zooming in in Korea on Apple Maps. Still no data download...and back again..Returning to Seoul. Apple Maps; no data download...until we reach Seoul. The time lapse between some of the screenshots is due to the visit paid to Samsung's memory factory. There weren't any data sources there.Bottom line: vector mapping is powerful.So while there's absolutely no reason to doubt that Snappli is correct in what it shows about the amount ofdatabeing downloaded by iOS 6 users, it might be worth pondering whether that's actually representative oftime spenton maps. That's likely to stay much the same.For one thing, if people use maps a lot - as the figures seem to suggest they do - it's odd if they go from using them a lot (iOS 5) to using them a lot (iOS 6 first install) and then not using them at all (as the graph implies). If Apple Maps is sounbelievablyterrible, wouldn't you expect to see an uptick in the graph in the use of Google maps data again (since Snappli can see where the data demand is coming from)? Yes, you would.Personally - I'll repeat, since people seem to think I'm making this up - I have found Apple's maps to be fine. I haven't been horrified by the lack of detail compared to Google Maps.Certainly, they're sparse - but the ability (at last) to turn the map around, tilt it in 3D, andespeciallynavigate to locations using voice-guided turn-by-turn navigation - particularly when you add the ability to get Siri to set up the navigation without having to take the phone out of your pocket (wearing a mic and headset, or Bluetooth earpiece/mic) - means, I think, you have something far, far better than what preceded it. I've personally used it multiple times and been very satisfied by it.Imagine: two weeks ago, if you used an iPhone you'd have to look at your screen to get turn-by-turn (with no voice guidance); you couldn't set it up via Siri; you'd have to hope your data connection was good as you moved around the country or city. (Of that, there's no guarantee.) Yes, you did have transit data built into Google Maps. (You now, if you try to use the public transport option in routing with Maps, get pointed to apps in the App Store to plan the route. Great for app developers.)By contrast, what the iPhone has now in terms of functionality (if not uniform data quality) finally matches what Android and Nokia have had for some time. Vector graphics change the game compared to raster graphics; and turn-by-turn, enormously important in Apple's main market of the US (because so much time is spent driving). Google and Apple couldn't agree on terms for Google to license either element; Google wanted more branding in the app, and to use its Latitude user-tracking service in the app. Apple resisted both and built up its mapping expertise.Clearly, there's a lot of anger out there about Apple's Maps. (There's a lot of schadenfreude too, I think.) Apple didn't get it right, by a long chalk;Tim Cook acknowledged that. But Apple equally didn't feel it could leave mapping to someone else.Personally, I haven't been let down by Apple's Maps. In the brief time I had to test them while reviewing the iPhone 5, they seemed - as I said at the time - good. And miles better in many regards than what preceded them (shall I repeat? Voice navigation inegrated with Siri, vector mapping).Clearly, their quality varies enormously for different people in different places. In Ontario, for example, thequality in place names looks dire. In the UK, by contrast, theOrdnance Survey gazetteerhas 250,000 place names and details - and is free, open data. (Remember a campaign for free map data in the UK?) Possibly that has helped; and the fact that Canada doesn't have the same regime may have made it harder there. The US also has enormously variable data quality at the local and national level, whereas the Ordnance Survey is world-renowned for the quality of its work. Let's hear it for free data, then. (Criticisms of the satellite pictures - many gathered onAmazing iOS 6 Maps- seem by-the-by. If you really use satellite pictures to navigate, you're either an astronaut or a pilot, and in either case shouldn't be using an iPhone.)All fields?The reality though is that Apple still has a problem on its hands - which Tim Cook has acknowledged. But equally, even while it is conceding at least seven years' experience of offering public maps to Google, it is a company that has a lot of resources - not least those billions in the bank. People might not be pleased with Apple's maps right now. But it's going to be fascinating to see where it is in a year's time.
Remember the jokes? How do you double the value of a Skoda? Why do Skodas have heated rear windows? What do you call a Skoda with a sunroof? Etc. There was a problem with them – the jokes, I mean, not the Skodas (though there were problems with them, too. That was the basis of the humour). The jokes weren't funny – not a single one of them was. And that's a serious problem, for a joke.To be honest, I think it's quite hard to find a huge amount of hilarity in the automotive industry.Alan Partridgeis possibly the only person to have succeeded.The Top Gear idiotstry hard, and some people think they succeed, but these people are also idiots.Anyway, the Skoda jokes died a&nbsp;death when the company became a wholly owned subsidiary of Volkswagen at the turn of the century. The Germans, with their superior engineering and organisational talents, sorted out the cars, made them reliable. And if there's one thing even less funny than a crap car, it's a good car.So why's he banging on about old jokes, that aren't just unfunny but also irrelevant and to which no one even remembers the punchlines? I'll be honest: truth is, I&nbsp;don't have an awful lot to say about this car, having already written about it before. Twice! OK, so not exactly this car, but theVW up!and theSeat Mii(Seat was swallowed up by VW even before Skoda was). There may be a few differences in the styling, but under the skin they're all pretty much the same car, with the same DNA, the same engines, platforms and cabins.The Citigo is excellent, just like the other two – surprisingly roomy for such a small car, good value, good quality, refined, practical, sensible, likable, if not the most exciting either to drive or to look at. They all tick all the same boxes. You'd choose one over the other simply because you like the look of it better. My favourite – the cleanest looking – is&nbsp;the Seat.But if you support Manchester City, you'd pick the Skoda. Go City, Citigo… See what I mean about the car/humour thing being hard? Still,Roberto Mancinishould insist his entire squad drive them. I'd love to seeMario Balotelliin a Skoda Citigo. (Did the marketing people even consider that no self-respecting Manchester United fan would go anywhere near one, just as you'll never see a Spurs fan in a Kia Venga?)Oh, there is one other – possibly better – reason to get a Citigo over the other two: it's the cheapest. Around £500 less than the equivalent VW up! A pony, just for a VW&nbsp;badge and a silly exclamation mark. Now that is a joke.Skoda Citigo Se 1.0 60PS ManualPriceFrom £8,530Top speed99mphAcceleration0-62 mph in 14.4 secondsCombined mpg62.8mpgCO2emissions105g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating6/10
Originally released on PC back in 1997, The Last Express was one of the true classic point-and-click adventure titles, plunging gamers into an intriguing tale of death an conspiracy aboard the Orient Express. Set in the final days before the First World War, the game features a unique real-time clock, which gives the player a set period within which to solve the mystery. Meanwhile, the large cast of secondary characters all have their own agendas, moving around the train as the plot progresses.Critically acclaimed at the time, the game has now been scrupulously updated for iPhone and iPad, with original creatorJordan Mechneroverseeing the process alongside French developer, DotEmu. We spoke to Mechner, who also created the hit Prince of Persia series, about the game and the challenge of updating it for a whole new generation.Can you tell us how you originally came up with the idea of the Last Express? There seem to be lots of literary elements in it including Agatha Christie of course, but also spy novels and Hitchcock movies...A man on the run, accused of a crime he didn't commit, stuck on a train with no escape... yes indeed, Last Express owes a huge debt to adventure thrillers like Graham Greene's The Third Man, Hitchcock's The Lady Vanishes and North By Northwest, with a bit of The Maltese Falcom, and even Indiana Jones. Basically, if you're going to steal, steal from the best.The higher-brow ingredients, like Rebecca West, Russian fairy tales, and Yeats poetry, got stirred into the soup thanks to my late co-writer Tomi Pierce, who is the best-read person I've ever known.Also, a train is an ideal setting for an adventure game because it's a confined space, but it's moving. You've got to do such-and-such before the train stops in Munich, or you're dead. And this may be heresy, but I personally find Murder on the Orient Express the most boring train movie ever filmed, because the train is stopped dead for two hours. Cinematically, we'd much rather be accused of stealing from Hitchcock than from Christie.The game looked beautiful - I loved the rather stately visual design, which sort of had elements of Toulouse-Lautrec but also Bande dessinée comics. And the character animation was done using rotoscoping wasn't it? What do you remember about the process?We wanted to achieve the effect of a pen-and-ink drawing come to life. As a player, I've always felt that the moment you see full-motion video of actors in a game, it kills the illusion of interactivity. It's easier to suspend your disbelief when you're playing a cartoon.And yes, we were inspired by the Art Nouveau style that was popular in the era of our game: Toulouse-Lautrec, Alphonse Mucha... So we rotoscoped it. We did a three-week live-action, blue-screen film shoot in San Francisco, with over sixty actors, a small child and a large dog – and costumes, makeup and crazy wigs specially designed to be rotoscope-friendly. We also had a separate film shoot with miniature model trains. We shot on 16mm film and spent two years digitally rotoscoping the footage to create over 40,000 inked and coloured frames of animation, using a semi-automated process which we developed in-house and patented.And all the time, in the background, the game plays out to this beautiful soundtrack. How did that come about? Will it be replicated in the iOS version?The Czech film composer Elia Cmiral (Ronin) gave us a fantastic score. He managed everything, including recording with real string musicians, which was unusual for a game at the time, but important for us because a key character, Anna Wolff, is a violinist and this becomes central to the plot.The complete original soundtrack is retained in the iOS version, including a major setpiece in which passengers gather in one of the train cars for a violin and piano recital that lasts over an hour. As the player, you can take this opportunity to explore other parts of the train, the music continuing while you duck in and out, or, if you prefer, you can stay and watch the characters perform Cesar Franck's A Minor sonata in its entirety.Oh and here's a piece of trivia: If you visit the piano car in the middle of the night and eavesdrop outside the door, the pianist you hear on the recording is actually my Dad, who composed the music for my first games, Karateka and Prince of Persia.How have you updated or altered the game content for the new format? Are there any new features or story elements?The game is complete and identical to the original - including all graphics, sound, and dialog - but we have added some features for iOS. There's a new three-tiered hint system, so that any time you're stuck, you can get a hint; and if you're still stuck, you can get a hint that's somewhat more explicit, and finally one that tells you straight out what to do.Purists and die-hards of the original game may want to resist the temptation, as much of the fun of Last Express is in exploring and discovering alternative paths that don't necessarily lead you closer to winning. But with five to 20 hours of game play, we recognise that many iOS gamers would prefer a more streamlined experience, so we've made the hints available.For iOS, we've also added GameCenter achievements, unlockable character biographies when you meet a new character, and the ability to replay unlocked cinematic sequences – whether to refresh your memory for clues, or just to replay favorite game moments.How did you re-think the controls for touchscreen devices?We've redesigned the original point-and-click interface for the touchscreen. All the same actions are available to the player as in the original game, but the element of scanning with the mouse pointer to find them has been eliminated. You simply tap the desired action. It took us a bit of experimentation to arrive at such a straightforward solution, but it's very satisfactory. Even if you're used to the PC version like me, it's surprising how quickly you get used to playing this way. I actually prefer it now.Certain other elements, like the inventory screen, have been redesigned to be more iOS-intuitive.One really nice thing is that on the iPhone, the game now plays vertically. In the original PC game, we depicted narrow train corridors and compartments in portrait mode to create a sense of the confined space in these areas of the train. That struck some people as an eccentric decision, since it left two-thirds of the screen black. On iPhone, it's perfect. When you step into a larger room, such as the restaurant car, you can swipe with your finger to scan the room horizontally. On iPad, the game plays horizontally, as on the PC.How challenging has the whole process been? And has it been interesting to rediscover the game again? Has it reminded you of the original development process?This was a big project for DotEmu, certainly bigger than they realized at the start. I think that's the nature of the Last Express beast – few iOS games have this much content, let alone so many alternative paths and different ways to play. It took a lot of playtesting and extra QA to iron out all the little quirks and details, much as we did 15 years ago. DotEmu did a terrific job, diligent and conscientious. I could only sympathize.Then again, the original Last Express game was supposed to take eighteen months but ended up taking four years. So by that standard, the iOS port was a piece of cake.Personally, it's been a great pleasure for me to replay Last Express after 15 years. Not only was I relieved to find that the original game holds up well, but as an even happier surprise, iOS is now my favorite way to play it. Maybe because the rhythm of TLE is somewhat meditative, more like reading a novel than playing a typical game, it just feels natural playing it on a comfortable couch instead of sitting in front of a computer. Of course, nothing beats playing it on an actual train, or long plane flight, with headphones.It's interesting that Last Express is returning just as Revolution Software has had such success with Broken Sword on iPhone – it seems there is a new audience hungry for adventure games. What is the appeal of this genre in the modern era?I hope you're right. Game studios and publishers have operated for three decades on the assumption that their audience will choose a game with better technology, higher resolutions or frame rates, over one with, say, better plot construction. And this assumption has been largely self-fulfilling, at least on console and PC. But there's always been the occasional wild card success like Tetris, and more recently, the huge boom in simple games like Temple Run, that suggests there's a potentially even bigger public out there that doesn't care that much about the bells and whistles – they just want an experience.I'd love to think this huge mass of iPhone owners is hungry not just for the next quick addictive fix, but also for games that engage them with stories and characters they can care about, an experience that's different from reading a novel or watching a TV show, but potentially just as meaningful. I don't know if that's true, but I hope it is.Can you tell us how your remake of Karateka (Mechner's first game – another classic) is coming along - how different is that process for you?Karateka is nearly finished and is due out later this year. I don't want to take away from the TLE release, so I should save most of what I have to say about Karateka until we're closer to the date – but one big difference is that whereas TLE is a straight port, Karateka is a ground-up reinvention of the original 1984 Apple II game. And whereas TLE is a complex, multi-layered story, rich with the ironies of 20th-century history, and full of opportunities for meandering, reflection and exploration, Karateka was and is extremely compact and linear. You're in medieval Japan, the evil warlord has kidnapped your true love, and you set out to rescue her by fighting an army of karate warriors. Karateka is a straightforward challenge that anybody, young or old, can pick up immediately, grasp what's going on and start playing and having fun.As different as they are, TLE and the new Karateka are both romantic adventures grounded in a historical time and place – each with a distinctive atmosphere and visual style, and using sound and music in an innovative way.Have you ever thought of producing a follow-up to Last express? It feels like it could so easily be a series...I love these characters and their world and I've certainly thought of revisiting them. Story-wise, [lead character Robert] Cath being the kind of guy he is, and the 20th century being what it was, there's no doubt he would go on getting into trouble and probably landing on the losing side of more struggles – during the war, after the war... A certain promise is made at the end of the game; it would be interesting to find out what happens with that. Or a prequel involving Cath and Tyler's younger adventures, like the one that ended so badly in Cuba – or was it Mexico?The thing is, the original TLE was such a huge, ambitious undertaking – technically, artistically, logistically – it would be virtually impossible to fund an adventure game on that scale today.  The challenge would be to find a way to do it that is smaller, but still builds on the original game in a way that's new and interesting. It would have to be done with the internet and mobile in mind from the beginning.There was such a beauty to Last Express and Price of Persia - they had such a unique visual style, so graceful and artistic. Do you think games have lost something in their quest for photorealism?Thanks for that. The drive toward photorealism has pushed technological advances that all games can now benefit from. But yes, absolutely, games that strive for photorealism pay a price, both literally, in that they're expensive to make, and artistically, in the constraints that come with this choice. The closer we get to photorealism, the more we notice the ways the scene falls short. The ;uncanny valley' is a terrible place to live, yet so many games choose it.But the future is bright. Looking at most of the big console releases over the past few years has sometimes felt a bit like walking through a 17th and 18th-century painting gallery – room after room of giant canvases, beautifully rendered and lit, yet taken together, depressingly uniform, dark and oppressive. Great if you like that sort of thing.Then suddenly in the next room there's the Impressionists and this fantastic explosion of color and different styles. I think gamers are increasingly willing to embrace a wider variety of distinctive art styles, and mobile and downloadable games are only accelerating this.• The Last Express is available nowon the App Storefor £2.99
Another week, another 20 new and notable iPhone and iPad apps appearing on Apple's App Store, with books and children's apps figuring prominently in this latest weekly selection.As ever, games aren't included, because there's a separate weekly roundup for them.This week's postincludes iOS games like Bad Piggies, FIFA 13, God of Blades and Boomtime Baseball.Wondering where all the Android apps are? There's aseparate post for them, while Windows Phone getsits own monthly roundup. Read on for this week's iOS selection.A Clockwork OrangePublisher Random House has given Anthony Burgess' famous novel the full works for its iPad edition, with the original text, a full reading, audio clips of Burgess himself, essays and notes, the 1961 typescript, and experts analysing what it all means in videos. Plus a nifty cog-like interface to find your way around it all.iPadCamera+ for iPadCamera+ remains a hugely popular photography app on iPhone, offering features above and beyond the native camera app's. 9m sales later, it has spawned an iPad version. Who takes photos with their iPad? Well, some people, but the real appeal here is the use of iCloud to access photos shot using the iPhone version, with a range of editing features exclusive to the iPad version. In other words, it's looking to eat iPhoto's lunch too.iPadNigellissimaNigella Lawson is back with another TV show and spin-off book. But this being 2012, there's also an app. Described as a "taster", it includes nine of the book's Italian-inspired recipes, as well as behind-the-scenes video and information on key ingredients. Oh, and Lawson's Twitter, Facebook and "Kitchen Witter" in the social feeds section.iPhone / iPadFancy Nancy Ballet SchoolFancy Nancy is the star of a popular series of HarperCollins children's books, and has already appeared in a couple of apps. This new one is less a story, and more an educational ballet app. Children can watch Nancy perform 11 moves and steps, string them together into whatever sequence they like, and then practise themselves. A video feature also allows them (or a parent) to shoot footage of their dancing, then have Nancy digitally inserted into the video.iPhone / iPadZeeboxZeebox isn't new for Brits, but it's just launched in the US, with the second-screen startup partnering with broadcasting big-hitters NBCUniversal and HBO, as well as cable provider Comcast. As in the UK, the app provides a souped-up TV guide, pulls in tweets about individual shows, and provides contextual links and information while you're watching them.iPhone / iPadESPNcricinfoThere was already an iPhone app for ESPN's cricket website, but now it's been upsized for iPad too. Expect global coverage of cricket leagues and tournaments, with news, fixtures, results, audio and video content, and ball-by-ball commentary for key matches. US cricket fans (yes, there are some) can also get video highlights of the ICC World Twenty20 tournament.iPadInsight Guides World CitiesiOS travel-guide apps? It's a crowded market, but the new Insight Guides World Cities app is hoping to punch its weight against the guide-book giants. It's a free download, with 10 city guides available to buy in-app at £3.99 a pop. They include listings of businesses, hotels and tourist hotspots, as well as a talking phrasebook and offline maps.iPhone / iPadKapu Tickle Toy CameraIf you're a parent, would you let your child loose with your iPhone or iPad's camera? What if it had dangly virtual monsters? That's the idea behind Kapu Tickle Toy Camera, a really inventive children's app that gets them playing with virtual characters, while taking snaps of them in the real world. As a child-friendly introduction to photography, it takes some beating.iPhone / iPadMadefireMadefire has been available on iPad for a while, but its new version is now on iPhone and iPod touch too. The idea: rather than offer digital replicas of old print comics, it commissions new ones from a host of famous artists, adding music, sound effects, motion and panoramic views to capitalise on their "digital-first" nature. Whizzy comics, basically, but in a good way.iPhoneNMHMC HarveyAlbert Einstein's brain, sliced up and splashed all over your iPad screen. Now that's a marketing slogan. This, of course, is a serious app, based on the autopsy of Einstein's brain in 1955, when it was segmented into 170 parts for study by neuroscientists. That's now been digitised, so experts (and, okay, some curious amateurs) can continue to peer at Albert's spongey matter.iPadBibbidi-Bobbidi-YouOr, to give it its full name: Disney Second Screen Personalized Digital Storybook: Bibbidi-Bobbidi-You. This is another second-screen app for TV viewers, but unlike Zeebox it's laser-focused on one thing: Disney's Blu-ray re-release of its classic film Cinderella. Expect "a whole new way to experience the classic story" (which means resisting the urge to check your tweets every five minutes). US-only for now.iPhone / iPadStreamweaverFrustratingly, this is also US-only, at least for now. It's a "multi-angle mobile video app that's social from the moment you tap record" according to the developers, who have also coined their own "split-screen synchronicity" phrase for it. The basic idea being shoot video in the same place with some friends, then see the different angles played back together. Us Brits will have to content ourselves withVyclone, which is similar in ambition, but also edits the clips into a single video.iPhoneCrayola DigiTools 3-DCrayola may be best known for its crayons, but it makes apps too – a succession over the last year exploring digital colouring and drawing. This latest is one of a set of three (Airbrush and Effects are the other two). It's designed to be used with a physical pack of drawing accessories by children to create 3D images using backgrounds and animated stickers. The pack will be out by Christmas, but the app is available now.iPadHistory of a Pleasure Seeker, Volume 1This is another interesting spin on what interactive novels might look like on touchscreen devices. Based on Richard Mason's book, it blends text, an audio reading, music recordings of the pieces mentioned in the text, street scenes, note-taking facilities, and the ability to ask Mason himself questions about the contents.iPhone / iPadDr. Frankenstein's Body LabBook publisher DK is getting monstrous on the App Store with its new educational app, aimed at a younger audience. It teaches them about the human body's skeleton, brain and senses, heart and lungs, digestive system and muscles through drag'n'drop-based mini-game, before a final section to put those ideas into practice by, er, making a monster. A fun take on biology.iPadMTV EMAMTV is gearing up for its annual European Music Awards shindig in Frankfurt, with an official app providing news, nominee information, photos and videos. On past form, MTV will have some additional second-screen tricks up its sleeve for the app on the actual night (11 November, since you ask).iPhone / iPadJasmineIt's a tough time to be launching a native iOS app to watch YouTube videos, given that Google has just done exactly that. Still, Jasmine is picking up some admiring reviews for its clean, uncluttered design, and its features including playlists, parental controls – if you pay £1.49 to upgrade in-app – and AirPlay support.iPhone / iPadFixYa: Solutions for EverythingFixYa is one of those sites that tell modern (i.e. woefully unpractical) men and women how to do things. Fix dehumidifiers, lubricate lawnmowers, nail things onto other things without the other things being your own leg... That kind of stuff. Now it has an iPhone app tapping into its Q&amp;A system. Film a video of yourself asking a question, and wait for video answers from a global corps of experts.iPhoneLil' Red – An Interactive StoryThere is no shortage of iOS retellings of the Little Red Riding Hood fairytale, but this is one of the most stylish – monochrome graphics enlivened by splashes of red for Lil' Red herself, roses, apples, butterflies and so on. It looks beautiful. What's more, its developer has chosen to include no text or narration, leaving children to imagine the story themselves.iPadNollybooksNollybooks is touting a concept called "Bookazines" – novels for women by South African writers, sold via in-app purchase, with additional content like word puzzles, quizzes, interviews and reading group notes. It's an interesting take on offering a series of books in digital form – as much of a community as a store.iPhone / iPadThat's our selection, but what about you? Make your recommendations for new iOS apps (or give feedback on the ones above) by posting a comment.
The flow of notable new Android apps quietened down a bit on the Google Play store this week, which is why this post has dropped down to a list of 10 rather than 20 – see the note at the bottom for a bit more on that.There's some good stuff though, from Google's brand new location app to second-screen startup Zeebox's Stateside debut.It's worth noting, too, that it has been a cracking week for new Android games. They're not included here, because there's a separate weekly mobile/tablet games roundup.This week's editionis well worth a read if you're an Android user, since it includes games like Bad Piggies, Pocket Planes, Bingo Bash, Kingdoms of Camelot: Battle and The Bard's Tale.Still, this post is all about non-game apps, so find this week's selection below – the weekly iOS roundup will follow later in the day:Field TripThis app came out of the blue from Google itself, or at least a team – Niantic Labs – working within the company on experimental apps. This one is a location-based recommendations app designed to run in the background. "When you get close to something interesting, it pops up a card with details about the location," explains its Google Play listing. That includes local history, food/drink/shopping suggestions and music gigs. It's US-only for now, although Pocket Lint hasalready discoveredthat when sideloaded, it works in the UK too.ZeeboxZeebox isn't new to Brits, of course, but the second-screen TV app launched in the US this week, with high-profile partners Comcast, NBCUniversal and HBO to give it an early boost. As in the UK, it's part TV Guide, helping people decide what to watch, and part social aggregator, pulling in tweets for each show, and offering related links and content. It'll be going head to head with US apps GetGlue, Miso and IntoNow, as well as fellow British firm Shazam.Fantasy Premier League 2012-13Playing England's official Fantasy Premier League competition? There's now an official app for it on Android. If you've registered a team online, you can use the app to pick your team every week, check their performance, transfer players in and out, and keep tabs on mini-leagues that you're playing in with friends.Awareness! HD for Etymotic"Getting lost in music, movies or games can be really anti-social," suggests the Google Play listing for this new audio app, which is designed to work with Etymotic's noise-isolation headsets. Tuned for Google's Nexus 7 tablet, this app uses the tablet's microphone to "listen" to the world around you, lowering your music/movies/games volume when it detects a noise louder than the background rumble.Sky MotionAnother North American-only app, this is a hyperlocal weather app, which makes the grand claim to know "exactly when precipitation will start and end for your exact location". For the next two hours at least, which is usually all the data you need to make an umbrella/taxi/etc decision. It works across the US and Canada.Puss in Boots: 3D Pop-up BookFancy spinning some fairy tales to your children on an Android device? CluePoint has an app for you, based on the familiar Puss in Boots story. Apeing a physical pop-up book, it has lots of tapping and dragging for interactivity, with music and a modern-rewrite of the tale. It's aimed at 2-6 year-olds.8bit BeatboxThat mushroom with headphones looks familiar in the promo screenshots... Yes, 8Bit Beatbox takes its inspiration firmly from retro videogames – not that they were retro at the time, of course. It's a music app for creating tunes using virtual sample pads and a three-octave keyboard.Music MatrixMusic-making apps are starting to make a noise on Android, with Music Matrix the latest trying to put a friendly face (well, interface) on creating beats and melodies on the go. Working on tablets and smartphones alike, its developers freely admit that they've been inspired by Yamaha's Tenori-On device, as you tap on a grid of squares to trigger sounds.JugglrAnd more music here, this time with a DJing app that claims to be the first on Android with a "real vinyl scratch effect". It runs in landscape or portrait mode, but more importantly can record your mixes and upload them to SoundCloud for sharing with the wider world (i.e. not just the unlucky souls whose living room / party you've hijacked with your box of emo-dubstep swing albums).GBKFinally, a UK-focused app to finish off with: Gourmet Burger Kitchen. Its app is focused on challenges and rewards, copping a few features from Foursquare (like achievement badges), while promising free food and drink to customers who use it often.And now for that apology...With no disrespect to the apps above, this week has seen very thin pickings on the Google Play store for non-game apps. But it's been a really good few weeks: 80 Android apps covered in the last month (here,here,hereandhereplus the 10 above) and another 20+ games in the separate games roundup.I'm very aware of the ongoing debate around how The Guardian covers iOS versus Android. I've been working hard to ensure both platforms get their fair share of coverage on the Apps Blog, which that 80 apps is a sign of (iOS will have had 90 for the same period, because today's roundup will have 20).So yes, a bad week, but lots of exciting apps coming out on Android over the month. This may seem a defensive few paragraphs, but hopefully it will at least provide context for any discussion of this week's 10 Best Apps post. I'm an optimist!
Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, has said he is "extremely sorry for the frustration" users have found with its new mapping service, adding that if they are dissatisfied they can use rival products.The dramatic move by Cook follows growing complaints about the quality of the data offered by the new Maps app which was introduced with iOS 6, the newest version of the mobile software powering the iPhone and iPad.Apple abandoned Google's offering because the two sides could not agree on licensing terms for Google's voice-directed turn-by-turn navigation – which Google had been offering on phones using its Android software since December 2010, and Apple saw as a key feature in the smartphone wars.Read:Apple's biggest mistakes, from maps to NewtonInstead Apple has been working for more than two years on introducing its own service, using data from other providers. But the introduction last week – which did bring voice-directed turn-by-turn navigation – alsocaused an outcryover misplaced towns, misnamed suburbs, parks designated as airfields and the loss of public transport directions compared with the Google data offered on the previous version of iOS."We are doing everything we can to make Maps better," Cook wrote in aletter posted on Apple's site– a method frequently used by Cook's predecessor Steve Jobs to issue messages when Apple was facing criticism.Apple has apologised in the past for errors – though sometimes grudgingly. When Apple lowered the price of the original iPhone by $200 in September 2007, just weeks after it had gone on sale and thousands had been bought, Jobs offered aggrieved users a $100 voucher – but told them that "this is the price of living in the technology lane". When Apple launched its MobileMe service, offering cloud-based synchronisation of emails and calendars, it was initially disastrous – leading Jobs toapologise publicly. When the iPhone 4 design turned out to have attenuation problems with its external antenna, Jobs was eventually moved to offer refunds and a free cover for the phone.Cook says in the letter that "we wanted to provide our customers with even better Maps including features such as turn-by-turn directions, voice integration, [satellite view] Flyover and vector-based maps [which store data in a single file rather than needing repeated downloads to work]. In order to do this, we had to create a new version of Maps from the ground up."Although iOS 6 was only released formally on 19 September, Cook says there are now more than 100m devices using it with the new Apple Maps, "with more and more joining us every day." He said that users "have already searched for nearly half a billion locations" and that such feedback will improve the quality.Unusually, Cook recommends that users who are dissatisfied with Apple's offering should try rival services. These include apps by MapQuest, Waze and Microsoft's Bing, or maps from Google and Nokia via web browsers.However, Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, indicated earlier this week that the search giant is not presently developing an app for iOS.''What were we going to do, force (Apple) to include the software?" Schmidt said in Tokyo on Monday, adding that Google has no plans at present to complete its iOS Google Maps app and submit it to Apple. That decision lies with Apple, Schmidt said.''We think it would have been better if they had kept ours. But what do I know?" he added.
Is BlackBerry maker RIM out of the woods? If all you looked at was its after-hours share price, and the forecasts by analysts, you might think so: the shares surged 18% after its results were announced; they showed losses that were less, and handset shipments greater, than analysts had forecast.Alas: as Benedict Evans of Enders Analysispointed out on Friday morning, the share ramp instead looked like a classic "short and squeeze" pattern – where those who had short-sold the shares in expectation of dire results were forced back into the market to buy, and minimise their own losses, when the numbers were only awful.RIM's problems are far from over. Its market share has collapsed in the US, it has just suffered its third successive quarter of losses (and forecast at least one more), average selling prices for its handsets are down, the 7.4m handset shipments are 30% down (in a rapidly expanding market), and its PlayBook tablet shipped just 130,000 units (Apple's iPad shipped more every day of the second quarter).The only area showing success is emerging markets such as Indonesia, where the combination of cheap handsets and its BBM (BlackBerry Messenger) service – which doesn't need a data contract to function – appeals to a broad demographic. The other area is enterprises, which have not yet abandoned BlackBerrys, because of their security and email functionality."There's many new products coming in so the market is going to get tougher, more challenging," chief executive Thorsten Heins told analysts in a conference call on Thursday, adding that that will most likely force RIM to cut prices further.That's going to hurt profits even more. RIM's US revenues have been collapsing since mid-2010 – though fortunately for its survival, revenues from other geographical regions have grown to make up some of the difference.But the general trend is downward, with revenues falling 31% to $2.87bn – the fifth successive quarterly drop – and operating losses hitting $363m, the third straight quarter of losses that in total are nudging $900m. RIM's problem is that it is ill-equipped to compete at the cheaper end of the smartphone market – but that is where it has been relegated by the huge success of Apple and Samsung, which between them control half of that sector."While RIM delivered marginally better results, we believe it is still too early to get constructive," said Phillip Huang of UBS Investment Research, in a note titled "Not Out of the Woods Yet; 1Q13 Key".The crucial question will be how effective BB10, the upcoming version of its operating system, can be. While Heins wowed developers earlier this week by showing off BB10 handsets and promising carriers would start testing them in October, there will still be a huge delay before the new products go on sale, probably in March 2013.By that time, it will face renewed pressure in the low-end markets from Finland's Nokia, as well as Chinese handset makers offering cheap Android phones, says Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst at researchers IDC."They're still relying on a very strong brand – that's what has been supporting them," says Jeronimo. "People in those markets can't afford high-end phones like the iPhone. But if BB10 isn't as good as they have been promising, then there will be problems. Let's see what happens in the next quarter."He thinks that will put extra pressure on as RIM comes under fire from rivals. "Nokia's Asha portfolio in emerging markets is probably the cheapest device that can provide a similar smartphone experience," he says.RIM's cash position improved despite the losses – but that came through squeezes on inventory (reduced by $233m) and the supply chain. But it will need everything it has to withstand what is sure to be a renewed attack over the next two quarters from rivals both above and below it.Peter Misek, at Jefferies noted that the figures released on Thursday offer little guidance to the future of the company. "They are driving sales in emerging markets and we think they will continue to lose subscribers in developed markets," he said."It doesn't tell you anything about the long-term success of the platform or the company."Colin Gillis, an analyst with BGC Financial, was more blunt. "It does give them more time. The talk of bankruptcy has probably dissipated right now," Gillis said. "These are all the right moves, but does it change that their position is still bleak?"
It's Friday - the very best day of the week to apply for tickets to video game events!Meet the creators of Dishonored, Oct 3, £8Come and see the artistic visionaries behind the steam punk stealth adventure. Art director Sebastien Mitton and visual design director Viktor Antonov will talk about how they imagined and built Dunwall and its unique retro futuristic architecture. I've seen them do this talk at the Develop conference and it was AMAZING. We also get to ask them questions afterwards. It's £8 including snacks and drinks and it's at our lovely office in Kings Place!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM reports fiscal second-quarter results (PDF) &gt;&gt; RIMBloody, and the flow is expected to continue. Somehow, despite losing money it is cash-positive. Can anyone explain that?"Remote wipe vulnerability" on Android devices &gt;&gt; Pastebin.comThe stock dialpad or dailers based on stock dialpad in Android versions prior to Android 4.1.1 release 1.1 allow initiating handling by Intents through special chars or sequences without propper validation and rejection. This allows the non intended execution of actions without input or confirmation by the user.Possible and already used in the wild attack vectors are tricking users to scan QR codes with "tel:[code]" or including iframes with "tel:[code]" as source on websites. Both will pass an Intent to the phone dialer and initiates action [bound] to that code.Nokia, HTC may engage in patent lawsuits over WP8 smartphones, say sources &gt;&gt; DigitimesThe usual Digitimes "sources" klaxon. That said:Nokia and HTC may engage in a new round of patent lawsuits over Windows Phone 8 models released recently by the two vendors due to their similar designs, according to industry sources.Nokia is reportedly looking to initiate a patent war as the Finnish handset vendor has voiced a complaint, suspecting that HTC has copied the outer design of Nokia's Lumia 820 for its Windows Phone 8X, the sources noted.HTC declined to comment on the speculated patent issue. But Fred Liu, president of engineering and operations at HTC, stated that he personally does not see the similarity between the Windows Phone 8X and Lumia 820 as suggested by some industry watchers.US law enforcement is tracking who calls, texts and emails whom more often than ever before &gt;&gt; ForbesLaw enforcement isn't just interested in what Americans are saying on the phone or on the Internet. They're also interested in whom they're saying it to-a piece of information that conveniently doesn't require a warrant to obtain. And according to newly released documents, the Feds are surveilling and mapping out those social connections more pervasively than ever before.Delays during "trampoline" phase of transit navigation give bad UX &gt;&gt; OpenRadarDaniel Jalkut:I've come to loathe the "slowdown" that occurs after choosing a destination in Maps, requesting directions, tapping the public transit icon, then waiting for the installed apps to load before finally tapping one and waiting for it to launch.If delegating transit directions to apps is a long-term strategy for Apple, the UX should be improved in this area. The "Loading..." phase is especially irritating because it is out of my control and the wasted time encourages me to find another, more immersive app for handling my transit-based navigation.Open Radar is the open version of the tool for reporting bugs to Apple.Galaxy Note Dialpad codes &gt;&gt; xda-developersYes, there is a "full reset" code in there.I am worried about the future of Python &gt;&gt; Iron FroggyThree salient points where the world is changing and Python isn't - or not fast enough.From a 1972 Archie comic where he time travels to... &gt;&gt; Rob Sheridan...2012. Actually, it rings true.Laser Pointer and Moon &gt;&gt; XKCD: What If?Get everyone to shine a 5mW laser pointer to illuminate the moon artificially. What happens? Nothing much.Well, that's disappointing. It makes sense, though. Sunlight bathes the Moon in a bit over a kilowatt of energy per square meter. Since the Moon's cross-sectional area is around 10^13 square meters, it's bathed in about 10^16 watts of sunlight--ten petawatts, or two megawatts per person--far outshining their five milliwatt laser pointer. There are varying efficiencies in each part of this system, but none of it changes that basic equation.But what if you used more power? And more?Intel Statement in Response to Unsubstantiated News Reports &gt;&gt; Intel newsroomToday Intel Corporation issued a statement in response to unsubstantiated news reports about comments made by Intel CEO Paul Otellini in a meeting with employees.The statement that follows completely fails to repudiate, refute or rebut the suggestion that Otellini did indeed say the things ascribed to him (to paraphrase, that he thought Windows 8 was shipping with too many fixes remaining to be done). It just says Intel and Microsoft have worked together a long time. That feels like at least halfway to confirmation.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
New Zealand tech entrepreneur Kim Dotcom is preparing to launch a new music site called Megabox, he has claimed.A video teaser,posted on YouTubeon Wednesday, showed off search, community, location and sentiment tracking features, and showed a developer team apparently working on the site with the introduction: "This is what they don't want you to have. Unchaining artists and fans. Megabox is coming soon."The video followed a tweet on Saturday that claimed: "Code was 90% done. Servers on the way. Lawyers, partners and investors ready. Be patient. It's coming."Today's teaser highlighted four artists – The Black Keys, Rusko, Two Fingers and will.i.am – as "exclusive" artists that are part of a site that Dotcom has said will "give artists full control over their work". The site is understood to let users access music for free and compensate artists with a share of advertising revenue by using the Megakey app, which would replace existing ads with Megabox adverts.Megabox appears to be a reinvention of the infamous MegaUpload site that led to Dotcom's dramaticarrest on 20 Januarythis year. Dotcom has been charged with internet piracy and breaking copyright laws with a business that made as much as $175m (£100m) allegedly distributing copyrighted material. Now released on bail, Dotcom faces fresh attempts by the US authorities to extradite him but will not face an extradition hearing until March 2013.Dotcom's arrest and the closure of Megaupload.com by the US Department of Justice triggered attacks on several high profile sites including the DoJ and Universal Music.The New Zealand government wasforced to apologiseto the entrepreneur today after an official report showed that the country's spy agency had carried out illegal surveillance on him.But house arrest has not deterred the industrious German national, who officially changed his name from Kim Schmitz in 2005. Dotcom has entertained himself bymaking music videoswith his family, as well as hosting visits from people including Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak.
There was a definite sense of relief and jubilation on Thursday night when members ofThe WELL– the 27-year-old San Francisco-based conferencing system put up for sale in July by its then owner, Salon Media Group – learned that the system and the domain name well.com had been bought by a group of long-time members. The sale price waslater disclosed as $400,000in the Wall Street Journal.The purchase brings it back from what looked like theedge of a precipice&lt;/a&gt; in July. Salon Media had said that besides seeking a sale, it would not accept any new subscriptions; the information filed showed that it was bringing in $380,000 per year from its 2,700-odd members, and was making a modest profit."We own our own words – for real" was the general feeling among members following the sale, referring to The WELL's long-held mantra: "You own your own words". Although, strictly speaking, that isn't really true: we don't own our own words so much as our words are now under the control of people we feel we know very well and can trust. Furthermore, YOYOW (as WELL members call this mantra) is only partially a statement about copyright; it also signals accountability. Yet it is a matter of great pride and a unique selling point to the WELL – try that on Facebook or any of today's other data hogs.Formally titled The WELL Group Inc., the new owner is a corporation formed in August. Its 11 shareholders, board, and officers have all been WELL members for an average of 20 years or more. The new chief executive, Earl Crabb, is a Berkeley-based software product designer, and the best-known of the shareholders is Jim Rutt, who was CEO of Network Solutions during the late 1990s. The WELL Group is a for-profit corporation, not a non-profit or a co-operative – which is probably a good thing, given that WELL members can argue for days about almost anything, no matter how trivial."It was the unbelievable show of member support, plus the member pledges, that empowered the investor group of WELLperns to make the offer accepted by Salon Media Group," Crabb wrote in the announcement posted Thursday night. "It is every single member of the WELL who can take a bow, pop the champagne, and celebrate."After acquiring The WELL the investor group is now organising its activities, with the immediate goal of managing the transition and formulating a plan for the longer term. However, unlike newer social networks, The WELL doesn't need to adopt a marketing plan aimed at fast growth; member subscriptions pay the system's expenses and even generate a modest profit. The new owners can afford to manage the transition and observe developments for a time before aiming at what the announcement calls "some slow growth". Existing members can send interested friends invitations for a free three-month trial.In the meantime, members can stop making backup copies of their favourite topics and go back to what they do best: conversation. And complaining about the management.
It's been another big week for new smartphone and tablet games, with some big brands and indie surprises doing battle on the app stores.Here's the pick of new and notable mobile games from the last seven days, taking in football, pig-based construction, airline management and bingo, among other subjects:Bad PiggiesRovio has switched its attention to the pigs from its Angry Birds games, putting them centre stage in this latest sequel in its 1bn-downloads franchise. The gameplay involves constructing vehicles for the pigs to trundle and/or float through levels in, unlocking items for a sandbox mode along the way.Read our reviewfor the full verdict.Android / iOSFIFA 13EA's latest football game came out on iOS a couple of days before the console version this week, promising improved graphics, online multiplayer, a new skill move button, connected features through EA's Football Club community, and lashings of licensed players and teams.iPhone / iPadPocket PlanesAfter critical acclaim, heaps of downloads and plenty of in-app purchases on iOS, airline management sim Pocket Planes has touched down on Android. As before, the aim is to build up a globe-spanning airline ferrying passengers and cargo, while linking with friends for rewards.AndroidGod of BladesDescribed as "a love-song to pulp fantasy tales of yore, 70s synth-prog-landscape oddities, and forgotten places", God of Blades is one of the quirkier games in this week's list – but also one of the best. Expect side-scrolling sword-fighting with lots of weapons and enemies. And also a marvellous soundtrack.iPhone / iPadNFL Pro 2013While America (and particularly the Green Bay bit) got in a lather about substitute NFL referees this week, Gameloft was readying the release of its latest officially-licensed American football game on iOS. It's a free-to-play game blending management and action, with plays unlocked for your playbook as you go along.iPhone / iPadBingo BashBitRhymes' Bingo Bash is one of a number of bingo games making a killing on Facebook and iOS. Now it's set up house (sorry, 'HOUSE!') on Android. It's a real-time multiplayer bingo game that spices up the box-ticking action with power-ups, gems and chat.AndroidThe Last ExpressJordan Mechner is best known as the creator of adventure series Prince of Persia. His new game is actually an old one: a 1997 PC title set on the Orient Express just before the first world war. It's an adventure promising more than 20 hours of chatting, sleuthing and cinematic interludes.iPhone / iPadKingdoms of Camelot: BattleHardcore social-games developer Kabam has brought its popular Kingdoms of Camelot game to Android, tasking players with building mighty kingdoms (yes, with a Camelot feel, surprisingly) and playing online. It's a self-contained game, rather than a client for the existing Facebook version.AndroidSuper Monsters Ate My Condo!The original Monsters Ate My Condo game from Adult Swim was very good fun, but now it's been beefed up for a sequel. It involves – shock of shocks – super monsters eating apartments, with two-minute time-limits and a range of condos with their own effects when munched. Sounds barmy, plays excellently.iPhone / iPadThe Bard's TaleThis ISN'T venerable RPG The Bard's Tale – although that's included as a bonus extra. Instead, this is the modern remake, with beefy visuals, lots of dungeons, monsters and loot to collect, and a tongue wedged firmly in its cheek regarding some of the cliches of the RPG genre. Note, the game alsocame out recently for RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook, which didn't quite make our roundup that week.AndroidReal FootballAnother Gameloft title, this, and one of the most long-running football franchises on mobile phones. The latest version has been released for Windows Phone, with Xbox Live features built in. A FIFPro licence and several modes stakes its claim as a FIFA alternative – at least until FIFA 13 arrives on Microsoft-powered handsets.Windows PhoneBoomtime BaseballCan any game dislodge the mighty Homerun Battle 3D from our affections in the swingy-bat stakes? Boomtime Baseball is having a crack. Launched by British firm Distinctive Developments, it offers a retro take on baseball home-run contests, with light RPG elements and items to collect.iPhone / iPadFort CourageFort Courage is an interesting take on the tower defence genre, as you defend your base against a succession of dream-world foes, from dinosaurs to robots on Mars. Tweaked for Tegra-powered devices, the game was criticised by early Google Play reviewers for its difficulty and use of IAP, but the developers are already making changes in response to the feedback.AndroidCartoon Wars BladeThe title says it all: cartoon graphics, lots of people to make war against, and blades by the dozen. Part of a wider Cartoon Wars series from publisher Gamevil, this is a zippy adventure with characterful graphics and lots of hacking and slashing.iPhone / iPadCastle StoryIf you've played previous games from developer TeamLava like Bakery Story and Pet Shop Story, you'll know what to expect here: more of the same, but with parapets. Which is no bad thing, if you're a fan of the social-building genre. In this case, it's a mixture of building, growing and exploration, with in-app purchases funding some players' ambitions.iPhone / iPadIndestructibleGlu was one of the first mobile publishers to focus on marrying hardcore gameplay with free-to-play mechanics. Indestructible is the latest example, a "vehicular combat game" that's more about blowing opponents up than racing against them. Four-player multiplayer battles offer the meat of the game.Android / iOSMechWarrior: Tactical CommandBoard games like Monopoly and Scrabble have found their place on iOS, but what about more esoteric fare? This is an iPad game based on the MechWarrior board game, with stompy, shooty robots battling it out in a real-time strategy game.iPadSubway SurfersKiloo's Subway Surfers has been a hit on iOS, and looks to be repeating its success on Android already, judging by the thousands of five-star ratings on the Google Play store. It's a railway-themed endless runner game that sees you dodging trains and leaping about acrobatically.AndroidSkillz: Universal EditionDJ game Skillz has been out for a while on iPad, but has just been released in a "Universal Edition" including iPhone. It's a music rhythm game not entirely dissimilar to DJ Hero on console, getting players to manipulate two turntables to the sounds of Tyler the Creator, Kid Cudi, Diplo and other artists.iPhone / iPadVelocispider"Part spider, part velociraptor, it's Velocispider!" yells the Google Play listing for this charming game, which sees you controlling – this may well be a made-up word – an araknasaur. It's a retro shoot 'em up that involves protecting your eggs from hordes of advancing enemy robots.AndroidThat's our selection, but what are you playing this week on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations, or provide feedback on the games we've chosen, by posting a comment.
You can't accuse them of not putting in the hours. Third-person survival horrorResident Evil 6(PS3/Xbox 360) contains not one single-player campaign but four, each of which is nearly as large on its own as the entirety of Resident Evil 5. Each of the game's campaigns follows a different hero and, to an extent, emphasises a different style of play, from the puzzle-solving, exploration and jumpiness of the original Resident Evil to the heavily armed gun-slinging and fiendish mutant freakazoids of later titles.It's not short of multiplayer depth, either. Three of the four campaigns can be played co-operatively by two players, while in sections where the campaign stories intertwine two pairs of players can team up online to work together. Factor in a whole new online game mode and the return of the much-loved Mercenaries mini-game and this looks like a sequel set to totally eclipse its predecessors. To which the obvious response is: "Fine, it's big. But is it going to be any good?"The answer will depend a lot on what you want from a modern horror game. And, if you've not got the time or patience to play through all four adventures, on whose story you decide to play. Players looking for the more traditional, old-school Resident Evil experience – a tense and eery tiptoe, punctuated by sharp shocks, and giving way only occasionally to out-and-out action – will find returning heroes Leon and Ada's campaigns most to their tastes. They'll have to start with Leon's, though, since to play as the uber-cool Ada you must first complete the other three.Leon's story begins with an old man lumbering towards him dribbling blood. A second or two in, we realise this old man is the American president. Or was, at least, because now he's really just a zombie in a very sharp suit. And when he lumbers towards mysterious stranger Helena with the very clear intention of biting her neck off, it falls to Leon to shoot the president in the head. Which he duly does, prompting Helena to announce that this is all her fault: a statement she'll explain after Leon escorts her to the local cathedral, where she has left her big expository PowerPoint presentation.Thus begins a very linear trek through the streets, sewers and cemeteries of the zombie apocalypse. In fact, two hours in, there has barely been a single decision to make, beyond which of the zombies lumbering towards you to shoot first, and whether to kill them all or just kick a couple over and then leg it past them. It would be far too much to expect four intertwining stories to be player-driven, but at times the game feels like a film being interrupted occasionally by a gamer, to the annoyance of its director.That filmic quality comes into its own in the more action-oriented campaigns. Some of the game's bigger battles are breathtaking, particularly special forces member Chris's war of attrition with a two-storey nightmare giant, while there's a Hitchcock-esque tension to new boy Jake's relentless pursuit by the bloodthirsty Ustanak, an unpleasant lump of raw pain and horror determined on sampling Jake's rare blood-type in the least scientific fashion possible.In gameplay terms, it's fairly vanilla third-person fare: aim over the shoulder, shoot, occasionally pop a pill to replenish your health, and when the bad guys start getting too close, kick, punch and shove to keep them away. Quick-time events – of the "Mash A now!" variety – provide a way to wriggle out of zombie bites, tentacles and other assorted unpleasantness, and are scattered liberally through the game's many cut-scenes. The allied AI is another nice touch: when playing a co-op campaign alone, the computer acts as a reliable buddy, reviving you when downed and doling out a decent amount of damage on its own.Sadistic players seeking more of a challenge may also get a kick out of the new Agent Hunter mode, in which gamers who have finished the campaign can, with permission, drop into other people's online sessions as one of the local baddies normally controlled by the computer. Those playing as the agents themselves will be at a serious advantage, but there's surely a sick kind of satisfaction to be had in attempting to outfox and chow down on a real human player.In short, there looks to be enough variety in Resident Evil 6 to satisfy even the most jaded returning fan, and for newcomers to horror gaming's finest franchise, there's never been a meatier first bite.
If it is possible for a microwave oven to interfere with Wi-Fi signals – I just read something like that on your blog – because they operate at the same frequency, is Wi-Fi then not dangerous to your health? Would having Wi-Fi in your home not be like leaving your microwave door open?HermieThis is a question that comes up from time to time, and the short answer is no. In fact, we could rephrase your question and pretend that you'd asked about baby alarms, radio-controlled cars, cordless (DECT) phones, Bluetooth headsets, security alarms and loads of other things that operate in the same unlicensed radio frequency band without causing concern. Is having a baby alarm in your home not like leaving your microwave door open?The longer answer is that the intensity of a Wi-Fi signal is around is 100,000 times less than a microwave oven. The oven is a targeted device that operates at very high voltages and short distances. Wi-Fi routers operate at very low voltages, broadcast in all directions, and are used at relatively long distances.Since radio waves followthe inverse square law– like light, sound and gravity – then each time you double the distance, you get only a quarter of the energy. In other words, the signal strength falls off very rapidly. At normal operating distances, Wi-Fi's intensity is generally so low that it's not worth worrying about: it's just part of the "smog" that is generated by radio and TV signals, AC mains wiring, the motors in home appliances, and the universe in general. (As my colleague Charles Arthur once pointed out here, the wavelength of Wi-Fi signals is the same as thecosmic background radiation: 12cm. If you're worried, don't go outside.)As Guardian readers know, the electromagnetic spectrum stretches all the way from very long wave radio frequencies to very short wave gamma rays, with visible light somewhere in between. We know that types of ionising radiation with wavelengths shorter than light tend to be dangerous. Examples include ultraviolet (UV) rays, X-rays and gamma rays. (Theultravioletpart of sunlight is certainly dangerous.Wear sunscreen.)However, the non-ionising wavelengths that are longer than light tend not to be dangerous. These include infra-red rays, microwaves and radio waves. At 2.45GHz, Wi-Fi comes in the microwave band along with baby monitors and mobile phones. After that come the radio frequency bands used for TV broadcasting and AM/FM radio, and further along, long wave radio (famous only for Test Match Special and Economy 7 heating signals).Now, it's certainly possible to do dangerous things with radiation, even if it's just focusing the sun's rays with paraboloid mirrors to set Roman fleets on fire (not that there's much call for that). It's also possible to use a high-pressurewater jetto cut through steel, but that doesn't mean you'll die from taking a bath or standing under a fountain.There have been hundreds of attempts to find out whether Wi-Fi routers or, more importantly, mobile phones represent a health risk. All we can say is that there is no known risk from Wi-Fi. After that, there's the problem of trying to prove a negative.Of course, it does make sense to minimise risk, as long as you concentrate on the biggest risks, not the trivial ones. If you want to do that, the mobile phone must be the first thing to go. In use, the phone is held close to the brain, while the Wi-Fi router may well be in another room (inverse square law). It has been estimated that you get a bigger dose of microwaves from one 20-minute phone call than from a year's Wi-Fi.Twenty laptops and two routers is roughly equivalent to one mobile phone.Your microwave oven should be safe enough because designs are tested to make sure they are properly shielded. However, you could check that your oven isn't leaking radiation, or stay well away from it while it's running. (In this case, "well away" is about 1m.) There should be no risk from leaving the door open as the magnetron should cut out when you open the door. However, if the oven is faulty and if it does keep working, don't put any part of your body inside.If you are extremely fussy about Wi-Fi, then make sure you sit 1m (or more) away from the router, and don't use your laptop on your lap. Put it on a table or tray instead. I don't think there is a risk, but you may feel safer if you remove a non-existent risk.Alternatively, you could connect your computers and other devices together using Cat5e cable. This will eliminate your Wi-Fi while also improving the speed and reliability of your internet. Of course, you will still be receiving mobile phone and Wi-Fi signals from neighbours, local mobile phone masts, and distant radio and TV stations. To eliminate some if not all of these, you would need to construct aFaraday cage, which is basically an inside-out microwave oven (it keeps microwaves out instead of keeping them in).Aluminium foil works as a simple Faraday cage, and you can test this by wrapping a mobile phone in foil and then dialling it from another phone. If you get "unobtainable", it worked. I expect a few people have taken this further and wallpapered whole rooms with aluminium foil, though the so-called"tinfoil hat"is a more economical alternative. This also protects you from telepaths.Finally, you could move house. Last year, PC Pro magazine (What's killing your Wi-Fi? Wrapping your house in tin foil) reported that some builders were wrapping houses in sheets ofProtect TF200 Thermoinsulating material. This helps keep water out and heat in. Since it includes "a durable bright high purity permeable aluminium layer bonded to the substrate", it may work as a Faraday cage as well. Other insulation products such asCelotexcould have a similar effect. People who have signal problems might want to see if their insulation is to blame.The World Health Organisation, which has examined the topic in depth,says: "In the area of biological effects and medical applications of non-ionizing radiation approximately 25,000 articles have been published over the past 30 years. Despite the feeling of some people that more research needs to be done, scientific knowledge in this area is now more extensive than for most chemicals. Based on a recent in-depth review of the scientific literature, the WHO concluded that current evidence does not confirm the existence of any health consequences from exposure to low-level electromagnetic fields. However, some gaps in knowledge about biological effects exist and need further research."The main gap appears to be the potential impact on children using mobile phones for more than 10 years. (Children are more susceptible to radiation than adults, and problems may take decades to appear.)My own feeling is that there are more important things to worry about than Wi-Fi. Last year, for example, more than 25,000 people were either killed or seriously injured on Britain's roads, and in 2010, there were 8,790 alcohol-related deaths. You are far more likely to die byfalling off a ladder(roughly one death a week, in England and Wales) than by Wi-Fi.
Millions of Android handsets including the Samsung Galaxy S3, Galaxy S2, HTC One X and HTC Desire can be wiped just by visiting a malicious website that embeds particular code in weblinks, security experts have warned.Update:HTC has issued a statement saying that "our devices do not support a USSD code to factory reset option." This means that theyshould not be vulnerableto the exploit described below.A user with a vulnerable handset who visits a page and clicks a link containing the malicious code would see their phone wiped, losing personal data such as photos and texts as well as repleaceable data such as contact details and apps.The flaw is caused by a security hole in some versions of Android's dialler software, which allows the "tel:" URL prefix to be used on a webpage to perform functions on the phone's dialling software. Normally that is useful for functions such as initiating a call on the handset directly from a site. But the tel: prefix can also be used to pass a string of non-numeric data  to the dialler.Special strings of characters can perform other functions; for example typing #06# on the dialler will display a phone's IMEI number.The flaw exploits a string that activates a factory reset of some phones because they do not force a user interaction before carrying out the function encoded in the string. The code would have to be embedded as a link to cause the user to activate it - but it would be easy to represent it as an innocent link to Google or any site. Pressing the link would initiate the wipe.Users of vulnerable handsets may be able to install a third-party dialler and make that the default as protection against the "remote wipe" attack. Experts also pointed out that not all Android handsets have the capability for a remote wipe built in - although the number of models discovered with the vulnerability has grown since it became known on Tuesday.Dylan Reeve, a New Zealand-based TV editor whofirst brought the flaw to wide notice, says that Samsung Galaxy phones which use Android 4.1 will be safe from the hack. But that still leaves millions of Galaxy S2 and some S3 models which will not have had the correct revision of the firmware rolled out to them and which could be hit.The number of phones that could be vulnerable potentially numbers millions. Samsung has shipped more than 20m Galaxy S3 handsets and at least as many of the S2 handset, released in 2011. HTC has similarly sold millions of Desire and One X handsets.But many will have shipped with versions of Android which are vulnerable to this attack, and there are no figures to show what proportion have been updated. The vast majority of the 480m Android devices in use at present have versions of Android which could potentially be vulnerable to this attack.Though the vulnerability wasfixed in Android's corecode earlier this year, that code has not been propagated to every handset in use. The fact that the flaw existed in handsets from Samsung and HTC - the two biggest vendors of Android handsets -  also suggests that a huge number of existing handsets could include the outdated code.Samsung said in a statement that it has already provided a patch for the Galaxy S3, but it is not clear how long that will take for operator approval and rollout. In general software updates to any phone have to first be tested and approved by the carrier supporting the phone. Samsung said it is testing a patch for the Galaxy S2, but had no information on when it will be available or how it will be distributed.At first it was thought that only Samsung phones were vulnerable. But some HTC devices, including the HTC One X running HTC Sense 4.0 with Android 4.0.3 and the Motorola Defy (running Cyanogen Mod 7 on Android 2.3.5), have also been shown to suffer from the flaw.Commenting after the discovery that multiple makes and models are vulnerable,Reeve commented: "it is very poor design to allow a passed value to execute as if it were keyed in interactively."Paul Ducklin of the security company Sophossaid: "The bottom line here is this: get into the habit of backing up your phone. Whether you choose to trust the cloud, or synchronise to your laptop, or just copy important files to removable storage, don't take the long-term data integrity of your phone for granted."The video at the top of the page shows the attack being carried out.Reeve has created a web page thatallows people to test whether their phone passes on and processes the tel: prefix automatically. If the phone allows the automatic processing of tel: codes,  Reeve's page displays the IMEI code.• This article was updated on 28 September 2012 to reflect a statement from HTC that its phones do not have the security weakness described here.
My wife tells me that I make a rather comical sight when I start shouting at the radio. I must have been the picture of sheer hilarity this week as I listened to discussion about automated fraud-checking calls on Radio 4's Money Box and ended up yelling my head off.You know about fraud-checking calls, of course. Whenever you do something unusual with your money, like try and close on a house purchase, transfer funds to a loved one who's lost everything while abroad, or buy a major gift for a very special occasion, the transaction is often followed by a call from your bank, demanding that you verify your identity to them, handing over all sorts of personal information to a total stranger who's rung you up out of the blue. Then they tell you that they've noticed something amiss, and is your card in your possession, and did you really just try and transfer a thousand pounds to Lagos?The banks, bless them, are only trying to prevent fraud, but this is a pretty silly way of going about it. For starters, there's the business of calling up people and asking them to give you all the information necessary to prove that they are indeed a bank customer – all the information that a fraudster needs to impersonate that person at the bank, in other words. The banks have spent decades systematically conditioning us to give our personal information to fraudsters, which is a strange way to prevent fraud.But at least this silliness had one saving grace: a fraudster can only make so many calls per day, and so the scope of losses from such a programme of bad security education is limited by the human frailties of con-artists.Enter the robo-caller. The banks are now outsourcing their fraud prevention to computers that can make dozens of calls all at once, around the clock, fishing (or phishing) for someone who just happened to have made an unusual purchase and is thus willing to spill all his details down the phone to get it approved. Note that most of the categories of purchase that trigger false positives from fraud detection systems are also the sort of thing that customers are anxious to see go off without a hitch. The unusual and the urgent often travel together.MoneyBox took up the question of robo-calls on 22 September, with a series of finance industry executives explaining their position on robo-call anti-fraud systems. As Money Box pointed out, customers don't know what automated fraud prevention calls are supposed to sound like, or which questions are supposed to be asked. They missed that even if this were common knowledge, it would be trivial to make a homemade robo-caller that perfectly mimicked the calls, and set it loose to call around the clock, to many victims at once.Santander's statement was that the system allows it to "reach more customers, more quickly, all at the same time". It didn't mention that it's a lot cheaper than paying humans to make those calls, of course. On the other hand, it invited its customers to opt out of the service. But a customer that doesn't even know the service exists won't opt out of it – and if a customer's first experience with a robo-caller is with a fraudulent one, they won't have had a chance to opt out until it's too late.But Nationwide's answer was even worse: it recommended using the return number that showed up on their phones to verify the call by keying it into the internet. Apparently, no one has told Nationwide that any fraudster running a robo-caller machine can also transmit any return number they like.It got even worse. A spokesman from UK Payments assured the host, Paul Lewis, that the banks' services are secure because they ask you to choose from a list of dates of birth, and "only your bank would have that information about you". Someone needs to tell UK Payments that dates of birth aren't secret – they're matters of public record. What's more, if your date of birth ends up in the hands of an identity thief, you can't change it, making it completely unsuited as a means of authenticating oneself to a bank. Our passwords shouldn't be issued to us at birth, one to a customer, without any means of changing them.Lewis quizzed UK Payments' spokesperson on the efficacy of the bank's fraud prevention systems, and forced him to admit that there isn't any hard data to support the thesis that the banks are good at automatically detecting fraud. In the end, the representative was left insisting that the banks' systems were "quite successful at detecting very unusual transactions".Well, yes. Computers are good at detecting unusual things. And if you block every unusual transaction, you will block almost all the fraudulent ones, too. You'll also produce a service that will strand your customers in emergency after emergency, by forcing them to go through a tedious authentication dance every time they stray from their usual routine, including when the unusual transaction is the result of an unusual circumstance, such as a personal tragedy.When banks had to pay a salaried employee to make each call, they had to limit themselves to making checks on unusual transactions that were also "funny" – a bit off. Now they've automated the systems, they can twiddle the false-positive dial all the way over to "Kafka-esque nightmare" without having to pay a penny more. They've managed to externalise the whole cost of sorting out real unusual transactions from fake ones to their customers.This is a security measure. It secures the banks' profits. But as a means of securing your money, it's a nonsense.Here's another way of designing this protocol, one that won't cost the banks any more to operate. When the bank detects a potential fraud, it calls you, and a robot says, "Look up the lost or stolen card number on your credit card or debit card. If you can't find it, please consult our website. When you get through, please key this case number into your phone." Job done. In order to spoof this system, you'd need to hack the bank's website and/or change the printing on the credit cards already in people's wallets.If the banks cared about preventing fraud – as opposed to minimising the expense that their shareholders bear as a result of fraud – they'd do this or something very like it.
Tech City can claim its first acquisition success this morning with the sale of iPlatform to Betapond, the Ireland-headquartered social media marketing company, for an undisclosed sum.iPlatform, the Facebook marketing app agency, was founded in 2008 by Joshua March and Dan Lester, one year after Facebook introduced its developer programme. March has worked closely with Facebook as the agency developed, helping to establish the Facebook Developer Garage events in London, while iPlatform took advantage of the growth in interest of Facebook marketing by developing apps for clients including Swatch, the Economist and Tesco.The deal leaves March and Lester free to focus on Conversocial, customer service software for social networks which the two founded in 2009 out of iPlatform. Conversocial opened a New York office six weeks ago and will employ 30 staff by the end of 2012, March said, following $3.65m of investment since May 2011.Facebook's controversial IPO has not affected iPlatform or Conversocial, March told the Guardian."iPlatform and Conversocial are both B2B enterprise companies and those are all doing really well – it's the consumer enterprise companies that have been taking a hit," he said."With the Facebook IPO there was a lot of hype and short-term investors, and they were expecting it to go pop and go crazy. And it didn't go really crazy, so they all sold. I don't think that says much about Facebook's long-term value because long term, it is going to do really well."The deal marks Betapond's first acquisition following a €1.15m venture round in January. Chief executive Declan Kennedy said in a release the acquisition would strengthen Betapond's engineering team and increase its scale in London.
Kicking off today the London Games Festival is bringing a month of gaming action to the capital, beginning with the jam-packed Eurogamer Expo (which is pretty much sold out, but has afew Friday afternoon tickets available).You can find out all about the huge number of events atthe official website, but for now, here are the six things we reckon you should attend, either for fun, or to learn more about game development. If you missed out on Olympic tickets and regretted it for the rest of the summer, don't make the same mistake again!Apps WorldWhen:2-3 OctoberWhere:Earls Court 2What:This huge smartphone developer event attracts over 5000 industry professionals with a mix of workshop events, talks and parties. For those just interested in the development scene, there's a free exhibition and developer zone where you can learn more about creating apps and making a living from creating smartphone software.One Life Left's Videogame KaraokeWhen:October 4, 7pmWhere:Walkabout Temple,What:Join the presenters of the award-winning One Life Left radio show for a night of game-related singing and drinking. Everyone can have a go, selecting one of the many songs the team has carefully modified for gaming purposes – so Purple Rain becomes Heavy Rain, Lionel Ritchie's Hello is Halo, and (my favourite) Blur's Park Life becomes, yes, Half-Life. The event has been a storming success in Nottingham and San Francisco, now London must its video game karaoke initiation.ExPlay Game JamWhen:5-6 OctoberWhere:The Science MuseumWhat:If you've never attempted to test your coding skills at a game jam before, this is the one to go for. Housed at the wonderful Science Museum (with a Bristol alternative at The Pervasive Media Studios) you'll compete against over 100 other programmers to build a working game within 24 hours. The resulting projects will be shown off to the public at the ExPlay festival in November.Gamer DiscoWhen:10 October, 19:00Where:The Book Club, 100-106 Leonard StreetWhat:Enjoy a whole bunch of DJs playing electro, hip-hop chip tunes and game soundtracks all night at this super cool Shoreditch venue. I'm hoping for some remixed Rob Hubbard and Martin Galway, but then I'm old; possibly too old to be at a Shoreditch club on a Wednesday night.Video game art exhibitionWhen:22-26 October, 08:00-17:30 every dayWhere:City HallWhat:Boris Johnson's pad is set to host a major exhibition of video game art. Running between 22 and 26 October, the free event will feature rare pieces donated by a huge range of publishers and developers: concept art, storyboards and digital images will all feature. The works will be auctioned off at the close of the exhibition, with the proceeds going toSpecialEffect, a charity specialising in making games accessible to people with disabilities. Among the items on show will be game art produced by well-known developers such as Guerrilla Games (Killzone) and Media Molecule (LittleBigPlanet) as well as major publishers like Konami and Warner Bros.MCM ExpoWhen:26-28 OctoberWhere:ExcelWhat:A huge celebration of games, comics, SF and fantasy, attracting over 50,000 attendees and plenty of special celebrity guests. As well as the main show floor, there's a full calendar of fringe events organised by fans, and lots and lots of cos-play.
Yey, it's Thursday, and do you know what I like doing on Thursdays? I like to plug any events I'm involved with. And what's this? Why, it's two events I'm hosting next week! please come along!Meet the creators of Dishonored, Oct 3, £8Come and see the artistic visionaries behind the steam punk stealth adventure. Art director Sebastien Mitton and visual design director Viktor Antonov will talk about how they imagined and built Dunwall and its unique retro futuristic architecture. I've seen them do this talk at the Develop conference and it was AMAZING. We also get to ask them questions afterwards. It's £8 including snacks and drinks and it's at our lovely office in Kings Place!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPaying developers is A Bad Idea &gt;&gt; Charlie KindelThe companies that make the most profit are those who build virtuous platform cycles. There are no proof points in history of virtuous platform cycles being created when the platform provider incents developers to target the platform by paying them.Paying developers to target your platform is a sign of desperation. Doing so means developers have no skin in the game. A platform where developers do not have skin in the game is artificially propped up and will not succeed in the long run.The Windows Phone 7 team was in a very, very desperate situation.Thoughtful post by ex-Microsoftie Kindel about the dynamics now in the smartphone, tablet and PC marketplace.Ballmer pitches Windows 8 to developers, but keeps tight rein on Surface &gt;&gt; Wired.comFor such a rah-rah event meant to get developers excited to start building for Windows 8, Ballmer and the rest of the Microsoft team spent very little time talking about or showing off the Surface tablet, arguably Microsoft's most exciting product. The tablet is due to launch at midnight on Oct. 26, at the same time as Windows 8. Yet the company has not let people have much hands-on time with the Surface and its innovative Touch Cover.This was no exception. In the hands-on time after the event, the Surface was missing from the product table, where several other Windows 8 tablets and ultrabooks were available to test and examine.Twitter mulls killing follower counts &gt;&gt; The Washington PostSpeaking at a BuzzFeed panel in New York yesterday, Twitter co-founder and board member Evan Williams said that reach is a much more important measure: "The dream metric is how many people saw your tweet."Engagement is certainly the metric that matters to marketers: if people don't see your message, they cannot act on it. But follower count has long been a source of perceived legitimacy for some, and Twitter has previously taken steps toreduce its impact. Twitter even completely hit the reset button on follower account temporarily, after theinfamous auto-follow bug.But to whom will this metric be visible? Followers is crude, but it has a simply understood meaning.How one video sums up the state of Blackberry &gt;&gt; The Velocity Digital BlogThe Blackberry brand has been suffering for a number of years now. From service outages to terrible handset design, the once mighty mobile device producer is in a world of pain. As we speak (well, read), the 'Blackberry Jam' conference is in full swing, during which, RIM are showcasing their new operating system, Blackberry 10. This morning, I had the 'joy' of watching a video from RIM that was designed to persuade application developers that they will benefit from making apps for Blackberry devices. I lasted 8.21 seconds. Take a look...How do these things ever get greenlighted?Kim Dotcom teases Megabox, reveals exclusive artists? &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakKim Dotcom is determined to put the major music labels out of business with Megabox. At the same time he promises to give artists full control over their own work and a healthy revenue stream. Today Dotcom released a video on the making of Megabox which unveils some of the service's features. The video also shows "The Black Keys," "Rusko," "Two Fingers" and "Will.i.am" as exclusive artists.No word heard from Will.i.am (or the others) on whether he's indeed part of this. Best to be sceptical until proof emerges.Report: fewer than 1% of sales can be tracked back to social media &gt;&gt; Marketing LaneA new Forrester report titled "The Purchase Path of Online Buyers In 2012? analyzes conversion paths on 77,000 orders to determine what sources returned the most revenue. While the report found a handful of high revenue sources (paid search, organic search, email) one clear cut source fell behind the rest: social media. The data showed that fewer than 1% of transactions could be traced back to social links.Apple in the dock over iPhone 5 connector row &gt;&gt; Consumers InternationalStephen Russell, secretary-general of ANEC, the European consumer's voice in standardisation:Although the use of Lightning as the connection through which the iPhone 5 is charged complies with the Voluntary Agreement that Apple - and other manufacturers - signed with the European Commission in 2009 on the harmonisation of smartphone chargers, Apple has chosen not to adopt the micro-USB solution favoured by its competitors and recommended in the Agreement.Instead, it has cited a tiny clause in the Agreement that permits an extra adapter between the phone and the "universal" charger if the manufacturer wishes to use one.Saving Android from a second-rate future &gt;&gt; Wired.comAnil Dash wrote the stuff above this comment. But it's the comment directly linked here that sets out the framework for so much empty argument.Micro Anvika goes titsup after Olympics fails to save its shops &gt;&gt; The ChannelThe recession, costly overheads and the migration of shoppers from the traditional model to the online world were primarily to blame for Micro Anvika's troubles, said [business advisor] Re10."The final nail in the coffin was the Olympics - the directors expected an uptick [in store footfall] but that didn't happen," said [Gary] Rupping [Re10 manager, who is seeking to sell the business as a going concern].Rough end for a 28-year-old business.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Police have detained Google's most senior executive in Brazil after the company failed to take down a YouTube video attacking a mayoral candidate in alleged violation of electoral law.Google is appealing against the charges against Fabio Jose Silva Coelho, who was released after he agreed to co-operate with the case, according to a police statement."Google is providing clarification to legal authorities," a company spokesman in São Paulo said on Wednesday.The questioning came a day after a state court in São Paulo banned an online video that sparked violent protests across the Muslim world, giving Google 10 days to pull the video from its YouTube unit. Google has not been formally notified about that case, according to a company spokesman.Taken together, the legal scrutiny represents the strongest pressure Google has yet faced in Brazil to control third-party content uploaded to its websites and the first time its senior executives have come under such intense fire.But rather than reflecting a coherent national policy, the cases illustrate how aggrieved citizens can get a sympathetic hearing from local judges with extensive procedural powers.In Google's case, judges have held executives responsible for resisting the removal of online videos in violation of a stringent 1965 electoral code. The law bans campaign ads that "offend the dignity or decorum" of a candidate.Earlier this month an electoral court in the state of Paraíba ordered the arrest of another senior Google executive, Edmundo Luiz Pinto Balthazar, after the company refused to take down a YouTube video mocking a mayoral candidate there.The video clip loaded by the user Paraíba Humor seized on a verbal slip by a candidate in a montage remarking, "What an idiot - give him an F!"Within days another judge overturned the order to arrest Balthazar, writing that "Google is not the intellectual author of the video, it did not post the file, and for that reason it cannot be punished for its propagation."The company also defended users' political rights in a statement at the time."Google believes that voters have a right to use the internet to freely express their opinions about candidates for political office, as a form of full exercise of democracy, especially during electoral campaigns," the company wrote.Google faces frequent legal scrutiny over the limits of users' expression in Brazil, where it opened an office in 2005.Over the years, the company has received repeated requests from Brazilian authorities to reveal the identity of bloggers and users of its social networking site Orkut, whose posts violated local libel and anti-racism laws.In the second half of last year, Google removed four Orkut profiles after an electoral court order, the company said on a portion of its website called the Transparency Report.
US banking company Wells Fargo is believed to have become the latest victim of a cyber-attack launched by a group pledging retaliation for  the controversial Innocence of Muslims video that has triggered anger and violence across the Muslim world.A group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters has claimed responsibility for the online attacks on US banks in protest against the  online video. The attacks were launched last week under the name Operation Ababil, meaning "swarm", and have already affected banks including JP Morgan and Bank of America.Wells Fargo acknowledged via Twitter that its website was having difficulties. The websiteSitedown.coreceived hundreds of complaints from customers who were  locked out of Wells Fargo's website on Wednesday.Bank of America and JP Morgan were targeted on Tuesday, leading to widespread complaints from customers unable to access their accounts online. Sitedown received nearly a 1,000 complaints about outages at JP Morgan's site last week.Dmitri Alperovitch, chief executive of CrowdStrike, a private security firm investigating the  attacks, known as distributed denial of service or DDoS,  said: "It's important to note that nobody's information has been compromised and no data has been stolen."Alperovitch said the group claiming responsibility also launched attacks in early summer, long before the release of the video. "We believe claiming this has something to do with the video is a ruse," he said.He said the attacks, while not sophisticated, were massive in scale and well co-ordinated. Some of the attacks have flooded the bank's websites with information at up to 100 gigabits a second; the usual DDoS attack is in the order of 5-10 gigabits a second.Senator Joe Lieberman blamed Iran last week for the recent cyber-attacks. "I believe it was a response to increasingly strong economic sanctions the US and its allies have put on Iranian financial institutions. It is, if you will, a counterattack by Iran against American financial institutions," he told C-Span.Alperovitch said he had not seen anything that would confirm or deny Lieberman's allegations.• This article was amended on 27 September 2012 because it omitted the word "distributed" from the phrase "distributed denial of service".
Yahoo's new finance boss will receive up to $18m in salary, bonuses, restricted stock and stock options over the next four years, according to a regulatory filing.Ken Goldman, a veteran technology executive, was appointed chief financial officer of the ailing internet firm on Tuesday as new boss Marissa Mayer seeks to turn around Yahoo's fortunes. Her compensation package could total more than $70m in salary, bonuses, restricted stock and stock options over five years.Goldman, 63, will receive $1.1m in salary and bonus, and restricted stock units and performance-based stock options worth as much as $12m that over the next four years.Yahoo said he will also get 76,000 restricted stock units to make up for compensation lost when he left his previous job at Fortinet, a cyber security software firm.Tim Morse, Goldman's predecessor, served as interim CEO while Yahoo dealt with the fallout from the ousting of Scott Thompson. He was seen as a cost cutter while analysts said Goldman's appointment was part of Mayer's strategy to start growing the company again. Mayer, once one of Google's most high-profile executives, took over as CEO in July.Mayer briefed staff at Yahoo Tuesday about her plans for the company. The private talk had been billed as "an act of radical transparency" but, according to reports, she did not signal any major new moves. Mayer told staff that the company would concentrate on becoming part of its users' everyday lives, shifting further into mobile and growing its core businesses.Mayer is Yahoo's third full-time CEO since the company fired Carol Bartz in September 2011. Microsoft made a $44.6bn bid for Yahoo in February 2008. The bid was firmly rejected by co-founder and then boss Jerry Yang. Since then its fortunes have declined rapidly as the company has lost out in advertising to Google and Facebook and been hit by a series of boardroom turmoils. Yahoo is currently valued at $18.5bn.Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research Group, told Bloomberg: "We still need to see some actual actions." He said Mayer would need to change the "core dynamics" of the industry to restore its advertising business by making deals with other big players like AOL and Microsoft.
Despite Formula One's lofty status at the pinnacle of motorsport, and its claims to be the most-watched global sport (at least on television), in the past, the games that bore its imprimatur have struggled to achieve a similarly elevated reputation. But since Codemasters acquired the F1 licence, it has worked hard to give its F1 games more credibility, and has noticeably pulled out the stops with F1 2012.Games built on sporting franchises, with their annual iterations, usually struggle to provide a persuasive reason to buy every year's new effort, and that was clearly uppermost in Codemasters' minds this time around. So there are plenty of new additions.The first one being a new start to career mode: the young drivers' test. This is essentially a tutorial, split into two days of exercises, and is fairly reminiscent of Gran Turismo's racing-licence tests. Seasoned racing gamers will find it laughably easy, but it provides a much more instantly accessible, and less intimidating, point of entry for tyros, which has to be applauded.As ever, the career mode offers plenty of flexibility. If you have all the time in the world, you can do a full season, with all the practice-sessions, full-length races and so on, or you can opt for truncated practice and qualifying and races as short as five laps.F1 2012 has a much-improved interface compared with previous versions. Once stuck into a race weekend, you still do more or less everything via your race engineer, but the game's general layout is much more logical, helped by hub-style screens.Car feel and handling has always been exemplary since Codemasters acquired the F1 licence, and this year the cars are supposed to have been made more stable, but only the really hardcore racing-sim fanatics would notice that. You still have to be careful putting the power down after slow corners, and very cagey on the throttle in the wet – don't expect arcade-style concessions. The cars, as in real life, are tricky to drive (particularly if you spurn traction-control), which is exactly as it should be.Two new modes for 2012 make a big impression, especially season challenge. This distils a whole season into 10 races, with adrenalin-inducing single-shot, one-lap qualifying runs (you get a ghost image of the pole position man for reference). Cleverly, it is possible to win the championship even in such a truncated set of races, as you must nominate a rival in a superior car and if you beat him in a set of three races, you win his car, thereby potentially elevating yourself to the championship-leading car.Season challenge's hit-the-ground-running nature means it's a good idea to do a career season before you get stuck into it, but it's very addictive and provides a lot of replay value.Champions mode is also new, and takes advantage of the unprecedented presence of six world champions on this year's grid. Each gets their own challenge – with different tracks and conditions, but you always have to catch and pass the relevant champion – and if you win them all, you then have to beat all six champions at the new (and still not quite finished) Austin, Texas track. Fantasy Formula One indeed, although similar scenario-modes have been seen in F1 games of yore.The multi-player side of the game has also been improved – up to 16 players can take each other on now, with eight AI-controlled cars making up a full grid. Thanks to the presence of Codemasters' social networks-aping system Racenet, setting up online challenges with your friends is a breeze and two people can co-operatively play through a single career, as team-mates.F1 2012 is incredibly slick, polished and beautifully made, and it's difficult to imagine how Codemasters could have come up with any other means of distinguishing it from its predecessors.Season challenge changes the game's dynamic very cleverly, and yet it's more accessible to gamers at the casual end of the spectrum. By some distance the best Formula One video game ever. But whether that will help it break out to an audience beyond devoted F1 fans remains to be seen.F1 2012 was reviewed on Xbox 360
Rovio's Angry Birds has spawned three sequels so far: Angry Birds Seasons, Angry Birds Rio and Angry Birds Space. Yet all three used the tried and trusted gameplay of the original game.Bad Piggiesrepresents a fresh, but risky start for the billion-downloads franchise.Having spent the previous games cowering behind planks or exploding, the green pigs take centre stage this time round. On their (pork) shoulders rests the task of proving that Rovio isn't a one-trick pony. Or bird.No pressure, then.Bad Piggies is launching on iOS, Android and Mac tomorrow (27 September), with Windows Phone and PC versions to follow. There is already, inevitably, atie-in collectionof plush toys, hoodies, smartphone covers and pillows too.The game keeps some familiar things from the previous titles, with a strong physics element to its puzzles, and a scoring system that involves getting one, two or three stars for each level depending on your skill.What's different, obviously, is that there isn't a bird or slingshot in sight. Instead, each level involves propelling a pig from its starting point to a finishing line, collecting stars along the way.You propel them by building things: cars with wheels, fans, bellows, springs, umbrellas and shaken-up fizzy bottles, among other attachments, in the Groundhog Day section; and flying vehicles with balloons and some of the above items in the When Pigs Fly section.You're provided with wooden boxes and a selection of items at the start of each level, which you drag into place on a grid of squares to build your pig's vehicle. Then hit a play button, and try to guide them through the level. On-screen buttons trigger the different propulsion tools as you go.Something else that's familiar from the Angry Birds games: the sight of green pigs rolling around splinters looking hapless. Bad Piggies is hard. Noticeably harder than its predecessors, and sometimes frustratingly so.One of the criticisms of the Angry Birds games from, well, gamier gamers, has been the fact that success often felt more down to luck than skill. Sling enough birds, and you'd muddle through, sometimes with two or three star level-ratings.This, of course, is precisely why non-gamey gamers loved Angry Birds, and downloaded it in their hundreds of millions.Bad Piggies requires more skill, so should please more-hardcore gamers. But it runs a very real risk of frustrating more casual players, which may or may not be in Rovio's gameplan as it cracks onto the task of generating its second billion downloads.I found it difficult, anyway, despite a.) reviewing mobile games for a living, and b.) having blasted through the previous Angry Birds games fairly smoothly. Bad Piggies felt harder going: I switched off the iPad in a temper a few times when stuck.You can summon a mechanic to do the hard work for you in Bad PiggiesThere is some help. Just as the Angry Birds games had their Mighty Eagle power-up to flatten levels you were stuck on, so Bad Piggies has a Hire A Mechanic button, which summons a spanner-wielding pig to build you the correct vehicle for your current level.There's a cost for this. You can earn three mechanics by Liking the Bad Piggies Facebook page from within the game, but thereafter you pay for them: £1.49 for 10, £3.99 for 35 or £6.99 for 65.It's a different model to the original Mighty Eagle, where you paid a one-time fee of 69p to get the feature permanently, but had to wait a set interval after using it before it was available again.Rovio has the option of dishing out free mechanics as you progress through the game - something I suspect may be needed as players discover that Bad Piggies is tougher than its predecessors, so they don't feel pressured to pay.Having mentioned my mini-tantrums when stuck, I did always come back to Bad Piggies, and not just because I was reviewing it. The more you play, the more attuned you become to the level design, and the more you grasp the nuances of the different items. It's worth persisting.There is also plenty to do beyond unlocking the 90 levels in the Groundhog Day and When Pigs Fly sections. As you progress, you unlock items to be used in a third section, Sandbox.Here, you're given more freedom to construct a bigger, more complex vehicle and explore a level, collecting as many stars as you can rather than streaking to a finish line. More level packs are promised in future updates, too.Bad Piggies also has replayability in spades, and not just for people with an obsession for scoring three stars on every level.Collect skulls hidden in some levels, for example, and you can unlock an extra Sandbox level. Bad Piggies also uses Apple's Game Center for achievements, and also it's new Challenges feature to see if friends can match your progress.I couldn't tell from my single-device review code whether the iOS version of the game uses Apple's iCloud to save your progress across multiple devices. It would be a shame if it doesn't.As you play through the main levels, you unlock items for the separate SandboxI wanted to love Bad Piggies, if only for the pigs themselves, who have bags of potential as characters - possibly more than the Angry Birds. Hopefully they'll be getting plenty of screen-time in Rovio's upcoming Angry Birds animated series.Experienced gamers will love Bad Piggies if they give it a chance. The game could give Rovio a foothold in a part of the gaming population that has resisted the charms of Angry Birds.I fear many of the more casual gamers who made Angry Birds such an enormous hit may struggle, though, and may also react badly if they reach a point where they are utterly stuck and feel they have to pay to progress any further.Overall, Bad Piggies merits a four-star rating, especially as a relatively small tweak in the number of mechanics dished out for free would reduce the frustration factor.It also proves that Rovio's pig characters can carry a game on their own, indicating they have a bigger role to play in the future for the publisher's feathery franchise.The birds will befuriousat that news...
It's the middle of the week and... wait, what's that? You haven't yet booked your tickets for next week's events? Why, check them out below and remedy that immediately, you fool!Meet the creators of Dishonored, Oct 3, £8Come and see the artistic visionaries behind the steam punk stealth adventure. Art director Sebastien Mitton and visual design director Viktor Antonov will talk about how they imagined and built Dunwall and its unique retro futuristic architecture. I've seen them do this talk at the Develop conference and it was AMAZING. We also get to ask them questions afterwards. It's £8 including snacks and drinks and it's at our lovely office in Kings Place!
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSunsetting @Anywhere &gt;&gt; Twitter developers blogWe've been growing the family of products that makes up Twitter for Websites, including, for example, yesterday's launch of the ability to embed timelines on a website. As Twitter for Websites has evolved, it has improved upon many of the features we introduced with @Anywhere: Tweet box, follow, linkify a @username, sign-in, and the hovercard. As a result, we are sunsetting @Anywhere and focusing on continuing to build out Twitter for Websites.Let's begin running the ruler over this to see how exactly it shows that Twitter is becoming Evil.iOS Maps and China &gt;&gt; Anthony DrendelGoogle Maps was always pretty terrible here. In the big cities and tourist centers, it was passable. Once you left China's large metropolises, however, you were pretty much on your own. You could usually see expressways, highways, and even a lot of smaller roads, but there were very, very few shops, restaurants, banks, ATMs, etc. listed. That has changed with iOS 6. Apple has chosen AutoNavi to provide map services within China. That was a smart move, because AutoNavi is a local Chinese company that provides very detailed maps of China. Google was never going to be able to map China as well as it has other parts of the globe because the Chinese government doesn't trust the motives of foreign companies--and it especially doesn't trust Google.iPhone 5 Impact: Sales Estimates by Region - Americas, Europe, Japan &amp; APAC &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsChina is in effect being held back from sales by a quarter because of the way that it celebrates Chinese New Year in the first quarter of the year.Apple seeks higher payout from Samsung &gt;&gt; FT.comApple has raised the stakes in its patent battle with arch rival Samsung by pressing for another $707m in damages following a court ruling in a US patent infringement suit last month.That's in addition to the $1bn in damages it was awarded. (Requires subscription.)The Last PC laptop &gt;&gt; Coding HorrorJeff Atwood finally found his dream laptop. But:My laptop is increasingly a device I only take when I know I'll need to do a lot of typing, and/or I'll need a lot of screen space to work. But even a phone could do that if it had decent support for bluetooth keyboards and external displays, couldn't it? And even a few programmers, the audience who would most need all the power and flexibility of laptops, areswitching to tablets.Motorola Razr I review &gt;&gt; V3.co.ukA solid smartphone with crisp display, great battery life and speedy processor, let down only by occasional software glitches and a lack of built in internal storage.Pros: Decent performance, good battery life, solid design, operating system tweaks are positiveCons: Occasional software glitches cause stutter when navigating between screens, camera not as good as some competitors, relatively miserly built-in storageSIM-free price: £350.Skyhook Wireless files new lawsuit against Google over 9 US geolocation patents &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsFrom last Friday:A few years ago, Skyhook had agreements in place with Samsung and Motorola until Google used the kind of bullying tactics that China's Alibabaalso complained about last week, in response to which it brought acompetition lawsuit under Massachusetts state law and a federal patent infringement action in the District of Massachusettsin late 2010. In the competition case,418 pages of discovery materialdrew a lot of media attention to Google'soverall attitude toward the freedom of Android device makers and the openness of the platform. Yesterday Skyhook filed a new patent lawsuit against Google, alleging infringement of nine geolocation-related patents by Android and Google Maps.Twist &gt;&gt; App StoreTwist is the easiest way to let your family, friends and colleagues know when you will arrive.Twist also alerts them when you are almost there and if you are running late. Whether you are driving, walking or taking public transit, Twist accurately calculates your arrival time to a specified destination and privately shares your ETA with only those that you choose.Untried, but yet another in the suddenly sprouting garden of iOS6 travel apps.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
In its protracted battle to remain relevant, MySpace previewed a significantly rebooted version of its website on Monday.In a promo videotweeted by Myspace investor Justin Timberlake, the website showcased its new look as an online platform for artists."In a single sentence, it's a social network for the creative community to connect to their fans," Myspace owner Tim Vanderhooktold the Hollywood Reporter.To launch a successful rebrand, the site will have to shed its cloak of irrelevancy and become a destination people will visit without feeling like they are in high school again.Brothers and Myspace owners Tim and Chris Vanderhook aim to do this with the support of Timberlake – who successfully overcame his boy band beginnings to become a respected musician and actor.Myspace, please avoid using the word 'nom' in your quest for relevancy.The revamped website looks like a mash-up between Pinterest, Instagram and Facebook, with a concerted focus on music integration.Though it's been largely replaced by newer social networks, Myspace has managed to stay afloat thanks to the constant stream of musicians on the site, who still use it as a marketing platform.Emily White, co-founder of Whitesmith Entertainment and Readymade Records, said though Myspace is often written-off, it is routinely the top result when someone searches for artists."They do have all that traffic and all that data from previously being number one, so I feel like if they can rebrand themselves and take advantage of that, then that's going to be really huge," White told the Guardian.White regularly updates Myspace information for the artists she manages – including Brendan Benson of the Raconteurs and Eric Burdon of The Animals – because of the traffic the site still generates."I don't consider Myspace a social network, I consider it a one-page, informational destination," White said.One way Myspace may be able to reinvent itself as a relevant social network is with its focus on musicians. The rebrand video showcases what an artist's profile would look like, using Timberlake as an example. In the preview, he's given access to the actions of his top fans and can see who is listening to his music and where they are.Justin Timberlake can see David Croft listening to Sexy Back.The site has not set a date for its official re-launch and Tim Vanderhook said: "We're really far along, but we really want that last twenty percent to really be crafted by more people like Justin that actually know the tools and things that they need."Many big names have attempted to capitalize on the millions of teens dominating Twitter hashtags on a daily basis and to turn the effects of music pirating in their favor without success.Earlier this month, Apple announced they were shutteringiTunes Ping– their failed attempt at a social music site and smaller start-ups have yet to attract a large enough audience to threaten Facebook.
Don't think of Epic Mickey: Power of Illusion as a mere handheld companion to Epic Mickey: The Power of Two, which hits the Wii, Xbox 360 and PS3 this November. Instead, think of it as a long overdue sequel to Castle of Illusion, the lavishly crafted Sega game from 1990.In truth, of course, it's both of these things, retaining the paint and paint-thinner mechanics of Warren Spector's series, and the delicate 2D art and side-scrolling action that made the famous mouse's 16bit incarnations such wonderfully sumptuous charmers. Power of Illusion's shaping up to be far from your average 3DS tie-in, in other words – nostalgic and creative by turns.The plot, such as it is, sees Mickey exploring the shifting chambers of the Castle of Illusion on yet another quest to save Minnie; it's just an excuse, and a fairly bare-bones one, to bottom-bounce your way through decades of classic Disney fare. Early levels channel Peter Pan, for example, sending you racing over the midnight skyline of a sleeping London, leaping from chimney pots to spars of cloud, and eventually heading on to the jungles of Neverland. A few minutes later, Aladdin gets his turn, with stages set in the streets of Agrabah, where pendulum blades swing from awnings and good old quicksand is on hand to keep you moving along at a decent clip.It's all gloriously pretty, using the stereoscopic 3D in smart, understated ways, but that's only half the game - the top half, as it turns out, since a jab of the 3DS' touch screen allows you to pause the action and meddle with the environment.This is where the paint and paint-thinner come in, as you erase junk that's blocking Mickey's path, and draw in ledges that will help him over long jumps. It's tightly controlled, with the interactive pieces shown in ghost form on the bottom screen, but there's a pleasant arcade flourish to things, too, as you're graded on how well you match the outline to add or remove each item.By the second or third level, you'll be switching between screens every ten seconds, adding cannons that will propel Mickey right across the map, and removing hazards as well as simple obstacles. On paper, it might threaten to break the flow of the game, but in reality in merely builds the rhythm: this is a puzzler as much as a platformer, and it encourages you to use both logic and timing.If any of this screen-swapping stuff sound vaguely familiar, it's because the team at Dreamrift, who are responsible for making Power of Illusion, include veterans of EA's wonderfully deranged Henry Hatsworth DS game, which let players blend together the mechanics of a platformer and a match-three puzzler to synapse-frying effect. Hatsworth was known for its awkward difficulty spikes, incidentally, but if anything Mickey seems surprisingly tooled-up for his adventure, facing off against a selection of enemies with whirlwind and jumping melee attacks, as well as paint and paint-thinner ranged weapons.He's also got a handful of sketches he can employ on each level, which act a little like special moves. One might conjure a chest filled with power-ups, while another might grant him temporary invincibility. Some of them even pile on the cameos, plucking Scrooge McDuck right out of the old Capcom Duck Tales games and sending him pogoing across the landscape on his cane.It's a lovely aside, and it feels entirely appropriate, too. Epic Mickey's a game caught in ceaseless orbit around the ancient lore of Disney's films and theme parks. Surely it's only fitting that the 3DS instalment draws on the company's rich history in games, too?• Epic Mickey: Power of Illusion is released in the UK on 3DS on 23 November
This week we discuss gesture control technologies and how this form of interaction with computers is set to give birth to a new user-interface experience.Charles Arthur meets Assaf Gad from Israeli software company Pointgrab to discuss their hand gesture recognition technology and Aleks Krotoski talks to creative technologist Evan Grant about the artistic possibilities of these technological developments.Aleks also meets games developer Linden Vongasthorn from Hide &amp; Seek and, along with Guardian games writer Keith Stuart, they discuss why gaming is at the forefront of gesture control technologies.Finally, the Guardian telecommunications correspondent Juliette Garside joins Aleks to discuss Apple's problems with maps and it's iO6 software update.
Well, EA Sports has finally done it. After years of hinting in this direction, building the options, crafting the background activities, nudging us toward an inescapable realisation, the purpose is now clear and the truth is out. Fifa 13 is an action RPG.You only really have to look at Ultimate Team, the game's increasingly epic mix of Pokémon, Farmville, Final Fantasy and old-school sticker books. Building a team from virtual packs of trading cards, swapping duplicates and auctioning unwanted misfits has always been fun, but now there are seasons to compete in, manager tasks to beat, and team of the week challenges to undertake, all of which unlock goodies and allowing access to better players. It is essentially an adventure, with the team as a clan, fighting its way through a division of enemies.Added to this is the revised EA Sports Football Club section. Here, you'll find a catalogue page where gamers can spend the XP points they've earned in other sections of the game, buying classic kits, new goal celebrations, licensed boots, pro-player upgrades and other desirable swag. Like the structured multi-player systems in Call of Duty and Battlefield, it's all designed to tap into the sort of completist compulsions that drive role-playing games. Unlock, open up, play on. It's football as compulsion loop. It's the league of loot.And the analogy extends out onto the pitch. Ported over from the more showy Fifa Street, the new complete dribbling option lets you face goal and dribble along wide parallel arcs, giving you time on the ball and encouraging a deliciously thoughtful approach.EA Sports has effectively built a tactical battle system into a sports sim: every confrontation with a defender is a melee encounter, your weaponry a range of chipped, faked and weighted passes. It is so intricate, so subtle, and while Fifa 12 was clearly inspired by the rise of Leo Messi – the RPG hero of football – Fifa 13 has broadened the gamer's ability to really be him, to stop, assess and then deliver any killer pass.The increased physicality of the game is also noticeable from the outset. Hitting the B button when running in behind the player with the ball now pushes and prods at him in an aggressive and effective way. Of course, this sort of stuff has been in footie sim animation cycles since the PES glory days, but married to an increased vulnerability and a flighty ball physics model, the outcomes are pronounced and almost immediate, whether that's a halted attack or a yellow card.In defence, the jockey and contain controls from Fifa 12 are back, and both now integrate smoothly with the push/pull option and tackle buttons to allow chained combos of reactive moves. Specifically, contain now has more fluidity, allowing you to close off attackers, but also nip the ball away if they progress into your line. I also feel less vulnerable to short side passes because defenders can whip a leg out to stop speedy one-two manoeuvres.This has had an interesting consequence: whereas, for me, Fifa 12 felt very zonal, very structured, because of the implantation of tactical defending 1.0, Fifa 13 is much more seamless now that the edges have been smoothed off that system. Hence, versatile midfielders like Yaya Toure and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain will come into their own, retrieving the ball from deep and scorching well into the opponent's half.There's also a greater sense of industry from AI team-mates – true, they're still not overly imaginative in their play, but at least they stay onside and wave madly for the ball, without you having to instigate a forward run yourself. It just feels more fluid, more adaptable.Another big change is the first-touch feature, which calculates a player's ability to receive a pass based on his skill, his position, and the speed of the ball. In short, a missile-like hoof across the pitch will no longer be magnetically attracted to the recipient's foot like an obedient satellite. Sure, the likes of Xavi and Santi Cazorla can (and do) take down speculative 50-yard balls as though cushioning a tiny baby, but other players will need to take drastic measures – like slowing down, re-positioning, or just preparing to chase the thing when it ricochets off their shins.Dave Rutter, the producer of Fifa, often talks about predictable unpredictability – it's a puzzling oxymoron, but what he means is that there is an authentic element of chance in every interaction; every touch is a wager placed against physics.I've really started to try to exploit this now, getting players close in on throw-ins and free-kicks to scoop up rebounds. It seems odd to celebrate a feature that gives participantslesscontrol, but for those who've always seen Fifa as a soulless automaton to Pro Evo's flighty improvisational oddball, it's a lurch in the right direction.I'm not sure the system is working quite as well with crosses, however. These have always been challenging to score from in Fifa, so many will feel that to add an extra burden on the receiving player is a bit much. When Rodrigo Palacio floats a beautiful curving ball into the path of Diego Milito, you don't want one of the world's most clinical strikers to uselessly chest it at the keeper, despite a seemingly well-timed jab on the finesse shot buttons. But then, of course, that could just be me.And if it is just me, there's now a partial solution. Fifa 13 comes with a new skill games mode which offers a series of tutorial challenges based around eight key facets of every match. In the crossing task, you need to run into the correct zone then put the ball into the box to hit a series of targets, while shooting gets you to aim at specific zones within the goal mouth.Each skill game has four stages: bronze, silver, gold and skill challenge, and naturally they get progressively more difficult. With the lobbed pass tasks, for example, you start out having to chip the ball into a series of bins, but on reaching gold you need to hit the crossbar within eight attempts. They're fun but they're also instructional: for example, I discovered that I've been taking penalties wrongly for the last five years, which was handy.However, despite sailing through the free-kick challenge, set-pieces are still frustratingly obtuse in the game (and the new tactical free-kick options, which let you bluff and double bluff your chosen taker, merely plaster layers of ineffective artifice over the top). One final nice touch, though: random skill challenges come up while you're waiting for matches to load, giving you a little opportunity to tune your skills.As for presentation, a general overhaul of the graphics engine is noticeable, with crisper, brighter stadium detail and a few new contextual animations that takes us ever closer toward moments of photo-realism. When Joe Hart pumps his fist after a successful save, or Wayne Rooney wheels manically away from a goal, the actions are so smooth it is a joy to watch.The commentary, too adds to this sense that it's not only the sport that's being simulated, it's the theatre. While Andy Townsend will reflexively point out the brilliance of a penalty that dinks in off the cross bar, you also get Alan Smith pontificating on the Etihad Stadium's role in the regeneration of east Manchester. It all adds to this sense of occasion – something EA is also building on by enhancing Fifa 13's connection with the real sport.The match day function now downloads stats and trivia from the week's play and applies these to your player ratings and certain commentary elements. When it works, there's a little frisson of excitement and recognition – though many fans will baulk at having their simulation tied closely to capricious reality (don't worry, you can switch it off).Elsewhere, the career mode hasn't been dramatically overhauled, save for the addition of international roles, which give your player or manager the chance to represent their country – a neat idea that brings a different rhythm to the pro options.Online functionality adds a revised pro clubs seasons mode to the mix of friendlies and custom matches, providing more stability and longevity to the multi-player experience. The key thing will be how the game avoids some of the lag and glitching problems that cursed Fifa 12 in its early days, and that won't become clear until there are millions on the servers.And that is Fifa 13. In some ways, it's a very subtle continuation of the work EA Sports began last year – there are no dramatic additions. However, in tuning the defensive systems and the attacking AI, the development team has unlocked the potential that Fifa 12 only hinted at, creating a game that, at last, seems to invite improvisational play, a game in which your own skill as a player comes to the fore. It isn't about the way Fifa wants you to play any more, and that is an important part of confronting the phantom of PES in its glory days, the PES that – in pure gameplay terms – Fifa has struggled to beat.Now PES is approaching its best again, and Fifa 13 needed to be at its stylish zenith to hold on to the top spot. I think it is, and it does. Just. And I think this is because it is not really a pure simulation anymore; within its interconnecting systems of adventure, collection, unlocking and upgrading, Fifa 13 has become something else. Something far more interesting and rewarding.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
I recently visited a book publisher to speak at an away-day for its children's publishing team. The brief was to talk about the children's apps market, including innovative startups and developers.There was certainly lots of whizzy tech to talk about. Augmented reality; multi-touch counting aids; powerful music sequencers disguised as digital toys; use of the camera; physical accessories… A wave of innovation in the kid-apps space as developers explore the learning and play possibilities of touchscreen devices.But here's the thing: the more I thought about all this technology, and how my own three and five year-old sons use apps, the more I realised that the best children's apps are successful because of a pair of more traditional qualities.Great storytelling. Strong characters.It seems apps aren't so revolutionary after all, but that's a good thing. Treat any claims that apps are set to kill off books with the derision they deserve. Apps are just another form of storytelling, and one that sit alongside printed books rather than trying to replace them.(This, hopefully, will head off the crotchety commenters who appear whenever I write about children's apps for The Guardian, saying things like "You idiot! Children should be reading BOOKS, not staring at a screen!" Ridiculous, since children in even the geekiest households are doing both, not replacing the former with the latter.)Children love great stories and strong characters, whether they're on a screen or a printed page. But that seemingly-obvious thought led me to three conclusions about the children's apps market, and how it may evolve.Conclusion one: it's hardly surprising that famous children's brands are popular on the app stores, while new characters and stories struggle for attention.Two of the only prove success stories (as in actual figures) for children's book-apps are Oceanhouse Media's1m paid sales of Dr. Seuss book-apps, and P2 Games'600k paid sales of gamesbased on brands like Peppa Pig, Postman Pat and Bob the Builder.Meanwhile, various Disney films and brands like Dora the Explorer and Thomas and Friends are regular fixtures in the upper reaches of Apple's App Store chart.With no dedicated Kids category on either Apple's App Store or Google's Play store, children's apps are scattered between categories like Books, Education, Games and Entertainment, so it's no surprise that parents resort to trusted brands when parting with their cash for paid apps.Yet there's something else going on here: they're buying apps with familiar stories and/or strong characters.The problem is that there is some great storytelling happening in apps from less familiar sources: independent developers around the world, often working in twos, threes or fours on inventive, well-crafted storybook-apps.In the last two or three months alone in another job running a children's apps blog, I've discovered apps by studios likeSquare Igloo,Happy Ink Publishing,La Souris Qui Raconte,Ink Robin,Gabuduck,GameDigits,Urbn;Pockets,Protein One,Lullaby,Spinlight Studio,Bookva Press,Hocusbookus,Ickypen,Secret AtticandFeeFiFoFun.Very few of them are giving Peppa, Thomas and The Cat In The Hat a run for their money at the top of the app store charts. In fact, many of my favourite children's apps in 2012 have sunk without trace after their release. But it shows there are new stories and characters out there to be found.Which brings us on to conclusion two: if these companies are some of the great storytellers on smartphones and tablets, should they be hooking up with larger publishers to find an audience, just as talented authors and illustrators do in the traditional books world?I'm seeing some movement towards exactly this, with publishers actively scouting for interesting app developers, as well as animators (not just illustrators) and authors who are comfortable with and excited about interactive media.It's happened already for a number of projects, like Penguin's Peppa Me Books and Ladybird Classic Me Books, which were collaborations with British startup Made In Me; or Barefoot Books' partnership with Touch Press on Barefoot World Atlas; or HarperCollins' ongoing relationship with US developer Bean Creative on its Fancy Nancy series and other books.Publishers may also have a matchmaking role to play, introducing established or new children's authors to interesting app developers, not just to make digital versions of existing books, but also to work on brand new stories that may appear as apps first, then make the leap to print.And now conclusion three: that some of these partnerships will popularise the idea that great storytelling can come from children, not just authors. Children actively participating in a story, or telling their own completely new tales using characters and tools provided to them.Apps like Toca Store are open-ended, enabling children to role-play and tell their own storiesThe first wave of children's book-apps for the most part fell into two camps: those with too little interaction – basically digitised print pages with a voiceover – and those with too much interaction for the sake of it.(The latter being book-apps with a physics engine and so many flying objects, that children forgot entirely about the actual story, in favour of pinging things around the screen. The kind of apps thatput author Julia Donaldson off the idea of sanctioning a Gruffalo app, which remains a shame.)There have been some very good examples of interactivity done right to serve the story rather than sideline it – British firmNosy Crow's appsspring to mind – but we're now ready for a new wave of storytelling apps born of more thought about how children can participate or tell their own stories.Early pointers includeMade In Me's technology enabling children to record dialogue or sounds and attach it to specific items, characters or spots on digital book pages, and theCollins Book Cat series of book-apps, which tell a story then encourage children to make up their own tales using its characters, scenes and key vocabulary.Meanwhile, one of the other proven success stories in the children's apps space – Swedish firm Toca Boca with its10m app downloads– has built fervent loyalty from parents through strong character design, and its decision to leave storytelling entirely in the hands of its young users.Children love to be read stories, whether on printed pages or a touchscreen, and they love to tell stories and roleplay, whether that's making sock-puppets or running a Toca Store on an iPad. Great stories, strong characters.Somewhere in this, there is a sweet spot for the next generation of marvellous children's apps, which will continue to complement printed-book reading and real-world play, rather than replace them. With new stories and characters, not just the old favourites.Although admittedly, the creators of these apps will still have to solve the challenges of marketing them…
Claims that the privacy of direct messages sent between Facebook users had been compromised and that the messages were appearing publicly on users' timelines are false, the social networking service has said.There was confusion on Monday amid reports in France that non-public messages sent in the years from 2007 onwards had started to appear in timelines, sparking many users to check back in the fear that potentially embarrassing private messages had become widely viewable.Facebook's share price fell 9.1% to $20.79 at the close in New York on the back of the fears, the biggest drop since 27 July. The stock has slumped 45% since its May initial public offering, and hasn't traded above its $38 IPO price since the day after the share sale.A Facebook spokesperson later said that an investigation was launched after "a small number" of users raised concerns after what they believed to be private messages appeared on their timelines."Our engineers investigated these reports and found that the messages were older wall posts that had always been visible on the users' profile pages. Facebook is satisfied that there has been no breach of user privacy," he added.The company has suggested that much of confusion was because of how differently people used Facebook in 2007, when there was no comments feature and the like button did not exist. As a result, wall posts were used more often and in some cases  people may have used wall posts instead of private messages by mistake, according to the company.Facebook investigated a similar claim late last year, which the company found to be false.It also said on Monday that, from a technical perspective, private messages and wall posts were treated very differently and that no mechanism has ever been created that would allow a private message to be published on timelines.One suggestion for why the issue emerged on Monday was because France, where the first cases of people expressing concern about the potential exposure of private messages, was the most recent place where Facebook's Timeline feature was being introduced.
It's Tuesday and, hey, did you know we were doing a Dishonored event? Come along! No, really COME ALONG.Meet the creators of Dishonored, Oct 3, £8Come and see the artistic visionaries behind the steam punk stealth adventure. Art director Sebastien Mitton and visual design director Viktor Antonov will talk about how they imagined and built Dunwall and its unique retro futuristic architecture. I've seen them do this talk at the Develop conference and it was AMAZING. We also get to ask them questions afterwards. It's £8 including snacks and drinks and it's at our lovely office in Kings Place!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamStreetViewer for iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPhone 4S, iPhone 5, iPod touch (3rd generation), iPod touch (4th generation), iPod touch (5th generation) and iPad &gt;&gt; App StoreStreet View, including "Pegman". A 69p app for those hankering after Street View now that Apple has done away with it by dropping Google as its default map provider.An iOS app to experience Street Views &gt;&gt; Live Street ViewsLive Street View is an iOS app that enables its users to use their device as a viewport to the world. By utilizing the built-in compass of your iOS device you can experience places as if you're standing right there.What's the betting this $1/79p app suddenly makes its creator quite wealthy?Google Maps announces a 400-year advantage over Apple Maps &gt;&gt; Telemapics blogThe issue plaguing Apple Maps is not mathematics or algorithms, it is data quality and there can be little doubt about the types of errors that are plaguing the system. What is happening to Apple is that their users are measuring data quality. Users look for familiar places they know on maps and use these as methods of orienting themselves, as well as for testing the goodness of maps. They compare maps with reality to determine their location. They query local businesses to provide local services. When these actions fail, the map has failed and this is the source of Apple's most significant problems. Apple's maps are incomplete, illogical, positionally erroneous, out of date, and suffer from thematic inaccuracies.Source: Apple aggressively recruiting ex-Google Maps staff to build out iOS Maps &gt;&gt; TechCrunchApple is going after people with experience working on Google Maps to develop its own product, according to a source with connections on both teams. Using recruiters, Apple is pursuing a strategy of luring away Google Maps employees who helped develop the search giant's product on contract, and many of those individuals seem eager to accept due in part to the opportunity Apple represents to build new product, instead of just doing "tedious updates" on a largely complete platform.The Soul Of A New Atlas.What Will Marissa Do?: Mayer to reveal strategy to troops this week &gt;&gt; AllThingsDIn the memo, titled "Board slides, strategy and goals," Mayer talked about the meetings. There will be two this Tuesday, one in the morning and one later in the day, in order to accommodate Yahoo staffers internationally."In an act of radical transparency that will be a tradition moving forward," Mayer promised that she will go over the slides -- which are usually not shared widely -- of her "strategy and vision" that she presented at the board meeting on Friday."We want to offer you transparency into what happens at the board level as well as guidance as to where the company is going," Mayer noted.Kudos to that! (And send all that transparency my way, please!)Mayer also said in the memo that she will have another all-hands meeting on October 1, where she will begin "rolling out a new system and process for goals for the company," including annual goals that will be tracked and graded -- first on a company level, then to departments, teams and, finally, individuals.AskPatents.com: A Stack Exchange to prevent bad patents &gt;&gt; Stack ExchangeAsk Patentsis a new Stack Exchange site launching today that allows anyone to participate in the patent examination process. It's a collaborative effort, supported by Stack Exchange, the US Patent and Trademark Office, and the Google Patent Search team. It's very exciting, because it is opening up a process that has been conducted behind closed doors for over 200 years.Gotta love Stack Exchange.Samsung figured out how the jury arrived at its damages figures (except for the Galaxy Tab 10.1) &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsA sort of legal reverse-engineering means that Samsung reckons it knows how the jury reached its figures - but they contain inconsistencies.The related jury award of $57.9m dollars [for the Galaxy Prevail] will have to be adjusted. If the same methodology (50% of Apple's royalty demand) as for the other software-patents-only items was applied, we'd be talking about a few million dollars, not tens of millions. And I guess this is one adjustment that Judge Koh will very likely make. This one adjustment alone would be enough to take the damages award (prior to any of the enhancements requested by Apple) below the psychologically important billion-dollar threshold, and Samsung might then try to argue that this contrary-to-law approach by the jury to the damages figure for one of two dozen products dictates a retrial on all damages numbers.What remains a mystery is how the jury arrived at its award of $833,076 in damages for the Galaxy Tab 10.1 (WiFi).Samsung asks for JMOL, or new trial and remittitur - says Apple v. Samsung trial was not fair; jury messed up &gt;&gt; GroklawJMOL is "judgement as a matter of law"; "remittitur" means the lowering of a damages award by a judge.There are many other examples of what Samsung feels are jury mistakes. The worst example is in the area of damages, where the figures simply make no sense at all. Samsung actually phrases it more tactfully, saying that "the basis for the jury's award is unclear." I'll say. That section begins on page 28 of the PDF.But it wasn't just the jury that goofed, Samsung says. It was also the court, in that the jury instructions did not properly explain aspects of the law of trade dress, for example, or what is required to establish willfulness (see footnotes 8, 10 and 11).Samsung also says that no rational jury could find Apple's design patents valid. First, they are all functional, Samsung argues, and hence not protectable, there's at least one issue of double patenting, and there is prior art.Patterns Could Be the Next Minecraft &gt;&gt; IGNLike Minecraft, Patterns places your avatar in a world where you can gather materials and then use them to create new objects and structures. Your character, shown in the demo as a humanoid made up of triangles and other geometrical shapes, uses its mind to break apart substances and also use them to create new objects. You don't use or create tools like those of Minecraft, instead the focus of Patterns is less on survival and more about exploring a world that challenges you to create.So, like Minecraft in Creative mode then.Messaging, lists and more for couples on iPhone, Android, and web &gt;&gt; Avocado"Some things work better in pairs". Groan-making pun, yet this is also a very clever idea - if it can be multi-platform.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The latest Facebook tangle – the apparent news that a bug within the site had started publishing archived private messages on user's walls – has turned out, perhaps not unpredictably, not to be quite as it seemed.TechCrunch reporter Colleen Taylor caught wind of the supposed bug from French newspapers Le Monde, Le Matin and Metro France, and relayed seeing private messages posted as public friend-to-friend updates. (Taylor's updated story, in which she eventually found that no private messages were in fact posted, ishere.)Facebook's official response is below:A small number of users raised concerns after what they mistakenly believed to be private messages appeared on their Timeline. Our engineers investigated these reports and found that the messages were older wall posts that had always been visible on the users' profile pages. Facebook is satisfied that there has been no breach of user privacy.Monday afternoon, Facebook spokesperson Frederic Wolens added that Facebook hadn't been unable to confirm any issue related to a leakage of private messages.Though it's always an embarrassing experience, I went through archived posts on my Facebook timeline from 2008 and 2009 and cross-checked them against my private message inbox. There was no overlap.This is more a story about psychology than privacy – we have forgotten how much our experience of Facebook has changed in a short time.A few years ago, Facebook was new enough (and exclusive enough) that we didn't consider the implications of what we posted.Back when users didn't have the ability to comment on individual wall posts – the wall-to-wall experience actually looked likethis– and before Facebook Subscribe and souped-up privacy tools that let us toggle between publishing to a few, some or all of our friends, the site was governed by a simple concept: share with all of your friends or none.There was no reason then to think about privacy as it pertained to Facebook, which is funny because this is our first reaction to pretty much every Facebook development these days. (By the way, did you know thatFacebook started saving your searchesbeginning today?)My friends – not subscribers or acquaintances, just friends – and I were not thinking about privacy on my birthday in 2008. I compared private messages with public posts from that date and what's funny is that the public-facing wall posts give away far more information about my friends than the private messages do.My friend Nate, hoping to join the festivities, posted his cell-phone number on my wall. My friend Lindsay confessed that she was writing my "Happy Birthday!!!!!" Facebook post while doped up on anesthesia from a wisdom-tooth removal."Sorry I couldn't make the party," my friend Katie wrote, "but I was at MedPoint for a majority of the night."The degree of information they offered up is unthinkable in 2012, when researchers are starting to piece together evidence that what we post now could havevery real consequencesfor things we try to do in the future.In the early days of Facebook, we were lulled into a false sense of security. We thought our medical histories and friends-only posts were sacred and private and would never be archived or, possibly, used against us.I can only imagine that other than being confused by unclear design, those who today mistook private messages for public have memories that don't stretch back to the golden days of Facebook free love, when we were all too excited to know any better.
Apple sold five million iPhone 5s in the first three days after the product's launch, the company announced Monday. But the figures may not be enough to please analysts' sky-high expectations and Apple's shares fell over $10 in early trading.The sales set a new record for Apple. More than two million people pre-ordered the device, twice the number that pre-ordered its predecessor, the iPhone 4S, and the company sold out of its initial production run.But the figures still came below the predictions of some Wall Street analysts, a number of whom forecast that almost twice as many would be sold."Demand for iPhone 5 has been incredible, and we are working hard to get an iPhone 5 into the hands of every customer who wants one as quickly as possible," said Apple chief executive Tim Cook. "While we have sold out of our initial supply, stores continue to receive iPhone 5 shipments regularly and customers can continue to order online and receive an estimated delivery date."Apple sold four million iPhone 4S in its opening weekend last year. That device was seen as a smaller technological step forward compared to the iPhone 5. The iPhone 5 also had a bigger launch, going on sale in two more countries than its predecessor.Apple has aggressive rollout plans for the newest iPhone. Nine countries are now selling the iPhone 5, and that will grow to more than 100 by the end of the year.Colin Gillis, a technology analyst at BTIG in New York, said: "On any metric, this is a success. It's one million more units than last time. But this is Apple, and given the expectations on this company, they have to not just set records – they have to smash them."Gillis said smartphone sales in general were slowing and that Apple had already conceded that sales of iPhone 4Ss had been hit as customers put off buying them in anticipation of the next release.Apple had been expected to sell 25m iPhones in the September quarter and Gillis said the company could now miss that. "Quite frankly, a lot of people have smartphones already. The market is slowing down," he said.By mid-morning, Apple's shares had fallen $10 to $690.09. The shares closed the day down $9.30 at $690.79.
Ezio Auditore da Firenze is a tough act to follow and not just because he's a charismatic Italian daredevil. Over the past three entries in Ubisoft's sublime open-world adventure series, Assassin's Creed, gamers have watched the former Florentine noble flourish from a shallow, pugnacious Lothario into a wise, if slightly world weary, scholar of men.As his storyline closed out in last year's Assassin's Creed: Revelations, Ezio had learned the harsh lesson that pursing a lust for revenge isn't a substitute for living one's life. His story arc had come full circle; after uncovering the library of Altair, Ezio left for home with his new love by his side, content that he'd paid his dues in the war between the Templars and the Assassins. Ezio is easily one of the best characters created in the gaming medium in the last 10 or so years and (speaking as a fan of this franchise) he will be sorely missed.It's a pity the same can't be said about the series' other protagonist – Desmond Miles. He's unfortunately still an integral part of the Assassin's Creed storyline and most fans would be glad to see the back of him. Not only is he a plonkingly bland character, but over the last three games his story arc found itself parked up an uninteresting cul-de-sac. Most players don't care what happens to him and this is a problem for the developers because no matter what hooded figure glowers at punters from the box-art of every Assassin's Creed game, this series – in the end – is all about Desmond. His story needs an adrenaline shot and fast.Whether it's going to get one in Assassin's Creed III is unclear at this point. In my hands-on with the latest entry in the series I only caught sight of the boring bartender in a loading screen before the Animus – that nifty VR time exploration device – slotted his consciousness back to the late 1700s in British-controlled North America and into the boots of one Connor Kenway.According to the notes supplied by Ubisoft, Connor is a half-British, half-Native American warrior who joins the American revolutionary forces after the British attacked his village. As I join the story, Connor's in deep with the rebels, but not too busy to make sure that the woodlands surrounding a manor he's holed up in remain a place of peace and tranquility. After a brief exchange in which Connor is handed a nasty-looking weapon called a rope-dart, we're off into the forest to take down a bunch of poachers.Assassin's Creed veterans are in for a couple of teething problems as they get to grips with young Mr Kenway. First off, the environments he travels through bare scant resemblance to the cities that Altair and Ezio kicked about in. The rooftops of those cities were largely flat-topped and only interrupted occasionally by iconic landmarks. Crucially, the streets in them were narrow, meaning that the jump between roofs was quite easy to make – even if in Istanbul Ezio required the odd bit of assistance from his hook blade.After the Medieval Middle East and Renaissance Europe, the North American frontier takes a bit of getting used to. In the first half hour of my hands-on, I spent most of my time sprinting about, leaping over the odd rock or babbling brook, climbing nearby trees and then wondering how best to proceed. Due to the close-knit structure of the cities from earlier Assassin's Creed games, the Parkour pathways were always immediately apparent. This isn't the case in Assassin's Creed III and players are likely to spend a fair bit of time bungling about in the treetops, or just running along on the ground – at least at first.Then the penny drops. I wish I could point to a single moment or sequence in the game that marked the change in my navigational abilities, but truth be told, I didn't spot the changeover. At some point, as Connor sprinted through the forest, my visual reading of the environment suddenly went widescreen; one minute I was struggling to see the way forward and the next, I found myself running up a fallen tree, leaping off a rock formation and then moving swiftly through the tree tops as though a pathway had just intuitively opened up for me.It wasn't long before I happened across Connor's poacher quarries, as moving through the trees is a lot speedier than running about on the ground. Furthermore, Connor has more attacking options open to him from an elevated position than he does on the ground. With the rope dart, for example, Connor can snag an enemy from where he's sitting on a branch, looping his weapon around their neck in a make-shift noose. Then, using his own body weight as ballast, he can swing off the branch he's perched on and use his momentum to string up his target and leave them choking their last as he walks away.On level pegging, he's still a force to be reckoned with; like Ezio, Connor has a concealed blade, which is perfect for surprise kills, but his go-to weapon of choice is a tomahawk, wielded in much the same way Ezio and Altair wielded their swords. Combat is a brutal and tactical affair; if players concentrate too much on hammering one specific opponent, they can be assured that any number of their target's compatriots will move swiftly to hit them from behind. The counter move in Assassin's Creed III gives players a brief window of slow motion to decide on the direction of their next attack – probably because most of Connor's foes in the game are armed with muskets.In any combative exchange, it's likely that some enemies will attempt to fire lead into Connor. Luckily, since all the action is set in the 1700's, there's a lengthy respite between gunfire exchanges as enemies go through the cumbersome process of reloading. In the instances they come across a party of foes carrying muskets, it's worth keeping mobile in order to make Connor a harder target to hit. Once the volley of gunfire sounds off, I recommend moving in swiftly with a tomahawk as the impromptu firing squad does their best to regroup.Once I'd mopped up the poachers and a couple of side-quests, I found Connor's environment growing in the direction of commerce. A young lady the poachers had shot down – and which I'd saved – decided to set up a trading post where Connor was able to sell the pelts of animals I'd skinned in the wild. It all smacked a bit of the mini-empire building that took place in the last three Assassin's Creed games, and while I wasn't able to see if Connor would be the focal point of a colonial business enterprise in the time allotted in my hands-on, it's a ton to a tenner that players will probably be able to set up a goods network in the American frontier.I was also able to see how Connor handled in an urban environment, as the plot arc in the time I had at the controls, took me from the frontier to Boston. The environment here was as much of a far cry from the tightly knit cities from previous Assassin's Creed titles as the woodland frontier. The wide streets of newly-minted North America make progress over the rooftops slightly problematic at times. To combat this, the developers have positioned trees as waypoints on wide American streets and also allowed players the option of cutting through houses; crashing through a window and charging through an apartment to avoid capture is now an option.The only real bone of contention here is that Connor – after three hours of playing time – can't hold a candle to his predecessor. He is by no means as dull as Desmond, but in terms of charisma and likeability, Ezio leaves him the dust. He comes across as somewhat humourless, po-faced and oh-so-serious. That having been said, anyone who has ever played an Assassin's Creed title will tell you that three hours of play is barely scratching the surface. Here's hoping that Connor can lighten up occasionally; aside from his dour, dowdy demeanour, he and the game he inhabits are worthy successors to Ezio Auditore da Firenze and if you've played the last three Assassin's Creed entries, you know what a compliment that is.
Guess what proportion of the 370m or so PCs shipped this year will include an SSD (solid state device, or NAND Flash drive, if you prefer)? According to Samsung's senior team in its SSD division, the figure is between 5% and 10%. Next year, they expect it to hit 20% – and by 2016 to reach 50%.For anyone who has experienced the speed and silence that SSDs bring, that has to be a good thing. With SSD manufacturing capacity growing rapidly, HDDs – hard disk drives with rotating platters – are starting to be less competitive. Prices for SSDs are now below the magic "$1 per GB" level, at which price sensitivity drops away: you can now buy a 512GB SSD for less than $500 (and about £400 in the UK), which means that you can give an old PC an entirely new lease of speeded-up life by copying the data onto the new drive.And that is the market that Samsung is going after with the latest generation of its SSD range, the Samsung Pro 840 – following last year's 830 range. When the drive goes on sale in October, it will be targeted at users looking to update their machine rather than going to the expense of buying a new one. "There's not a lot of money around in Europe," one Samsung manager told me, explaining why the company is presently going after the upgrade market – which is of course enormous, given the installed based of hundreds of millions of PCs. The forecast is that the number of SSDs bought for the "aftermarket", as it's called, will roughly treble or quadruple this year and next.I've had the chance to try out the Samsung 840 drive and to benchmark it. In the graphic below, which was first used for agroup SSD test in January, it's been added as the last – and, as it turns out, usually longest – line in each group. (Longer is better: the figure represents the speed at which data is moved.)SSD group test: Samsung, Crucial, Toshiba, Kiingston SSDs, and Maxtor HDD. Longer bars are better.What the benchmarks show is that the 840 beats everything else, in most cases pretty handily, except in the "random 4K write" test. (And that might have been a one-off artefact of the test.) The benchmark, carried out by XBench, doesn't particularly torture the drive, but it's a good enough facsimile of real life.The key message is that SSDs are now affordable, as has been becoming clear. Samsung, as the world's biggest memory maker, is making aggressive moves here – it's aiming to be the biggest in various markets (it's already second, it says, in the UK) and could drive down the price so that 1TB of SSD storage for your main machine is just an afterthought.One area though where SSD doesn't quite match up: use in high-end workstations, especially those used in work such as architecture which use colossal temporary files. SSDs perform poorly if they're used for repeated writing (because while it's extremely fast to read from them, writing requires the erasure of the memory location followed by the writing of the new data – unlike magnetic HDDs which simply write without erasing first). It may be a little time, executives admit, before they're quite ready for that sort of punishing environment – although the SSD 840 Pro range are touted as being for "24-hour" use.And what about the suggestions that SSDs fail catastrophically when they reach the end of their lives? That's not such a problem as it appears to be, says another Samsung executive. "When you see the first few errors occur, you still have all the rest of the data there on the drive – you've only lost a little bit where it went wrong. But when a HDD dies, everything is lost." The latter might not be quite true, but SSDs are improving not only in speed but also in longevity – the idea that they're only good for a short life is now long past. Samsung is offering a five-year warranty on its SSDs – and by the time you reach the end of the warranty, any replacement drive with the same capacity is probably going to cost around one-sixteenth, or 6%, of what you paid originally. So that means that that 512GB drive will cost about £24.Samsung SSD 830 (2011) v SSD 840 Pro (2012) benchmark comparison. Longer bars are better.If companies are able to get the same sort of speed improvements that Samsung is showing here year on year, then it will also be dozens of times faster. In fact Samsung's engineers are already saying that the SATA interface isn't sufficient for future SSD; it's limited to 6 gigabits per second, which apparently isn't enough for the hardcore SSD makers – who are now looking to PCIe because it offers parallel throughput and is already an industry standard.Maxtor HDD v Samsung SSD 840 benchmark comparison. Longer bars are better.One final word for those sitting with a computer using a spinning drive: look at the difference that an SSD can make. Below is the graph showing the relative difference between a Maxtor HDD and the Samsung 840.Maxtor HDD v Samsung SSD 840. Bars show relative speed increase of SSD.You'll notice that when it comes to reading data (as typically happens during startup) it's up to 20 times faster. That means an operation – such as booting up – that would take 60 seconds with the HDD will take 3 seconds with the SSD. When you multiply those sorts of benefits across a day, the time saved – or added – is colossal. We keep saying it, but that's because it's true: SSDs are the future of computer storage. It's just a question of whether you get on board now or when you buy your next computer – in 2016, perhaps.Charles Arthur was one of a group of journalists who travelled to Seoul at the invitation of, and paid for by, Samsung
UK games chart, week ending 21 September 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Borderlands 2(18+)Xbox 360 (71)PS3 (20)PC (6)12 (–)F1 2012(3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (44)PC (2)13 (–)Pro Evolution Soccer 2013(3+)PS3 (65)Xbox 360 (33)PC (3)14 (1)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (43)65 (3)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (37)PS3 (20)Wii (13)DS (7)146 (–)Littlebigplanet Ps Vita(7+)VITA (100)17 (4)New Super Mario Bros. 2(3+)3DS (100)68 (2)Tekken Tag Tournament 2(16+)PS3 (54)Xbox 360 (46)29 (7)Guild Wars 2(12+)PC (100)410 (10)Max Payne 3(18+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (45)PC (5)1311 (5)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)PC (1)1312 (8)Dead Island Goty Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (36)PC (2)1213 (–)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (23)PC (14)4114 (12)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (23)DS (19)Wii (14)1515 (13)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (63)3DS (38)4316 (6)The Sims 3: Supernatural (12+)PC (100)317 (–)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (50)Xbox 360 (27)PS3 (16)3DS (7)3318 (15)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (34)PC (5)1819 (11)Madden Nfl 13(3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)420 (–)Dirt Showdown(7+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (35)PC (0)6UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A brawl involving as many as 2,000 workers forced Foxconn to close its Taiyuan plant in northern China late on Sunday, and left a number of people needing hospital treatment."The fight is over now&nbsp;… we're still investigating the cause of the fight and the number of workers involved," said Foxconn spokesman Louis Woo, adding  it was possible it involved "a couple of thousand workers".A police statement reported by the official Xinhua news agency said 5,000 officers were dispatched to the scene.The violence was brought under control after about four hours and 40 people were taken to hospitals for treatment, the Taiwanese-owned company said. It said several people were detained by police.The violence did not appear to be work-related, the company and police said.Comments posted on Chinese internet bulletin boards said it might have erupted after a security guard hit an employee.The Taiyuan plant, which employs about 79,000 workers, makes parts for automotive electronics and assembles various electronic devices, according to Woo. Other staff sources said  it makes parts for and assembles Apple's new iPhone 5, released  last week.It was not clear how long the shutdown would last at the plant.Woo said the fight happened in the workers' dormitory facilities. Photographs of the incident that were posted to social networks but later deleted showed smashed windows and riot police, and crowds of workers.Later pictures from just outside the plant showed workers clearing shards of glass from broken windows at a building by an entrance gate and a line of olive-coloured paramilitary police trucks parked inside the factory grounds.Geoffrey Crothall, spokesman for the pressure group China Labor Bulletin, told the New York Times  workers at the plants had become increasingly emboldened."They're more willing to stand up for their rights, to stand up to injustice," he said. The same plant was the subject of a brief strike over pay in March.Foxconn, the trading name of Taiwan's Hon Hai Precision Industry Company, is the world's largest contract maker of electronic goods. It has seen a few violent disputes at its sprawling plants in China, where it employs a total of about 1 million workers. It is an important supplier for companies including Apple, Hewlett-Packard and Microsoft.Hon Hai shares were down 1.14% by late on Monday morning, lagging behind the broader market's decline of 0.28%.In June, about 100 workers went on a rampage at a Chengdu plant in south-west China. The company has faced allegations of poor conditions and mistreatment of workers at its Chinese operations, and has been spending heavily in recent months to raise wages and improve working conditions.A staff member at the Taiyuan plant said he was told the plant could be closed up to two to three days while police investigate."There are a lot of police at the site now," the staff member, who asked not to be named, told Reuters by telephone.
Games company King.com's roots are in casual skill-games, where players could compete for cash and prizes as well as for fun. However, its recent growth has come from Facebook, without the prizes but with social features. Mobile is its next frontier.In the last couple of years, King.com has grown from being the 40th most popular games developer on Facebook to second place behind Zynga, with 49.6m monthly active users (MAUs) and 11.9m daily active users (DAUs)at the time of writing."Just as we could see the Facebook games audience growing two years ago, the mobile games audience is now growing as well," says Alex Dale, chief marketing officer at King.com. "Delivering casual social games on mobile is absolutely something we're focused on."The first fruits of this strategy came with the launch ofBubble Witch Saga for iOSin July 2012, which synchronises players' progress with the Facebook version so they can continue their game across devices.Is the game doing well? King.com isn't giving figures, although the App Store charts reveal that Bubble Witch Saga is the 131st Top Grossing iPhone app in the US, but 28th in the UK. These chart positions don't tell the whole story – people playing heavily on their iPhones or iPads may well be spending money within the Facebook version of the game.It does show that King.com's challengers on mobile go well beyond Zynga, though, with freemium games by independent developers like Supercell (Clash of Clans, Hay Day), Kabam (Kingdoms of Camelot), NaturalMotion (CSR Racing) and Backflip Studios (DragonVale) all riding high on the App Store.Dale hopes that King.com's focus on casual social games will bring it mobile success comparable to its growth on Facebook, particularly in the UK, where he points to research by the Internet Advertising Bureau claiming that 80% of the adult population consider themselves to be gamers."It's now so mainstream, with one thing that has made it mainstream being Facebook in terms of bringing a female audience into gaming, and then mobile bringing an adult audience," he says."Both of those groups are looking for something easy to pick up and play, which doesn't require hours of practice or a whole load of grinding for cities, castles or farms. They want something quick and puzzle-oriented. That trend has been behind the growth of King.com on Facebook, and obviously the mobile versions of these games play to the same background."So what next, following Bubble Witch Saga? King.com has a healthy pipeline of games thanks to its main website, which maintains a constantly-refreshed roster of 150 games. Dale says that the ones that are most popular will be considered for rebuilding as "Saga" games for Facebook, with additional content and social features."Hopefully they'll grow a happy and engaged audience on Facebook, and then once they've done that, we've got an audience that we can help to launch the game on mobile," he says. Which suggests Candy Crush Saga – 15.1m MAUs on Facebook – may be heading mobile-wards in the coming months.Dale praises Facebook's mobile efforts for app discovery, which are pointing more of its 543m active mobile users to native apps for their iOS and Android devices from within their newsfeeds. "It's a hugely valuable discovery mechanism," he says.Meanwhile, King.com is exploring ways to make money on mobile beyond pure in-app purchases, although Dale says the company isn't currently looking to bring the skill-gaming model across from its original business.Instead, King.com is trying its "incentivised video" ads on mobile devices, which offer gameplay boosts such as extra lives in return for watching a video ad. Dale says it's also looking at brand promotions "where a brand might sponsor boosters or elements of the gameplay".The company is also considering its strategy for taking games to Android devices, with Bubble Witch Saga already available in the US for Amazon's Kindle Fire tablet. King.com has also dipped its toes in the waters of web-apps, making an HTML5 version of its Pyramid Solitaire Saga game.Still, the company's focus remains on mainstream players. "The Facebook games audience has broadened away from a very-strongly resource management-oriented audience to something that's mainstream and interested in casual games," says Dale."If you look at some of the all-time top-performing games on iPhone and iPad, starting with Angry Birds, you find that they are casual formats as well. And mobile is one of the fastest-growing areas by revenue for the games industry as a whole."
Well, it's finally out and Apple fanatics have had the whole weekend to buy one – if you managed it, how are you getting on with the iPhone 5? Perhaps you've already had lots of fun testing out the map functionality, but now, having found your way back home somehow, you want to do something different on it?Have no fear, here are five of the best games that have already been optimised to take advantage of the larger screen...Minecraft: Pocket EditionIf you haven't yet discovered the smartphone edition of Mojang's wonderful Lego-like creation game, now is the time to do it. Not only has it been tweaked for the new screen size and resolution, but the game has also just been thoroughly updated, adding lots of key elements from the PC version including the scary exploding creepers, chests to store your stuff in and beds!Asphalt 7: HeatEssentially the smartphone answer to console gaming series Need For Speed, the latest Asphalt title from Gameloft features stunning visuals, 15 circuits and 60 licensed cars from the likes of Ferrari and Lamborghini. It also offers decent multiplayer functionality, with six drivers competing online or via Wi-Fi... and did we mention those graphics?Jetpack JoyrideThe 'endless running' favourite has been widened to fit that elongated screen, handily giving players a few extra micro-seconds to react to the game's array of rapidly approaching obstacles. Apart from that it's frantic business as usual, with wannabe jet pack pilots having to navigate a research lab for as long as possible, while whizzing over power-ups.Blast-A-WayWith its crisp, sparse, but characterful levels, this 3D puzzler will look lovely on the new display. Players have to guide their little robots around a series of spatial tests, using different bombs to clear paths. It's cute and engaging and will detonate your boredom on many a long journey.HornTaking on the might of Epic's Infinty Blade series, this richly detailed action RPG is effectively a great big console adventure, squidged into a smartphone screen (but notquiteas squidged now, thanks to iPhone 5 optimisation). Naturally, you play a young hero who must save his village from an evil curse, and naturally, this involves battling huge beasts, solving puzzles and exploring a large, detailed kingdom.
