Online credit card spending has risen fivefold in the past four years, according to the Association of Payment Clearing Services. One in 10 credit card transactions took place online during the second half of 2003, up from one in 50 in 1999.The average number of purchases each internet shopper made had almost doubled since 2000, when 6.7 million people made an average of 6.5 purchases each a year. Since then the number of people who shop online has tripled, with an average 11.2 purchases a year.Sandra Quinn, Apacs director of communications, said: "It's no real surprise ... It's convenient, secure and ideally suits the time-poor society we live in."Apacs said the most popular items to buy online were books and CDs, followed by travel-related purchases, computer equipment, financial services and groceries.People also tend to spend more when they buy things online than when they go into a shop; an average of   &#163;69 on credit cards and &#163;54 on debit cards, compared with &#163;58 and &#163;39 in stores.About 72% of internet users shop or bank online, with an estimated 13 million banking over the internet and six million credit card holders checking their statements online.Men are bigger online shoppers than women, with 35% of the 10.5 million male internet shoppers making 11 or more purchases over the internet during the second half of 2003, compared with 27% of women.
The timetable for the float of Google, valuing the net search engine at up to &#163;20bn, could be temporarily derailed after it admitted it may have illegally issued shares to employees and consultants.There were additional reports in the US last night that the initial public offering had been delayed by a week due to separate logistical problems with the complicated auction of shares being used.The Wall Street Journal said the process for registering bidders for the "Dutch auction" was taking longer than anticipated, pushing it back to the traditionally lean late August period. The company did not comment.In a routine filing with the US securities and exchange commission, Google earlier said it had sold 23.2m shares worth up to $3.1bn (&#163;1.7bn) to 1,105 consultants and former staff. It has also issued 5.6m stock options to 301 people.The transactions, made over the past three years, were not registered as required by law.   Google has offered to buy back the shares for $25.9m but has warned that some stockholders may prefer to sue rather than accept the offer.The offer will expire in September, it said, and those who did not respond would have their shares automatically registered following the float, which is due to take place as soon as next week.Google said it may have broken federal laws and those of 18 states and the District of Columbia by failing to register the stock and options or exempt them from registration.The company, which handles more than 200m searches a day, is in a closed period prior to the float, and it was not clear whether the timing would be affected. In the filing, it said it planned to conduct the float "as soon as is practicable".It is using the "Dutch auction" process in an effort to democratise the float. Google and its underwriters, Credit Suisse First Boston and Morgan Stanley, will determine the highest price at which there is demand for all the shares and price the stock at or below that level.
It's Friday! It's summer! It's another disappointingly thin games release schedule! Yes, while the US getsDoom 3we make do with Catwoman and Chaos League. Luckily Doom is out next week so, until then, here's a rundown of this week's games:Catwoman (PS2, Xbox, GC)Bloody awful film tie-in which I reviewedhere. Next....Ironstorm: World War Zero (PS2)An imaginative premise – WW1 has lasted 50 years – is wasted on an average first person shooter (FPS). I reviewed ithere.America's 10 Most Wanted (PC)Controversial? Puerile? A bit of both here, with this FPS that sets you the task of hunting down the likes of Osama Bin Laden and Saddam Hussein. Haven't played this yet but, lets face it, it is more than likely to be utter utter tosh.Chaos League(PC)You have to applaud the guys behind this. After all, mixing the real-time-strategy (RTS) and role-playing (RPG) genres into a future sports game is an idea undoubtedly conceived after a heavy lunchtime session at the local. I haven't played it yet, so whether this lunacy works or not remains to be seen.Samurai Jack: The Shadow of Aku(PS2, GC)One for the kiddies this, although adults may enjoy its Zelda: Wind Waker style adventuring. Based on the cartoon series, this is suitable for all the family and is mygame of the week. Also, if there are any parents reading this thenbuy this for your kids and not an 18 rated game.
&gt;connecting to server ...Current Host:Chris2.Current Topic:As total household debt passes &#163;1 trillion for the first time, the Bank of England has raised interest rates by another quarter point, the fifth increase since November. Can the national borrowing spree continue? Our financial expert DrMoney is here to answer all your questions.Pashmina:I kept smelling this really wierd smell.DrMoney:I'm not a doctor.Pashmina:yes u are!Host_Chris2:any questions about borrowing for DrMoney.LadeezMan:DrMoney I need to borrow some money.Pashmina:it was everyhwere i went.DrMoney:OK. how much are you looking to borrow?Pashmina:sometimes v strong.LadeezMan:150.DrMoney:150K?Bronco has entered the NewsRoom.Bronco:hi room.Pashmina:it seemd to be a phantam smell. hi bronc.Bronco:you smellin gohsts.LadeezMan:no just &#163;150.DrMoney:that shouldn't be a problem.Pashmina:thats wot I thougt!LadeezMan:can u give it me in cash tho.Host_Chris2:what about the debt to income ratio? Has that increased dramatically?Pashmina:I went on a medical website about it &amp; they said it coud be a brian tumour or something.DrMoney:yes, but assets are also high for most big debtors. It really depends on your situation.Pashmina:I was so frightend!!!!!Bronco:wot did it smell like?LadeezMan:and can I have it today pls.Pashmina:cat pee.Bronco:&amp; wot was it in the end.Pashmina:cat pee.DrMoneyI have a dentist's appointment in an hour.Host_Chris2:any more questions for DrMoney?Pashmina:goin anywere nice for yr hols DrMoney.DrMoneynorfolk.LadeezMan:I coud meet u there to get the cash.Pashmina:wot about u Bronco are you goin anywere nice.Bronco:no. curfew for the whole of august.Pashmina:so lucky! I love greece!!Bronco:unless I can get this tag off.LadeezMan:I smell cat pee now.DrMoneyso do I.Host_Chris2:any last advice?Pashmina:check the litterbox before you ring 999.&gt;connection to server has been terminated_
Posted this yesterday, but it got deleted by mistake. It's worth a repost though... There's been another twist in the Manhunt murder case. Widespread media coverage suggested that the violent Rockstar game was to blame for the tragedy. However, police investigating the murder of Stefan Pakeerah have revealed that it was the 14-year-old victim, rather than the killer, who was in possession of the game. Of course, we can expect this new detail to appear in the Daily Mail tomorrow. Readherefor more..
Just in case you missed them today - surely not - then thegames reviewsin Online this week were Fire Emblem (GBA), the long awaited Animal Crossing (GC) and last, and very much least, Catwoman (PS2, XBox). Animal Crossing is my pick of this bunch, offering a therapeutically enjoyable way to spend your gaming time. It may have been a cult hit in the US and Japan but a European conversion didn't seem on the cards. Thankfully Nintendo saw the light and us Europeans will finally get a chance to experience a peaceful, and rather unique, game. I've not tried this Euro version yet though, so Steve, when you've finished with your review copy, you know where to send it...
"WASHINGTON, DC—In the interest of national security, President Bush has been asked to stop posting entries on his three-month-old personal web log, acting CIA director John E. McLaughlin said Monday. According to McLaughlin, several recent entries onPrezGeorgeW.typepad.comhave compromised military operations, while other posts may have seriously undercut the PR efforts of White House press secretary Scott McClellan."Comment:That's another great exclusive inThe Onion....What makes it even funnier is that the Onion guys weren't sharp enough to set up George W's pretend blog at Typepad, soAndydid it for them.
AOL has snapped up Mailblocks, and "plans to make Mailblocks' challenge/response technology available across the AOL service as an option for members who want to use it, both via the Mail &amp; Spam Controls menu and for users accessing their mail on the Web, according to the company. The technology will be integrated into the AOL software through a series of phased upgrades," says the article fromIDG News Service.
Matthew Fordahl of Associated Press has been comparing the two offeringshere, with predictable results. There may well be a big market for a "thinking man's iPod" but it's unlikely to be won by something that offers more restrictions (via the Atrac file format), fewer choices, and one of Sony's typically inept user interfaces.
"Expanding its reach into new content services, Microsoft Corp. on Wednesday acknowledged that its MSN division will launch a beta of its blogging service next week. However, the new service will be offered only in Japan," reportseWeek."Separately, MSN also is working on a blog search service, MSN Blogbot that is expected to go live within the next few months."Comment:Microsoft already has blogs for small numbers of developers and students as part of its community services.
Xbox Live, the service that lets you play your Xbox games online, is a generally marvellous thing. Once you've got over the not-inconsiderable hurdle of buying a router – most people assume you can plug the Xbox straight into a phone socket – and configured the settings, Live works like a dream. The headset is the key component, allowing players to chat to, and shout at, each other during play. But it's the cultural differences that are really interesting. I've heard French players get nationalistic abuse from US players while I've stunned gamers in Ohio with my English accent. And I once got into a bizarre chat about eggnog with a Canadian woman whilst competing in Project Gotham Racing. Anyone else got any Live tales?
Roger Bennett, the head of theEntertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Associationhas written an open letter to David Blunkett condemning the "misleading" reporting related to last week's Leicestershire tragedy, in which the 18+ game Manhunt was implicated. It touches on the usual, including the reported absence of links between violent behaviour and computer gaming, the $20bn the games industry circulates internationally per year, and the good that the games industry does for schools via the Entertainment Software Charity. It also does a bit of government hand slapping. You can find the full text below.One quick note. I hate to say this, but while it's true that in the academic literature there is no link between long-term aggressive behaviour/violence and computer gaming, there is a link, like with TV, movies, loud music, shouting a lot, being in the same room as your younger brother for an extended period of time, jumping up and down repeatedly and walking over a precarious precipice, with getting all het upin the short term. Heart-pounding stuff. Sweats. Buzzing in ears. Stimulation. It doesn't mean that you do anything about it, but it happens. Thedolphin-sound-effects-for-relaxationindustry would be out of business if it didn't.Gosh, I feel I'm letting the side down here.5th August 2004Dear Mr BlunkettCOMPUTER &amp; VIDEO GAMESAs the trade organisation representing the computer and video games industry, we have been very concerned recently about the misleading and disingenuous reporting about the effects of playing interactive games software. In particular, the tragic case of Stefan Pakeerah's murder by Warren Le Blanc in Leicester, which was linked by some parts of the media and by Mr Keith Vaz MP, to a video game called "Manhunt", published quite legally by one of our members as a BBFC 18+ rated game. We will continue to uphold the legal right of this member and others to target their product at the burgeoning adult market for computer and video games in an honest and legal manner.As you will know, despite many research projects into the effects of screen violence, some of which have been undertaken by eminent academics in their field, no link with violent behaviour has been found. Furthermore, I would like to reassure you that ELSPA members, that includes all the companies responsible for the distribution of computer and video games in UK, fully conform with both the letter and spirit of the law and the strict Codes of Practice our members must adopt on enrolment. ELSPA, on behalf of all its members and the members themselves, take its responsibilities extremely seriously in the context of these matters.As a matter of fact, I feel sure you will already be aware that less that 1% of computer and video games published and distributed in UK attract an 18+ BBFC Rating and that in excess of 65% of all games are suitable for all ages.It was unfortunate that Mr Vaz should speak out so irrationally against the companies concerned with the development and distribution of "Manhunt" and indeed our industry in general. Had he taken time to check with the Leicestershire Constabulary, he would have been informed that they do not and have not ever linked this brutal crime with any video game.The UK computer and video games industry has a large stake-holding in the global market worth $20 billion. Some of the most successful games in this valuable market are produced in UK, employing many thousands of people and it is very much in the vanguard of "Creative Britain". The economic and cultural value of the interactive entertainment software industry is well recognised by many Government Depts as a major contributor to the UK economy and increasingly a cultural factor, as illustrated by the international Games Festival in Edinburgh later this month. In addition, London will host the first European trade event, European Games Network (EGN), in September this year and London is also the location for an international conference, "The Games Summit", held annually in June. A major exhibition for consumers, entitled "Game Stars Live" will take place concurrently with EGN at Excel, Docklands.As a matter of interest, you may not be aware that our industry charity, Entertainment Software Charity (ESC), of which I am a Trustee, has funded specialist Schools status for eight schools across the country this year. In addition, we have also recently confirmed with the DfES that the games industry will fund the building of a new "City Academy" in Paddington, London. I hope you will recognise this as another illustration of levels of responsibility we attach to the status of our industry.I hope you will accept that we felt it necessary to put the record straight in respect to these tragic events and that are pleased to be in a position to be proud of our industry's successful achievements and the standards of responsibility we have adopted.Yours sincerelyRoger Bennett Director General Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association
Free "broadband"Juice, as usual, sounds too good to be true (www.juiceboosted.com), but there is no obvious catch, and a free 2Mbps internet connection is too tempting to pass up. Is it worth signing up and hoping?Paul BryanJack Schofield replies:Juice claims to make your dial-up line faster than broadband for nothing, and if you become an affiliate, you can sign up other users and get paid &#163;27 for each one. ("Would YOU like to EARN over &#163;10,000 a month?") This sounds extravagant for a company that uses an accommodation address. Frankly, I don't believe the technical claims made for Juice, and I can't see how it makes economic sense, but to be certain, we may have to wait until the system is launched on October 1. In the meantime, Juice is being discussed at Scam.com, atwww.scam.com/showthread.php?t=260&amp;page=1&amp;pp=10.Find whoMy firewall sometimes tells me than an application is trying to connect to a site and asks whether I want to allow it. However, it only quotes the IP address (eg 111.222.333.444). Is there any easy way to find out the website name?Stuart RyderJS:There are lots of websites that will convert an IP address to a host (domain) name. Examples includehttp://remote.12dt.com/rns/,http://saliu.com/cgi-bin/IPtoDNS.plandhttp://home.xnet.com/~efflandt/ip2host.html. This is usually known as reverse DNS (Domain Name Service). However, it can be even more useful to paste the IP address into a Whois registry database, which will tell you who owns it. The best known is run by InterNIC atwww.internic.net/whois.html, while Nominet has the UK registry (www.nic.uk/whois.html). My favourite is the one at Geek Tools (whois.geektools.com).Reverse DNS and Whois lookups are also useful for finding out who sent an email message. The oldest "Received: from" line in the header usually gives the IP address of the sender.Which broadband?Broadband has recently become available in my area, and I'm thinking of signing up with BT. There are several options, all of which mention a usage limit, varying between 1GB and 15GB. How much would a regular(ish) user of the internet use in a month?S MuirJS:I don't have a good answer. Someone who only uses email might only use 0.3GB a month, but someone who listens to internet radio, uses video-chat, and joins a file-sharing service can easily use more than 1GB per day. Just one feature film ripped in DivX can easily be 1.3GB. In general, however, I would try to avoid signing up to a capped service, and PlusNet (www.plus.net) offers unlimited usage for roughly the same price as you would pay BT. There are, of course, many other options. Compare the various offerings atwww.adslguide.org.uk/reviews/Rename itI have "inherited" about 2,000 digital photos, all with odd file names created by different camera software. I want to rename them in order, ie D0001-D2000. Is there a simple way to do this?Andy BrownJS:There are lots of free utilities to
rename files, but most are so
idiosyncratic that picking one can
be a matter of taste. SnapFiles has
a list of 20 common renamers at
www.snapfiles.com/Freeware/
system/fwfilerename.html so check
the screen shots to see which you
fancy. Your best bets are probably
Rename Master and Flexible
Renamer. The latter can read the
EXIF (Exchangeable Image Format)
tags added to images by digital
cameras: click TagRename and select
the radio button for Picture.
You should try to keep this information
if it is still attached to the
images. (Go to www.exif.org for
more information.) Also, experiment
with renaming copies of files to get
what you want, don't start with the
originals.Backchat&#183;Last week, Lynne Morgan wanted a helpful computer beginners book for her 81-year-old dad. Alison Tramschek, a "scared, nearly 70-year-old mum", recommends The Really, Really, Really Easy Step-by-step Computer Book by Gavin Hoole and Robynn Hofmeyr (Struik Publishers).Lucy Cross from Luton Central Library adds: "As an alternative, the gentleman may like to drop into his local library where he should be able to try using a computer free. He may also find the library running taster sessions for older people, or longer courses on specific topics such as emails, using Word, searching the internet etc."&#183;Steve Maund has a problem with AVG anti-virus and the Startpage 6.AQ Trojan. Dave Green points out, correctly, that I should have suggested trying AVG in Safe Mode, and also temporarily turning off System Restore in both Windows XP and ME.
Being a sniper is a stressful business: your heart pounds, you can hear yourself breathing, and you may even get butterflies in the stomach. But it's not the only way to buy things on eBay, the online auction site, and it's much less important than doing a bit of research before you hit that seductive button and submit your bid."Sniping" is when you, the eBay bounty hunter, appear from nowhere and put in a winning bid just a few seconds before the auction closes. You can do it by watching the clock or using a utility such as Snip (www.snip.pl/en/), Powersnipe.com or Auctionsniper.com. Either way, it really annoys people who have been bidding against one another for a week or so, but it only works because they are doing it wrong.A good rule of thumb for surviving eBay, is this: never make more than one bid in any auction. Decide how much you are willing to pay, bid that amount as late as you can, then forget about it until the auction closes.What confuses newbies is that they think eBay works like an auction house, such as Sotheby's. It doesn't, for two reasons. First, eBay will bid on your behalf. Second, auctions don't end when the highest possible bid has been achieved, but when the clock runs out. That encourages people to leave bidding until the last moment. If there is more than one bidder, the price of the item can easily double in the last three minutes.Suppose there is a CD you want, listed with a starting bid of &#163;1.99. The most you are willing to pay is &#163;10, so that is what you should bid. However, your bid will appear as &#163;1.99, which is what you will pay if no one else bids. If they do, the eBay proxy bidder will keep raising your bid until someone bids more than &#163;10, and eBay will send you an automated email to say you have been outbid. If that happens, you should move on: the CD was worth more to them than you.There is no point in saying: "Oh, I would have paid more." If you thought it was worth more, you should have bid more in the first place. Indeed, it is only because people bid &#163;10 for something they think is worth &#163;15 that snipers can nip in and grab the loot for &#163;10.50.The problem then boils down to deciding how much something is worth. This is a personal matter: that rare Kraftwerk CD single could be worth 30p or &#163;300, if you are a rabid fan and/or serious collector. To get a more objective view, there are three essential searches to do before you bid: two on eBay, and one on Google.The most important page on eBay is the one called Advanced Search. Your first search is for the item you plan to bid for. You may find it is a common item, and there are four examples available at different prices. This can save you bidding &#163;25 for something when a 99p version is a few days away.To run the second essential search, go to where it says "Item type" and check the box marked "Completed items only". This will find the examples that have been sold in the past 90 days, and tell you how much they went for. This establishes the market price, and gives you a good idea how much you can expect to pay.What typically happens on eBay is that, as a result of a bidding war, something goes for a silly price. This prompts other sellers to offer the same thing. The next example may go for 30% less, the next for half the price, and so on. Unless you are in a hurry, it's almost always cheaper to wait.Millions of items go through eBay, and most come up time after time. If what you want is attracting ridiculous bids, just wait for the next one.The third search is run on Google or possibly Amazon to find out how much it would cost to buy the item elsewhere. It's often ignorance that makes people pay over the odds. On eBay, boxed sets of classical CDs can go for more than EMI's new price, and hi-fi equipment can fetch more than Superfi's sale price. It doesn't matter if someone paid &#163;600 for a product three years ago if Richer Sounds is knocking out new ones for &#163;149.The main drawback with searching is that you can't rely on eBay sellers to spell Hilary Hahn (or whatever) correctly.Also, bear in mind that the auction price on eBay is not the final price, since you will usually have to pay post and packing. Charges can vary - from &#163;1 to &#163;2.50 for a CD, and from &#163;10 to &#163;25 for larger items. The "Completed items" search will give you a good idea of what's reasonable.Finally, you have to think about the seller. eBay has a reputation-based feedback system, which encourages people to describe their products accurately and ship them quickly. You should look to see what your seller has sold before, and how buyers felt about what they got. Look for 98% positive feedback or better, and read the comments.For more expensive items, it is always worth emailing the seller with a question: a fast, sensible reply can help you bid with confidence. If the seller sounds clueless or slightly dodgy, wait for the next one.There is much more to eBay than this, of course, so it could well be worth investing &#163;9.99 in David Belbin's The eBay Book, which is billed as the only UK guide. It's easy to read, up to date, and available at a discount from the publisher atwww.harriman-house.com/ebay.Time saversBIN:Buy it nowBNWL:Brand new with labelsBNWT:Brand new with tags (on clothes)BNIB:Brand new in boxMIB:Mint in boxNARU:Not a registered user (perhaps an NPB or NPS who has been terminated or Naru'd)NPB:Non paying buyerNPS:Non performing sellerNR:No reserve priceUPCE:uk.people.consumers.ebay newsgroup
Console to mobile phone conversions have been patchy so far with some considerable successes (Gameloft's Tom Clancy titles) and more than a few abject failures. UK outfit 8Bit games is currently working on bringing Pivotal's excellent squad-based shooters, Conflict: Desert Storm and Conflict: Vietnam, to Java phones. So what limitations does the team face, and what – if anything – can they salvage from the gameplay experience of the console originals? I talked to the company's Business Development Director, Dave Vout…How are you bringing across the team-based nature of the Conflict gameplay?You always take out two of the four troops and switch between them, it's a little different in Desert Storm to Vietnam but eventually it's the same principle. you then issue commands to the other soldier - for example wait, follow, stealth, etc. If you tell him to follow in stealth mode and you're half the map away, he will find the best route through the map using the best cover and avoiding being seen. We think the AI is quite advanced for a mobile game, it's little touches like people stepping to the side to let another person past, common place in a console title but in a mobile game traditionally he'd just walk over the top!The different soldiers have different skills and weapons, too, so for an example of gameplay, you walk soldier one over the bridge and pickup the C4 explosives, switch to soldier 2 and walk him over the bridge, switch to sniper rifle, aim the cursor at the guard and bam he's dead, switch back to the first soldier and walk him to the bridge, drop the C4, issue the 'follow me' command and walk away from the bridge. Press 5 and, boom, the bridge explodes… and so on.Will you be using a similar mission-based structure to the console versions?All of the missions are the same as the console versions, we took the mission descriptions and then built mini versions of them. We've had to trim it a bit, but basically if you've played the console version you'll recognise the mobile missions, but won't know how to complete them!What weapons and vehicles might we see in the game?There are close combat weapons like knives for stealth missions, short-range weapons like the Desert Eagle and long-range sniper rifles; each has a role. Then there are heavy explosives, rocket launchers, grenades, all with a blast radius so you have to be careful with them. We intend to put in tanks and all manner of vehicles, but they are not there yet so I can't say for sure. In Vietnam we're planning two vehicle-based missions, one onboard a helicopter and one on a boat, where you control the machine guns picking off everything in your way.How are you transferring the quite complex control system to the mobile platform?Well as with all our games, the controls evolve and change throughout development, reacting to suggestions from the final QA guys, so I expect it'll change again before we finish. Basically, though, the games are played top-down - this is a favourite of mine, I see lots of games going down the technology route at the moment forgetting about the gameplay experience. Back when we worked on the old home computers and had very similar restrictions, most games played well - things only went wrong when people started to introduce fancy techniques to a system that couldn't cope. So bearing that in mind, we've chosen top-down with rotate and walk. All bullets home to their target within a few degrees and there's a fair bit of background AI to control the gameplay and prevent the player feeling frustrated by the restrictions of single button mobiles. This way the game plays as well on a basic Nokia as it does on a SE K700. So the gameplay, in its most basic form, is 'move here, fire at that, pickup this, do special action, switch soldiers', with plenty of variety, story and puzzles.It seems that these titles are much more ambitious than many of the console conversions we've seen.We were formed by ex-console games industry people and apply those same principles and techniques to mobile games. We never make throwaway games, and where some would liken mobile games to cups of coffee - pay £5 play for 15 minutes and throw it away - we compare ours to Game Boy games, they are worth playing over and over again. They are games for gamers…What do you have planned after the Conflict titles?We are about to announce another console to mobile title, plus we are starting work on a trilogy of horror games, and a special ops strategy game that's got some cool features. There are plenty of other things happening but I can't talk about them right now. We've also been nominated for the Develop award for best handheld/mobile studio and that's quite an achievement after only 7 months trading!Conflict: Vietnam is out in September. Conflict: Desert Storm arrives the following month.
Electronic Arts, the worlds' largest games publisher, which dominates the industry, has just bought Criterion, an up-and-coming Guildford-based developer and middleware vendor.The way in which the American behemoth swallowed the British minnow tells us a lot about where the British games industry is heading. Essentially, British publishers are finding it impossible to compete with the Americans and Japanese - but British developers are bouncing back after a disastrous year in 2003, and remain in demand.There are two sides to Criterion's business. Criterion Games has two games in development, Burnout 3 and Black. The first two Burnouts were published by the ailing American concern Acclaim. Criterion was cock-a-hoop when EA snapped up the publishing rights for its next two games, and even more so when it bought the company. The other part of Criterion's business could suffer. That is the RenderWare middleware suite, designed to help developers craft their games quicker and more easily. Without it, for example, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City would have appeared a year later than it did.The question is whether other publishers will trust Criterion not to divulge development secrets to EA.David Lau-Kee, head of Criterion, counters that argument robustly. "People understand what we're trying to do, and issues to do with confidentiality are non-existent. Criterion has often been in a situation where we're supporting games from different publishers that we know will go head to head. The RenderWare side of the business is going to be managed separately from EA's internal studios, so we've just acquired a very large internal customer."Lau-Kee adds that Criterion will even be able to cherry-pick technology from EA's numerous internal studios, which could be added to RenderWare. Middleware has become increasingly important, as games are already being developed for the next generation of consoles, which have more power and complexity, and require bigger development teams.Increasing development costs means it becomes harder for developers to acquire funding from all but the biggest publishers, which in turn means the biggest publishers grow stronger and the smallest weaker. Last week, for example, Ron Doornink, chief executive of Activision Publishing, the second biggest publisher worldwide, announced that his company is expanding as quickly as it can, to take on EA.But the state of British games publishing is not great. The next versions of Eidos's two biggest franchises - Tomb Raider and Championship Manager - are in the hands of different developers from their predecessors and, despite recent healthy financial returns, the company's Hitman Contracts failed to sell well. However, Eidos is putting much effort into cracking the US market.SCi is doing well, thanks mainly to its Conflict franchise, but is a small, homespun, niche company. Empire Interactive, despite the success of its driving game Mashed, is rumoured to be short of cash, a problem for any publisher. And it is not just British publishers that are suffering: Vivendi Universal Games recently laid off staff. Following its takeover by the pachinko giant Sammy, Sega is fighting the apparent disbanding of its highly regarded internal development teams.Tiny publishers pursuing niches, however, such as Sold Out, a PC games republisher, and Just Flight, a flight sim specialist, are doing well, and a new UK publisher, Digital Jesters, which concentrates on PC games, has appeared in the past year. Developers/publishers of mobile games such as Digital Bridges and of massively multiplayer games such as Jagex are thriving, taking advantage of new gaming forms that challenge the old developer/publisher model.EA's purchase of Criterion may highlight how the British games publishing industry no longer competes on a global basis, but it also illustrates how important British developers are in the eyes of the world.
According to Motorola's UK press agency it appears the company may not release its very powerful, very excitingE680handset in Britain. Announced back in March, this extremely gamer-friendly, Linux-based device is one of the first to includeSuperscape's Swerve 3D engine - an advanced graphics solution that should allow Java developers to create PSone-quality 3D games. And that's just the start of this phone's mouthwatering specs list.Motorola's star performer also boasts an 8-way navigation controller – a feature still shockingly rare even among the most advanced entertainment handsets. Anyone who's tried to play a game that offers 360 degree movement will know how frustrating it is to use the number keys for diagonal movement, your fingers pinched together into a kind of hideous gaming claw. Then there's support for multiple simultaneous button presses – another gaming staple criminally ignored by most manufacturers. The multi-channel audio set-up also allows for both midi background music and MP3 sound effects – a far cry from the grinding monophonic dirges we usually have to put up with.Add MPEG4 video capture, VGA camera, FM radio and 1Gb of user-expandable memory, and you have thethemobile entertainment solution of the year. Well you do if you live in Asia or the United States. In the UK, we'll have to make do with the slightly more modest E398 (view the PDF fact sheethere), another lifestyle device, this time aimed at hip young music lovers. Dual stereo surround-sound speakers and an integrated MP3 player are the key features, but the phone also includes, "rhythm lights that interact with Java games, ringtones, caller ID and ambient noise". Some people may consider "rhythm lights" a fair trade for 8-way gaming controls and a Superscape 3D engine. I am not sure, but then I haven't seen them in action.You could also check out the swish newMotorola RAZR V3, launched last week. This stunning clamshelldoeshave a built-in 3D engine but Motorola has not yet confirmed whether it's Swerve-powered. But then, what does it matter when the phone itself is partly constructed from aircraft-grade aluminium, and includes a chemically-etched keypad and electroluminescent backlighting? This is going to be a handset to be seen with this year. Let's face it, we could all do with a little more electroluminescence in our lives.Meanwhile, the first UK handset to include a built-in Swerve 3D engine will probably be theSiemens S65due out in autumn. This quite stern-looking little device, seemingly aimed at business users, also offers a 1.3 mega-pixel camera and lots of PC synchronisation features.Superscape is certainly prepared for the arrival of Swerve-powered devices. The company has been busy creating its own 3D titles using its Swerve toolset and has nearly 30 titles either completed or in production, including Alien vs Predator and Fight Club.You can learn all about Swerve righthere.
Gosh, this blogging thing keeps you on your toes. While this again is old news, it's still noteworthy to mention that Martin Hollis, producer of the finest first person shooter on a console before Halo [&gt;aleks ducks&lt;] is "breaking his silence" at the beginning of September and presenting a keynote speech about the superb Nintendo 64 title Goldeneye: 007. TheEuropean Developers Forumis London's newest interactive evnt, part of this year'sEGN.While you're hanging with Martin, you can also check out the parallel shenanigans,GameStars Liveand try your dab hand at being Britain's Best Gamer. Maybe get a glimpse of someone even more famous....
We're building it, but will they come? With barely 15 months to go before all public services are due to be available electronically, the government is turning some attention to persuading people to use them.This week, a &#163;2.5m national project gets underway to investigate ways that local authorities can market their e-services. Meanwhile, central government agencies have been set a deadline of December to draw up strategies to increase the take-up of online government.Britons seem more reluctant than other nationalities to deal with government online. Nearly three quarters of American internet users say they contacted government sites in 2003; the most optimistic estimate is that about half of British internet users do.Partly, the government has itself to blame. Its original target was for services to be available online, regardless of whether anyone used them. Some services, such as online reporting of minor crimes atwww.police.ukare not widely publicised for political reasons. All councils have websites, but few publicise URLs.Attitudes are now changing, with central and local organisations alike being told to use e-services to cut costs. This won't happen unless enough people use them.The first national effort to promote take-up, a project called e-Citizen, was launched last week. It is the final rung of a national programme organised by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, to persuade local authorities to go online. The department says that e-Citizen is about "embedding e-government within the lexicon of mainstream local service delivery". In plain English, this means making e-government a normal part of council activities.Norman Mellor, head of communications and research at Norwich city council, which is leading the project, says the first stage is to find out what authorities are already doing to publicise services. "When we tried to get this information, we found it didn't exist."The project has commissioned Mori researchers to contact all of England's 355 local authorities this month to find out what e-services they offer, what sort of "customers" they are aiming them at, and what, if anything, they are doing to promote e-services. Mori will also research how private firms and voluntary   groups market their websites."We will also carry out research to find out what people think about e-government; what real people want."Results of the research will appear on the project websitewww. e-citizen.gov.ukas they come in, Mellor said. He plans to have the final research findings by the end of next month. "That will give us a definitive picture, together with a lot of information about what citizens want from their local authorities and some examples of good practice."Early next year, if all goes well, the 20 most promising ideas will be tested in authorities taking part in the project. "What we want to show is that if you have a research-based approach and apply good practice, you will get good take-up. It may be stating the obvious, but at the moment we don't know that."The project faces several obstacles. One is time. Its funding runs out in April, by which time most local authorities will already have allocated their last slices of e-government funding. It may also run into the phenomenon of e-government fatigue - council chief executives have been bombarded with requests from central government for information about their e-programmes.However, the biggest obstacle may be the poor public perception of local e-government. According to a survey published last week by an IT firm Transversal, three-quarters of respondents said they had not noticed the impact of e-government investments.It found that communication by phone is still the favourite medium for 58% of respondents, with 32% opting to use email or the web. Gerard Buckley, the firm's chief executive said: "The public clearly hasn't noticed any improvement in public sector websites. While significant public funds have been ploughed in to content management and CRM (customer relationship management) systems, there are few public sector websites that allow us to ask a question and receive an intelligent answer in return."With e-government seen as the key to reforming public service, the pressure to promote e-channels is likely to increase. Last month, the Gershon review of public service efficiency called on the Treasury and the new e-Government Unit to "issue a benchmark standard for high quality strategies to ensure new electronic services and channels get high levels of take-up". Departments have until December to provide such take-up strategies. The review also comes close to calling for e-channels to be made compulsory for certain types of users. The most likely candidates are VAT returns for business, and Companies House registrations.Making e-government compulsory for citizens is probably a step too far, for the moment. However, policy makers may envy the success of Travis County, Texas. It has persuaded 85% of people summoned for jury service to reply online - mainly because the alternative is to spend several hours queuing at a courthouse.
Commanding leadFire EmblemGBA, &#163;29.99, Intelligent Systems/Nintendo,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;From the developers of the award-winning Game Boy Advance series Advance Wars, Fire Emblem has a very similar feel, although it's set in a sword-and-sorcery fantasy world, full of machiavellian plots.Your task is that of a military tactician, who must guide a group of characters into battle. Your travelling companions comprise fighters, archers and magic-users that are land-based and airborne. Thanks to a large amount of dialogue, each character has a distinct personality, which makes you feel more protective of them on the battlefield - especially as, if they get knocked out, you lose them for that section of the game. Thankfully, all the detailed narrative can be skipped if you want to get to the top-down action.With the magic and weapons having a rock-paper-scissors advantage system, plus the provision of pre-battle stats readouts and helpful hints, you get a good idea of how to form your turn-based tactics. The battles take place in small animations that are atmospheric and fun to watch.Those who prefer a freer experience may not enjoy Fire Emblem, but for everyone else it's a gem.Rhianna PratchettPeace and harmonyAnimal CrossingGamecube, &#163;44.99 Nintendo,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;A cult hit in Japan, Animal Crossing has taken more than a year to reach these shores, but Nintendo devotees and youngsters should relish the chance to lose themselves in its cute but slightly weird world. It is one of those games that at first seems almost spectral in its lack of substance, but which soon sucks you in.Animal Crossing is a cute little Nintendo-land in which animals go about their daily business. You pitch up in a new town, find a house and a job in the local shop, and set about becoming a pillar of the local community. In gameplay terms, the experience lies somewhere between a kid's version of The Sims and Pokemon without the battles. Shake trees to acquire fruit to sell, go fishing, dig for dinosaur fossils, send letters to your pals in other towns or design outfits for yourself. You can also interact with the townsfolk, and work.If - perish the thought - you get bored, hop on the train and visit other towns, including those in which your real-life friends live. Such towns can be introduced to your Gamecube via the memory card it comes with. You can visit tropical islands, which can be downloaded to a Game Boy Advance, and collect Animal Crossing cards, which can be scanned into the game via Nintendo's e-Reader.Charmingly genteel and wonderfully restful to play, Animal Crossing is sure to become a playground topic next term.Steve BoxerFeline fiascoCatwomanPS2, Xbox, &#163;39.99 Electronic Arts,&#42;This ought to be a decent game. Take the classic Prince of Persia 3D platforming template and stir in Halle Berry in a catsuit and you should have an enjoyable film tie-in. Unfortunately, Catwoman is a feline fiasco.Oddly enough, it starts quite well. The character looks fantastic, particularly the animation. As you start the action - essentially exploration, ledge-leaping and combat - things seem promising. This feeling lasts for approximately 30 seconds. Then the full horror of the imprecise controls sinks in. Battling with the shoulder buttons and the analogue sticks, it is incredibly difficult to get Catwoman to do even the simplest of jumps.Worse still is the camera - one of the nastiest in recent videogaming. By fixing it to the right thumbstick - the one players use most - the camera becomes unwieldy and frustrating. This is exacerbated by restrictive viewing angles that often allow enemies to attack unseen. Good job that Catwoman is dextrous. She can leap, crawl and fall limply to the floor as you mistime yet another jump.Yes, this is an exercise in frustration that even devoted Berry fans will give up on. Come back Lara, all is forgiven.Greg Howson
It's easy to assume that IT disasters are a government monopoly. Wrong. Left to itself, private enterprise is quite capable of fiascoes that civil servants see only in their nightmares.Mostly, these are hushed up. But over the past 18 months, the computer legal world has been in turn amused and horrified by a very public tussle between a supermarket business and its IT contractor.This case originated in 1999, when the Co-op Retail Society hired ICL to modernise its systems in four phases. During phase two, the retailer merged with a separate Co-op organisation to form the Co-operative Group. It went on to order an ICL product called GlobalStore. When this project ran into delays, the two parties could not agree whether GlobalStore was part of the original contract.Early last year, the Co-op sued ICL (now Fujitsu Services) in the Technology and Construction Court, claiming breach of contract. The case failed. Judge Richard Seymour ruled from the outset that the parties had never had an agreement, so no one could be liable for a breach. Nevertheless, the court heard three weeks of evidence and a judgment that criticised the behaviour of Co-op staff. Fujitsu was awarded a counter claim of just over &#163;1m in damages.Judge Seymour's handling of the case attracted wide attention in the legal community. One specialist lawyer commented: "It throws an interesting light on the manner in which a judge's discretion over case management may be used." The Court of Appeal also found it interesting, and earlier this year overturned the verdict, citing the judge's "wounding and sarcastic comments".The case is now set for a retrial next year before another judge in the same court. Attempts to mediate appear to have broken down. Meanwhile costs are mounting into the millions - one party has suggested a joint action to recover them from the Lord Chancellor. Whoever wins, it has been a PR disaster for both sides.Considering the percentage of IT projects that go wrong, a surprisingly small number of cases get to court. In the private sector, it usually makes sense to cut your losses. If a project is failing, the usual practice is to boot out the contractor and start again. When two or three contractors have failed, the message sinks in that the fault may be on the other side. Government rarely has this option. It is hard to cover up the termination of a public contract, especially if the deal has to be re-opened to competitive tender.But there are lessons from the saga of Co-operative and Fujitsu. Everyone complains about the nit-picking nature of public sector IT contracts and the bureaucracy of open procurements. But it's worth remembering that the alternative approach - "get the system in now, we'll talk about the money later" - can cause even more grief.
SmartphonePush for SiemensSiemens is pitching at business professionals with a smartphone that features a full Qwerty keyboard. The SK65's keypad is housed in the base of the phone and is rotated into position when required. Due to launch in October, the SK65, is also the first to integrate Research In Motion's BlackBerry push email technology, which sends messages to the phone the moment they are received on a server. Other features include Bluetooth, Java games and video playback. The phone, which weighs 144g, is a tri-band model with 250 hours' stand by and 300 minutes' talk time. Free on a pay monthly tariff on O2.www.siemens.co.ukHardwareSpruced upPure is sprucing up its best-selling Evoke-1 digital radio in the form of the XT. It's a case of tweaks rather than changes, with a slightly smoother body that comes in a choice of classic maple or cherry finishes. The green-and-black display is replaced by a night time-friendly white on blue, while there is also a timer and alarm. There is no sleep function, and there are still only six station presets, but Pure has added a USB port for downloading software updates. The set is to retail for &#163;99.www.puredigital.comPopular upgradeCanon has upgraded its most popular range of digital cameras by introducing the 4 megapixel PowerShot A85 above the current A80 and dropping the old A70. The A85 has a 3x optical zoom and 13 shooting modes including six pre-sets to handle special situations, such as indoor, underwater and beach photography, and fireworks. Optional accessories include wide-angle and telephoto converters, a close-up lens for macro photography, and a housing for underwater use. The A85 comes with a 32MB CompactFlash card for &#163;239.Printer phoneIf you feel like giving your mobile phone a present, then HP has the answer - a personal colour printer. The HP Photosmart 375 - to be launched next month for &#163;199 - prints photos from mobile phone cameras wirelessly (using Bluetooth technology) in less than a minute. It also has the capacity to edit the photos wthout a computer.Mobile phones are well known for the number of separate products contained within them, but this is one of the few examples of a phone giving birth to an external product.It is already possible to send photos to a printer via a Bluetooth link to a computer but this cuts out the middleman.Music playersRio takes on AppleRio Audio has plans to take on the iPod mini, by offering a similar sized, yet slightly better specified player. Due next month, the Rio Carbon boasts 5GB of storage, 1GB more than the Apple players, and a battery life of 20 hours, more than twice the staying power of the iPod. The Carbon also sports a metallic finish, an LED backlight display and compatibility with MP3 and Windows Media Audio formats. At &#163;200, the player is &#163;20 more than the iPod mini.Rio has also unveiled a new Flash memory player - the Rio Forge. Available with either 128 or 256MB, the player boasts 20 hours of playback from one AAA battery.www.rioaudio.comInternetBite the bulletVirgin Mobile is hoping to reinvent the Wap portal with a service that owes much to entertainment type magazines such as Heat and Now. Available to all customers with a GPRS phone, Virgin Bites mixes celebrity gossip and music with more traditional portal features such as news and sport. Virgin says Bite will also focus on interactive features offering subscribers the chance to publish their contributions by text or picture message. Bite, which will be accompanied by a 28-page magazine, will be free to access until January. The network says that from now, all its mobiles will feature a button that gives instant access to Bite.www.virginnmobile.comStat of the weekSurfing in the silly seasonSummer may have just started in Britain, but Nielsen says the web's silly season slump has hit. Fewer people went online in June, especially in the US, where 3.6m surfers went AWOL. Japan and Britain bucked the trend, however, adding more than 700,000 in total.&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris, Bobbie Johnson, Victor Keegan and Jack Schofield
August is here and millions of pasty-faced, workaholic Brits will down tools and head off to sunnier climes. For many, though, holidays aren't what they used to be. In an age of mobile phones, BlackBerrys and mini laptops actually getting off message probably means taking a climbing trip in Nepal.Still, there are plenty of gadgets available both for those who want to keep in touch and those who want to forget their office exists.One of the most irritating things about gadgets is that they aren't too happy mixing it with water and sand. Fortunately, if you do want to take calls while on the beach, Siemens has the answer in the M65 mobile phone. With its toughened screen and rubber and metallic finish, it is more than a match for sand, sea and sun cream. And should you feel active, it will take a knock or two as you spin around on a bike.Similarly, while it is great to take your iPod to the beach, sand tends to wreak havoc with the player's screen and hard disk. In that hostile environment, the Apple is no match for the &#163;100 Oregon Scientific MP120 waterproof MP3 player. Due to launch shortly, it has 128MB of storage - enough for a couple of hours of Beach Boys tunes - and, apparently, you can even take it surfing.With the Olympics just days away, you may find yourself torn between idling by the pool and wanting to cheer on the UK team. If so, you will need a handheld LCD TV. Casio has pretty much cornered this market, and its SY-20 splashproof 2.3in model is arguably the best around. It retails for around &#163;80.For capturing the beach in all its sun-drenched glory, you need to invest in some waterproof housing for your digital camera. Alternatively, Sony has a fun waterproof mini in the CyberShot DSC-U60. Retailing for around &#163;200, the camera takes two megapixel images, and its waterproof seal and rubberised body ensures you can snap away underwater.Finally, one ingenious gadget hasn't made it to the shelves in time for this season, but has to be a must for next year: the Bluebird Bluetooth luggage tag. While others crane their necks to spot their cases on the luggage carousel, you can sit nursing a cappuccino in the knowledge that when your luggage appears, the Bluebird tab will alert you of its arrival by sending a message to your mobile.www.siemens.co.ukwww.oregonscientific.co.ukwww.casio.co.ukwww.sony.co.uk
Munich's plan to move its desktop PCs from Microsoft Windows to Linux by 2009 has apparently been called into question. In this case, however, "apparently" means "not really". What we are actually seeing is an attack on the German government's love affair with software patents.It's a love affair unfortunately shared by the UK, France and others. We could face the same problem.The question was raised by Wilhelm Hoegner, Munich's chief information officer, who said it was indispensable to check the consequences the European Union's adoption of software patents would have on open source software. Any such oversight could, he said, be a "catastrophe for Munich's Linux migration project,   and for open source in general".This was followed by Jens Muehlhaus, an alderman from the Green party, who filed two motions calling on Christian Ude, Munich's mayor, to contact the government for advice. This directed the pressure where it belongs: Munich can do nothing about software patents; the German government can.What had been a local affair was made global by Florian Mueller, an adviser to MySQL, who issued an English version of the Greens' statement via PR Newswire. He also posted it on Slashdot, the pro-Linux website. The quotations are taken from Mueller's version.Muehlhaus also says: "A cursory search revealed that the Linux 'base client', which the city of Munich plans to install on the desktop computers of approximately 14,000 employees, is in conflict with more than 50 European software patents." This search was performed by the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (www.ffii.org), Europe's leading anti-software-patent activist group.If anyone tried to exercise these patent rights, it could "massively hinder" Munich's developments or even take the city administration out of operation, says the release.Of course, this is not an anti-open source attempt to discredit Linux or discourage Munich, but a pro-open source attempt to put pressure on the German government. The idea is to present legislators in general with a stark choice between software patents and open source, and thus encourage them to choose the latter.Although software patents apply to all forms of software, they are a bigger threat to open source, for two main reasons. First, patent violations are easier to find in open source code than in unreadable binaries. Second, the open source movement has no mechanism for accumulating its own patent portfolio, and thus taking the industry standard route of patent cross-licensing. This system requires even people who don't believe in software patents to get as many as they can, to have something to trade.The alternative to cross-licensing - paying for patent rights - is not practical for open source developers: none of them makes a significant amount of money. All they can really do is program round them.Ironically, the biggest campaigner for software patents in Europe, and the company with by far the biggest patent portfolio, is also the one that wants to supply Munich's computer systems: IBM.LinksGreens of Munich press releasehttp://masl.to/?J5E8215F8Florian Mueller's versionhttp://masl.to/?V4D8525F8Munich's Linux Migration Raises EU Patent Issues (Slashdot)http://masl.to/?E30C223F8IBM and Software Patentshttp://masl.to/?H209235F8IBM sustains patent dominancehttp://masl.to/?P32C263F8Software's game of mutually assured damagehttp://masl.to/?R3C8255F8
In the hot, dry months before the ECTS games trade show, the last thing the industry needed was a bushfire. Yet this week, as retail chain Game joined Dixons, Currys and PC World in pulling Manhunt from their shelves, the industry was nervously eying the encroaching flames.Of course, games have been linked with real-life carnage before, most infamously after the Columbine shootings when the tragedy was blamed on the now obsolete Doom - among other culprits.The murder of 14-year-old Stefan Pakeerah, however, happened not in Los Angeles but Leicester, and at last week's trial, the victim's family was not holding back."I think the game &#91;Manhunt&#93; has contributed to Stefan's death," his father, Patrick, told Sky News. "I identified Stefan's body and the wounds matched up to the wounds in the game." He also called it "an instruction video on how to kill someone". Stefan's mother, Giselle, elaborated by claiming 17-year-old Warren Leblanc, who admitted the murder but claimed it was a robbery gone wrong, had been "obsessed by it".For the uninitiated, Manhunt is a 3D shoot-'em-up, and certainly not unique in graphic detail or casting an unrepentant killer as the hero. The theme was pretty much covered 17 years ago by the movie The Running Man. Even the idea of accumulating points for spectacular kills has been a staple of beat-'em-ups since the early 80s. Hardly surprising, then, that when publisher Take 2 launched it in November, it had no qualms cranking up a controversial website with slasher-movie graphics and harrowing sound effects - a tactic that apparently failed when Manhunt sold disappointingly compared with previous hits such as Grand Theft Auto: Vice City.Since the Pakeerah family's comments, Take 2 and Edinburgh developer Rockstar North have released only one-line condolences and rejected any link between tragedy and game - an assertion supported, predictably, by industry body Elspa. Meanwhile, the game remains on sale and its website continues to promote it   as "an organised blood sport".But Manhunt is far from this year's most controversial game. Tomorrow sees the launch of America's 10 Most Wanted from publisher Play It, offering the chance to hunt down Osama bin Laden. The game has a 15 rating, despite its blatant xenophobia. And we've already had Eidos's Thief: Deadly Shadows - widely praised for its non-violent gameplay, despite containing a level called The Cradle set in a bloodstained mental hospital, echoing to the screams of recently abused children. That such a level can hit the shops bearing the industry's   12 rating is surely just as worrying as Manhunt.Until someone produces proof that games are any more likely to inspire copycat violence than, say, movies or magazines, the debate remains deadlocked. And although Manhunt may seem like a sorry excuse for entertainment, in a world where playing Hannibal Lecter gets you a knighthood and an Oscar, let's not pretend it's without precedent.
Art soundsTate Online has launched its first sound art available as a free download. The 14-minute work, SoundSurface, was commissioned from two artists, Scanner (Robin Rimbaud) and Stephen Vitiello, who remixed digital recordings of their performance at Tate Modern earlier this year. For that, Scanner used microscopic recordings of termites, flies and ants, and processed shortwave radio broadcasts, while Vitiello used field recordings of "insects, trains, wind, and Donald Judd sculptures expanding and contracting in the summer heat". The site mostly uses Real formats but SoundSurface is a 19MB MP3 file. The Tate has been archiving live webcasts of broadcasts of public events for the past four years, and these are available from its Online Events page.www.tate.org.uk/onlineeventsSnapMeanwhile, in California, the Los Angeles Center for Digital Art is preparing a new open exhibition of digital art and photography that will start on September 9. It's called Snap To Grid, and it is "un-juried": all entries will be printed (8.5 x 11in) and shown in the gallery, arranged in a grid. It costs $30 per image to enter. Prints are for sale.Hidden livesHidden Lives Revealed is a website about poor and disadvantaged children cared for by The Waifs and Strays' Society - now The Children's Society - between 1881 and 1918. The case files have been anonymised but there is no mistaking the realities of the age. You can browse the files by keywords, such as alcohol abuse, child labour, and workhouses. This well-designed site offers educational materials and e-cards to download.www.hiddenlives.org.ukNot LondonThe London authorities are planning a Desertorium in a former civil service car park in Balham, the idea being to recreate a desert ecology a stone's throw from the city centre. The treasures of the British Museum include the contents of the original Parthenon gift shop. These and many more "facts" are included in the blog, This Isn't London. It claims to be "the internet's first, best and only source of untrue, made-up and false facts and information about London". This one could run and run.http://thisisntlondon.blogspot.comScrapsAlice in Wonderland author Lewis Carroll - less well known as Charles Lutwidge Dodgson - kept scrapbooks. America's Library of Congress has the one he kept between 1855 and 1872, and has now put it online. You get good quality JPegs and Tiff images of all 68 pages, with searchable text and annotations available separately. The full JPeg for page seven, for example, is 1.8MB, which would be enough to print your own copy, without downloading the 37MB Tiff. It's almost all press clippings, but includes poems and cartoons from Punch. If Carroll fails to entertain, the library now has more than 50 exhibits online.www.loc.gov/exhibits/Music searchIf you enjoyed Kartoo, the visual web search engine, then you should get 15 minutes of fun from MusicPlasma, which does a similar sort of thing for popular musicians: it provides a solar system showing other artists they are linked to or close to. It knows about Aphex Twin, Augustus Pablo, John Renbourn and The Ventures (Walk Don't Run), if not Wild Man Fischer. The Flash interface is clunky and may not fit your screen, and it is not as informative as Rock Family Trees, but it is worth a visit.www.musicplasma.comwww.kartoo.comHatching...Formally Announcing is a website to announce your birth, engagement, marriage or death, charging from &#163;5 to &#163;20 per item. However, the design seems to echo the government's General Register Office site, which explains, among other things, how to register a birth or death in England and Wales, or get married. The GRO has just won Best Corporate Website at the annual public sector web awards, organised by the Government Internet Forum.www.formallyannouncing.co.ukwww.gro.gov.uk/gro/content/
Dutch plannerThe feature Journey from A to B (July 29) says that the UK journey planner is a "world's first" national planner. That's a bit of an exaggeration on the part of Transport Direct, I fear. It may be Britain's first, but here in Holland I've been using the national public transport planner, 9292OV (www.9292ov.nl) for years. Put in two addresses, down to the house number, and it plans a public transport route, including walking maps etc. It integrates trains, buses, metros, trams, ferries and taxis. If you want to drive, a number of commercial services such as Lokatienet (www.lokatienet.nl) do the same thing for the roads nationally, and throughout Benelux/France/Germany.Owen CarterAmsterdamKiller talkVictor Keegan's view of the rise of mobile phones is very perceptive, though the comment about them being "predatory" feels a bit bruising to those of us in the business. What has happened is that the mobile business (and particularly the European adoption of Global System for Mobile Communications, or GSM, as a digital mobile standard) has provided the business case for developing mass-market, cheap, light computers with a wireless connection infrastructure. As soon as that happened, all the other functions were just software - we could do them, so we did.In reality, the killer application was "talking", and that drove everything else. I use the camera, send SMS, listen to MP3s, and occasionally the screen backlight to find keys at night, but mostly, I talk. We all do - more and more, it seems - and in a world obsessed with technical advancement, I find it fascinating that progress is being driven by one of the basic characteristics that links with all of our human past.Steve BridgesSony EricssonEndless optionsHaving read your article on multitasking mobiles, have you not seen the Sony Ericsson range? Who needs a clock when the phone handles alarms, and a power save option displays the time. With the P900 and recently announced P910, the options are endless.Ian HansonLink mysterySince taking up BT Broadband 11 days ago, and dropping BT Yahoo, my spam dropped overnight from 30 minimum to two a day - after having leapt to the 30 plus when BT-Yahoo joined up. What I can't understand is that, to keep my BT email address, it has to go through a BT-Yahoo link up in some way.Derek HeckleHack soreJason Kroll is another one who incessantly goes on about the word "hacker" in a way that reminds me of old duffers who used to complain about the word "gay" no longer being used as a synonym for "happy". Both arguments are equally lost.Antony ShepherdCroydonDuty owedYour article MyDoom hits search engines, Guardian (July 27), highlights how long MyDoom had been developing its attack. MyDoom has evidently been happening for months. This is a classic example of the importance of the incubator community   to the development of viruses.Every computer can be part of the incubator community, whether it has protection - anti-virus software and firewalls - or not. The Department for Trade and Industry report in April stated that 99% of large companies in the UK had anti-virus software and 68% had experienced a virus attack in the past year. This tells us how ineffective the current industry standard approaches are.It is possible to stop email viruses. Businesses and individuals owe it to everyone who uses the internet to make sure they are protected and not part of the incubation process. That way, we will get rid of email viruses.Nick ScalesHalf-baked solutionI wouldn't touch internet banking with a barge pole. The thought of hackers lining up to empty my bank account would seriously disturb my sleep. I would always be on tenterhooks wondering if someone on the other side of the world were putting the final touches to his brilliant decryption algorithm.Sooner or later there will be a humungous hit on millions of online accounts, and who will refund customers if they suddenly default on mortgage payments and are declared bankrupt? Just because Osama bin Laden and friends haven't been successful, you can be sure they are trying hard to abuse the internet to destroy the world economy.So thanks, but no thanks. I like going to my bank, then talking to a human being as my pass book is stamped and my transaction recorded in black and white. Simple methods are the best, even though banks try to convince us life without computers would be impossible.Internet banks only exist because their young, naive customers have not lived long enough to realise the world is full of half-baked solutions.Michael D. MitchellFlackwell Heath
Video games are at a strange, adolescent point in their history. Old enough to be challenging well-established forms of entertainment, but still young enough to be misunderstood, they're gangly, awkward and, sometimes, revolutionary.Industry pundits are waiting for the next move at this point in the lifecycle of computer gaming. Market researchers figure that the $20bn a year leisure monster is going to continue growing to dizzying heights. According to the European trade body IFSE, computer gaming is expected to earn a projected $45.7bn in 2008.Consoles have already taken over the front rooms of homes across Europe, with more than 20m dedicated gaming machines jacked in to TVs. Of the UK population, 54% owns a PC, and games websites pulled in &#163;270m profit in 2003. Mobile phone manufacturers are in on the act as well, redesigning their devices from simple communication portals into entertainment centres. In this age of leisure, the video games industry is a serious contender.Gaming audiences are getting older and more techno-savvy, reflected in the products they buy and those that they demand. In the past, the average controller kid was seen as a pasty faced, soft-bellied, slightly maladjusted teenager. Now the average gamer has an income, a City job and a busy lifestyle. In response, machine, software and application designers are releasing indispensable gadgetry that responds to the needs of this more mature, cross-gendered market.Consoles that play DVDs, handheld machines that double as mobile phones and interactive cameras that hook up to broadband connections are all part of the new breed of entertainment products that publishers hope will maintain their audience base beyond their 20s and into their pension years. Over the next year, gaming is branching out into live video chat and multimedia entertainment.The Sony PlayStation PSX will bring style and substance to the space underneath the TV, multitasking as a games machine, TV tuner, music system and DVD recorder. Sony's PSP will play games, movies and tunes from an object you can hold in your hand. The double-screened Nintendo DS will bring interactive technology into the future with a touch sensitive screen. Rumours of PlayStation 3 and Xbox 2 continue to titillate.Software, similarly, is growing up, and modern classics such as Grand Theft Auto, Half Life, Doom and Halo are about to make their debuts, fresh after a facelift. To say these titles look good is like saying the Taj Mahal is a nice building. They look blinding.However, to be taken seriously by non-gamers, the industry has to have more than silicone assets. It needs culture, and that's where things are really kicking off. Games are the inspiration for countless modern media outside of geek circles, from music videos to big screen blockbusters to tampon ads. They have spawned academic departments, conferences, documentaries and art exhibitions.To fully appreciate the maturity of contemporary gaming, the industry needs to take on the critics, contemplate the culture and cover the things that shake up entertainment beyond gaming.That's where the Guardian Gamesblog comes in. Keith Stuart, Greg Howson and I will examine the industry from our vantage point as insiders, regurgitating it for public consumption. Expect coverage of the products, the rumours and the issues that affect the modern gamer, from the latest releases to the strange and the wonderful. Unsponsored, unfettered and uncompromising. It's time for games to grow up.Top 10 - all formats1Spider-Man 22DRIV3R3Shrek 24Athens 20045Need for Speed: Underground6Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Pandora7Fifa 20048Formula 1 049Harry Potter - Prisoner of Azkaban10Sonic HeroesSource: Elspa, compiled by Chart-Track
Orange has launched its 3G/GPRS PC card for laptop computers, enabling users to access the internet at near broadband speeds of up to 384kbps. Orange claims a wider 3G network than Vodafone, with 60% of the UK population within its reach, as opposed to its rival's 42%.The card, which is simple to install, operates in a similar way to the Vodafone rival. The key difference is that the PC interface on the Orange card is not as elegant or intuitive as Vodafone's. Like its rival, though, it does offer one-click access to email and an SMS option.While the card worked well in the solid 3G zone of north London, in Lowestoft, just inside a 3G zone, it failed to make any kind of connection, not even successfully diverting to the slower speeds of GPRS. Hopefully, these are only teething problems that Orange will resolve.Overall, Orange does have better network coverage than Vodafone, and the service works out slightly cheaper. The card costs between &#163;85-255 depending on the tariff.www.orange.co.uk
Patent latherAn investigation of the Linux kernel shows that 283 possible patent violations exist in the open source operating system's core. The Open Source Risk Management (OSRM) report notes that none of them has been contested in court. Many of the patents are held by Linux supporters such as IBM and Novell, but Microsoft owns 27. SCO, which now owns the Unix code, represents the only overt threat to Linux users, and has pending court actions against IBM and other Linux users. However, the report does not show any SCO patents as being infringed.www.osriskmanagement.comBroad agreementSwitching broadband supplier will be easier in future, according to 16 broadband signatories to a new code of practice. Companies, including BT, AOL, Demon (Thus), Virgin, Easynet and Bulldog, have agreed to work more closely to eliminate lengthy delays. The initiative will make the change easier for the customer and be seamless in execution, claims BT Wholesale. Under the new code, migrating customers will be given an authority code from their existing supplier. This shows the new company that both parties agree to the change and the transfer can be made with the minimum disruption. The agreement covers around 70% of the UK ADSL market, but does not cover ADSL-to-cable conversions.Wireless switchIntel is developing a wireless chip to provide switching between different networks and frequencies. The new transceiver will enable future devices to support up to five radio systems. The company claims the chips will require less power than existing transceivers and allow the user, or platform, to choose the best communications pathway. The company is also testing an extreme ultraviolet photolithography tool. This will enable Intel to produce chips with a higher concentration of transistors using a 32 nanometre process compared with the 90 nanometre process used for its current leading-edge chips. The system is not expected to be commercially viable until 2009.www.intel.comGiving it largeUnisys is taking advantage of the extended multiprocessing capability of the Linux 2.6 kernel. Its ES7000 datacentre server will now support Red Hat and Novell SuSE Linux on up to 32 processors. Prior to the new kernel, the scalability of Linux was limited to four processors. Unisys is also adding dynamic partitioning to bring its server in line with IBM and Sun Microsystems. This will allow users to consolidate several applications on to a single server. The ES7000 was designed with partitioning but support has only arrived with the new kernel and will not be available in Windows until the next release from Microsoft in three years time.Office perkMicrosoft is offering better security for Office applications, improved spam protection and enhancements to OneNote and InfoPath in its release of Service Pack 1 for Office 2003. Extensions to the junk mail filtering in Outlook allows spam-blocking according to the country suffix in the sender's email address or by the character encoding used by the message. Changes to OneNote bring better integration with Office by allowing customers to insert Office documents, create and import Outlook appointments, and transfer pages into Word. The improvements to InfoPath are designed to make life easier for developers by improving XML handling and adding tools for managed code.http://office.microsoft.com/home/All wirelessHewlett Packard's flagship iPaq h6340 handheld supports all the main forms of wireless to handle communications at almost any distance. It includes Bluetooth, Wi-Fi wireless networking, quad-band GSM mobile telephony and GPRS data. It also features a snap-on keyboard and expansion slots, and should be available from September 10 for &#163;479 inc VAT. There are three other models in the range. The &#163;449 iPaq hx4700 Pocket PC replaces the usual touch-sensitive screen with a track pad and a mouse-like cursor, and has a 4in colour screen. The ultra-slim rz1710, available now, is the cheapest at &#163;199. HP has also announced two Compaq Business Notebook PCs, the nx9020 and nx9030. Prices start at around &#163;730.Wi-Fi explosionPublic access Wi-Fi systems are being deployed three times faster than 3G network base stations, and at a tenth of the cost, according to AlanDick. With Wi-Fi becoming standard in notebook and handheld computers, and starting to appear in mobile phones, John Oliver, AlanDick's Wi-Fi business development manager reckons it is becoming the "medium of choice" for road warriors.www.alandick.com&#183;Contributions from Eric Doyle and Jack Schofield
The next big jump in PC power will come with 64-bit systems everyone can use. However, many people are going to be waiting rather longer than expected to make the most of them, because Microsoft has just announced yet another delay: it has put the promised new versions of Windows XP and Windows Server back into the first half of next year. But Microsoft is still expecting 64-bit systems to sweep through businesses by the end of next year - and is promising free upgrades to help things along.There is already a 64-bit version of Windows Server, but it doesn't have all the features of the 32-bit version and it only runs on Intel's 64-bit Itanium processor. Although Intel has spent more than a billion dollars developing Itanium, and is hard at work on Itanium 2, sales haven't taken off. The high price of Itanium systems is only part of the problem. Because they are true 64-bit systems, Itanium chips only run existing 32-bit applications in emulation, which means more slowly.The 64-bit capable processors, such as AMD's Opterons or Intel's new Nocona Xeon with Extended Memory 64 Technology (EM64T), are different. They are 64-bit processors that run 32-bit code, so you could buy a PC now and use it with standard versions of Windows and normal applications, then upgrade to 64-bit on the same PC in the future. With 64-bit extended Windows, the processor runs Windows and any other 64-bit applications in 64-bit mode, processing twice as much information each clock cycle and getting access to far more memory - up to 16 terabytes rather than 4 gigabytes.But you can also load 32-bit applications in what Microsoft calls "Windows on Windows 64". Because they are specially written to run on the processor rather than having to be emulated, you don't take a performance hit, and you still get speed increases from 64-bits. Microsoft is hoping for 10 to 30% increases, and they are seeing 8% improvements even with the beta versions of 64-bit extended Windows.AMD has had 64-bit extended chips since April last year. Intel announced EM64T at the beginning of July, prompting Microsoft to come up with the term x64, which neither of the chip manufacturers uses. Microsoft is also working on product names that are less of a mouthful than Windows Server 2003 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems.The 64-bit extended version of XP should have been out at the beginning of this year, and the server release should have followed by the end of this year. The delays are down to Windows XP Service Pack 2, which is due this month, and Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 1, which has been delayed until next year. The server version will be based on Service Pack 1 and Microsoft wants to take the time to test both versions with Service Pack 2. The current 64-bit extended Windows Server beta only works with AMD's 64-bit capable chips, as does the current beta of SQL Server 2005, but Microsoft is promising a new beta of Windows Server this week to support EM64T chips from Intel.The delays might make life easier for businesses and home users alike, if the hardware manufacturers heed Microsoft's call to work on 64-bit drivers. Although 32-bit software runs happily, 32-bit drivers don't, because it's too dangerous to run anything in the kernel that's not completely compatible with the hardware. That means anything you connect to your system, from a network card to a digital camera, will need a new driver.There are already a number of 64-bit drivers from companies such as Adaptec, Brother and Creative Labs, and Microsoft claims that it's not technically difficult to develop them. The problem is motivation. To put it crudely, the hardware manufacturers already have your money, so why should they produce new drivers for new versions of Windows so you can run old devices?Repeated delays could make it harder for Microsoft to convince them that there will be a demand for the drivers, but Neil Hutson, Microsoft's director of Windows evangelism, says: "We're working very aggressively with various vendors to make sure that they're in the box when we ship the product."Another hiccup could be 16-bit installers, which are still surprisingly common, especially for custom applications inside companies. Again, it's not difficult to switch to new technology, but it means rebuilding installers and checking deployment routines.With all the delays and potential problems, 64-bit computing might seem more trouble than it's worth. However, the advantages are there, for the desktop as well as the server. Being able to store more information in memory speeds up corporate databases; it also means you can have files larger than 4GB, which is useful for video editing, animation and 3D rendering. Enthusiastic gamers will be chasing 64-bit performance, too. But there's a question mark over what they will have to do to get hold of it.There have been persistent rumours that 64-bit extended Windows will only be available to manufacturers, who will supply it with new PCs. Sticking to the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) route means every 64-bit system is fully tested, so you know the operating system, drivers and hardware all work properly together. That cuts down on problems for users - and on support costs. It's the approach Microsoft took with Windows XP Media Center to start with, but it has meant only the bigger players have been making and selling Media Center PCs.Microsoft could follow the same strategy with 64-bit extended Windows, but even the UK Windows client product manager, Paul Randle, doesn't know yet. "The plan is to make it available through OEMs only, but I wouldn't make a bet either way."Samm DiStasio, the group product manager for Windows Server, dismisses suggestions that 64-bit Windows Server won't be widely available. "This is a volume play: this is not a boutique version of the OS," he says. There might be different strategies for the server and desktop markets. Microsoft has just an nounced that if you buy a 64-bit extended Opteron or Xeon PC with Windows Server 2003 now, you will get a free license for the 64-bit edition when it ships.Microsoft certainly wants its 64-bit server operating system and database to take advantage of the cheaper AMD and Intel chips they expect to dominate the market. Bill Gates has publicly predicted that by the end of 2005, all the chips AMD sells and the majority from Intel will support 64-bit computing, and AMD agrees. If you can't buy anything except a 64-bit capable server you will want an operating system to take advantage of it, and at the moment the main choices are Sun's Solaris (Unix) and Linux, with databases including Oracle and IBM's DB2.Earlier this year, Gates promised that "this will be a smoother transition than those that came before, and this will happen faster, too." It's looking like a bumpier road now.
Is an Apple iPod or MP3 player a threat to corporate data? Security experts increasingly believe such devices can be used to steal sensitive data from company PCs and networks. Last month, the web was buzzing with the news that the Ministry of Defence was banning the use of iPods due to security concerns. Though the story - released by Reuters - was denied by the MoD, it has caused many to review their thinking on allowing portable devices in the workplace.The problem is not new. Ever since PCs had floppy disks and, more recently, CD-R drives, it has been a simple matter for unscrupulous staff to steal any data they are able to access. New personal devices just add to the problem.But according to recent research by Gartner, companies should consider banning portable storage devices from the workplace due to the risk of theft, and the fact that they can be the source of computer viruses and Trojans.On the should-be-banned list are Smart Media and similar cards, Sony Memory Sticks, CompactFlash, keychain or USB drives, and portable MP3 players. Gartner points out that such devices can easily bypass fire walls and that a mislaid portable device can also be misappropriated by another member of staff.But not everyone thinks a banning order is appropriate. Mark Blowers, a senior analyst at Butler Group, says companies have to get things in proportion. "This is an issue, but it's more about overall security policy. It's not really feasible to ban such products outright as many people travel with them to work. It's probably more about banning them in particularly sensitive areas - if that is possible."But the problem is set to grow. Storage capacity is doubling roughly every six months, while remaining at almost the same price. The first key development was Flash memory, which stimulated the production of PDAs (personal digital assistants); the second development was removable storage using Secure Digital, CompactFlash or Memory Sticks, most noticeably used in digital cameras and sealed inside MP3 devices.Finally, tiny hard drives have increased portable storage further. The 1.8in Hitachi drives used in iPods, for example, can store up to 40GB, and some players have even larger capacities.But Greg Carlow, managing director at systems integrator Repton, says, the problem is also about how companies organise data. "If someone is malevolent, they can probably do serious damage by stealing a few megabyte of data: most companies only really use about 0.1% of the data they own, they just never get round to managing it. So in effect, data theft has been a problem since the first portable devices came along."He believes the problem lies in operating systems devised years before such storage technology was available. "Maybe in future versions of Windows we will start to see code that isolates unknown storage devices until they have been approved by the IT department for use on a particular machine."But there are signs that companies are tightening up security policies to take account of the risk. "We have been giving away memory sticks to customers but quite a few have refused them because there is a company policy banning their use," says Paul Hammond, UK general manager at systems integrator CNT.In a recent survey of 200 UK firms by software security firm Reflex Magnetics, 82% of respondents said they regarded mobile devices such as the iPod as a security threat. Reflex says those in the healthcare and finance sectors are most likely to toughen up their security policies soon.Companies are also likely to look to intrusion protection software that seeks to plug gaps on desktops and servers. For example Cisco's Security Agent software sits on the PC and can bar access to the USB port. "It's available, but only two of our customers are using it in that way," says Paul King, Cisco's senior security consultant. "It's more a matter of firms classifying and segregating data that needs to be protected, as well as ensuring they provide encryption on laptops, which are a far greater security risk."Other firms such as Reflex Magnetics and Pointsec offer encryption tools so that only encrypted access is possible to USB drives.What is certain is that data theft will get easier as data storage devices increase in capacity while reducing in size and cost. While the medium-term future holds the promise of vast amounts of data on holographic devices, the next few years are likely to be defined by squeezing more out of existing technology.Meanwhile, developers of wearable computers - smart devices built into clothing - point out it is likely that an office worker could be wearing a computer including 100GB of storage capacity within a few years.Storage firm Iomega's latest mini USB drives, no bigger than a chunky cigarette lighter, show how far the technology has come. The top end drive can hold a gigabyte - enough for an estimated 288 music files, 800 digital photos, or all the data on 700 floppy discs.
Has the internet come into its own in the presidential campaign or is it still playing a bit part?The internet is playing a bigger role in this election than newspapers, television, and the candidates ... combined. Wait, that's not true. But it's playing a big role. Campaigns use the internet to email damaging rumours about the candidates to newspaper and television reporters.Is there a future for online voting in the United States?Online voting would be even worse than letting people vote by mail, something that   also will never happen, if I have anything to do with it. My biggest objection would be the possibility of fraud - specifically, fraud by the other side. There's no way our fraud would be as good as their fraud.How influential are websites such as MoveOn.org et al on public opinion in the US?MoveOn.org (http://moveon.org/front/) is making a huge difference. I've never been to et al's site, but if it's anything like MoveOn, my hat's off to them. If you're asking if the net has seen an upsurge in activism then ... the answer is "yes".Can the net be trusted for information more or less than conventional US news networks?It depends. Most conventional news sources are much more reliable than, for example, FoxNews.com. As for whether it's harder for government to keep things secret with the giant rumour mill that is the internet ... evidently not!And internet radio allows The Al Franken Show a global audience?Yes, it's great. The best thing is that a lot of would-be terrorists listen to the show and think to themselves, "Hey, America isn't so bad".Do you listen to any radio stations around the world?No, I try to steer clear of anything that might present information I don't already know or points of view I don't already agree with. That's how we do things in the States.Are websites such as The Onion keeping satire's teeth sharp while television isn't matching them?The Onion (www.theonion.com) is great. So is The Daily Show, which is on television. Those two take turns sharpening   satire's teeth. The Onion sharpens the front, the Daily Show sharpens the back, and I sharpen the sides. Satire's teeth are incredibly pointy.Any favourite gadgets?I love the idea of an electronic voting machine that creates a paper trail so you can verify your vote.How important is a web presence?"As far as I'm concerned, if you don't have a website, you don't exist." That's the kind of snotty thing I can't stand.Any favourite tools for writing?PC, MS Word, Final Draft (www.finaldraft.com), LexisNexis (www.lexisnexis.com), Google and lots of coffee.Interviewed by Hamish MackintoshVisit:www.al-franken.comandwww.ofrankenfactor.comAl Franken's bookmarkswww.dailykos.comatrios.blogspot.comwww.mediamatters.orgwww.factcheck.orgwww.talkingpointsmemo.comwww.slate.com/Default.aspxwww.salon.com
Fantasy Chairmanguardian.fantasyleague.comTelegraph foursomewww.tffo.co.ukBBC's final seasonbbcfootball.fantasyleague.co.ukOfficial and freefantasy.premierleague.comSchools Fantasy Leagueschools.fantasyleague.comFantasy football forumwww.fiso.co.uk/football.htm
Redesigned, relaunchedwww.muscular-dystrophy.orgDa Ali G Translatorwww.mackers.com/alig/Dairy Lamawww.dairylama.com
It became known affectionately as the world's online flea market after it formed in 1995 and has protected its "community feel" for its core customers of individuals and small businesses.But times are changing, and while it was one-off collectables that built its reputation, that category, with $1.4bn of global sales, has long since played second fiddle. Other sectors, such as consumer electronics, with $2.5bn of sales; clothes and accessories, at $2.2bn; and motor cars, with $9.8bn of annual sales, represent the future.This growth in "practical" categories has led to the emergence of two trends. First, eBay is increasingly attracting large retailers to trade in its ultra-efficient marketplace that gives them access to 114 million registered users. Second, these professional merchants want to sell new products in volume, which is driving the growth of fixed-price transactions, in contrast with eBay's original auction model.This fixed-price trading accounts for 27% of the total value of all goods sold - primarily from eBay's "Buy It Now" feature, where items can be bid for but can also be purchased immediately for a fixed price.Pure fixed price, where there is no auction alternative, is of most interest to professional retailers, and accounted for 11% of sales last year. eBay has not disclosed the percentage for the current year - possibly because it wishes to downplay its activities with big business and preserve its increasingly delicately balanced non-corporate heritage.There is no denying eBay is on a path to breaking out of its peer-to-peer, auction-driven heartland. And the speed with which it is expanding suggests the company is heading towards the status of Wal-Mart of the online world. So reckons Jonathan Wall, marketing director of Dabs.com, a leading online electricals retailer, which recently began trading on eBay. "I'd rather have shares in eBay than Wal-Mart," he said. eBay is currently valued at $53bn on Wall St.Having recently sold 100 end-of-line products and old stock and received around 60p in the pound, compared with the typical 25p from a broker, the company is looking to open an eBay "store".These stores enable retailers and named manufacturers to set up their own branded shops on eBay. The number of such stores has increased from 110,000 to 181,000 over the past year, proof of its growing attractiveness to traditional retailers.While this might be anathema to community-eBay, it represents revenue opportunities for corporate-eBay. Evidence of its increasing strength in this area is that new inventory listings from stores in the second quarter of this year were up by nearly 400% on the same period last year.Dabs.com will join operators such as Hewlett-Packard, Vodafone, Carphone Warehouse and Richer Sounds with its branded store. Although Richard Ambrose, category manager for eBay in the UK, says it is still early days, he predicts they will move substantial amounts of stock.This tends to be a combination of new and end-of-line, out-of-season goods and, in the case of electronics, older technology. Johan Brenner, general partner at Benchmark Capital - the venture capital firm that backed eBay in its early days and made the biggest gain in the history of the VC industry, - says eBay has also enabled retailers to take used goods as part exchange for new items and sell these second-hand goods on eBay."In the US, Circuit City has set up its own eBay store to sell used goods as an encouragement &#91;for people to&#93; then buy new from its online shop. eBay therefore fosters e-commerce in general," says Brenner.Ambrose agrees eBay offers retailers a variety of potential benefits. "Given the size of our audience, it is an offer that is compelling. We have many retail partners and &#91;the market&#93; is proving very active in the UK."Although Comet is not one - yet - it recognises the benefit of selling over a platform such as eBay. Tim Woollias, commercial trading manager of direct channels at Comet, says: "Comet has been using auctions ... for over three years to solve a traditional retail problem - clearing end-of-range and clearance items."Although it has no plans to sell pristine stock via auction, Woollias says the company monitors auctions. While he says Comet's most popular channel remains its stores, he only has to look at Dixons - which is in the process of reducing its high street presence - as a warning of how the growth of online retailing and eBay continue to eat into the margins of many on the high street.A major downside for retailers using eBay is that it predominantly attracts the value-driven shopper. Wall says Dabs.com has invariably sold new goods for less than it could have achieved from its online store.However, Wall doesn't want to miss out on the big opportunity eBay provides for attracting a different kind of customer to Dabs.com. The company therefore intends to link up with a few major manufacturers to offer a co-branded eBay store and divide the margin deficit.Judith Clegg, internet entrepreneur and associate director of Egremont, a consumer consultancy, agrees that the selling of new goods might be more difficult than end-of-line products. In addition, she says eBay's value-driven aspect lends itself particularly well to consumer electronics, which generally have a short life span. When the end approaches, retailers have no qualms about offloading stock at reduced prices.This puts question marks over how beneficial eBay is to retailers in other categories. Tom Athron, associate director of Javelin, a retail consultancy, whose clients include John Lewis and Marks &amp; Spencer, says: "Some brands are more concerned than others about setting up shop on eBay."This is why he says you can find M&amp;S Lifestore sofas for sale on eBay, sold by clearance houses and liquidators, but you won't find the M&amp;S brand. "For commodity products, it's an opportunity, which is why a Dabs.com is OK with it but an M&amp;S is twitchy," he says.But as eBay continues to grow at a phenomenal rate, it will surely be sensible for retailers such as M&amp;S to use eBay for selling direct or staying hidden and using stock liquidation companies.However, retailers at the luxury end of the market selling overtly branded goods do regard eBay as a threat. An example is clothing, a growing part of eBay's business. According to Ambrose, clothing and accessories is now the biggest category in the UK, with 300,000 items sold per week. A huge percentage is designer goods.Says Clegg: "If you see Prada goods on eBay at unbelievable prices, the tabloids will have you believe they are stolen. But I believe it is legal and comes from third parties." These tend to be grey market operators, who buy goods as excess stock from legitimate sources, and liquidation houses.However, not everyone is so sure. Professor Joshua Bamfield, a director at the Centre for Retail Research and a specialist in retail crime, says: "People who commit burglary are younger and have been using the internet for years. They know they can get more money back for less risk. Retailers have been saying eBay is a problem."Bamfield says that in February, the Chief Constable of Nottinghamshire announced that police intelligence suggested "the internet, in particular eBay, is a medium for disposing of stolen property".Jerry Carter, head of loss prevention at House of Fraser, has also stated it's a problem. "The days of taking &#91;stolen goods&#93; to the pub and selling them for &#163;5 are over. With the internet, you can have total anonymity and sell for a lot more."There is also concern about fakes. In the US, high-end jewellery house Tiffany is suing eBay over this issue.It seems clear eBay is having a profound impact on the way retailers sell and consumers buy, and it is not necessarily smooth. Athron says: "eBay is a clever business that is growing its mainstream categories and therefore attracting mainstream customers. It will become more and more part of the standard shopping process and it will take a chunk of business from everyone."But while this will be great for eBay's bottom line, Clegg says the company must be careful to maintain its community. In time it could be forced to show the fixed-price listings from professional merchants separately, in a similar way to Google's Adwords.She warns: "While fixed-price selling will make eBay more accessible and convenient to those people scared by auctions, and attract a new section of the market, it may have the negative effect of appearing to just cater for professional retailers."So as eBay moves closer to offering more new fixed-price goods from large retailers and manufacturers, Amazon, its online rival, is increasingly expanding its eBay-style Marketplace offering. In so doing, these two internet behemoths are slowly converging, and a bruising battle for online supremacy looks likely. While eBay was reluctant to talk about this oncoming clash, others weren't. The verdict is that the sheer quantity of categories in which eBay has a strong foothold gives it the early advantage.Clegg agrees: "We are only just at the beginning of what's possible for eBay. It's the most exciting business in the world at the moment."
Apologies if you've already discovered Ron Gilbert's gaming blog,Grumpy Gamer, but he has name-checked us in his 'What I'm Surfing' section and more than deserves the favour returned. Gilbert was the key figure behind LucasArts'Monkey Islandseries of point and click adventure games (well, at least the early good ones), and his blog is an enjoyable series of rants against modern game design. Today, as a slight deviation, he reviews The Curious Incident of The Dog In The Night-Time, but then slips comfortably back into having a go at 'cool' games like Painkiller and Hitman.Quick, what areyourfavourite Monkey Island memories? Mine, in no particular order...1. The spitting competition 2. The sword fighting face-offs, with insults instead of blades 3. The bit where Guybrush saves himself from drowning by simply lifting the heavy weight he's been tied to and walking out of the sea 4. Stan's previously used ships 5. "Wow! That's the second biggest monkey head I've ever seen!"
Xbox Live may have over a million subscribers but, until recently, it lacked the sports genre that would help increase this total in Europe – a football game. Sadly the story of the first one out is a tale of rushed product and missed opportunity. Codemasters England International Football was released in late April to coincide with the build-up to Euro 2004 and was the first online footy game for the Xbox. Unfortunately there was a big problem; the game randomly disconnected when playing online.Some games would crash at the start; some at the end (heartbreaking when 2-1 up with minutes left) and some would play fine and then crash on the next match.Codemasters promised a patch to fix this. Fans waited and waited, and June came, and they still waited. By the time of Euro 2004 theEIF forumwas full of angry punters demanding an answer. It was around this time that Ireviewed the gamefor Online. The game itself was ok and improved markedly when played online – if you could get it to work. I was told that a patch was due imminently; in fact it didn't arrive until weeks later. And even then, it didn't fix the other bugs in the game, such as a faulty friends list.The whole episode is a sad one. Codemasters (one of the UK's longest serving publishers) has lost respect and Xbox Live has lost a little of its sheen.With EA's FIFA 2005 playable on Live this Autumn, along with the tantalising prospect of online play in Pro Evolution Soccer (the best footy series around), it seems that EIF's achievement as being the first on the pitch won't save it from relegation.
"The past couple of years, Apple Computer CEO Steve Jobs has gotten nothing but roses and kisses from the public and the media. But a feud between Apple and RealNetworks over music downloads is exposing Jobs' tragic flaw. Amazingly, he seems to be making the same devastating mistakes with the iPod that he made with the Mac 20 years ago." writes Kevin Maney in his Wednesday column inUSA Today.Maney says Avram Miller, a tech investor and former vice president at Intel, compares Apple to Singapore. "You know Singapore: autocratic, insular, elegantly engineered, repressively controlled — and destined to never amount to more than a small but interesting dot on the world map."Comment:It's an old tale, but amusingly told. However, it isn't true to say that Jobs refused to license the Mac OS in 1985 (which was when Gates wrote to Apple, recommending and offering to support licensing as a way to make Mac OS a standard). Jobs had no real power at Apple once the Mac had flopped: John Sculley was the CEO, and it was Sculley who decided against licensing.To be specific, Jobs was booted out of Apple on May 24, 1985 and the Gates memo was sent on June 25.Of course, Jobs would certainly have made the same mistake, and it was Jobs who -- after returning to Apple in the 90s -- got rid of the Mac "cloners" that Gil Amelio had belatedly allowed in. But at the critical time, Jobs wasn't even there.
UK-developer Macrospace has at last launched its innovative mobile shoot-'em-up Fatal Force: Earth Assault. The game, inspired by the likes of Metal Slug and Contra, pits a bunch of earthling soldiers against alien invaders. Okay, not in itself particularly ground-breaking, but if you have a Nokia 6600, 6230 or 7610 phone you can take part in two-player Bluetooth modes including deathmatch, capture the flag and domination. There's even an online portal – The Battlezone – where you can track game stats and highscores, and set-up clans. Not sure how the latter is going to work as it's two player only, but it sounds impressive anyway. Take a look righthere.
"Steve Jobs says he expects a full recovery from his cancer surgery, but news of his illness raised the question of how his companies, Apple Computer Inc. and Pixar Animation Studios, would fare without the executive—whom some consider the companies' soul—at the helm. 'What makes him very hard to replace is his charisma,' said industry analyst Rob Enderle. Jobs 'can sell refrigerators to Eskimos',"reportsAP."Jobs, 49, assured employees and investors he expects a full recovery and plans to return to work next month."
"CustomizedGirlhas this week announced the launch of its interactive fashion Web site, which will offer the opportunity for anyone to design their own clothes online," according toURL Wire."The company is touting 'The $9 Personalized Thong', which accounts for over a quarter of total sales. It is commonly ordered with the name or initials of a 'special someone'."
Activate is Activision's annual product showcase and has become a staple of the games industry calendar. It's also a good excuse for assorted press and retailers to get out of the office for a couple of days. This year it was held in Barcelona although,as I said in my Tiscali report, it may as well have been Bridlington or Bognor as we barely set foot outside. Activision is now pretty much established as 2nd place publisher. And with EA streets ahead, this is certainly the best they could hope for in the foreseeable future.Activate showed how EA's influence has permeated. The line-up of games was a mixture of sequels and film tie-ins, great for the accountants, maybe less so for the gamers. Having said that, the quality was surprisingly good, showing that a focus on fewer titles may have helped.The expansion pack to Call of Duty - United Offensive – was a real highlight and looks set to continue the visceral onslaught of that series. In factCall of Dutyis almost educational in its rugged depiction of warfare.Activision also publish the LucasArts games, so there was a big Star Wars push. Big hope, Star Wars Battlefront, is being released the same week as the DVD of the original trilogy. Now that's synergy.Activate once again highlighted that the games business is becoming increasingly polarised between the big boys like EA and Activision themselves, and the rest. Smaller publishers are struggling for space, and with development and publishing costs set to rocket in the next generation then this situation will only increase.Maybe the small, but growing,indie development sceneon the PC will buck this trend?
I have just suffered a terrible journey home from London as thecapital ground to a haltbecause of rain. It must have been nice for Catwoman stars Halle Berry and Sharon Stone, who are in town promoting the film. By all accountsit's a messof a picture but I hoped the game would be better.After all, replace Lara Croft with Halle, add in a catsuit and some ledges to swing from and you've got the basis of a semi-decent game. Intial impressions showed that the developers have nailed down the animation on Catwoman herself and they even roped in Ms Berry to do the voiceovers. However, once I started playing it all seemed to go wrong... My review is inOnlinethis Thursday.
It is getting dark in Aden, and Theguardian, trailing a long sword through the dirt on the edge of a mean village of barns and lean-tos, is fed up and a little bored. The rough tracks through the trees are littered with the corpses of goblins which Theguardian has slain for want of anything else to do. In truth, they are easy kills, and slaying anyone does not correspond to good journalistic practice. But Theguardian, my avatar, has spent a real hour in a nonexistent world with more than four million paying residents, and nobody has been willing to talk to him so far.Broad-shouldered men with jackboots and flowing capes dash across the mud. Barbie-doll elven women in pink miniskirts and bra tops loiter by the woodsheds. Each of these electronic incarnations on the screen represents an actual person somewhere in the world. The real individual could be anywhere on the globe. Here, they are all Adenites.For no clear reason, an elf woman starts beating Theguardian with a sword. Tapping away at the keyboard, I try to explain that I am not, as I appear to be, a novice knight with the build of an American footballer in silver plate armour, dragging a sword the size of a broom handle, but a reporter in London. The elf woman stops attacking me and, without a word, teleports away into nothingness. This keeps happening. But I must persist. This is not an abstract electronic quest. This is not about points on a scoreboard or racing for a finish line. This is about money.Most of us are familiar with the idea of conventional computer games: you buy, borrow or steal a piece of software for a desktop computer or a PlayStation-like console, load it up, and use a keyboard or mouse or joystick to steer a character through a challenge. You race a car round a course, or run a football team, or kill monsters, or slay gunmen. The game ends: you start again, or buy another. You can play with a friend, or with a few friends over the internet - but it's still a game that ends and, for those dissatisfied with reality as it is, that's not good enough.Now, most notably in east Asia but increasingly in the US and Europe, another kind of computer game is gaining ground which, financially and emotionally, blurs the boundary between the real and the computer-generated. In the software business, the games go by the indigestible acronym MMORPGs (massively multiplayer online role-playing games), but they are more easily understood as virtual worlds. Aden is a virtual world in an online game called Lineage, created and run by a Korean company, NCsoft. Lineage's four million mainly east Asian subscribers make it the biggest, although the more recent Japanese virtual world of Vana'diel, in the game Final Fantasy XI, which has a large following in the US and is about to launch in Britain, recently passed the 500,000-inhabitant mark.The most curious element of the virtual worlds is not the fortunes they are making for their creators, though these are real and remarkable enough; NCSoft's profits run at &#163;5m a month: unlike conventional computer games, which players pay for only once, virtual world residents pay a monthly fee, typically about &#163;10, for the right to stay alive in these privately run existences.No, what is most bizarre about the virtual worlds, in which all players were supposed to start out equal and acquire wealth and status by their own efforts, is that the inequality of the real world is sluicing into them. Players who are wealthy in the real world are using real money to buy virtual goods and virtual characters from players who are real-world poor. Players who, in the real world, are time-rich and cash-poor are putting in hours of graft in the virtual world, killing virtual monsters, seeking out virtual treasure and giving themselves IT worker's lumbago to produce nonexistent magical weapons and characters, which can then be sold for thousands of dollars on the internet.At first encounter, the virtual-world concept seems simple - an ingenious merger between two familiar PC-age institutions: the fantasy role-playing game and the internet chatroom. At any one time, thousands of people are online in the same virtual world as you, dressed up as magicians or dwarves. Sometimes you chat to each other, sometimes you try to kill each other, sometimes you gang up to fight another gang for control of a castle. Sometimes you sit on someone's lap and talk.But just as you are more likely to be killed if you are poorly equipped and inexperienced, so you are less likely to be chatted to and invited to join a gang if you are poorly equipped and inexperienced. In order to get equipment and experience, it is necessary to carry out dull, repetitive tasks, like slaying goblins, or testing your sword against a training post.With my ridiculous armoury in the twilight squalor of small-town Aden, as the novice knight Theguardian, I begin to have a strange, familiar feeling. As I hack away, clicking the cursor over and over again and watching Theguardian's claymore wearily whacking a virtual straw dummy, I start to think: "This is not a game. This is not fun. This is hard, dull work." The virtual Protestant in me thinks: "If I don't do this, I won't get anywhere in this world." At which point I think: "Couldn't I pay someone else to do it for me while I go and do something more worthwhile?"This is exactly the point at which the virtual and real worlds collide. A US economist, Edward Castronova, who spent months roaming the virtual world of Norrath in Sony's game EverQuest, used exchange rates based on black market internet prices for virtual goods, virtual money and pre-developed characters to calculate that Norrath's real-world GNP per capita makes it wealthier, citizen for citizen, than China or India.He found that almost a third of adult subscribers spend more time in Norrath in a typical week than they do working for pay in the real world. He writes: "One can almost believe that many people do live there, wherever it is, and not on earth."Officially, the companies that run the virtual worlds don't approve of the selling for real money of virtual items: according to their rules, players who are caught doing it will be kicked out. Lance Stites, of NCsoft's US subsidiary in Texas, points out that if the firm acknowledged a real value for unreal things, it could face legal action from players. "If something's got real-world value at some point, we've got an obligation," he says.Yet the buying and selling of online goods and avatars is being carried out so brazenly that it is hard to believe the corporations are as worried as they claim. A Hong Kong-based company, IGE Ltd, employs 50 people exclusively in buying and selling nonexistent wands, weapons, cloaks and virtual currency from virtual worlds such as EverQuest. Another firm, Team VIP, will sell you 10m adena - the virtual currency in use in Lineage - for 250 real US dollars. A third site,mysupersales.com, offers EverQuest "spider venom" for $699.30. The venom isn't real, nor are its effects, and, more intriguingly, any "advantage" that the buyer might gain from using it would seem to be confined entirely to the microcircuits of a humming server in San Diego, California.Mysupersales.com specialises in selling avatars - virtual characters which a subscriber has brought to in-game wealth and power at the expense of real-world advantages, such as a social life. One recent avatar being sold was a level 74 magician for Final Fantasy XI. The asking price, for a collection of numbers in a computer that will never exist outside a fantasy world, was $1,299.99.If it seems extraordinary that anyone would consider paying the best part of &#163;700 for a virtual magician, you are unfamiliar with the lurid tales of the addictiveness of virtuality. EverQuest is popularly known as "Evercrack" among hardcore Norrathians. "The sad truth is that, in many ways, EverQuest is better than real life," an anonymous 36-year-old woman player told a US psychological researcher, Nicholas Yee. "It is easier to succeed in EQ, I can be beautiful, fit and healthy in EQ - in real life I am chronically ill and there isn't much fun or achievement to be had."Some date the origin of virtual worlds to the dawn of the internet itself, pointing to the work of a group of Dungeons &amp; Dragons-obsessed students at Essex University in 1979, led by Roy Trubshaw and Richard Bartle. They were the first to work out how their simple text-based computer fantasy games could be played simultaneously by multiple players around the world, linked by early international computer networks.For the next two decades, however, the increase in the power of home computers outpaced the increase in the speed of the internet that connected them. Only recently, with the widespread availability of cheap, fast internet connections - broadband - has it become possible for thousands of players, thousands of miles apart, to talk, band together and overcome the same virtual challenges, in the same vividly created virtual world, at the same time.South Korea has led the world in broadband access, and most of the four million players of Lineage are Korean. It was in Korea last year that a 22-year-old man, identified by JoonAng Daily as Mr Jin, was arrested for playing the new version of Lineage, Lineage 2, in an internet cafe without paying. He started playing the game on November 29 and was finally dragged from the computer on December 17, 438 hours and 38 minutes later. Police reported that he had not washed during that time.According to the Korean national police agency's Cyber Terror Response Centre, 70% of crimes committed by young people are related to virtual worlds, mostly attempts to steal virtual money and virtual items. In October 2002 a 24-year-old man, Kim Kyung-jae, died of a DVT-like illness after playing an online game, Mu, virtually nonstop for three and a half days. "I told him not to spend so much time on the internet," his mother told the BBC. "He just said, 'Yes, Mum', but kept on playing." (According to Lance Stites of NCsoft the company has taken steps to encourage players to keep the distinction between real and virtual worlds clear. Now, messages appear periodically on screen reminding subscribers to "stretch your legs and see the sunshine once in a while".)The lure of the virtual worlds is not difficult to understand. They resemble real life in that there is no specific, common goal, no "game over". There are quests, tasks, narratives, but the game continues when and whether these are completed. The only remaining goal, then, is to find out why you are there in the first place; and because, unlike real life, the gods, the bureaucrats and the bosses are one and the same, there is a sense that one day you might actually be told the meaning of virtual life, that the grand design might be revealed. "A competition has arisen between earth and the virtual worlds," writes Castronova, "and for many, earth is the lesser option."Back in Aden, I have made some progress. I have reached a larger, busier town, where other player characters are crying out their wares for sale. SELLING KILLER RABBIT keeps scrolling through my message box. That is one of the intelligible cries. Mostly it sounds like the pit of a futures exchange. A squat green creature going by the name of Yogurt is screaming over and over: "49 brings 105 rough 132 iron." Yogurt agrees to talk. "Let me get dressed," he says, and returns a few moments later in the form of a black-robed wizard with a blue light on the end of a stick. Lineage, Yogurt explains, allows players to disguise themselves as monsters once they reach a certain level, hence his homunculus disguise.In real life, Yogurt the wizard is a 26-year-old American, hunched over a computer in Okinawa, Japan, at one in the morning (it's mid-afternoon in London). Yogurt won't tell me what he does for a real-world living, although almost all the young American males in Okinawa are serving members of the US military. He could be tall, short, fat, thin, spotty, black, white. He could be a she. (About half the male players in EverQuest and a quarter of the females have at least one avatar of the opposite sex.) All I know is that in the real world Yogurt is unable to cast spells and will never meet a Zombie Lord of Fear. Yogurt has inhabited the virtual world of Aden for six years.I ask where all the Koreans are. Yogurt points out a peculiarity of the virtual worlds: that their vast subscriber populations are divided up over a number of different servers. Each contains the same virtual world, with the same landscape, magic and monsters, but each has a different set of players. The Koreans have Korean-language Adens; we are on a server that provides an English-language Aden. Each server can deal with about 5,000 players at one time."The Korean servers are very overpopulated, from what I hear," says Yogurt. "I kind of like it here. It's nice and relaxing." Behind us there are scenes of terrible carnage involving elves, magicians, giant spiders and a group of characters who look like sumo wrestlers. The clash of weapons sounds from the speakers and the screen flashes with explosions. Another giant spider and a werewolf cut across our path, a disembodied eye shimmies through the air, the fighting continues and a wizard makes it snow. Is it always like this? "No," says Yogurt. "Just when 12-year-olds get bored."Yogurt is a member of one of the gangs of players - known as blood pledges in Lineage - which are a feature of the virtual worlds. Some two dozen people, unlikely to meet each other in reality, unite their avatars to kill monsters, win status and wealth, take a virtual house in a virtual town together and go on virtual picnics in the virtual countryside. "It's the people who make it fun. The game itself is boring. It always has been," says Yogurt.Yogurt and another member of his pledge, Slowmotion, whose real self is in Miami, take Theguardian on a teleport tour of Aden. We go into a bar in a virtual town called Giran. The place is empty. It is impossible to drink virtual beer anyway. Nor can we sit down. "My legs don't bend," says Yogurt.Yogurt and Slowmotion take me to a cathedral where characters can get virtually married.   "This is another aspect of the game that I frankly think is dumb, but come on in," says Yogurt, and we walk inside a conventional Christian space with rows of pews facing an altar. "This guy says blah blah blah, you may now f_ck that bi_ch," says Slowmotion, a busy, fidgety avatar whose current form is a green dwarf but who acts and talks like South Park's Eric Cartman.The last stop is a place called Lawful Temple, a pool in a forest where characters can learn spells. Slowmotion dashes off after a wild boar that has crossed his field of vision and slays it. Yogurt and I are hanging out by the pool. A certain street-corner aimlessness infuses the mood, and a certain bitterness - virtual politics, of a kind. Yogurt has already told me how much he hates the new version of Lineage, which has drawn some of his pledge buddies away into another world where he no longer meets them. Old-time virtual-world inhabitants grumble about the capitalist-bureaucrat gods who control their virtual existence. The players are the ones who have devoted great tracts of their real lives to the game; but ultimately the game belongs to the corporations, not the players. They can break up old worlds by luring players into   new ones. Ultimately, they can close down a world altogether, killing the last die- hard inhabitants - and all their years of toil and emotional investment - with the flick of a switch."Is this going to go on for ever, you and this game?" asks Theguardian."Well, I pay $15 a month, about two times the cost of a movie ticket," says Yogurt."Are you worried they might close this world down one day?""Nope."My screen is small, and it is hard to see the Lawful Temple with the bright afternoon light coming in from the London street outside. It's just before noon in Florida but in Okinawa, in the darkness in the small hours of the morning, the virtual trees in the virtual forest around the virtual ornamental pool must look more vivid than "RL", as hardcore online players call real life. "Lineage isn't reality?" asks Yogurt rhetorically. He looks around, by typing "(looks round)", and laughs, by typing "hehe". I think he means that it is.
Although arguably yesterday's news, I've got a real bee buzzing in my bonnet about this whole Manhunt situation. Thistragedyhas affected the lives of countless people, it has divided communities and it has rallied the geek troops. However, one part of the debate that has not been very well-discussed is why this game was released in the first place. It's simple: Manhunt exists purely for the controversy. The game has courted alarmist press so the suits could get their mitts on filthy lucre. Once again, they've succeeded. According toChartTrack, the official UK's interactive games chart, the game's trebled its sales in one week, re-placing it back in the charts at No. 23.Manhunt is not a good game. In fact, it wasn't very well-received when it was originally released. The reason it sold so many copies is becauseRockstar, doing its rockstar thing, decided to launch a title that would garner more than a few inches in column space. Since the day they hired PR guru Max Clifford to crowbar the first Grand Theft Auto intoParliamentary discussions in 1998, they have been hungry for publicity. This time, unfortunately, they got it for the wrong reasons.I've played the game. I didn't like it. It turned my stomach and I didn't see the point. There was no skill involved; it didn't challenge me, so I put it down and returned to one of my other games, many of which are "violent". The difference though between these games and a title like Manhunt is that they have redeeming features, like they inspire lateral thinking, or they're a catharsis or they're darkly funny. Other games are good. This one is not.Manhunt is a product of a strange culture in the computer games industry. It's a "bad boy" culture, the same one that inspires networking meetings in strip clubs andbooth babesat professional conferences. The industry was accidentally started by a bunch of very clever adolescent boys who haven't had to grow up. It's attracted a similar bunch of young men who also have Peter Pan complexes, and who think that driving around in fast cars is going to attract loose women, or making their games more Totally Xtreme is going to impress their dev mates. Their "don't tell me what to do" attitudes sometime push buttons. Where they get confused is thinking that a reaction – any reaction – means that they're doing something right.For the record, according toELSPAin the year 2002-2003, only 1% of the 765 titles that were released that year were given an 18+ certificate by theBBFC. Unfortunately, publicity stirred up by the Leicester tragedy and other similar news stories severely skews public opinion about computer gaming, and many people who've never picked up a controller will now think they are tantamount to murderers if they are in the same room as a PS2.It's this kind of nonsense that's going to keep the games business niche and eventually strangle it. I do not argue for censorship, I argue for common sense. Come on boys, grow up. It's not big, it's not clever. It is, quite simply, dumb.For the record, I've played games for 25 of my 30 years and although some of my friends think I'm a little strange I've never tried to kill any of them. I've also never tried to rap likeParappa the Rapper.For an excellent read and trawl of the videogame violence-related sites, check out the Armchair Assassin'sblog. Also of note, theEdinburgh International Games Festival's screenings seriesis going to feature a talk by journalist Emily Newton Dunn on the Culture of Fear. A must-see for anyone north of the border on Friday 13th August.
Misleading advice on complementary therapy available on the internet is putting thousands of cancer patients at risk, according to a leading scientist.Professor Edzard Ernst, of the Peninsula Medical School at Exeter University, holds the UK's only chair in complementary medicine. He told a press briefing yesterday that patients need to exercise more caution when looking for information on the web."If it sounds too good to be true, then it probably is," he said. "Don't believe ridiculous claims." Prof Ernst said that there had even been cases reported of cancer patients dying as a result of using complementary therapies promoted on the internet.His team at Exeter analysed 32 of the most popular websites giving advice and information on a range of complementary therapies to treat cancer. Between them, they receive tens of thousands of hits a day. He concluded that a "significant proportion" of the sites were a risk to cancer patients. The study was published recently in the Annals of Oncology."This was to us quite an eye-opener and pretty scary stuff," he said. "We found that between these 30-odd sites, 118 different cancer "cures" were recommended: complementary treatment which claimed to be able to cure cancer. None of these 118 can be demonstrated to cure cancer."Three websites fell into the highest risk categories because they overtly discouraged patients from using conventional cancer treatments such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The sites -heall.comandhealthy.net, based in the US, andworldwidehealthcenter.net, based in the UK and Cyprus, were judged to offer advice potentially harmful to patients.Heall.com offers customers a way of "balancing the human electrical system" by taking the nutritional supplements it sells. Yesterday at healthy.net, an article justifying the use of complementary techniques for cancer treatment said: "It is clear that humans are a complex interplay of physical and metaphysical forces. As hu mans become more spiritual or metaphysical, we tend to transcend physical laws. Hence, the ultimate cancer cure may come from this relatively untapped area of healing."Two examples of bogus cancer treatments were shark cartilage and laertrial, a chemical which can be made from almonds or the stones of apricots, cherries or peaches. Demand for ground-up shark fins has been so high as a result of its perceived health benefits that the trade has brought two species of shark close to extinction, said Prof Ernst. There was "not a shred of evidence" that it helped cure patients.Prof Ernst also says that the Gerson diet is "not supported by convincing evidence". Research comparing the retrospective survival rates of cancer patients on the diet - which involves eating lots of organic fruit and vegetables and having coffee enemas - apparently found that the Gerson dieters lived longer. However, Prof Ernst said that the methodology was too flawed to allow any firm conclusions."Not everything that is natural is risk-free," he said. "People should use their common sense and think twice about the motives of these websites."Prof Ernst said that patients should ask complementary health practitioners for proof of their experience and find out whether they have insurance if should something go wrong.He added that GPs were often uninformed about the potential risk of complementary treatments, especially with regard to their interaction with conventional medicines.In a survey he conducted of 2,600 patients prescribed the blood-thinning drug warfarin, he found that 9%were also taking herbal medicines which could interfere with the drug. GPs and pharmacists needed better training in complementary medicine, he said.Prof Ernst said that the public needed to be made aware of the lack of scientific evidence to back up the claims of most complementary therapies. "One way forward would be to flag up these websites for patients, because how is a patient going to know this is reliable and this is not reliable?" he said. Government agencies or cancer organisations could even vet health sites to help patients.
Steve Jobs, chief executive of Apple Computer, was yesterday recovering from weekend surgery to remove a cancerous tumour from his pancreas.Mr Jobs, 49, broke the news of his surgery in an email to staff late on Sunday. He said he would take August off to recuperate but expects to make a full recovery. He hopes to be back at his desk in September.He identified the cancer as an islet cell neuroendocrine tumour, a rare form that can be cured by surgical removal if caught early, as Mr Jobs said his had been. He said he would not undergo chemotherapy or radiation treatment.He added that the far more deadly and common form of pancreatic cancer was adenocarcinoma. "I mention this because when one hears pancreatic cancer (or Googles it) one immediately encounters this far more common and deadly form, which, thank God, is not what I had."Mr Jobs founded Apple with school friend Steve Wozniak in 1976 and launched the Macintosh computer less than 10 years later. It was the first to use graphics to represent a desktop.Mr Jobs left Apple in 1985 to create another computer company, NeXT. NeXT failed to prosper and Apple lost its way without Mr Jobs. He returned in 1997 and revitalised the business by cutting the num ber of product lines and refocusing on innovative design. The revamped iMac computer and iBook laptops became innovative design icons.In the past year Apple shares have risen more than 50%, largely owing to the resounding success of the iPod, the stylish handheld digital music player. Last month Apple said that third quarter profits had more than tripled to $61m, largely thanks to rapid sales of the iPod.Last year Apple launched iTunes, a digital music store. It has been credited with being the first real breakthrough in legitimising online music.Apple shares were yesterday trading 70 cents lower at $31.64, with Wall Street analysts raising concerns about the lack of a succession plan.Mr Jobs has enjoyed a double success as chairman and chief executive of Pixar, the computer animation studio which has scored successive hits with films such as Toy Story, Monsters Inc and Finding Nemo.In Mr Jobs' absence, Apple will be run by Timothy Cook, vice-president of worldwide sales and operations. Ed Catmull, who runs the day-to-day operation at Pixar, will continue to oversee that business.Bill Campbell, an Apple board member, said Mr Jobs' doctors "felt very confident that the surgery was successful and the prognosis is excellent".
Gamers of a certain age tend to go all misty eyed when the words "Commodore" and "64" are mentioned together. The C64 was a huge computing success, selling millions worldwide in the 80s. It was alsofar superiorto Sinclair's ZX Spectrum. But while some of the games have lost their sheen, the music and soundtracks from them live on with the"Back in Time"live event.An original party in Birmingham, organised to celebrate the undergound remix scene, Back in Time has since developed into an annual gathering of the finest C64 composers. If names like Rob Hubbard and Martin Galway mean anything to you then you're probably already humming the theme tunes to Sanxion or Wizball.Compared to other home computers such as the ZX Spectrum andOric, the C64 was a musical revelation. Its SID (Sound Interface Design) music chip was the best around, allowing musicians the chance to actually create music as opposed to the bleeps and burps available on other home computers.This years event takes place in Old Street, London on September 11th and includes the likes of Benn Daglish and a live band - Press Play in the 80s. Retro gone mad or a unique appreciation of an 80s artform?
If Aleks' earlier post about the Edinburgh Game festival didn't have you booking your plane tickets, perhaps this will spur you on. Sports Interactive has arranged an exclusive screening of Football Manager 2005 to coincide with the event. Fans will be able to see the latest build of the game in motion, and hear from some of SI's team, including Managing Director Miles Jacobson. So will you be able to grill the boys on their latest life-eating management sim? Miles reckons so, "I will certainly be available for Q&amp;A as it's going to be part of the screening, and if people discover what pub we are going to be in afterwards, then I'm sure we won't mind answering more (as long as they buy us a drink, of course)". Remember, these people are game developers so try somewhere dingy within 20 seconds walking distance of the venue…You can find out more about the screeninghere.
