Since the Coalition came to power in May 2010, the Tech City initiative has had significant money, PR and industry support thrown behind it. Tech City is often trumpeted as the saviour of the UK's flagging economy and the ultimate replacement for a broken financial services industry by capitalising on two of the UK's greatest, but underexploited, strengths – science and innovation. But how much innovation is actually taking place in Tech City? And what about other burgeoning tech clusters in the UK?When Cameronannounced in November 2010 that the UK government would be throwing its weight behind Tech City, he was clear about what he wanted to achieve."Our ambition is to bring together the creativity and energy of Shoreditch and the incredible possibilities of the Olympic Park to help make east London one of the world's great technology centres," he said. "[We want to] Help to create the right framework, so it's easier for new companies to start up, for venture capital firms to invest, for innovations to flourish, for businesses to grow."Fast forward two years, and the announcement of a£50m fund to help regenerate Old Street roundaboutattracted similarly grandiose words from the prime minister, the mayor of London, Boris Johnson, and the then incoming CEO of the Tech City Investment Organisation (TCIO), Joanna Shields."Tech City has become a thriving hub of tech-based enterprise and creativity," said Shields. "We have a vibrant community here, full of exciting emerging businesses that are growing alongside some of the world's most respected tech companies."You might assume from these comments that Tech City is presently Europe's most dynamic, innovative and fast-growing tech cluster. The fast-growing part is at least true. In 2008 there were just 15 media and technology companies registered in Shoreditch. In 2013, according to theTech City Map, there are 1,340.But how many of these startups are actually technology businesses creating innovative products?Number crunchSlow movers? An audit by the Guardian found that of the 1,340 companies in Tech City, only 137 are tech companies. Photograph: Barcroft Media/Sandalism.co.ukThe Guardian audited every company listed on the Tech City Map, which was set up with the blessing of the government to help analyse their influence, and found that of the 1,340 companies, 137 are tech companies, 700 are PR or design agencies and 482 are "miscellaneous" - which includes charities, pubs, cafes and fashion boutiques. The remaining 21 companies were either entered more than once or entries with no information or link to an external site. So just 10% of companies in Tech City actually do technology, 53% are PR or design agencies, and 37% are "miscellaneous".Such a low concentration of tech companies raises the question of why the Government has thrown its weight behind Tech City. Is the initiative a cynical PR campaign, with London acting as a figurehead for a wider drive to diversify the economy? Or is there a genuine ignorance to the makeup of Tech City that's yet to inform policy?The Guardian asked Benjamin Southworth, deputy CEO of TCIO, a public body that was set up to help grow and promote Tech City, about the figures. "The Tech City Map is a great resource, but we don't recognise this precise split in terms of companies that make up the businesses based in the cluster," he said."Equally, one of Tech City's strengths is the interplay between what people have historically called 'creative' and 'technical' industries. We at Tech City believe that these distinctions are less relevant in an increasingly integrated world."Southworth argues that "tech should not be siloed into being only one thing". He says: "At Tech City, our focus is to nurture, support, and celebrate the development of entrepreneurs, the go-getters and business builders determined to strike out and succeed on their own."Regional ascentsYet other tech clusters, some with a higher concentration of tech companies, exist elsewhere in the UK without the same industrial and governmental support. Cambridge is well known for its roots in hard tech such as biotechnology and engineering; its cluster currently houses 1,535 companies; 12 tech companies in Cambridge have achieved $1bn (£642m) valuations in the past 15 years, and the combined turnover of the entire cluster was recorded at £11.8bn in 2011. This makes it one of the biggest, oldest and most successful tech clusters in Europe. Yet politically, Cambridge goes largely unnoticed.Mauro Ciaccio, founder ofCamTechNet.info, a Cambridge technology news and company listing website, thinks the Tech City initiative is partly a PR exercise: "I would say the majority of Cambridge tech companies are innovative companies and that continues to evolve. In the past, it was the [processor design company] ARM's and hardware manufacturers, the second big one that came was the inkjet printing, and now there's a whole thing of biotech. It's seen as the next big sector to explode in Cambridge."Stewart McTavish, director ofIdea Space, a startup enterprise accelerator, says Cambridge has more innovators because "there's a real experience base of people that have started and succeeded in Cambridge who are able to help people out. Repeat entrepreneurs and investors are part of the ecosystem and they're willing to spend their time to help develop business ideas."Further afield in the north-west, Manchester also has an established and growing tech cluster. Trade associationManchester Digitalbelievesdigital content and ICT industries account for 45,800 jobs in the Greater Manchester areaand generate about £2bn annually in economic output.Shaun Fensom, founding director of Manchester Digital, explains: "Manchester has the most significant internet exchange outside London. There is a large concentration of data centres offering hosting and co-location. These attract carriers and major ISPs – they're all here – and transit costs are similar to London. Growing clusters of digital, tech and media activity are helping to accelerate this."Manchester had a thriving games industry years ago with names like Ocean Software, Fensom says: "it mostly collapsed. Now, with mobile apps, it's back and thriving again."Newcastle ignitedThere are 30 to 40 tech startups in Newcastle, with accelerator programmes helping develop the industry. Photograph: Doug Hall/AlamyTake a short trip east and you'll find two sides to the north-east tech scene. First is the small but concentrated tech cluster developing in Newcastle, which is still in its early stages. It's estimated  there arearound 30 to 40 startups operating out of Newcastleand accelerator programmes such asIgnite 100are helping develop the scene.Paul Smith, director of Ignite 100, has personally helped more than 30 tech companies through his accelerator programme. He says the north-east is the "rational choice" for a tech startup because of the better quality of life and lower cost of living.The other side is the more established and growing clean tech programme that's creating new technologies such as Nissan's electric car initiative and SMD developing renewable energy technology.Although the cluster is small, there is a trend emerging of the type of tech company planting its roots in Newcastle. Paul Rawlings, founder ofScreach, one of the best known local startups, explains that there is more emphasis on innovation and product development than providing services."This is the advantage of these accelerator programmes. There are 10 teams on an accelerator and they're all creating a product so there's people to talk to about tech. It's happening down south too, but up here it's moving more towards product creation than service offering. A lot of companies are starting to realise there's more money in product than service."Brighton rocksBrighton, too, has an established tech cluster. It's less hard tech than Cambridge and Manchester, instead focusing more on the creative adaptation of existing technologies. Phil Jones, director ofWired Sussex, a members' organisation for digital companies in Brighton, told the Guardian that "In this city, no idea is too off-the-wall not to be treated with respect. This is key in these new industries where disruptive thinking is in their DNA."Wired Sussex, alongside Manchester Digital, Bristol Media and the South East Media Network formedan alliance called One Digitalin 2009 to represent the UK's tech clusters outside of the capital. Jones says: "Brighton, Bristol and Manchester formed the One Digital alliance because we recognised that all three tech clusters could benefit from sharing our individual experience, expertise and knowledge."Unlike Tech City and TCIO, all are funded by their member companies. "It does need to be recognised that rapidly growing clusters like ours in Brighton that successfully fuse creativity and technology have much that Tech City could learn from," says Jones.So Is TCIO too London-centric? "We recognise and support the other technology clusters around the UK, and we are looking at ways we can take what's happening in Tech City and use this to help establish, nurture and support a community of ideas and innovation around the country," says Southworth. "In the coming months, we will be collaborating with other technology clusters from around the country to share ideas, thinking, resources and learnings in order to build on our collective success."
Google and its auditor Ernst &amp; Young will be recalled to parliament to restate their evidence on the internet search giant's tax position following an investigation into Google's advertising sales practices.Matt Brittin, Google's European boss, told parliament's public accounts committee last November that his sales team was based in tax-sheltered Dublin and that the job of UK staff was to market Google as an advertising space rather than to negotiate and close deals with advertisers.Evidence gathered by Reuters from Google's own website, interviews with clients and former staff, and Google staff profiles on the internet, appears to show that some staff closing deals are based in London. If this is found to be the case, Google's UK tax bill could increase significantly."We will need to very quickly call back the Google executives to give them a chance to explain themselves and to ensure that actually what they told us first time around is not being economical with the truth," said the chair of the public accounts committee, Margaret Hodge.In his evidence to Hodge's committee, Brittin said: "Nobody [in the UK] is selling or promoting the products, but they are definitely encouraging people to spend money on Google. No one is buying from them."Google employs "a couple of hundred" staff at its European headquarters in Dublin whose job it was to sell to UK clients, but 700 in marketing and advising on its products in the UK.The profiles of around 150 London-based employees on the LinkedIn networking website said they were involved in formulating sales strategy, managing sales teams, closing deals or other sales work.Google's own corporate website was found to be calling for London-based staff whose duties would include "negotiating deals", closing "strategic and revenue deals" and achieving "quarterly sales quotas".A spokesman for Google said Brittin denied  he had misled parliament and stated that London staff were employed as "digital consultants" while only those based in Dublin handled sales contracts.He added: "Our advertisements for UK staff sometimes refer to sales skills and many of the roles include sales in the title as we are seeking to attract people with those skills and that background. We accept that the wording of some adverts may have been confusing and we are working to make it clearer."As we have said many times, we comply with all the tax rules in the UK and in every other country in which we operate."Ernst &amp; Young will be asked to return to the public accounts committee to clarify whether the auditor checks Google's staff are carrying out the type of work claimed in the company's accounts and statements to tax inspectors.John Dixon, the head of tax policy at Ernst &amp; Young, was asked during his evidence to the public accounts committee in January whether the auditor's staff visited clients' UK offices to make their own checks and he replied that they did."The evidence they gave was clear and unambiguous&nbsp;… Ernst &amp; Young have questions to answer about whether they were being wholly open with us as a committee," said Hodge.Sarah Jurado, a spokeswoman for the auditor, said in a statement: "Ernst &amp; Young conducts audits in accordance with International Standards on Auditing,"  adding that this included the standard that "requires us to obtain an understanding of the entity and the environment in which the entity operates".
As much as I love Star Trek, it has always been guilty of proposing a highly idealised notion of humanity in the distant future. Everyone on the Enterprise is sensible, serious, compassionate… they work for each other, they care, they emote out loud. Issues arise but they're usually sorted out fairly quickly, perhaps by Kirk punching someone, or by Data reading out a humorously laborious poem. Whatever, everyone grows and learns, and everyone pulls together.It's lovely, but it's bullshit, really. It's not going to happen. And game developer Mitu Kandaker knows why.For the last year she's been working onRedShirt, a game about life on a space station in the distant future. But this is no Mass Effect-style action adventure; it is instead a sort of futuristic parody of social media. Everyone on the vessel is obsessed with a site named – wait for it – Spacebook, where they arrange events, chat to each other and seek to build and cement relationships. "Social interaction and social simulation are really interesting areas," says Khandaker. "Social media dominates our lives so much and I think it definitely affects the way we interact with each other. It's something that's worth parodying. It's almost dystopian in the way that it's affected our lives."Originally, the game was just a straight contemporary parody of social networks, but then Khandaker got together with the publisher Positech Games, responsible for science fiction titles like Starship Tycoon and Gratuitous Space Battles. The company's founder Cliff Harris suggested a sci-fi theme. "I thought, yeah, that works even better," says Khandaker. "I asked myself, well, what will life be like if we're still obsessed with social media? The Star Trek version of the future is this sort of beautiful utopian society, but people aren't going to be like that! People will still be self-obsessed - it's just that they'll be self-obsessed in space. That's what the game's about."In RedShirt, then, you play as a new arrival on the station, trapped in a dead-end role as a transporter accident cleanup technician. The action plays out entirely in a Facebook-style display, with windows showing upcoming events, friend lists and current career information as well as the all-important timeline cataloguing everything that's taking place in your growing social circle. It's all about surfing the station's social caste system, making influential pals and attaining ever more lucrative and aspirational employment.Brilliantly, Khandaker has hinted that, in the background, there's a major event brewing - perhaps even some sort of intergalactic war - but the player only finds out about it through vague social updates and news reports. The implication is, everyone is so obsessed with micro-managing their  relationships on Spacebook, no-one really cares about or even notices wider issues. Which of course, slyly comments on the narcissistic echo chamber that contemporary social media has become.But has it been difficult to point out things like that, without the whole thing becoming too much of a polemic? "That's one of the key challenges," says Khandaker. "How do you parody the annoying aspects of social media, how do you offer a commentary, while still keeping the game fun and interesting? I like to think that the tone of the game is cynical but lovingly cynical. I'm very aware that I'm as embroiled in the world of social media as everybody else. But I do think there is an element of it where certain people approach it as a game… I just imagined people in the future doing the same thing."For the player then, the aim is popularity not heroism. As some sort of cataclysmic event approaches, you must ensure you have risen above the rank of RedShirt – because in classic Star Trek style, if there's a major threat and you're conscripted into action with a scarlet top on, you're not coming home. In effect, the failure state of RedShirt is the opening of most science fiction games: one lowly soldier against a galaxy at war.The action revolves around building your network, inviting people to parties, and, well, liking stuff that your peers are doing. As Khandaker explains, "there's a range of different Spacebook events you can arrange or get invited to, from various Virtuo-Augmento-Deck programs (!) to playing Zero-G golf, to sophisticated soirees. The activities don't have any inherent 'coolness' factor themselves, but the coolness is kind of defined by exactly who is there. So, for example, a dorky holo-workshop on paperwork filing strategies becomes infinitely cooler if the current Commander's Assistant happens to be making an appearance!"In the background, there are always specific Aspirations to complete, which work like social side-missions. You might have to befriend a certain person, or attain a job in a desirable department; and as in most turn-based strategy games there are only a certain number of actions you can make each day. This is social climbing as warfare.Meanwhile, you're on a station with hundreds of other NPCs who all have their own characteristics and ambitions, which are generated at the beginning of each game. Right now, AI behaviour is governed by six different elements: happiness (vs. unhappiness), social fulfilment (vs. loneliness), charisma (vs. awkwardness) confidence (vs. anxiety), altruism (vs. selfishness), and fitness (vs. unhealthiness). This is all being tested and balanced however, and Khandaker says the number of attributes may change depending on how far players perceive the NPCs to be acting 'differently' from one another. But at the moment the system is producing intriguing results. "Even for me as the developer, it's really interesting to see how everything plays out," says Khandaker. "The AI infrastructure in the game is pretty interesting – and I had a helping hand from Luke Dicken, who is a Games AI PhD student at the University of Strathclyde. It uses Behaviour Trees, and makes sure that NPCs don't just react randomly to events in the game, but that they do so governed by their own 'personalities'. Luke actually wrotea little bit about it alllast year over at The Tiniest Shark blog."What Khandaker is keen to capture is the chaos of social interaction; the butterfly effect of one poorly thought-out comment or party invite. "I like watching different playthroughs, because it's all dynamic," she says. "It's a game about how the little decisions you make, just maybe liking someone's status, will affect things. Perhaps another person will get jealous, and what is the knock-on effect of that? Everyone has a relationship with everyone else in some way, and everybody's behaviour on the station is a little bit questionable, including your own."Part of the pleasure of the game is becoming fully involved in the soap opera it generates. At the outset you get to create your own character from dozens of body parts and accessories - some human, some alien. I also love the fact that gender is on a slider rather than a binary male/female switch, complicating the issues of sexual politics and acceptance. And then the fun is in working out the dynamics of your social circle, flirting shamelessly with some characters, shunning others, organising cool events and inviting that hot guy in the weaponry department… All the familiar stuff of online social interaction, all with a familiar user interface, but in a whole new context.In a lot of ways, the dynamics remind me of early Championship Manager. Sure that was a football management sim, but much of the context, intrigue and humanity of that game took place in the player's imagination; you had tobelievethat real lives were being manipulated and arranged by those mouse clicks, button presses and menu systems. The joy was what you bought in as a participant. RedShirts works in the same way and feels all the more compulsive because you have to become a complicit story-teller yourself. I thought Khandaker would recoil from the comparison, but she gets it. "That's the beauty of games which are very systems based," she says. "You provide a set of systems for the player to interact with and those interactions will be interpreted by the player in a certain way – and in doing that, they provide a component of the narrative themselves. Thats' a crucial element of how games work - or the types of games i'm interested in."I ask how far the satire on social networks can go. Has she considered utilising some of the more sinister conventions of social and casual games? Are there any Zynga-esque time constraints or micro-transactions? "Well, therearea limited number of things you're able to manage each day, which parodies games on Facebook," she says. "But I think actually using things like micro-transactions would be a little too meta. I mean, this game imagines a distopian future… to actually go and do those things it would be… weird. It's weird enough having a Facebook fan page for the game!"I'm so intrigued by RedShirt. I'm fascinated by the way it limits itself to one facet of a fictional universe, and I love the fond references to Star Trek. The title was well-received at the recent Game Developers Conference in San Francisco and I can see why. Great things happen in games when systems collide with humour.• RedShirt will be released for PC, Mac and iPad in early summer 2013
A rich ex-con now dissatisfied with his cosseted life; a kid from South Central looking to escape his gang-infested neighbourhood; a maniac drug dealer with abandonment issues... Rockstar has released trailers on all three lead characters from the forthcoming Grand Theft Auto 5, and it looks as though they're going to take us on a bizarre,  explosive and deliciously seedy ride come September.As revealed inour preview back in October, GTAV is set in the sun-drenched urban sprawl of Los Santos – a cruel, knowing pastiche of LA. Players control all three lead characters, swapping between their disfunctional lives at will. As usual, there's a huge open world to explore, but the action is structured around a series of narrative missions, this time taking in eight major heists. And the personal lives of the game's central trio will provide  much of the context.So let's take a look at each one in turn:MichaelReading this on mobile? See the trailer hereMichael is the retired career criminal, now living in a huge mansion in the exclusive Rockford Hills area of Los Santos. But as the trailer shows, he's bored of his new life, fed up of his combative family and yearning for the excitement of his old existence. There is, of course, a nod to The Sopranos, with much of the voice over coming from a chat between Michael and his shrink. But we also see Michael fighting with his flabby playboy son, Jimmy – and it looks like the tension between these two will be a key component. We get glimpses, too, of at least two missions; the raid on the government agency I was shown previously, and the robbery of a security truck. There's also a dramatic car chase on a runway while a jumbo jet takes off, which shows the extent of Rockstar's cinematic ambitions. Oh and there's Radio Gaga!FranklinReading this on mobile? See the trailer hereTo the strains of Jay Rock's Hood Gone, we meet the youngest member of the trio in a conventional set-up: the black kid trapped by gangland violence in a dead-end part of town. This is clearly the Los Santos take on LA's South Central and the action is all police chases, helicopters and strip bars. Franklin's 'escape route' is a job working repo for a bunch of Eastern Europeans dealing luxury cars – which is, we suspect, what brings him into the clutches of Trevor and Michael; and the latter, it seems, will see his young charge as a surrogate son. But this video is very much an 'origins' teaser and does little but channel John Singleton and Hughes Brothers references at us.TrevorReading this on mobile? See the trailer hereYou can tell the team at Rockstar North had an absolute ball coming up with this character. Trevor is like a demonic cross between Randy Quaid in National Lampoon's Vacation, Joe Pesci in Goodfellas and the A-team's Howling Mad Murdoch. A drug dealing red neck to his core, he's also ex-military and a capable pilot – hence the scene with him kicking someone else out of his helicopter. But mostly we see him here pretty much punching his way through Sandy Shores, the outlying trailer park he frequents with a cast of misfits and meth addicts. There are stunts, explosions, dick jokes, more explosions... We're getting the feeling his story will be the comic relief in this triforce of madness.So yes, not a lot of fresh detail about the game, which is hitting PS3 and Xbox 360 on 17 September, but lots of scintillating clues about the scope and sensibilities of the narrative. Clearly, we're getting a departure from the darker more urgent tone of Grand Theft Auto IV, toward an atmosphere guided by GTA III and its two immediate successors. I'd still have been fascinated to see a woman in the series' first multi-character line-up, but clearly these three contrast enough to be interesting.Let us know what you think in the comments section below, and make sure you're back here on Thursday afternoon – we have a preview lined up that will shed much more light on Rockstar's intentions...
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Gearbox and Sega falsely advertised Aliens: Colonial Marines with press demos, according to lawsuit | PolygonSega and Gearbox Software are the defendants in a class action suit claiming the two companies falsely advertised Aliens: Colonial Marines with unrepresentative trade show demonstrations.The suit, obtained by Polygon earlier today, was filed yesterday in the Northern District of California court by law firm Edelson LLC on behalf of plaintiff Damion Perrine. Citing a number of California civil and business codes, the suit claims that Gearbox and Sega falsely advertised Aliens by showing demos at trade shows like PAX and E3 which didn't end up being accurate representations of the final product.It's doubtful this lawsuit can succeed in its current state – seeking damages for every consumer who pre-ordered the title seem unrealistic, and it's likely all the early footage came with a disclaimer. However, if itdoesgo through there could be serious ramifications for the industry. Could we see fewer actual gameplay demos? Or will they be followed by several minutes of voice-over disclaimers, like drug ads on US TV?It's unlikely however, that many games will anger purchasers quite as much as Aliens...Nintendo explains Wii U game delays | MCVNintendo miscalculated the development resources required for its Wii U launch titles, the company's president has admitted.Speaking in a financial briefing Q&amp;A, Satoru Iwata said development of some of its titles had required more resources than it had previously expected, and it was then forced to take developers working on other projects in an effort to complete them in time for the console's launch.Erm, oops-a-daisy? Seems like a crucial mistake with barely a year's grace before the arrival of the other next-gen machines – although Iwata puts a brave spin on it by insisting that it was the quest for quality that caused the problems. But if Nintendo had difficulty getting team sizes right on the Wii U, it'll be interesting to see how Microsoft and Sony plan things for their own first-party releases."The next generation is going to be, possibly for the very first time, the next generation of game design" | Eurogamer.netGreat interview with Bulletstorm, Adrian Chmielarz, who has had something of an epiphany about game design:"Why is Nathan Drake a mass murderer?" Oh I don't know, but it's the question not the answer that's important. It symbolises a seismic shift in attitudes towards games that may mean, 'possibly even for the very first time', that the next generation of consoles also becomes "the next generation of game design".He discusses his latest project, The Vanishing of Ethan Carter: "a mystery adventure game that sounds dark and violent but will have no combat in it." It looks fascinating.Tackling video games' diversity and inclusivity problems at the Different Games conference | PolygonA report from Polygon on the recentDifferent Gamesconference held at the Polytechnic Institute of New York University in Brooklyn:In Richard's study, the subjects noted that non-white male characters tended to be stereotypes, while female characters were hypersexualized. Female players had to deal with gendered insults online, while men often received ethnically charged harassment. The men either became accustomed to the abuse, or decided to preclude the harassment by playing with their microphones muted and forming supportive communities with other friends of color. Harassment, Richard pointed out, is an exclusionary practice — it seeks to keep gaming confined to a niche audience of self-styled hardcore gamers.Destruction is the new ragdoll, says Havok | GamesIndustry InternationalLove this quote from Andrew Bowell, product head at physics middleware specialist, Havok:"The way that ragdolls became the last generation thing and everything had to be ragdolls, we reckon next generation, everything's going to have to be destructible. It will be no longer acceptable to walk into a room where you can't punch a hole in the wall or break a table and see it splinter."I can just imagine the gaming forums of the near future: "Uncharted 4 is all very well, but when I tried to punch a hole in Drake's dining table, I couldn't – I'm enraged!"Unreal Indie Bundle offers seven games for $20 | VG247Epic Games is pleased as punch to present a collection of seven highly-praised indie games built on its popular Unreal Engine 3 platform. The Unreal Indie Bundle is available for one week on Steam, and goes for $20/£15/€18.The games include the excellent puzzler Q.U.B.E. as well as dinosaur shooter Primal Carnage, and action RPG Dungeon Defenders.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Wednesday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe antisocial network: Path texts my entire phonebook at 6am &gt;&gt; Branded3Stephen Kenwright:6am: When I rolled out of bed this morning the first I knew about what had happened was when my dad told me he'd received two text messages (one on his mobile, one on his work phone – neither of which are smartphones) about some pictures I wanted to share with him. While telling him that I'm not exactly sure what he was talking about my house phone rang – my mum uttered the usual exclamation of: "who could be ringing at this time?" as I answered.It was my grandparents. The first thought that crossed my mind was that there must be some kind of emergency, because it isn't generally socially acceptable to ring people at 6am if there isn't one.Not exactly an emergency – they wanted to know about the photos I apparently have to share with them (I  don't have any photos to share with them), which must be important because they got a phone call about them on their house phone at 6am.Try explaining to your grandparents down the line that they couldn't download Path to their landline even if they wanted to (they don't want to).Classy, Path. (Which said the messages are a feature, not a bug. Some feature.)A Revolutionary Shape Changing Smartphone That Curls Upon a Call | Human Media Lab :: Queen's UniversityResearchers at queen's university's human media lab have developed a new smartphone – called morephone – which can morph its shape to give users a silent yet visual cue of an incoming phone call, text message or email.Looks like those Christmas cracker fish which also tell you whether you're emotional or in love. (Thanks @Sputnikkers for the link.)Samsung Galaxy S 4 benchmarks &gt;&gt; Primate LabsJohn Poole:• It's clear that the Samsung Galaxy S 4 will be the fastest smartphone available when it is released in April. What's not clear is how the Galaxy S 4 will handle the increased power and cooling requirements that generally come with faster processors.• The Samsung Galaxy S 4 is twice as fast as the Samsung Galaxy S 3. Given that the Samsung Galaxy S 3 is less than a year old, that's a remarkable achievement. I am amazed at how quickly smartphone technology is improving.• The Samsung Galaxy S 4 is also twice as fast as the Apple iPhone 5. Apple has improved performance dramatically in the past (there was 2.5x increase in performance from the iPhone 4S to the iPhone 5). Will they be able to make a similar improvement for the next iPhone?(Via @room13)My life with Bing &gt;&gt; Above the CrowdBill Gurley:With regards to core search, the Bing results were perfectly fine. I never struggled to find anything. I never forced myself to redo the search on Google. So I would say Bing is on-par in terms of traditional, core search quality.2) Where I did struggle was with the non-core search searches (i.e. maps, images, videos, news).This was 2012, but much the same applies today.Jawbone acquires BodyMedia for more than $100m &gt;&gt; AllThingsDLauren Goode:So what's the appeal of BodyMedia for Jawbone? Unlike the Massive Health and Visere buys, which were mainly for talent acquisition, BodyMedia's value lies in both the team and the company's patents. BodyMedia has had more than 80 patents issued over the years, many in the area of multi-sensor technology. As a combined entity, BodyMedia and Jawbone will have over 300 patents issued and filed.While the $130 Jawbone Up wristband does many things — it tracks activity levels and sleep patterns, and works with a compatible mobile app for Android and iOS to log food consumption — it lacks some of the high-tech sensors that BodyMedia's products have.Wearable technology. And patents.February 2011: 'Apple works on line of less-expensive iPhones' &gt;&gt; WSJ.comFebruary 2011:One of the people, who saw a prototype of the phone late last year, said it is intended for sale alongside Apple's existing line. The new device would be about half the size of the iPhone 4, which is the current model.The new phone — one of its code names is N97 — would be available to carriers at about half the price of the main iPhones. That would allow carriers to subsidize most or all of the retail price, putting the iPhone in the same mass-market price range as rival smartphones, the person said. Apple currently sells iPhones to carriers for $625 each on average. With carrier subsidies, consumers can buy iPhones for as little as $199 with a two-year contract.So this is a meme that has been around quite a while. One has to feel that either these are some rubbish sources, or that the timetable for this was rather longer than the writer expected. Also, what does "half the size of the iPhone 4" mean? Half the length? Half the width? Half the thickness?Original iPhone will soon reach 'obsolete' status in Apple Retail Stores &gt;&gt; 9to5MacAccording to internal Apple documentation, the original iPhone, which first debuted in 2007, will soon enter "obsolete" status, with a few exceptions. The official switch will happen on 11 June, 2013, when the iPhone, along with several other Macs and Xserve models will officially be classified as vintage and obsolete products by Apple.Means it won't be eligible for repairs and servicing, not that it won't work. Be interested to know what the battery life is by now, though.Jony Ive paints a fresh, yet familiar, look for iOS 7 &gt;&gt; 9to5MaciOS 7 is codenamed "Innsbruck," according to three people familiar with the OS. The interface changes include an all-new icon set for Apple's native apps in addition to newly designed tool bars, tab bars, and other fundamental interface features across the system. iOS devices running the next-generation software reportedly have polarizing filters to decrease viewing angles of on-lookers.The contrast between the old and the new Podcast app - under Forstall, now gone, and under Ive, now in charge - is dramatic. If the redesign follows that, iOS 7 should look good.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Jonathan Rowley reaches into the basin of white powder and like a magician pulls out the frame of a pair of spectacles. Made of plastic, they're the same white as the powder, but hard, and unusually shaped.Designed by Ron Arad for PQ Eyewear, each hinge on the glasses (pictured below and above right) consists of segments like an armadillo's tail. "We made these here," Rowley says, indicating a hulking white machine behind him, which looks like a cross between a dry cleaning apparatus and an industrial oven. "The thing is, you couldn't make these any other way," he says.He points to the tiny detail at each segment, and how creating it in the closed position means the plastic arms try to stay closed – so the design is at its strongest when open, yet clings to your head face. But it's also a single piece; no assembly required, apart from adding lenses.Located in the basement of a dentist's office in Wimpole Street, central London,Digits2Widgets– where Rowley, 47, is design director – is one of the companies in the forefront of one of the hottest technologies around.3D printing starts by designing objects on a computer and then printing them with thermoplastics (and in this case, lasers) in super-thin layers to create intricate finished objects.Inside the oven a 30cm-deep basin of powder is heated to just below its melting point; then a laser heats specific points over a layer just 0.1mm deep, melting and fusing the powder. Repeat that 3,000 times – it runs overnight – and you end up with a solid object – glasses, a doll, an architect's model – surrounded by powder. Wash the powder off, and you have the finished product, with detail as fine as you want. The spectacles' hinges are held together by 0.5mm links, each just five layers of plastic.Having got its start in making prototypes for aerospace and automotive companies, and latterly for surgeons looking to make precisely tailored replacements for bones, 3D printing is now blossoming.The technology has been used to make everything from jewellery to replacement jawbones, but the question is, how big is 3D printing going to get? The estimates vary, but it's always in the billions. Terry Wohlers, an analyst who has followed the field for years,argued last Septemberthat the technology has hit its "tipping point" and is about to expand into wider usage we'll see every day.The hype is certainly ramping up. Pete Basiliere, research director at the analysts Gartner, said: "3D printing is a technology accelerating to mainstream adoption. The hype leads many people to think the technology is some years away, when it is available now and is affordable to most organisations." In three years a high-quality 3D printer could cost less than $2,000 (£1,320), he suggests.The bigger question is: will everyone own a 3D printer to use at home or will it remain a technique, such as high-speed colour photocopying, that stays in specialist high-street shops? If the knob on a washing machine or cupboard breaks, will we download a file and "print out" a new one as we now do with online forms? And what is the limit to what can be made? This question has become more urgent with the rise of Wiki Weapon, an American project aiming to make theblueprints for "printing" gun parts available to anyone.Olaf Diegel, a professor of mechatronics at Massey University in New Zealand, runs a company thatoffers 3D printed electric guitar bodies, thinks that to begin with it will be like specialist photocopying shops, rather than being in every home. "Probably in the next 10 years we will see the '7/11' model, where you go to the local convenience store and have them print your products." Companies like the Staples stationery chain are looking at this model with MCOR paper 3D printers." (In those,paper is used to build the model&lt;/a&gt;; that can then be covered in a ceramic, and the paper then burnt and removed – and metal poured in to the space to produce a perfect copy of the original.)Diegel says: "Another 10 years after that, I believe that we will start to see serious home ownership starting to appear, as the quality of the machines improves, prices come down and, mainly, ease of use (particularly of the 3D design software) improves."Some think it could do even more. James McBennett, co-founder offabsie.com, thinks that the power of 3D printing lies in making the computer files that control 3D printers available to everyone, so they can make objects locally. He has a Kickstarter crowdfunding project to make a self-assembly stool:"Files are downloaded by makers and cut on demand in small batches, then delivered right to you,"the project says.McBennett thinks the really interesting path is the digitisation of data about manufacture of products. "Say with furniture – at the moment you can only get desks in particular sizes in the mass market. If you want a desk that, say, can also double as a doghouse, where do you go? With this, designers could write the file, you download it and get it made, and there you are." The power of 3D printing goes far beyond "additive" designs with layers, he thinks.For now, though, more prosaic, if pricey, uses dominate. Diegel's company sells its guitar bodies for $3,500 each. "They're a high-value luxury item," he explains. And the frames Rowley has pulled from the white powder will, after high-pressure cleaning and colouring, becomedesigner sunglasses, retailing for about $700. They only cost £36 to make – but you need the £150,000 3D printing machine to produce them. Rowley searches around his desk and pulls out a tube which contains a Makiedoll: each one costs £70 and is uniquely designed by the buyer on the site, where you can minutely control every aspect of the face; the computer file is then sent to Digits2Widgets, which prints out the head.And it's not just an experiment: several items are in commercial production. Digits2Widgets can make 25 pairs of the sunglasses every 36 hours, and other companies have been contracted to make them. The Makie dolls are another example of commercial production, Rowley points out.Dan Crow, who with fellow technologist Chris Thorpe has created a perfect scale model of a Ffestiniog railway engine, – by laser scanning and then 3D printing the model – says that for making bespoke objects such as models, 3D printing will be a boon. "The really interesting thing is that we're moving away from mass production. First we had the Industrial Revolution, which was about economies of scale. Then we had the Digital Revolution with the internet. Now we're having the Digitisation Revolution, where you can do one-offs or 100s of anything in incredibly high quality."But for replacement parts – say for washing machines – it's less clear. "It might be that you think it's just a knob on the front panel, but maybe installing it requires you disassemble the front panel, and actually you need a mechanic to come and fit it," argues Rowley.He is dismissive of the idea that home 3D printing, with its figurines and keyfobs will ever amount to much. "They aren't technology that can improve anything. Industrial 3D printers are far superior, and can produce finished functional production objects which are actually useful."He flexes the sunglasses frame hinge again. "I'm cynical about the general public's urge to create things," he says. "I don't think there's a mass of frustrated makers out there. Look at how consumerism works – people want brands, not to be unique."
Apple launched a new product on Tuesday: the iBond. And it looks set to attract the sort of frenzy once reserved for past hits including the iPad and the iPhone.The tech giant started the process of selling billions of dollars in bonds in what may amount to the largest bond sale ever. By noon in New York the bond sale, Apple's first in close to two decades, looked to have attracted at least three times the money the company was seeking.Apple chief executive Tim Cook made the move as the company attempts to appease shareholders unhappy with slowing sales and a plummeting share price. Last week Apple pledged to hand back $100bn to shareholders by the end of 2015.The company has $145bn in cash on its book with $102bn held overseas. Issuing US debt would allow Apple to pay cash to shareholders while avoiding the tax bill it would incur if it repatriated that money.The sale, to be made in six parts, is being managed by Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank and had reportedly already attracted $50bn from investors hungry to snap up Apple debt.Michael Kastner, principal at Halyard Asset management in New York said bond buyers were usually wary of buying debt from companies seeking to buy back shares but that because Apple was sittiing on so much cash, this was likely to be a very popular sale.Kastner said it was part of a larger trend as corporations seek to take advantage of historically low interest rates. "Companies are borrowing cheap and buying back shares and in the process improving their earnings per share. We saw this in the last low interest rate cycle, but never to this degree," he said.Last week Apple reported its first year-on-year decline on profits in a decade. Its share price has fallen hard amid signs of slower growth and rising competition in the smartphone market, especially from arch-rival Samsung.But the company still made $9.5bn in profits last quarter and was the only major tech firm with no debt on its books. The company last issued debt in 1996.In a filing Monday with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Apple said it plans to use the proceeds "for general corporate purposes, which may include, but aren't limited to, funding for working capital, payment of dividends, capital expenditures, repurchases of our common stock, and acquisitions".The notes will have maturities ranging between three and 30 years and come as other companies, including Microsoft, have been taking advantage of low interest rates as demand for fixed-income investments remains robust.Microsoft raised $2.7bn in debt last week issuing bonds in the US and in Europe, its first ever euro denominated debt deal. The company said the money would be used to repurchase stock, make acquisitions and repay existing debt.After Apple's debt offering the total level of new issues for April will top $100bn, making it the strongest April for debt sales since 2008, and the second largest since January's $137bn in offerings.Kastner said that the corporations were likely to continue turning to the bond market to raise cash for as long as the Federal Reserve keeps rates low.Cook, late Apple co-founder Steve Jobs' handpicked successor, moved to reassure investors last week by adding $55bn to the company's share buyback programme. The addition takes Apple's total commitment to $100bn by 2015, believed to be the largest such programme ever initiated.Ping Zhao, an analyst at CreditSights in New York, calculated in a report issued last month that Apple would need to issue between $15bn and $20bn in new debt in order to finance the additional $55bn buyback.
Blood Dragon may appropriate the style and tone of 80s cartoons – from the chrome-plated logo, through the testosterone-drenched dialogue, to its Vangelis-esque soundtrack – but Ubisoft's digital download spin-off to last year's desert island combat game Far Cry 3 has future-facing ramifications.It is, perhaps, the first blockbuster-scale download title (an XBL-triple-A production, you might say). Not in terms of length – a competent player will get decent change from six hours' investment. But in the way it seizes and repaints Far Cry 3's ample world and engine, borrowing the multimillion-dollar bulk of a game created over years by a team of hundreds, thereby delivering the sort of scope and value no download game build from scratch could possibly match. In this way Blood Dragon shows how game publishers can squeeze further wealth from their most costly games. Could this be the era of the video game remix, in which best-selling games are re-clothed and re-sold mere months after launch? A new color palette and an asset swap ("Make the trustafarian explorer a crunchy cyborg", "Make the alligators 20-foot laser-firing dragons") and it is money for old code…Perhaps. But to view Blood Dragon as a purely commercial venture is to overlook the considerable talent its creators demonstrate in re-dressing Far Cry 3's sets. The joke (and the bulk of the creativity) is in this redesign, which takes last year's besplattered romp through a Pacific island riddled with murderous pirates and swaps in the backdrop and storyline from a lost Schwarzenegger B-movie. So we meet a "cyber commando" protagonist who can sprint un-wearingly across Tron-esque hills while evading (or hunting) predatory robotic wildlife including those whopping dinosaurs, who can be lured to attack enemies further down the food chain with a well-thrown heart plucked from some cyborg foe.Far Cry 3: Blood DragonSome of the low level interactions have been evolved (you can follow up a stealth kill on an enemy cyborg with a shuriken to a second's throat, while completing objectives earns cyber-points which level up your character, extending his health and upgrading his abilities) but underneath the hood the Far Cry 3 basics largely stand resolute. The futuristic island is pocked with enemy garrisons. Liberate these (by murdering its present incumbents) and you'll turn it over to your "side", unlocking a new base of operations (which can be teleported to from anywhere on the map) and a clutch of new side missions, the completion of which unlocks upgrades for your increasingly devastating arsenal of weapons.The new paint job works wonders for generating a new sense of place, but the gratuitous swearing in the voice over and 16-bit style pixel art cutscenes jars with the Saturday morning cartoon aesthetic, confusing the parody's focus. Elsewhere this appropriation of random elements from the yuppie decade continues, with collectible VHS tapes and CRT TV sets to find and D20 dice to throw in order to distract the guards (while the jet-skis and jeeps remain weirdly contemporary).There's a creative stagnation at the heart of contemporary blockbuster game development that has begun to calcify over the past few years of annual Call of Duty updates and endless me-too clones. The first-person shooter (and, increasingly, its third-person cousin) has endured so much iteration and artistic attention that even the most stalwart fan's enthusiasm has begun to dull when faced with the inevitable over-familiarity, diminishing returns and, more recently, routine failures of imagination.Far Cry 3: Blood DragonThe commercial disappointment of those video games that have attempted to disrupt this familiar landscape (such as People Can Fly's Bulletstorm – an interesting game dressed as a derivative one) has dis-incentivised teams from mechanical risk-taking. As such, both the recent Bioshock Infinite and Blood Dragon are attempts to reignite interest in the genre through setting and context rather than systems, the former with a dioramic journey through dark US history, the latter with a scattershot romp through 80s adolescent male ephemera.In Blood Dragon the risk-taking, while welcome, is arguably in the wrong place. After 60 minutes' play, the joke wears away to near invisibility, and all that's left are the familiar systems that underpin the game. These remain enjoyable and, after the slow start, most players will be compelled to push through to the end. But there's an undeniable thinness here, the sense of a mild joke that's been eked out for too long, that can't fully wrap around the heft of the underlying game onto which it's been grafted.• Version tested: Xbox 360
BlackBerry's chief executive has said that in five years "I don't think there'll be a reason to have a tablet any more" – but he expects the company to sell "tens of millions" of its new keyboard-based Q10 handsets.Speaking to the Bloomberg news service, Thorsten Heins said: "In five years I don't think there'll be a reason to have a tablet any more. Maybe a big screen in your workspace, but not a tablet as such. Tablets themselves are not a good business model."In contrast with Apple, which saw sales of its iPad tablet jump by 65% year on year to 19.4m in the most recent quarter, BlackBerry has had little success in the tablet space since the launch in 2011 of its 7in PlayBook tablet. Since the launch it has proved a poor business for BlackBerry, which has shipped a total of 2.4m over eight fiscal quarters, and it had to take a $485m charge in 2011 against unsold inventory. In the same period Apple has shipped 111.8m iPads, including an unknown number of its new 8in iPad mini, and generated a total of $58.7bn in revenues.In January Heins said in another interview that he would not consider a new PlayBook unless it could be made profitable. But it was unclear from his comments whether he was considering a large-screen phone, or some other form of computer.Speaking to the Bloomberg TV news service, Heins said of the Q10 that "we have very, very good signs already after the launch in the UK" – wherestocks at three outlets in Selfridges sold out within hours. "This [device] is going into the installed base of more than 70 million BlackBerry users, so we have quite some expectations. We expect several tens of millions of units."Heins did not specify the time period over which the company might sell those devices. No figure has yet been given for the number of Q10s sold in the UK over the weekend."In five years, I see BlackBerry [being] the absolute leader in mobile computing – that's what we're aiming for," Heins told Bloomberg. "I want to gain as much market share as I can, but not by being a copycat."BlackBerry's revenues fell to a four-year low of $2.68bn in its latest quarter ending on 2 March, during which it shipped 6m handsets and 0.37m PlayBooks. That compares to a smartphone market during the same period whichgrew by 42% year-on-yearto 216.2m devices – giving BlackBerry around 3% of the market.The company has also entered into a bitter battle of words with a number of analysts in the US after what it says were incorrect reports about return levels of its touchscreen Z10 handset, released in January, and which shipped 1m units during its first month.On 12 April BlackBerry said it would seek an investigation by the US Securities and Exchange Commission into reports from brokers Detwiler Fenton &amp; Co suggesting high return rates on the Z10 compared with other phones. BlackBerry said that was false. "Whatever the motivation [for the report] is, you have to use the right facts, and that's what we're challenging right now," Heins told Bloomberg TV. Returns of the Z10 were "completely in line" with industry standards and "better than previous BlackBerry launches were, so the quality speaks for itself," he said.But analyst probing of the company's health continues. Another analyst company, Wedge Partners, has suggested that BlackBerry is scaling back production of the Z10 – though Peter Misek of Jefferies Group, who has a "buy" rating on the stock, said he saw no sign of that.The Q10 is set to go on sale in the US at the end of May through the four largest American mobile networks. Priced at $249 plus a contract – $50 more than for an iPhone 5 – analysts think it will be effective in attracting loyal users who can afford to spend their company's money for a newer phone whose keyboard has become a unique selling point.Shares in BlackBerry have risen 35% in the year to date to $15.89.
You might expect that for a sci-fi novelist like William Gibson, a pair of voice-activated glasses able to connect to the internet and take photos or videos without needing you to use your hands would be nirvana.Judging by his comments on trying Google's new Glass system, the author of the genre-defining 1984 novel Neuromancer thinks so – despite himself. "I … got to try Google Glass, if only for a few seconds," hetweeted recently, "Was faintly annoyed at just how interesting I found the experience."Prototypes of the new devices – which can take pictures or videos of what the wearer is seeing, and display information in a small screen visible to them above their right eye – are now out for testing with about a thousand early users worldwide. Google has suggested they may go on sale some time next year.Reactions have varied enormously. Robert Scoble, one of the first testers, who is famously enthusiastic about all new technologies,said after two weeks' testing"I will never live a day of my life from now on without it (or a competitor). It's that significant."Others, who worry about being photographed or filmed without their consent, aren't so keen: one bar in Seattle has already banned them, even before they go on general sale. And now the first pictures have begun to emerge taken with Google Glass and then apparently posted automatically to Twitter with the hashtag #throughglass.Among the first to appear was a photo taken by San Francisco-based Steve Lee, who works at Google X, the laboratory where the glasses were developed. He postedthe hands-free pictures which were  taken while driving.Other testers – so far only at Google – have begun posting pictures on Twitter showing how the world looks viewed through their glasses – from children in a buggy to motorbike handles to an office.Sophia Yangoffered one of her office– which turns out to be Google, where she is working on the Glass project.Sophia Yang took a picture of the Google office where she is working on the Glass project.Sidney Chang, another Google staffer, showed that the system isn't perfect, capturing aperfect picture of the carpeted floor in the office.Gibson, famous for his 1984 novel Neuromancer, for which he coined the word "cyberspace",said in a later tweetthat "I'm more interested in people reacting to new technology than I am in new technology."But he also had awarning for naysayerswho have suggested that people won't be interested in wearing what is in effect a computer on their head. "Remember how positive so many people were that the iPad was the most ludicrous cock-up in Apple's history? Absolutely obviously."Gibson also commented wryly "If I were Google, I wouldn't be the first person I'd think of giving Glass to. If I were, I'd kind of worry why!"Google staffer Sidney Chang showed that while the picture is still sharp, taking photos using Glass might take a bit of practice..
In recent weeks, the self-styled Syrian Electronic Army (SEA) has launched hacking attacks on the BBC, the Associated Press (AP) and most recently the Guardian. Last week the groupsucceeded in hijacking AP's main Twitter account, with 1.9 million followers.It falsely claimed that President Obama had been injured in an explosion. AP corrected the message, but not before $130bn had been briefly wiped off the value of stocks.Online pro-revolution activists have been one of the defining features of the ongoing Arab Spring. In Syria, opposition activists have played a crucial role in the struggle against President Bashar al-Assad. Over the past two years they have uploaded numerous videos of anti-Assad demonstrations to YouTube, posted gruesome footage of victims killed by government forces, and helped shape political perceptions in the west, as EU leaders inch towards arming Syria's moderate opposition.But unlike Tunisia, Egypt and Libya – whose former regimes were caught badly off guard – Assad's government has been fighting back. It has created an increasingly rambunctious group of counter-revolutionary hackers. These hackers have a twin function: to punish western news organisations seen as critical of Syria's regime, and to spread Damascus's alternative narrative.This says that the war in Syria isn't a popular uprising against a brutal, despotic family-military dynasty but rather an attempt by Islamist terrorists to turn Syria into a crazy al-Qaida fiefdom.The Syrian Electronic Army (SEA) sprang up in 2011 at the beginning of the anti-Assad revolution. According to defectors from inside its ranks, the group moved last year from Damascus to a secret base in Dubai. (Some pro-regime volunteers remain inside Syria, but they are at greater risk there of being unmasked and killed.) The Syrian government is widely believed to be behind the SEA's activities. In a speech to Damascus universityin 2011, Assad likened these anonymous online warriors to his frontline troops: "The army consists of the brothers of every Syrian citizen … Young people have an important role to play at this stage, because they have proven themselves to be an active power. There is the electronic army, which has been a real army in virtual reality."Opposition activists claim Assad's billionaire cousin,Rami Makhlouf, bankrolls the SEA and masterminded its move out of Syria. The SEA now operates out of one of Makhlouf's shadowy Dubai companies, they add, citing information from a former SEA activist, who defected and is now in hiding. Makhlouf pays for food and accommodation. Pro-Assad activists earn around $500-$1,000 for high-profile attacks on western targets – a huge sum for most Syrians. The SEA mainly comprises Alawites from Assad's embattled minority Shia sect, but also includes Sunnis – most of whom back the opposition – and Christians. It receives sporadic technical assistance from Russia, Assad's key backer, opposition sources allege.Like their Syrian counterparts, Kremlin bloggers actively target Vladimir Putin's critics, with Russian hackers among the best in the world."There are a lot of [pro-regime] Syrian hackers inside Syria and outside Syria," Tareq al-Jaza'eere, an opposition cyber-activist, said. "The Syrian government gives them money to fight an electronic war against the rebels. They are doing hacks. They are doing social media. Their message is there is no revolution. They say there is a terrorist gang fighting the government."Al-Jaza'eere added: "The SEA sometimes works according to orders from Damascus. Sometimes they work on their own. They attack websites like the Guardian or the BBC because they don't want them to tell the truth." Asked which side was winning this noisy cyber-battle, he said: "We are. The SEA are making fools of themselves."Analysts say the SEA's hacking attacks are crude but effective.The outfit'sofficial website, hosted in Syria, boasts of its numerous successes and shows activists in military fatigues sitting in front of a bank of computers.  Their faces are cropped out. It says that its hackers are organised into battalions, with names such as Wolf, the Pro and the Shadow. The sitefeatures two "martyrs": young men in T-shirts and mirrored sunglasses who are said to have died for the regime's cause.It also links topro-Assad Facebook pages.All the SEA attacks have been carried out via "phishing" emails which lure recipients into thinking that they are at the login site for their email, so that the hackers can capture email addresses and passwords. The phishing sites used against the Guardian were registered in Cyprus, though they pointed to a site in the US which "hosts a whole load of malware", according to Rik Ferguson of the security company Trend Micro.  Ferguson described the hackers' work as ""very visible" and commented: "They aren't terrible at what they do, but you'd have to say from their choice of targets – the GuardianBooks Twitter account, the BBC Weather account – that the hacks aren't serving any great purpose." Other accounts hacked include BBC Arabic Online, Deutsche Welle, France 24 and Human Rights Watch.The attacks differ sharply from those on the Washington Post and New York Times, where Chinese state-sponsored hackers silently broke into the systems in 2012 and monitored activities and connections within them for up to four months before being discovered. That is believed to have been done through documents carrying malware which infected specific users' computers when clicked on.The SEA site says it fights "fabricated news" spread by the Arab and western media about what is happening in Syria. One member of the SEA told the website vice.com: "We're all Syrian youths who each have our specialised computer skills, such as hacking and graphic design. Our mission is to defend our proud and beloved country Syria against a bloody media war that has been waged against her. The controlled media of certain countries continues to publish lies and fabricated news about Syria."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.GTA V trailers launch at 4pm on Tuesday | CVG UKTeased with an image displaying the names of the game's protagonists (Michael, Franklin and Trevor), the videos are expected to offer the first new gameplay footage since the last proper GTA V trailer was released back in November 2012.This should be an interesting prelude to the first round of previews hitting game sites this Thursday. We have a GTA V article going up on that day too, as it happens...Call of Duty Teaser site goes live | CVG UKWell Tesco didn't leave Activision with many options here, but the publisher has launcheda teaser for its next Call of Duty titleon the series' official site:The official Call of Duty website is currently redirecting to a page showing what appears to be a ghost-like face, made up of hundreds of smaller images submitted by visitors to the site.The page has visitors connect with their Facebook or Twitter accounts, and uses a submitted picture to contribute to a mosaic that looks like a face.There's a possibility of a 1 May reveal of some sort. We'll see...Game Dev Tycoon developers give pirates a taste of their own medicine | Ars TechnicaThis story of anti-piracy excellence went all over the games industry yesterday. Developer Greenheart Games has found a unique way to protect its first release, Game Dev Tycoon, from illicit distribution:On the Greenheart Games blog, developer Patrick Klug details how he intentionally seeded a "pirated" version of Game Dev Tycoon at the very moment that the title went up on the developer's store yesterday. This illicit version plays exactly like the official paid version for the first few hours, letting players control a miniature game development studio trying to release successful titles in a simulated marketplace.After a while, though, those playing the pirated version will be confronted with a message that, as Klug puts it, takes "the unique opportunity of holding a mirror in front of them and showing them what piracy can do to game developers."That's right: players in the pirated version will inevitably find themselves failing thanks to piracy. Interestingly, this tweak arguably makes the illegal version of Game Dev Tycoon a little more true-to-life than the version that players can actually buy (though in a way that's decidedly not very fun for the player).Of course, what few sites are mentioning is how closely the title resembles Kairosoft's quirky iPhone sim,Game Dev Story. This, for some pundits, has muddied the waters a little – or at least adds an extra layer or irony to this sardonic banquet.14 things I did to get from Ludum Dare prototype to fundable Kickstarter game | Gareth JenkinsThis is  a really interesting, useful article by indie coder Gareth Jenkins who talked about the timeline of his current project,Mineral Cities, from an entry into last year's LudumDare game jame, through asuccessful Kickstarter appeal:I thought I'd share some of the things I did in taking Mineral Cities from a game jam prototype to a fundable game — especially one I could enthusiastically get behind and convince others to share in my vision.Some of it is common sense stuff, but he makes points that young developers seem to overlook a lot of the time - like being flexible, iterating on the core elements, and not being afraid to jettison stuff that just won't work. Mineral Cities also looks to be a really interesting concept, mixing RTS and Sim City-like components.Retro Game Base TV (PILOT) - APRIL 2013 | YouTubeRetro Game Base is one of the only vintage gaming stores in London – and now the owners of this treasure trove have started a YouTube video, showing off their wares.It's really charming and enthusiastic and their first review is a fantastic Sega Saturn title.You can follow Press Start at Pinboard.
A British company which has devised an encryption system for messaging is trying to get the UK government's GCHQ to give its first-ever approval to an off-the-shelf smartphone app.And in a bid to demonstrate its security, it is offering a £10,000 reward to any hackers that can crack it.CalledRedact, the company is also offering its £3.99 Secure Messenger app for the iPhone for free to all MPs and has also submitted it to CESG, the UK government's National Technical Authority for Information Assurance, which tests the security and quality of computers and smartphones. So far CESG has only certified smartphones running BlackBerry's BB7 operating software as meeting the security requirements for restricted data inside government, based on the difficulty of decrypting or capturing content stored or sent from the phone.No off-the-shelf app has ever won CESG approval before, but the company is confident that it is more secure than other systems which have already been given clearance for use by the organisation.A key failing of systems such as Apple's iMessage is that despite being encrypted they pass through a company server which could be hacked, says Adam Gibson, a spokesman for the company. "Unlike comparable services like BBM or Snapchat, there's no traffic through a server. It's all done peer-to-peer - we like to think it's an app that could have kept Chris Huhne and Vicky Pryce out of jail." Huhne and Pryce were convicted of perverting the course of justice after emails and texts they had sent when they were discussing Pryce accepting driving points earned when Huhne was driving were leaked to newspapers.The Redact Secure Messenger app connects to a server which connects two handsets together over a data connection, and then drops out - leaving the handsets able to converse using triple-encrypted messages.One extra element to the app's messaging not found in standard systems is that messages can be deleted from the receiver's handset as well as the sender's, even after being sent.The app doesn't ask for usernames; instead, users are automatically assigned a PIN, which is not stored by the company. "There is no recovery tool for hackers to exploit," Redact says. "Only you can change your alias, so you can be certain [that] contacts aren't using your real name anywhere in the application."Going directly between phones eliminates "side channel attacks", where all sorts of related data is monitored to gain clues about the cryptographic systems and keys used to encode and decode data.The hacking challenge, at http://www.moderndayturing.com/, challenges all comers to try to crack a message being passed back and forth between two phones at a specified location. "We're pretty confident it can't be done, but obviously, we anticipate tons of people trying," said Gibson. "We figure the longer it stays uncracked, the more secure we are, and I'm sure most people's expectation is we'd get cracked in the first afternoon."
it's Tuesday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew Google Play terms ban non-store app updates &gt;&gt; The RegisterGoogle has amended the policies of its Play app store for Android to prohibit third-party app update mechanisms, in a move seemingly designed to put the kibosh on a contentious feature being tested by Facebook.As of Friday, the "Dangerous Products" section of the Chocolate Factory's Google Play Developer Program Policies - which prohibits such things as Trojans, viruses, and spyware - now includes an additional sentence:An app downloaded from Google Play may not modify, replace or update its own APK binary code using any method other than Google Play's update mechanism.In other words, apps sold through Google Play must also distribute all future updates through Google Play, which in turn ensures that the updates will be subject to the Chocolate Factory's security and other policies.Seems reasonable: stops hacked apps updating silently in the background to install malware.Google Glass has already been hacked by jailbreakers &gt;&gt; Forbes[Jay] Freeman, who obtained his Glass unit through a program for developers, says he's not exactly sure yet what gaining root access to Glass might make possible. (He says he hasn't been able to use his much due to his own eyeglasses prescription, which has made focusing on the device's display painful for more than a few minutes at a time.) But he speculates that jailbreaking Glass could make it possible to store data locally on the device or on Bluetooth-linked phone, rather than upload it automatically to Google's servers, a measure that some privacy-conscious users may appreciate.Does anyone know why Google bought Motorola? &gt;&gt; The VergeNilay Patel:Why did Google spend $12.5bn to purchase Motorola Mobility? It's been nearly two years since the deal wasannouncedand close to a full year since itclosed, and the questions keep piling up while the answers keep getting worse.The biggest problem is that Motorola'spatent portfoliodoesn't appear to be worth anything close towhat either company assumed: the judge in theMicrosoft v. Motorolapatent case ruled yesterday that Redmondowes a paltry $1.7m in annual royaltiesfor using Motorola's standards-related Wi-Fi and video-encoding patents in every Xbox 360 and Windows 7 PC sold, rather than the $4 billion Motorola had originally demanded.To put that in perspective, it would take 3,235 years for Microsoft's royalties to pay off Google's $5.5bn valuation of Motorola's patent portfolio.Motorola Mobility is looking like one of the worst acquisitions ever.Proposal seeks to fine tech companies for noncompliance with wiretap orders &gt;&gt; The Washington PostA US government task force is preparing legislation that would pressure companies such as Face­book and Google to enable law enforcement officials to intercept online communications as they occur, according to current and former U.S. officials familiar with the effort.Driven by FBI concerns that it is unable to tap the Internet communications of terrorists and other criminals, the task force's proposal would penalize companies that failed to heed wiretap orders — court authorizations for the government to intercept suspects' communications.The number of wiretaps applied for has grown dramatically as services have brought in https. Just sayin'.Don't fight. Switch to the Nokia Lumia 920 Windows Phone &gt;&gt; YouTubeNice one. Witty Microsoft advertising? Or is it Nokia advertising? Either way, it's been a while.Thoughts about the Nokia Lumia event in May &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott gives his suggestions on the likelihood of more handsets, phablets and tablets from Finland. (The event is on Tuesday 14 May.)"Instagram act" under fire for treatment of copyrighted works &gt;&gt; New StatesmanAlex Hern:A lot of the questions rely on the definition of a "diligent search"; if, as [Andrew] Orlowski [writing at The Register] suggests, it is merely a formality for any image which isn't obviously attributed, then real problems could occur. Already, it is relatively standard practice at many high-turnover outlets to crop-out watermarks on images and republish them credited to "Twitter" or "Facebook" – a copyright notice which has no legal backing – so it would not be surprising to see similar publications try to get away with woefully substandard searches.But without some shady dealings (admittedly, discounting shady dealings might be a fool's game) it's hard to see how the act will lead to the situation where "most digital images on the internet" will be exploitable. Although metadata, embedded information about the image's provenance, is frequently stripped out on uploading, unless the image goes through a tortuous progress like that above there, a diligent search would still find the original uploader.Also: money has to be set aside for the use of orphan works. Storm in teacup, not many hurt.iPhone 5 vs Galaxy S4 &gt;&gt; The Verge ForumsVerge forum user "techspecialist" looks at the Anandtech reviews for the two phones' specifications, which seem to show the iPhone 5 leading in most categories, including battery life:Yes, I know, the S4 has a bigger display and a faster CPU, but it also has a much larger battery. (almost two times that of iPhone 5) The 3 to 4 hour difference is just staggering. And the thing is, while the S4's CPU is definitely faster than the A6 chip, it's not significantly faster, at least in web browsing.Standard caveat: spec readings give you little indication of what the experience is like. (Thanks @avro for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Facebook might be the world's largest social network. But so was MySpace, once.In the last month, Facebook has lost 6 million US visitors, a 4% drop, according to an independentanalysis firm SocialBakers.Why are users being lured away so quickly? In the past six months, 9 million monthly visitors in the US and 2 million in the UK have stopped visiting. There are plenty of reasons, and plenty of other possible destinations. Newer, shinier social networks like Facebook-ownedInstagramcould be tempting users away from the same old interface. There are issues with complicated user privacy settings and constant redesigns, which make quieter networks likePatheven more appealing. And maybe Facebook is just going the way of MySpace – it's old. But there's also a chance independent analysis could be off: Facebook will update investors on its performance for the March quarter Wednesday, and Wall Street is expecting a revenue gain.Are you spending less time on Facebook?In the meantime, we've askedGuardianandGuardian USFacebook readers why they think users are spending less time on Facebook – or why they might be spending more. Here are some comments from the first hour, and we'll add more as the day goes on – you can add your thoughts to the Facebook threadhere.Craig Kanalley: 'Nope, more time'It's an interesting study, but I just don't think it reflects everyone. For many, Facebook is a great way to stay in touch with friends and family, and I don't see how that has changed. If anything, some of the design tweak and mobile upgrades have made Facebook better. But that's just my opinion.Rita Chakrabarti: 'Privacy comes up, but it's not the main issue'I've seen both phenomenons within my friends/family circle. When I ask why to those spending less time, privacy comes up, but it's not the main issue. The best answer I've got is that FB is superficial and does not lend itself to deeper relationships, which is much better done in person. But, like Craig, I find it a great way to stay in touch. And with subscribing to news, information and entertainment pages, it's a great way to stay on top of that as well.Fleur Defries Marais: 'It's too gimmicky'Because it's too gimmicky, and feels more and more like I'm being advertised to, and less like I'm catching up with old friends and acquaintances – which is the only thing I really liked about in the first place.Ryan Garry:'Too much fighting'Too much fighting about the last election. Obama won. Get over it!Jessica Hackney Williams: 'It's boring now'The main problem with Facebook is it's boring now. The model limits what content you're able to recieve from others, and now seeks to impose advertising on those who are already considering jumping ship. It's no longer a place where you can keep up with what's going on with your friends and family – it's a place where business can farm your information from. And with the continuous changes, who wants to bother trying to sort out a new layout every six months?Christine Clifford: 'Hardly surprising'Well: unwanted advertising, perceived political interference in campaign pages, lack of action on racist and sexist pages. Poor and confusing privacy and content rights. Hardly surprising.Paul Farrant: 'It's like having to have a conversation in a pub but being forced to use megaphones'While I love how it lets me keep in touch with people, I despise how it notifies people with whom I have a friendship about things I say to completely unrelated friends on their walls. It's like having to have a conversation in a pub but being forced to use megaphones - or having the bar staff go around with a dictaphone to replay conversations to others. Yes it's a public forum and in theory anyone nearby can hear unless you intentionally whisper, but you shouldn't have to expect it to be broadcast as widely as possible.My settings are very strict, I have lists to communicate only with who I choose to at any given time on my timeline, but the moment I stray and make a comment elsewhere, this become an irrelevance and Facebook can share it (pretty much) however they please.Tom Watson: ' I never use it for more than 2 hours a day, and that is pushing it'I think I use it more, but I never use it for more than 2 hours a day, and that is pushing it. I have no urgency to visit Facebook but I use it to read news from pages like this and to see posts from pages related to my interests! Friends don't tend to post much, so if it were for friends I would use it a lot less because they do! I'm not fussed about privacy, anything I want private I say somewhat anonymously via Twitter, or don't say at all.
Google has launched itsGoogle Nowservice for iOS devices, as an update to its existingGoogle Search app.Accessed by swiping upwards from the bottom of the app's homescreen, Google Now learns about its user through their activities and their history in various Google services.It then serves up weather forecasts, traffic reports, boarding passes, sports scores and other information when they may be relevant. On iOS, it's the sole new feature in version 3.0.0 of the Google Search app.Available for Android devices since the Android 4.1 Jelly Bean software was released in 2012, Google Now's iOS incarnation has been subject to speculation this year.In mid-March,Engadget discovered a promotional videofor the iOS version of Google Now on YouTube, although it was swiftly deleted. Later in March, Google's executive chairman Eric Schmidthinted that Apple approval issues were delaying the releaseof the new feature."It has been on Android for a while now, but we want to bring our products to all of our users, in more or less the same way," says Google's Android product management director Baris Gultekin, the co-creator of Google Now from its days as a "20% time" project within Google.He was talking to The Guardian on the eve of the iOS release, although a last-minute hitch (yes, with Apple's approval process) delayed the launch for a few days.Google Now was unveiled at Google's I/O developer conference in June 2012, and has been improved since then with the addition of more "cards" – the digital objects presenting information to its users. More than 25 are now available.Gultekin (and Google) sees Google Now as a logical next step for Google's search business, portraying it as part of the "evolution of search" from the original "10 blue links" search results page, through universal search returning more kinds of content; semantic search to provide answers as well as links; and natural-language voice search on mobile devices."Google Now comes after this: previously you had to issue a search to get these answers, and with Google Now you get what you need before you even ask," said Gultekin."We talk about it as the assistant that gives you information throughout the day, without you having to ask. It fits broadly into our strategy: we want computers to do the hard work so users can focus on what matters in their life."Gultekin said that Google Now started with the thought that "your phone is really contextual, so how can we make it even smarter?", pulling in data from the various Google services for a demo that "got people really excited" internally.It's early days, even though Google Now has been available for the best part of a year on Android."This is just the beginning," said Gultekin. "Although we started this project as a 20% project, from another perspective Google has been working on this product for years: it's built on top of all those Google services that people love."Like the Google Glass eyewear, Google Now has aroused suspicion from people who instinctively distrust any new product from Google that will help it gather even more information from users.There's clearly some sensitivity to this debate within Google. When I ask a not-quite privacy question about how much Gultekin's team thinks about the eerie qualities of a service that aims to know what its users want before they do, he answered with what sounded like a pre-prepared response to the privacy concerns."We take privacy very seriously, and make it very clear what the user will get, and what kind of data we'll be using, and lots of controls so they can turn things off that they don't like," he said."You can also opt out if you choose to. Users are finding it very valuable, but we also provide lots of insight into where this information is coming from, control and transparency."What about Google Glass, though? As the initial crop of adopters fan out across the world showing their smartspecs off at technology conferences (or testing their waterproof abilities), does Google's move into augmented eyewear have lots of potential for Google Now?"Providing really quick insights at a glance is very important," said Gultekin. "That's what Google Now does on your phone, with Android through widgets. And Google Glass? Google Now is integrated: it does work on Google Glass…"No more details for now, though. But Gultekin did have a little more to say about the future for Google Now, which boils down to gauging feedback and usage from users, and iterating accordingly."We'd like to understand all of our users' needs in all different situations: what situations they find themselves in the most, and where they need assistance the most," he said."It's the intersection of the two where we can add a lot of value, so that's how we go about thinking about new sources of data through various partnerships. The future is all about can we add even more interesting and useful content in various situations that we don't today?"
Facebook has lost millions of users per month in its biggest markets, independent data suggests, as alternative social networks attract the attention of those looking for fresh online playgrounds.As Facebook prepares to update investors on its performance in the first three months of the year, with analysts forecasting revenues up 36% on last year, studies suggest that its expansion in the US, UK and other major European countries has peaked.In the last month, the world's largest social network has lost 6m US visitors, a 4% fall, according to analysis firm SocialBakers. In the UK, 1.4m fewer users checked in last month, a fall of 4.5%. The declines are sustained. In the last six months, Facebook has lost nearly 9m monthly visitors in the US and 2m in the UK.Users are also switching off in Canada, Spain, France, Germany and Japan, where Facebook has some of its biggest followings. A spokeswoman for Facebook declined to comment."The problem is that, in the US and UK, most people who want to sign up for Facebook have already done it," said new media specialist Ian Maude at Enders Analysis. "There is a boredom factor where people like to try something new. Is Facebook going to go the way of Myspace? The risk is relatively small, but that is not to say it isn't there."Alternative social networks such as  Instagram, the photo sharing site that won 30m users in 18 months before Facebook acquired the business a year ago, have seen surges in popularity with younger age groups.Path, the mobile phone-based social network founded by former Facebook employee Dave Morin, which restricts its users to 150 friends, is gaining 1m users a week and has recently topped 9m, with 500,000 Venezuelans downloading the app in a single weekend.Facebook is still growing fast in South America: monthly visitors in Brazil were up 6% in the last month to 70m , according to SocialBakers, whose information is used by Facebook advertisers, while India has seen a 4% rise to 64m  – still a fraction of the country's population, leaving room for further growth.But in developed markets, other Facebook trackers are reporting declines. Analysts at Jefferies bank have developed an algorithm that interfaces directly with Facebook software and it "suggests user levels in [the first quarter] may have declined from peak", according to a recent note.Jefferies saw global numbers peak at 1.05bn a month in January, before falling by 20m in February. Numbers rose again in April. The network has now lost nearly 2m visitors in the UK since December, according to research firm Nielsen, with its 27m total flat on a year ago.The number of minutes Americans spend on Facebook appears to be falling, too. The average was 121 minutes in December 2012, but that fell to 115 minutes in February, according to comScore.As Facebook itself has warned, the time spent on its pages from those sitting in front of personal computers is declining rapidly because we are switching our screen time to smartphones and tablets.While smartphone minutes have doubled in a year to 69 a month, that growth is not guaranteed to compensate for dwindling desktop usage.Facebook is the most authoritative source on its own user numbers, and the firm will update investors on its performance for the March quarter on Wednesday. Wall Street expects revenues of about $1.44bn, up from $1.06bn a year ago.Shareholders will be particularly keen to learn how fast Facebook's mobile user base is growing, and whether advertising revenues are increasing at the same rate.Mobile represented nearly a quarter of Facebook's advertising income at the end of 2012, and the network had 680m  mobile users a month in December.According to Pivotal Research Group, advertising revenue could be up 49%, driven by international expansion and the FBX advertising exchange, which uses Facebook to target advertising related to other websites surfers have visited.The company warned in recent stockmarket filings that it might be losing "younger users" to "other products and services similar to, or as a substitute for, Facebook".Wary of competition from services that were invented for the mobile phone rather than the PC, founder Mark Zuckerberg has driven through a series of new initiatives in the last year designed to appeal to smartphone users. The most significant is Facebook Home, software that can be downloaded on to certain Android phones to feed news and photos from friends – and advertising – directly to the owner's locked home screen.
Imagine a terrible nightmare where you're faced with performing surgery, without ever studying it. It could go one of two ways. You could pool together every piece of knowledge you've unconsciously gained from watching medical dramas like Grey's Anatomy, House or Casualty and walk out a hero. Or you could break down under pressure, lose control of your limbs and accidentally lodge an alarm clock behind the remains of your patient's ribcage. Surgeon Simulator 2013 knows what the funnier scenario is.If you've come here looking for Trauma Center for the PC, this isn't for you. Whereas that was all about precision through the stylus, this is all about drunken-like inaccuracy. Inaccuracy mainly caused through its purposely obtuse controls. You puppet a single hand around the operating room using nothing but the AWER and space keys to control individual fingers and the mouse to control position, depth and angle. It plays awkwardly at the best of times, but it's fully aware of this.The 2008 breakout Flash gameQWOPproved, if nothing else, that purposely ungainly controls could be a good thing. Not only in a "Look Mum, I'm doing it" kind of way when you master it but also, no matter how sophisticated you like your humour, seeing someone fail under the influence of a goofy physics engine is always funny.If you want to generalise it, Surgeon Simulator 2013 is QWOP's spirit applied to surgery. Like QWOP, you'll frequently fail to perform basic tasks. However, instead of trying to run down a track, you'll be aimlessly flailing at a scalpel while trying to pick it up and accidentally end up throwing it across the room. Don't worry, it's gone. Use the surgical axe, that will probably be easier to remove the kidneys anyway.Like all good jokes, Surgeon Simulator 2013 knows when to stop. You could easily get through most of the content in an hour or two – something that the game's price prepares you for. The game is broken into three operations; heart transplant, kidney transplant and brain surgery. Once done, you'll get to do them all over again but in the back of an ambulance, where speed bumps and sharp turns constantly hurl your equipment around. Once your patient, Bob, has been "patched up" for the sixth time, you've seen most of the game. Although you do have the option to replay old stages to improve your previous time and rankings.There's also the doctor's office that acts as the title screen and quasi-tutorial. In actuality, it's just a dumb little sandbox filled with floppy disks, phone calls and lots of other hidden Easter eggs. It's where some of the best moments actually happen and acts as a good proof of concept for the control set outside of the operating room.Ultimately, that's where Surgeon Simulator 2013 leaves you, wanting more but in different settings, which could come as the game is only available as a download from Steam. This is a nicely contained couple of hours filled with fully aware daft fun. If you go into the game knowing that, you'll find dark slapstick humour that's worth persisting with.
Text messaging has been eclipsed by messages sent using data services such as Apple's iMessage, BlackBerry Messenger and WhatsApp, according to data from the consultancy Informa.The shift could significantly erode revenues for mobile networks, which last year missed out on $25bn (£16.1bn) of revenue from texting due to "over the top" (OTT) apps, which will rise this year to $34bn, says Ovum, an Informa subsidiary.Informa reckons that by the end of the year, text messages could be outstripped two to one by the number of OTT messages – sent "over the top" of the standard chargeable methods of SMS by using data connections.The shift in consumer preference as smartphones become increasingly pervasive could mean a windfall for the makers of the OTT apps – but a consequent headache for mobile operators which have long viewed texting as a cash cow, from which they will earn an estimated $120bn this year.Roughly 19bn messages were sent daily on "chat apps" such as WhatsApp, iMessage and BBM, compared to 17.6bn texts by the end of 2012, the company said in a new study. And that could rise to 50bn against 21bn by the end of next year, it says.Taken together, the bigger apps claim a combined base of around 2.5 billion users, but many such as iMessage and WhatsApp, or BBM and WhatsApp, will include duplicates. Apple alone claimed in January this year that its iMessage service was used to send 2bn messages daily – though WhatsApp said earlier this month that it has processed up to 20bn messages (8bn of which were incoming, some to multiple recipients) per day."Networks aren't going to raise the prices of their data offerings – they make a lot of money already from mobile broadband which is offsetting the loss from OTT apps," Neha Dharia, an analyst at Ovum's consumer practice, told the Guardian. "They took over from SMS first in the countries such as Spain and the Netherlands where texting was too highly priced." That, she suggests, meant that when cheap or free OTT alternatives arrived, people flocked to them.Thefall in revenues from texting will probably accelerate, she suggested. Ovum calculates that by 2020 the cannibalisation of messaging revenues will be more than $86bn. But that will not accrue to the OTT services, which will only manage to generate a fraction of that amount from users, Dharia suggests.OTT systems have the advantage over standard mobile systems of being able to use Wi-Fi connections inside houses or offices even if a mobile phone signal is not available.SMS messaging relies on existing data channels on basic mobile connections. Texts only contain 128 bytes of data; if typical network prices for texts were applied to CDs, which contains 650MB of data, they would cost £60,000.While text messages are increasingly offered almost free to contract customers, they are still priced highly for many pay-as-you-go (PAYG) customers.Text messaging turned 20 in December, but is now in decline in a number of developed countries, including Spain, the Netherlands, Finland, Hong King and Australia. The first ones were free; pricing was added in 1994 with a share price alert system.Google is reported to been rebuffed after making a $1bn offer for WhatsApp, whose chief executive revealed earlier in April that it has more than 200 million users for its cross-platform mobile-based app.Richard Windsor, a former Nomura analyst who runs the RadioFreeMobile consultancy, says: "Google already has an instant messaging system as well as a voice and video communication and collaboration system. The key difference is that WhatApp has the ability to find which of your contacts also uses WhatsApp on the basis of their phone number. This makes adding contacts easy and painless, which I suspect is why WhatsApp has become one of the major players in the instant messaging space." He thinks the pursuit of WhatsApp is a sign of Google weakness – principally, that its Chat system isn't used enough on mobile devices.
Captain John Morgan, ex special forces soldier, martial arts master, potty mouth and owner of the most annoying Australian accent this side of a Foster's commercial, is having a bad day. While rummaging through bins looking for bits of barbed wire to wrap around the plank he's using as a makeshift weapon, he's been jumped, infected and ended up as zombie food. Again.If this was a B-movie, John's grisly death would've been the expected outcome – everyone knows that the guy with no personality apart from being a bit obnoxious is going to kick the bucket before the finale, but Dead Island: Riptide isn't really concerned with namby-pamby things like plot or characterisation. What it's mostly concerned with is hitting things.Ten seconds later, Captain Morgan is back on his feet, 30ft further down the beach, facing two now rather confused looking zombies. While their feeble minds try to resolve the philosophical difference between being a reanimated corpse and being a respawning player-character, John runs over, clumsily decapitates them both with his back-up meat cleaver and resumes his scavenging for car batteries and duct tape.This little vignette is pretty much Riptide in a nutshell. Regardless of whether you choose to play as John or any of the other four equally hammy and unsympathetic main cast, the game primarily consists of running around the (fairly expansive if a bit repetitive looking) tropical environs of Palanai Island, collecting various bits of junk, either for generic NPCs or to improve your extensive arsenal of improvised weaponry. Along the way you'll constantly have to fend off the attentions of the hordes of walking dead that have infested the island, including your basic shambling and running zombies, plus bigger baddies like the oversize Thugs or bloated acid-vomiting Floaters.Despite these Left4Dead style "special" zombies, the variety of enemies isn't amazing and you'll have soon seen and worked out how to deal with all of them (as a hint, it mainly involves hitting them with stuff, or possibly throwing stuff at them if you're feeling adventurous).This lack of variety shows up Riptide's biggest flaw: despite the pretence of an open world, there really isn't that much to do beyond testing out your newly acquired lightning discharging golf club on some obliging zombie skull. The excuse for a plot is forgettable conspiracy nonsense, and most of the missions are dull fetch quests of the go-over-there, fight-some-monsters, get-a-thing, bring-it-back nature.This would be forgivable if the combat was brilliantly entertaining, but here too Riptide falls a little short of the mark. On the plus side, the range of weapons is pretty comprehensive and there's a solid modifying system that gives the opportunity to upgrade them with effects such as electric or flame damage. When the time comes to actually put all this stuff to use, the game does a pretty good job of making the fights feel intense. Blows connect with meaty force, bones get broken and limbs severed, but enemies are numerous and recover quickly, meaning that a fight against a substantial group always feels like a desperate struggle.By luck or design, the slightly stiff controls and difficulty of aiming in melees manages to ratchet up the tension, especially in single player, where every encounter quickly turns into a chaotic life and death brawl. The downside to this is that, especially against the faster enemies, it ends up being too easy to fluff your attacks and get swiftly and frustratingly shredded. In four-player co-op mode, the threat of imminent death is somewhat reduced by the other players and though this decreases the tension, there's definitely some potential in teaming up for a bit of mutual zombie dismemberment.In the end, the amount of enjoyment to be had here is going to depend entirely on how much you get out of battering and chopping your way through the hordes. Once the novelty of punching the undead in the face has worn off, the game runs out of ideas pretty quickly, dissolving into a fairly tedious grind.If all this is starting to sound pretty familiar, then that might be because it is – Riptide isn't a really a proper sequel, more like a large stand-alone expansion pack, and adds very little to the original Dead Island, while making no real attempt to improve any of its numerous flaws.Although the low-budget production values of the previous title could be partially pardoned by virtue of it at least trying to do something new, second time around the excuse doesn't wash. There's some entertainment to be gleaned from Riptide, but newcomers to the series are unlikely to be blown away, and returning players will be disappointed to find that it doesn't build on the first game's potential, basically just serving up more of the same. Either way, unless you were a massive Dead Island fan, it's probably worth skipping this in favour of waiting for a full blown follow-up.Overall then, Riptide isn't especially good, but I can't help but feel that it might well be the most accurate depiction of what trying to survive a zombie apocalypse would be like in reality. There probably would be long periods of tedious scavenging interrupted by bursts of chaos and violence.  You and the people around you may well deteriorate into a bunch of glassy-eyed self-interested jerks, and fighting off armies of monsters with a stick is quite likely to be clumsy, awkward and difficult. All in all, life generally wouldn't be as much fun as it should be, and really, neither is Riptide.• Game reviewed on PC
Trademarks are funny things. At their best, they're great: a clever way to incentivise companies to divert some of their profits to preventing fraud and sharp dealing. At their worst, though, they'reterrible; a means for companies to steal the very words out of our mouths through legal bullying.Let's look at the good that trademarks do first. Trademarks as we know them today evolved out of consumer protection court cases where one company sued another for using deceptive marketing practices. In these cases, the issue turned on the idea that Company A had set up an association between a design, word, or mark and the products or services it provided. Then, Company B came along and cloaked its own competing products and services in the distinctive marks that the public associated with Company A.Now, the public was paying the price: unsuspecting consumers were buying Company B's products under the mistaken impression that they were getting Company A's products. This is not good. When you plunk down your money, you should get what you think you're paying for, not something else that's been deceptively packaged for the express purpose of tricking you.Most of the time, only the victim of a fraud has standing to sue for redress. If you only witness someone else getting defrauded, you don't get to sue the fraudster – you haven't been wronged. That is, you, personally, have to have been victimised to seek redress.But in the realm of deceptive trademark use, this produces a bad outcome all around. If you've spent a pound or two on a substandard pen or bottle of juice or packet of facial tissues, you aren't likely to go to the expense of hiring a solicitor and hauling the fraudster into court. If we limit trademark enforcement to victims of fraud, many fraudsters would operate with permanent impunity.Trademark hacks around this by giving Company A – the company you thought you were doing business with – standing to sue on your behalf, and on behalf of all the customers past and future who might be tricked into buying Company B's products through deceptive packaging and marketing. Companies often want this right, because deception diverts customers and profits from their products to their competitors.So, when you give a company standing to sue on behalf of its customers for this kind of chicanery, you create a system where companies voluntarily foot the bill for something society needs – protection from fraud – and avoid the pain of trying to convince someone who's been sold a chancy box of breath mints to go to court to punish the wrongdoer. You also avoid the expense of making government inspectors primarily responsible for policing this social ill.On its face, it's a good deal all around. The last century has seen increased codification of trademark into statute, with the establishment of trademark offices where formal trademarks can be registered, to help firms identify which marks are in use and so avoid inadvertently using someone else's marks.Both the statutes and the jurisprudence treat trademarks as a right to defend the public, not as property. When you successfully register a trademark, the government isn't saying, "Congratulations, that word belongs to you now!" They're saying "Congratulations: You've been deputised to sue fraudsters who use that word in a way that deceives the public." It's the difference between being Bruce Wayne – a proprietor who owns an asset like Wayne Manor – and being Batman – a crusader whose duty is to keep the public safe. (This is why mentioning Bruce Wayne and Batman here does not violate Warner's trademarks, which include a risible claim over the term "superhero," jointly shared with Marvel/Disney).Trademarks are there to protect the public from deceit They are "designators of origin." If you buy a tin of fizzy drink with the word Pepsi on the side, you should get a tin of Pepsi, not a tin of battery acid. We all know what Pepsi means, the Pepsi company has spent billions encouraging to make an association between the word and its products. In nearly all contexts, someone other than Pepsi selling something with the word Pepsi on it would be engaged in fraud, because in nearly all cases, that sale would be made to people who believed they were buying a Pepsi product.Brand associationTrademark enforcement hinges on this ethereal business of "association."The core of trademark's right to sue resides in the public's heaving subconscious, on how the publicthinksabout something. If the public sees your mark and makes no association with your products and services, then it would not deceive the public to market something else with the same mark. Where there is no confusion, trademark law offers little protection – even if it costs a company money.And that's where it all starts to go wrong. Trademark holders inevitably consider themselves to be trademarkowners. They don't enforce their marks to protect the public, they do it to protect their profits (this is by design). Trademark starts from the assumption that the public makes an association between a product and a service on the basis of commerce: if I see Gillette on a disposable razor, that's because Gillette is the company that thought of putting the word "Gillette" on a line of products, and its creativity and canny marketing have made the association in the public's mind.If Gillette becomes a generic synonym for "razor," a competitor that uses the word "gillette" to describe its products might be able to get away with it. After all, I don't assume that your hoover is Hoover, or that the kleenex with which you blow your nose is a Kleenex, or that the search engine you google with is Google. The price of success is that your distinctive marks will get associated with the whole category of goods. Trademark lawyers have a name for this: "genericide" – when a trademark becomes so generic that there's no longeranyassociation with a specific company. At that point, the mark you've been shepherding for years and years becomes a free-for-all that anyone can use.Genericide is rare, though. Microsoft doesn't advertise "google it on Bing!" and Miele doesn't sell a line of "hoovers."Genericide is mostly a spectre, and like all spectres, it serves a purpose.That purpose? Full employment for trademark lawyers.Trademark lawyers have convinced their clients that they must pay to send a threatening notice to everyone who uses a trademark without permission, even where there is no chance of confusion. They send letters by the lorryload to journalists, website operators, signmakers, schools, dictionary publishers – anyone who might use their marks in a way that weakens the association in the public mind. But weakening an association is not illegal, despite the expansion of doctrines such as "dilution" and "naked licensing."When called out on policing our language, trademark holders and their lawyers usually shrug their shoulders and say, "Nothing to do with us.The law requires us to threaten you, or we lose our association, and thus our mark." This is a very perverse way of understanding trademark.Public interestThe law is there to protect the public interest, and the public interest isn't undermined by the strength or weakness of an association with a specific word or mark with a specific company. The public interest extends to preventing fraud, and trademark uses the motivation of protecting profits to incentivise firms to uphold the public interest.The firms' interest isn't the public interest, it merely coincides with it … sometimes.Trademark was not born as a tool to create associations. Trademark is a tool toprotectassociations. But over the decades, trademark has been perverted into a means of stealing words out of our common language and turning them into something very like property.Take Games Workshop, a company with a deserved reputation for aggressive use of trademark law. The company asserts a trademark over the term "space marine," as it extends to the figurines in its tabletop games and the products the company has made based on them. Now, "space marine" is a very old term, and has been in wide use in science fiction for most of the past century. It's also very descriptive, which is a no-no in trademark. It's much easier to demonstrate that your mark is uniquely associated with your product when there's no obvious reason it would be used in a generic sense for someone else's – "Waterstones" is a stronger trademark than "The Book Store," for example. In my view, the trademark office should never have issued a trademark in "space marine," because there's very little danger that a random punter would associate the term uniquely with Games Workshop's products, and not with, say, the novels of Robert A Heinlein.But here's where it gets very ugly. There are two ways to make a mark so famous that it is uniquely associated with one company. The first is the honourable way, by making a product that becomes so popular, so famous, that everyone thinks ofyouwhen they think ofit.The other way is the evil way: by making public, baseless, bullying legal threats against anyone who ever uses your mark, in any context, even when there's no possibility of deception or confusion. If you make enough headlines for your sabre-rattling, then you can create a different kind of fame, the kind of fame that attains association thus: "Hmm, that writer used the term 'space marines' in her book, and I know that Games Workshop are colossal jerks who turn your life into a living hell if you evenbreathethe words 'space marines,' so thismustbe somehow associated with Games Workshop."If a trademark holder is legitimately worried about incidental uses of their marks contributing to genericide, it can simply grant retrospective permission to anyone who's used the mark in a way that worries them. "Dear Ms So-and-So, we're delighted to grant you permission to use our mark on your website; would you please add a note to that effect?" attains exactly the same legal protection from dilution and genericisation as a legal threat.The difference between a threat and permission is that a threat helps you corral the public's vocabulary in your own private preserve. It's time we stopped giving trademark bullies a free pass to tell us what our own words mean. It's time to take trademark back.One small, practical way you can do this is to look for opportunities to use "space marine" in published materials that aren't referring to Games Workshops' products, and to resist all other illegitimate attempts to police our language by using generic terms generically, even when companies object.And please do report any trademark threats you receive to ChillingEffects.org, a clearinghouse that amasses evidence about trends in online enforcement that brings a factual underpinning to reform efforts.• The author gratefully acknowledges the assistance of Wendy Seltzer of the ChillingEffects project in the drafting of this article
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 27 April 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Dead Island: Riptide (18+)Xbox 360 (71)PS3 (26)PC (3)12 (1)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)Wii U (4)23 (–)Dragon's Dogma: Dark Arisen(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)14 (–)Star Trek(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (38)PC (8)15 (4)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (45)PC (4)86 (2)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (34)PC (7)57 (6)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (31)VITA (8)Wii (5)318 (–)Lego City Undercover: The Chase Begins(7+)3DS (100)19 (5)Defiance(18+)Xbox 360 (70)PS3 (22)PC (7)410 (8)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)511 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (33)PC (2)Wii U (1)2412 (10)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (39)PC (8)2213 (3)Fire Emblem: Awakening(12+)3DS (100)214 (11)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (25)PC (15)6915 (19)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Wii U (39)Xbox 360 (24)3DS (17)PS3 (16)1816 (12)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (32)Wii (17)DS (16)PS3 (16)4217 (–)Hitman Absolution(18+)PS3 (56)Xbox 360 (39)PC (3)1918 (14)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (40)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (17)3DS (4)2819 (–)Aliens: Colonial Marines(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (34)PC (3)620 (13)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (38)Wii U (4)26UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Call of Duty Ghosts release date, gameplay details and next gen engine leaked - Xbox 360 - The Official MagazineTesco is apparently at it again, accidentally 'revealing' the next Call of Duty's release date (4 November) and next-generation engine:A now-edited listing (thanks to AllGamesBeta for saving us a copy) puts it as follows. "The franchise that has defined a generation of gaming is set to raise the bar once again with the all-new Call of Duty: Ghosts. Published by Activision and developed by Infinity Ward, the studio that created the original Call of Duty and the seminal Call of Duty: Modern Warfare series, Call of Duty: Ghosts ushers in the next generation of the franchise, delivering a riveting all-new gameplay experience built on an entirely new story, setting and cast, all powered by a new next-generation Call of Duty engine."Xbox 360: hype and broken promises | Wired UKMany of the things Microsoft talked about at the beginning of the generation turned out to be so much vapourware. And often instead of pursuing them, Microsoft allowed the competition to. It's pretty clear Microsoft was shining us on about… well, a lot.This is a rather uncompromising look at some of the promises Microsoft made about its current system at the outset. Sure there was a lot of hype and bluster involved, but the machine got an awful lot right, and did foresee the rise of social gaming and asynchronous competition with Achievements and Gamerscores...What Games Are: The Scientism Delusion | TechCrunchA really interesting look at how the mainstream games industry is looking for success in the wrong way, relying on faux-science rather than gut instinct:Rather than applying mystical formulas to self-selected confirmation biases, and assuming that secret sauces are only the right pinch of salt away, the more successful approach to games usually revolves around what Seth Godin calls tribal marketing. Rather than say "We have an idea that fits a genre, let's make that idea, then when we make that idea let's market that idea, and if we just do that well enough then we will succeed," the really successful game maker usually starts with "I have an obsession. Do other people have the same obsession? Let's see if there's a game there."Backgrounds | rotationalEx-Edge editor Alex Wiltshire blogs aboutthis wonderful collectionof backgrounds from classic 2D fighting games.Anyway, for me, these backgrounds' beauty lies in their navigation of technical constraints. They push through the problems of low resolution with sharply outlined elements or subtle gradations. They're incredibly careful with the number of animations they show and how many frames of animation from which they're made. Some look like living scenes, even if the effect's set by a surprisingly small number of moving components.Untappd: Gamification of Beer | Baltimore Post-ExaminerBore of buying the same old beers? Fear not, the process of ale selection has now been gamified!Quickly I found thatUntappdwas engaging. I started checking in every beer I had, and it seemed like every third one awarded a badge. I was pulling up the app when shopping for beer to see if certain beers were on the list to qualify for a particular badge. Honestly I really don't care about the badges, but it was fun. It was a great way to discover new beer. Or, at least new to me beers.Humanity's last hope is your finger nail clippings in this Ahoge entry | IndieGames.comThe 9th Ahoge ("stupid game") jam has ended, and the moon-themed creations have poured in, such as the above-pictured 満月VS人類 (full moon vs humanity) by gobori. In this game, players must carefully ricochet their clipped nails to stop the moon from crashing into Earth. Bizarre.Other notable Ahoge theme derivations include super sensitive moon landing from Nekogames, Michael Jackson-style moon walking auto platformer from AZur Studio, and the very risque moon (butt) smacking click-fest from liryu.For a few laughs, feel free tobrowse all Ahoge entries. Consider it a warm up for the insane amount of games to play from this weekend's Ludum Dare.You see,thisis what happens when game designers go with gut instinct...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Monday, how was your weekend and all that stuff?
BlackBerry's keyboard-based Q10 handset, its first with both a keyboard and running its BB10 software, has made a red-hot start on its first weekend in the UK, selling thousands per hour at Selfridges, the only outlet that was selling it.According to two people who were there separately, the Carphone Warehouse outlet was selling dozens of handsets at once to buyers from corporate IT customers and to would-be exporters.In a statement, Selfridges said that the Q10 had been its fastest-selling consumer electronics product ever, through its London, Birmingham and Manchester stores. "Selfridges' initial stock of the BlackBerry Q10 sold out in stores within two hours," the store said in a statement. "Stock of the BlackBerry Q10 is being continually delivered on the hour, every hour to keep up with demand."However a spokesperson for BlackBerry declined to say how many units were sold in total, or how the first three days' sales compared to those for thetouchscreen-based Z10, which was launched at multiple retail outlets in January.The popularity of the handset suggests that BlackBerry's core business users who have relied on its keyboard-based models, rather than using full touchscreen devices, are snapping up the Q10 handsets, despite their launch having had little publicity - in stark contrast to the Z10, which has had widespread advertising.The Z10 and Q10 are key to BlackBerry's future success, after a torrid year in which it has suffered a number of quarters with poor financial results and seen falling revenues. Handset shipments in its most recent quarter, to the start of February, were just 6m, its lowest figure since spring 2008. But those figures preceded the widespread launch of the new BB10 handsets.Michael Collins, a former hedge fund manager,wrote on SeekingAlphathat on arriving at 9am on Friday morning "there were lots of exporters there buying 20+ units each. They had suitcases, and one used the suitcase to block people in the escalator so his pal could be first to the counter. Carphone Warehouse [which was selling the units inside Selfridges] had broken customers out into two lines - single unit buyers like me and 'multi-unit' buyers."Collins estimated that around 2,000 units were sold in the first 90 minutes, and that the entire day's stock was sold in six hours. "I asked the manager how this compared to the Z10 and she giggled, rolling her eyes and raising her arm in the air skyward, saying it was 'leagues beyond anything they had seen.'"Oli Farago, technology partner at M7 Real Estate LLP, was at the London store too. He told the Guardian: "It was an absolutely bizarre morning. My senior partner is an absolutely diehard BlackBerry fan and loyalist, at least to the keyboard if not the platform itself."Farago said he had heard nothing about the Q10's launch until the day before when he saw a comment on Twitter saying it would be available in London. "I couldn't quite believe that I wouldn't have heard about it and assumed it must be a mistake, but the more digging I did, it did appear to be true."The queue was split into two, for bulk buyers and "small purchases" - and Farago, aiming to buy three units prived around £600 each, was classed in the latter. After buying his units, he checked the "bulk" queue, and found people were buying 30 or more units at once - which would cost £18,000 or more in a single transaction. "These people were here to buy them at the UK exclusive and resell them either in the UK or export them, as one guy I spoke to was doing," Farago told the Guardian.Julian Slim, Selfridges head of Home and Leisure, commented: "The BlackBerry Q10 has been, without a doubt, the most highly anticipated smartphone we have ever sold and is already our most successful. Our partnership [with BlackBerry] has proven to be a powerful combination of great technology and commercial success."But Farago expressed some doubt. "Am I surprised they sold out? Not at all, when people were buying as many in a single transaction, how could they not. Was it a huge success for BlackBerry? No, I don't think it was. I don't understand what the point was. Why organise a UK exclusive sale and then not make any obvious fanfare about it?  Why no big Blackberry presence demoing phones?  Why not cap the sales to deter resellers and make the phones last longer to get in the hands of actual consumers.  Why no press?  The lack of genuine consumer interest certainly doesn't bode well for the second part of the BB10 launch which most of Blackberry's future seems to hang on, but perhaps if anyone had known about it, it would have been a different story."However Farago observed that "Maybe I've just missed the point all together and since people are now writing about how they 'sold out in hours' they have got exactly what they wanted.  All I know is it didn't feel like the launch of a game changing device for Blackberry."On Friday BlackBerry announced that London law firm Clifford Chance will be taking 1,600 devices, including both the Z10 and Q10.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBlackBerry sells out in 90 minutes at Selfridges &gt;&gt; Seeking AlphaMichael Collins:Upon arriving, there were lots of exporters buying 20+ units each. They had suitcases, and one used the suitcase to block people in the escalator so his pal could be first to the counter. Carphone Warehouse had broken customers out into two lines -- single unit buyers like me and "multi-unit" buyers.Heard anything about the Q10? No? It sold like cakes heated to the temperature of the surface of the sun.My two-week review of Google Glass: it all depends on the price &gt;&gt; Robert ScobleThe one and only Robert Scoble:This week I gave five speeches while wearing it.I passed through airports four times (two more in a couple of hours).I let hundreds of people try my Google Glass.I have barely taken it off since getting it other than to sleep.Here's my review after having Google Glass for two weeks:1. I will never live a day of my life from now on without it (or a competitor). It's that significant.2. The success of this totally depends on price. Each audience I asked at the end of my presentations "who would buy this?" As the price got down to $200 literally every hand went up. At $500 a few hands went up. This was consistent, whether talking with students, or more mainstream, older audiences.3. Nearly everyone had an emotional outburst of "wow" or "amazing" or "that's crazy" or "stunning."He thinks that $200 would be a zero-margin price, $500 a "good margin" price. And that they're "more social" than a mobile phone.Tesco: NFC payments are too complex and offer too few benefits &gt;&gt; NFC WorldLyndon Lee of Tesco:"Is mobile NFC at the right place, at the right time? I don't see any real movement or activity. NFC usability is not really revolutionary and, for the general public, is it really that cool? I think the next generation won't think it's cool enough for them and they won't use it."But this is my opinion. NFC was revolutionary 10 years ago but I think it just might have passed its sell-by date. Usability is a big question and we need to crack this."At Tesco, we focus entirely on the consumer relationship. We are developing a digital wallet, focusing on marketing and loyalty aspects, but payment may not enter the wallet. We have a payment system in place already and we don't want to disrupt it if it doesn't add any value."If it doesn't give us any value to adopt it, why should we do it?"Um.. because it's cool? Oh, no, he covered that.Eric Schmidt is right, using Google Glass is weird — here's my experience &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMike Butcher:Google Chairman Eric Schmidt has said he finds having to talk to Google Glass out loud to control the interface "the weirdest thing" and that there are going to be "places where Google Glass are inappropriate." My own experience of trying out the device, even briefly, confirmed to me that this product simply will not become a mass-market device any time soon. Indeed, if it has any future at all it will be either in disappearing inside normal glasses, or solely used by industry. I can't see it becoming as ubiquitous as the smartphone in any way, and here's why.The fascinating thing is that this has had such a long pre-announce: first unveiled in April 2012, teased some more at the Google I/O event with the skydivers, has been pushing it out to "explorers", and isn't promising it until next year. It's the slowest product launch since Windows.Six months on, Windows 8 sales are a mystery | The VergeTom Warren:Microsoft's Q3 earnings have come and gone, and Windows revenue was flat despite a reported downturn in PC sales. At the same time in Windows 7's history three years ago, Microsoft was declaring it "by far the fastest-selling operating system in history" with over 10% of all PCs running Windows 7. The company also announced 100m license sales for Windows 7 on April 27th, 2010.The radio silence from Redmond isn't a good sign this time around, and confusing figures from market research firms aren't helping. IDC estimates that PC sales are down 13.9% from the same quarter last year, and Gartner says they're down 11.2%. However, IDC's figures do not include Windows-based tablets and some hybrids. IDC revealed to The Verge that "all slate-form factor devices with detachable keyboards, regardless of name, manufacturer, OS, or chip type, are considered tablets and not PCs." As a result, the company tracks tablet shipments separately. Gartner says it tracks Windows 8 tablets and hybrids as "ultraportable PCs," but the firm does not track Windows RT devices.The difference between the two data points suggests that Windows-based tablets only account for just over 2% of PC shipments.The law of wireless gravity &gt;&gt; SpectralShifts WeeklyMichael Elling:I am going to introduce a new law, "The Law of Wireless Gravity: a wireless bit will seek out fiber as quickly and cheaply as possible." I looked it up on google and it doesn't exist.  So now I am introducing it into the public domain under creative commons. Of course there will be plenty of metaphors about clouds and attraction and lightning to go along with the law.I hope people abide by this law in all their thinking about and planning for broadband, fiber, gigabit networks, application ecosystems, devices, control layers, residential and commercial demand, etc…because it holds across all of those instances.More smartphones were shipped in Q1 2013 than feature phones, an industry first &gt;&gt; IDCThe worldwide mobile phone market grew 4% year over year in the seasonally slow first quarter of 2013 (1Q13) as smartphones outshipped feature phones for the first time. According to the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker, vendors shipped a total of 418.6m mobile phones in 1Q13 compared to 402.4m units in the first quarter of 2012 and 483.2m units in the fourth quarter of 2012.In the worldwide smartphone market, vendors shipped 216.2m units in 1Q13, which marked the first time more than half (51.6%) the total phone shipments in a quarter were smartphones. The market grew 41.6% compared to the 152.7m units shipped in 1Q12, but 5.1% lower than the 227.8m units shipped in 4Q12.Samsung + Apple is 50% of the smartphone market; Samsung is 32.7% of the smartphone market on its own, more than the next four biggest vendors (Apple, LG, Huawei, ZTE) combined.Next question: should we still keep the smartphone/feature phone split?Mobile pictures astray: all girl's photos sent to Danish journalist's Google+ accountMagnus Eidem (via Google Translate, so excuse sloppy language):In recent weeks I have experienced something frightening. Over 300 images taken by a teenage girl's smart phones have been uploaded from the phone to my photo album on the social network Google+. The images would naturally have ended up in the photo album to your phone's owner.Image files do not reveal the person's name but a few pictures are named depicted.And not enough, the girl has taken pictures of a passport, where the social security number is fully visible. GPS location where the photos were taken included some photos. I know that is where the girl lives, and where she goes to school.Her uploads are going to his Google+ account. Google says it can't happen. But it is happening.Why developers choose the Amazon app store: fewer apps, ease of porting, and pending global expansion &gt;&gt; VentureBeatWhile the iOS app store has well over 800,000 active apps and Google Play sports more than 600,000, the Amazon app store has only about 75,000.That's a very good thing — if you're an app developer.According to the analytics firm App Annie, which launched Amazon app store analytics in beta last month, 19,000 developers are now publishing apps to Amazon, as opposed to 180,000 using Google Play and 210,000 who are publishing apps to Apple's iOS app store. The lower number of apps and the fewer developers focusing on Amazon make for a less crowded marketplace in which there's a little more room to grow."While Amazon Appstore is the new kid on the block, we hear great things from developers about their ability to monetize from the store," App Annie CEO Bertrand Schmitt said in a statement.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Advertising regulators have been accused of failing to protect children from aggressive online marketing by food companies using internet games and advertising.TheChildren's Food Campaignhas called on ministers to introduce statutory regulation to close loopholes allowing ads that are banned from children's television to be shown on manufacturers' own child-friendly websites.The campaign is supported by the British Medical Association, Diabetes UK and the National Obesity Forum. It wants limits on embedded online games such as theHaribo Super Mix challenge, in which children are encouraged to collect sweets, or theChewits Taste Adventure, where children have to find sweets hidden in British landmarks.Singling out websites for Cadbury, Swizzels Matlow, Oreo and other brands, it said self-regulation by the advertising industry is failing and warned that the internet has become an important battleground for children's diets, with evidence suggesting promotional games can subconsciously affect behaviour."Food companies continue to exploit loopholes and advertise junk foods to children online, even though stronger broadcasting regulations prevent such advertising on children's television," said Malcolm Clark, co-ordinator of the campaign. "The Advertising Standards Authority [ASA] is struggling to get to grips with its new role and is failing."The campaign group wants a crackdown on online claims about the nutritional value of snacks and greater control of child-friendly characters, such as the Sugar Puffs Honey Monster. The Soil Association, which promotes organic farming, and Organix, a brand of alternative children's snacks, are backing the calls for statutory regulation.The ASA denied there was any need for a change in the law and said there was no evidence yet that any significant reform was needed, although it has launched a review of controls."After two years we can look back and ask what we could do better and it is being looked at seriously," said Matt Wilson, a spokesman for the ASA. "This industry has a 50-year history of making sure the rules remain relevant and appropriate. The advertising codes are robust around protecting children and the rules are based on the best available evidence about potential harms to children."The Children's Food Campaign filed complaints against 54 websites that promoted foods to children that were high in fat, salt or sugars, which it said "failed to protect children from unhealthy food marketing". The complaints were rejected outright by the ASA, which said they did not encourage irresponsible consumption. It added: "We are not a social engineer and it is not our role to say whether a legally available product or service is good or bad."More detailed complaints about 19 websites, selected as the "worst offenders", resulted in only two being partially upheld, two informally resolved and the rest rejected outright. A Pac-Man-style game that allowed players toguide the Honey Monster through a maze of Sugar Puffswas allowed because "the consumption of Sugar Puffs had been represented in an abstract way", while a Swizzels game where the player could collect cola bottle sweets wasruled to have breached the code(see below).The campaign group also challenged unrestricted access to TV-style adverts embedded in websites for Cadbury's Creme Eggs, Fanta orange drinks and Haribo sweets. No action was taken by the ASA, with the committee of advertising practice that draws up the code commenting there was "an absence of evidence linking non-broadcast food advertising to dietary preferences … There is clearly a difference in likely impact between content appearing in a media that requires the user to access and content appearing unannounced during a TV schedule."A complaint about a Chewits website featuring Chewie the Chewitsaurus, a Kellogg's site with the Snap, Crackle and Pop characters and a Nestlé advert with Quicky the Nesquick rabbit were not investigated because rules to protect primary and pre-school children ban food and drink advertising from using celebrities and licensed characters, but not own-brand characters.Food for thought: some of the complaintsSugar PuffsThe "Munching Monster" game on the website involved leading the Honey Monster around a maze eating cereal. The CFC said the game "encourages excessive consumption of the product and poor nutritional habits". Honey Monster Foods Ltd said no one had yet completed three levels of the game which is what it would take to consume 450 virtual puffs, enough for a 30g bowl. They added a cup of coffee to the entry page to make it "more adult-oriented". The ASA said "consumption of Sugar Puffs had been represented in an abstract way … players were unlikely to associate the Honey Monster's consumption with their own".OreoThe CFC complained about a child friendly advert for Oreo biscuits which showed a child consuming the product. The complaint was that the ad could not be shown on TV and it should be "common sense for similar rules to apply, irrespective of the media".The ASA did not investigate and the Committee of Advertising Practice said it was "not proportionate to mirror the TV scheduling rules in non-broadcast given the significant differences between TV and other media, not least the absence of evidence linking non-broadcast food advertising to dietary preferences".SwizzlesThe Swizzles Town feature was aimed at pre-school and primary age children and promoted the company's sweets, CFC complained. Among several games it included Cola Capers where, the ASA concluded, "the game's character could collect almost 100 cola bottle sweets. If the character was caught by the 'angry parents' they would lose a life. We considered the game … condoned eating a large number of sweets while hiding from one's parents. [It] irresponsibly encouraged poor nutritional habits and an unhealthy lifestyle". The company said the website contained information about products did not encourage poor eating habits and was targetted at "a family audiuence".
Asked in 2009 why he didn't use Twitter, David Cameron famously responded"too many twits might make a twat". Four years later, Number 10 is attempting to move more rapidly into the digital future with a Twitter strategy that includes handing out "Twitter exclusives" to favoured journalists for release before they are officially announced by ministers.In a tactic reminiscent of the BBC satire The Thick of It, Twitter is also being used to try to quash negative stories before they gain currency in a news cycle where every second counts."Every minute that passes the poison is spreading into the system to all sorts of roots and you need to find a way to cauterize that very, very quickly," said a senior No 10 source.The Twitter exclusives aim to secure goodwill from journalists who are often under pressure to break news online before rivals, but will irritate those who believe announcements should be made in parliament.Many of Downing Street's new media strategies were introduced by Craig Oliver, the prime minister's communications director, who insisted on moving a Twitter monitor into the No 10 newsroom when he assumed his role in January 2011.According to colleagues, Oliver likes to describe the social network as similar to fire: a useful tool in the right hands, but massively destructive if it is misused.The analogy might leave some scratching their heads, but Cameron's inner circle wants all his MPs to take Twitter seriously – even if the 2015 general election is, in internet time, light years away.One example of using Twitter to "seal" a negative story came after theEvening Standard mistakenly broke George Osborne's budget embargo on the social network last month. A mortified journalist promised to tweet a swift apology but Oliver ordered a pre-emptive tweet from the Tory press office account, to ensure the reporter's promise was met.Conservative party headquarters brief MPs on good talking points for Twitter, using them to "tweet as a muscular force" about a single topic or news item to hammer home the message. Some 418 MPs have joined the tweeting fray, according to the news wireTweetminster, up from 176 in 2009."Twitter used to be seen as tool for the egocentric and verbally incontinent," said a senior No 10 source. "But the reality is that it's an extraordinarily useful way of getting talking points out there."Downing Street has not always been so fleet of foot – it took hours to respond to the online mockery prompted byOsborne's first-class train ticket debacle last October– but Cameron's inner circle now recognises that the case for a clear Twitter strategy is "unanswerable"."We're getting to where people are these days," said Anthony Simon, the head of digital communications in the prime minister's office."Increasing numbers of people are on Twitter – journalists, stakeholders and professional groups – and to be part of that conversation is vital for any government department. It's democratic because it's open to anyone and we don't go on it for the sake of it or over-rely on it – it's a means to an end."The most popular tweet sent by the government wasCameron's tribute to Baroness Thatcher, prompting 3,500 retweets. The most divisive was when No 10 tweeted every single reshuffle appointment last September, which led to a mass unfollowing from less devoted users but praise from politicos.But the jury is out on whether the rest of Britain is as Twitter-addicted as the Westminster Village. "I think the majority of activity comes from a fairly small group and most MPs have fairly small audiences," said Alberto Nardelli, the founder of the appTweetminster, pointing out that 1.2m people follow MPs on the site – about the same size audience combined asBeppe Grillo, the leader of Italy's anti-establishment Five Star Movement."I think we've gone beyond a 'should politicians use Twitter?' phase. It's now how will it be used," he added.
The job might sound a little nerdy and conjure unflattering images of geeky men who need to get out more. But the UK is now so short of experts in cybersecurity, they could soon command footballers' salaries, according to one of the world's leading analysts.Ministers support plans for a national competition for schools in the hope of encouraging teenagers, especially girls, to become so-called "cyber Jedi" – defending firms, banks and government departments from an ever increasing number of online attacks.Two thousand schools will take part in a pilot project starting in September, with the aim of rolling out the contest across England and Wales next year.The organisers are not looking for people with a hacking background, or even those who already are computer literate."We need kids with raw talent in things like problem solving," said Stephanie Daman, the head of Cyber Security Challenge UK, the government-funded body driving the idea."One of the most important messages we need to get across is that cybersecurity is a proper career, and it is not just for geeks. We need to get away from that image and encourage a much broader range of people to get involved in this area because the country is desperately short of them. And we need more women."A competition for grown-ups is already under way, with the latest winner crowned champion last month. Stephen Miller, 28, is a chemist and had no formal background in IT before he decided to take part in the challenge, beating thousands of other hopefuls and opening doors to potential jobs at places such as GCHQ, the government's electronic intelligence-gathering centre in Cheltenham.The junior competition will be similar, said Daman, but aimed specifically at teenagers at secondary school. "Kids need to know there is a real career in this, because they have no concept at the moment. And we need to spark their interest. It's a profession like law or accountancy, with well-paid salaries."A lot of companies are desperate to hire people for the roles in cybersecurity, but they have not been able to find the number of qualified recruits. There is a huge gap in terms of the number of properly qualified people in this area, and we need to tap into talent we know is out there."The coalition government made cyber security a "tier one" national priority in the 2010 strategic defence and security review, because of the damage that is being done to the UK economy from theft, espionage and sabotage from cyber space.China and Russia have been consistently accused of being responsible for cyberattacks, whether they be state sponsored, or co-ordinated by criminals.The Cabinet Office minister, Chloe Smith, said last week that, on average, "33,000 malicious emails are blocked at the Gateway to the Government secure intranet every month". She added: "These are likely to contain, or link to, sophisticated malware, often sent by highly capable cybercriminals and state-sponsored groups."In another sign of the government's anxiety on this issue, Michael Gove, the education secretary, has also ripped up the schools IT curriculum, in part because it does not have a cybersecurity element. A new curriculum will be introduced in 2015, but the schools cyber competition needs to start as soon as possible, said Daman."The US is further down this path than we are. They realised a bit earlier than us and we need to get on. The competition will start in September. There will be regional trials, a bit like football, and then we will have a grand final in February or March next year. The winners will go on a cybercamp."She added: "We want the schools to decide those who should get involved. For some schools it will be 15- and 16-year-olds, for others it will be 17- and 18-year-olds. And the entry level is fairly low. We are looking for aptitude."Eugene Kaspersky, the founder of Kaspersky Lab, one of the world's leading antivirus and spyware companies, was in London last week to meet James Brokenshire, the minister for security at the Home Office, who sits on the National Security Council.Kaspersky said he would be urging the minister to step up the training of young people in the essential arts of cybersecurity. "There aren't enough of them," he said. "These experts are going to become the new footballers. Governments have to recognise this as a big problem."
Price: £71,295MPG: 37.3Top speed: 130mphOn a grassy rise in Richmond Park you will find White Lodge. Built for George II in the 1720s, it's now home to theRoyal Ballet Schooland a museum that includes Margot Fonteyn's ballet shoes and the death mask of Anna Pavlova. Its imposing pale walls conceal a talent hothouse where brilliant young dancers learn to defy gravity, their graceful steps as light as a summer-fruit Pavlova…But, back down to earth, last month White Lodge played host to the global reveal of the new Range Rover – a vehicle whose heavy-footed antics and paunchy disregard for the planet have become a byword for country-set disdain. But here's the thing. This latestRange Roveris a&nbsp;very different beast. It's not quite ready for tights, a tiara and a tutu, but it has lost half a tonne in weight thanks to its all-aluminium monocoque structure, and it's gained a much more efficient engine – the 3-litre 258PS TDV6 will give you a scarcely believable 37mpg. Its boxy edges and slab sides have been remodelled to give a sleek, clean aerodynamic shape. Rather than barging all-comers out of its way with an elbow on the horn and snooty set to its puffy red face, this Rangey is designed to be more accommodating. It's still the size of a&nbsp;hog-roast catering caravan, but it now looks more courteous. Not apologetic, mind – it's still your superior, but you won't resent being bossed about by it to the same extent.This Range Rover is an all-British affair (except for the fact it's owned by Mumbai's Tata Motors). It has been designed, engineered and built in Solihull, and it will fly the flag in 170 countries around the world.For those of an anti-car mindset, the Range Rover presents a massive headache. You should loathe it – for its scale, its sense of entitlement – but once behind the wheel, you're forever smitten. As my wife – vanquished – said: "I hate it, but it's irresistible…"Soft on the inside: the hyper luxurious interior. Photograph: ObserverHeave open the door and climb in – actually it feels more like ascending&nbsp;– and you find yourself sitting, literally, in the lap of luxury. This is one of the&nbsp;many paradoxes of this car. On the one hand it's a prodigiously gifted off-roader, a vehicle that over the past 40 years has perfected the art of going wherever the hell it likes, regardless of terrain (or in fact social acceptability); on the other it's one of the most luxurious and refined vehicles you'll ever travel in – a vision of marshmallow leathers, flawless veneers and nose-snorting poshness.To ensure its soft side is as obsequious as possible, Range Rover imagined the laziest, most indolent and pernickity customer that it could – and then did everything to make that person happy. Cold hands? Try our heated steering wheel, sir. Can't be bothered to shut the boot? Press this button, madam. Sore back? Try the air-conditioned massaging seats, master. Worried about dipping the headlights, braking, using the wipers? We'll take care of that, boss… The list of life-easing luxuries goes on and on.I drove it up to Yorkshire. It coped with 600 miles, snow, ice and mud, sailing serenely past stone barns, Wesleyan chapels and even a&nbsp;temperance pub. And all the while my overwhelming impression was of&nbsp;strength, agility and precision. Maybe that ballet school wasn't such a bad place to launch it after all…Power station: Shell launches new V-Power Nitro+Reading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoThe engineers at Shell like to think of your engine as the heart that drives your car. And just as we need to look after what powers our heart and stay clear of fatty foods which will fur up its arteries, so they think the fuel that flows into your engine should be as clean and pure as possible. But they've gone one better: the newShell V-Power Nitro+is designed to instantly get to work inside your engine on deposits that can reduce the performance of your car from the first fill, no matter what car you drive. To prove their point they invitedJake Humphrey, the voice of F1 himself, and Ferrari driverGiancarlo Fisichellato Battersea Power station to launch the new formulation.To mark the launch of Shell V-Power Nitro+ fuels, Shell challenged Jake to test his driving abilities and improve his performance via a series of exercises and manoeuvres. The course was designed with the support of Ferrari Drivers Giancarlo Fisichella, Davide Rigon and Gianmaria Bruni.The name's Lewis, Damian LewisThe star of Homeland is also the star of a short film calledDesirelaunching the new and strikingly stunningF-Type Jaguar. Have a look - he's without doubt the sexiest delivery boy you'll ever see...Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Steve Jobs put a new slide up on the huge screen. "We started about a year and a half ago to create a music store," the Apple chief executivetold the audience. "That meant we have to go and negotiate with the big five music companies. Now, before we did this I was reminded of a quote from Hunter S Thompson about the music industry."He looked up at the screen. In giant letters it read: "The music business is a cruel and shallow money trench, a long plastic hallway where thieves and pimps run free, and good men die like&nbsp;dogs."Jobs read it out and then paused to let the slide's final line appear: "There's also a negative side." Laughter from the audience. "So I didn't knowwhatto expect," Jobs added.It was 28 April 2003, and Jobs was taking Apple into entirely new territory. Its iPod music player was just 18&nbsp;months old, but after years of developing hardware and software, the company was now getting into services: specifically, selling music. It was a huge gamble, but one Jobs believed in.Fast forward 10 years, and the iTunes music store has become – for Apple at least – a money trench of imposing proportions, generating $4.1bn (£2.6bn) of revenue in the most recent quarter, which keeps it comfortably the largest music retailer in the world. It has more than 435m registered users (making it one of the world's five largest holders of credit card details) and people keep buying songs at a steady pace.The numbers are jaw-dropping: more than 25bn songs sold, 35m songs in the catalogue, available in 119 countries, and more than 200m people using its iTunes Match service, which lets them store their music library on Apple's servers."You can look at the iTunes music store as a measure of customer satisfaction," says Benedict Evans, telecoms and technology analyst at Enders Analysis. It's not huge compared to the rest of Apple's business, he says – about 9% of revenues in the most recent quarter, compared with 72% for the iPhone and iPad together – "but the fact that the number of users and downloads keeps going up, and revenue per iOS device [iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch] doesn't fall, is a metric of how much people like it. What's happening is that the popularity of the services that Apple provides, such as iTunes and apps and iMessage [its text messaging system], make it more difficult for people to leave the platform."The idea that proprietary services tie users into a platform – and so safeguard future revenues – isn't new. But as Wall Street analysts chew overApple's most recent financial results, and mull the question of whether its first-quarter iPhone sales of 37.4m are good or bad in comparison with Samsung'sestimated smartphone shipmentsof 70.7m, they face an even keener puzzle.It's this: should Apple be rated as a hardware company struggling with commoditisation (like Dell or Nokia), or a software company able to extract monopoly rents (like Microsoft), or a services company that grows stronger the more users it has (like Google or&nbsp;Amazon)?Speaking to theWall Street Journal, Katy Huberty of Morgan Stanley laid out the case plainly. "The market views Apple as a consumer hardware company tied to product cycles that drive volatile revenue and earnings streams," she said. Except, she added, "Apple customers buy into a brand that offers ease of use similar to companies like Amazon or enterprise companies like NetApp [which provides networked storage]".What does the chief executive think? Speaking at Tuesday's analyst call, Tim Cook said he felt "really, really confident about our product pipeline in both hardware, software, and also our services" – emphasising the last two words.So the answer seems to be: all of the above. Since the smartphone business began its explosive growth in the first quarter of 2010, Apple has established and maintained a market share of around 20%, even while Android phones at all prices have become pervasive, especially in China. The combination of its phones and software still seems to attract users, while its services – such as the music store, app store and iMessage – keep them on board.Certainly, Apple's profit margins, at around 40%, look a lot more like Microsoft's or Google's than they do Dell's or Nokia's.After 10 years, though, has the music store had its day? Should it be replaced by a streaming service modelled on Spotify, Pandora or Rdio, where you don't own the music but pay a monthly subscription to choose from a giant catalogue? After all, they have just a few million subscribers: Apple could get in on the ground floor and clean up.Rumours that Apple is preparing just such a service have intensified in the past months. But might it cannibalise the music store – and perhaps some other parts of Apple's business?A broader question is whether Apple is going to release a cheaper iPhone to capture the expanding market at the $200 price point – far from the $600 segment that it presently dominates. At Enders Analysis, Evans thinks it could, while retaining a hefty profit margin: "Three years ago there was no way you could make a great smartphone for $200. Now, you could make the iPhone 3G for $40 wholesale. In the past year we've reached the point where Apple could do an Apple-quality iPhone for $200, which is a price that would hit all the pre-pay market."And what would keep the buyers of those putative iPhones loyal to Apple? Probably the apps – and any music services that were offered, whether streaming or stored. That April day in 2003 might turn out to be the thing that keeps Apple thriving for at least another 10 years.
Who doesn't love skimming stones? Standing on the side of a tranquil expanse of water, launching a perfectly weighted projectile and  watching it hop from point to point before disappearing beneath the surface. Indeed it's a surprise that it's taken an app developer so long to latch on to the idea but developers Halfbrick (of David Cameron-favourite Fruit Ninja fame) have added a pescetarian flavour inFish Out of Water!(iOS, 69p).The aim is to throw three fish out on to the ocean, before being judged in marks out of 10 – based on number of bounces and distance travelled – by a trio of expert crustaceans. Depth is provided by a choice of six marine animals to skim, including a hefty whale and a dolphin. These all have different strengths and weaknesses, suited to different angles of attack and specific weather conditions, as the climate changes from hour to hour, varying the experience.Goals are set, such as travelling a set distance with a specific fish. When three goals are completed players level-up, providing bonus gems to aid progress. These jewels unlock further add-ons to boost the score. With online leaderboards to test yourself against friends, Halfbrick have delivered another addictive slice of portable gaming.
Depending on who you talk to,Deadly Premonitionis either a joke or a masterpiece. EssentiallyTwin Peaksrefracted through a Japanese survival horror prism, the game first hit the Xbox 360 back in 2010, where its off-kilter character interactions and bizarre optional activities (shaving! Peeping through strangers' windows!) sealed its cult status. Now it's arrived on the PS3, in the form of a revised and expanded "director's cut". Plenty of rough edges remain – the characters look like refugees from an airline safety video – but for the most part these add to the eeriness. Capable of swinging from zany to nasty, inspired to absurd within the course of a single sequence, it remains a must-play for connoisseurs of kitsch.
Finally a game to answer the most primal question, beloved of comic book fans everywhere – who would win in a fight between Batman and Superman? Or the Flash? Or Wonder Woman? Or any of a 24-strong roster of DC's superheroes and villains, in fact. While the answer is down to your own preferences and skills at fighting games,Injusticeis laudable for giving players a wealth of tools with which to entertain themsleves while answering this compelling conundrum.Developer NetherRealm Studios attempts to update the typical fighting game formula, abandoning the traditional three-round approach in favour of non-stop battles seeing you smack opponents around interactive environments from across the DC Universe. Mid-fight wagers, betting a power-up gauge to regain health, also shift the tide of battle nicely, while solid multiplayer and a wealth of unlockable fan-pleasing material round out an excellent package.
On Tuesday 23 April, a tweet from Associated Press (AP) revealed startling news. There had been explosions in the White House and Obama had been injured. The tweet was a hoax – the AP Twitter account had been hacked via a clever phishing exploit – but it briefly caused havoc. TheDow Jones Industrial Average dropped 144 pointsbetween 10.07am and 10.09am, for example. Crude oil prices also briefly tumbled and the price of US Treasury bonds and gold futures spiked. Within minutes, AP disclosed that the tweet was erroneous and things returned to normal, with the Dow eventually rising 152 points for the day to close at 14,719.Crisis over, then? Er, not quite. The story of the hoax AP tweet resurrects troubling thoughts about systems and fragility. The first and obvious one is how itconfirms the crazinessof having computerised share-trading systems with hair-trigger settings. The frantic unloading of stocks that went on in the seven minutes before the hoax was uncovered was not done by human beings but by software programmed not only to read standard professional news feeds, but also to monitor the Twitter fire hose. Although software is good at lots of things, exercising judgment and common sense isn't one of them.Nobody knows for sure who was behind the hacking of the AP Twitter account, though the so-calledSyrian Electronic Armyclaimed the credit. But the thought immediately arises that somebody could make a lot of money from a stunt like this – which is why we will see more of it in the future. As acommentator on the business news site Quartzput it, "Seven minutes is an eternity in the world of high-frequency trading, where equities are exchanged in fractions of a second. Trading bots could certainly have bought index funds at the bottom of the plunge, quickly profiting as the rest of the market realised that the AP tweet was&nbsp;wrong."But, in fact, the nervous volatility of computerised stock trading is just one part of a much bigger story, which is that we have been sleepwalking into total dependence on systems of terrifying fragility, without apparently realising the potential consequences. Take the logistical systems without which none of our supply chains can now function. Supermarkets – even huge chains such as Tesco – carry only a few days' stock: if the computerised trucking systems that ensure that they never run out were to be disrupted for even a few days, that – plus the resultant panic-buying – would effectively bring the country to a halt.The strange thing is that these fragile systems were all built by people pursuing narrowly rational ends – to maximise efficiency and optimise the utility of company assets. In that sense, it's all Toyota's fault, because the Japanese car-maker was the company that introduced the idea of "just-in-time" manufacturing – the notion that holding large stocks of materials is wasteful, and it's much better to organise production and services so that what you need is delivered just before you need it. This was the so-called"lean machine", which came to dominate the economies of the entire industrialised world. It's lovely when it works, but really scary when it fails. Just ask the British companies that found themselves screwed by the aftermath of the Japanese earthquake. I asked someone who worked in the motor industry what they had learned from the disaster. "That we need to know every single link in our supply chain," he replied, "down to the suppliers of the suppliers of our&nbsp;suppliers."The hoax AP tweet has lessons for journalism too. The extent to which journalists have come to rely on Twitter is understandable: they're a hyperactive breed. But somewhere along the line, some of them seem to be losing their judgment. Witness the torrent of vapid tweeting and retweeting – by journalists as well as members of the public – that accompanied the Boston bombings. This bears the same relationship to news as crab sticks bear to the real thing, which is why some seasoned hands, such as Dan Gillmor, have started campaigning for"slow news". "We absolutely have to get it into our heads," he writes, "that we can trust nothing at first glance. Nothing."Spot-on. But it's back to the future, really. I remember a time when a mantra of foreign correspondents was: "Never believe anything until it has been denied three times by the Quai d'Orsay [the French foreign ministry]." If we applied the same logic to our Twitter streams, we would definitely be less excitable, but we might also wind up considerably wiser.This article was amended on 29 April. The date of the hoax AP tweet was 23 April, not 2 April as originally stated
A cursory examination ofFire Emblem: Awakeningreveals a title so steeped in the cliches of Japanese role-playing games that it seems it would be of interest to only a niche audience in the west. There are reams of text, digit-saturated menu screens and large portions of time devoted to storytelling; all integral to the core of a real Japanese RPG.ButFire Emblem: Awakeningis also a brilliantly realised, fantasy-themed real-time strategy game, where turn-based combat is the focus of the action. That means presiding over small battlefields, moving units and engaging in one-to-one combat, dictating your squad's every decision. The gameplay is complex, but well-balanced and paced, and the narrative surprisingly captivating, making this a perfect entry point to the long-running series that may yet find a new audience here.
For those of us who spend July trying to watch the live stream on&nbsp;ITV4 without our bosses catching on, news thatthe Tour de France will begin in Britain in 2014is splendid indeed. Having just moved back to the north of England, I was especially pleased to hear that Yorkshire had beaten off Berlin and Amsterdam to&nbsp;host the first two stages of the world's greatest bicycle race.It was satisfying proof, if needed, that the north is more than capable of continental sophistication. We may not have an Ottolenghi yet (come on, Yotam!), but Buttertubs Pass and Holme Moss will soon have their own entries in the Tour's history. Unlike Muswell Hill.I spent February and March desperately waiting for the ground to thaw so that I could recce some of the route without sacrificing a few toes. Finally, on Easter Sunday, the air seemed just about warm enough to risk it, and so we set off for Harrogate. Come 5 July next year, whoever wins in the chi-chi spa town will be the first wearer of the 2014 yellow jersey.To mimic Tour conditions, I should have been on a full carbon dream machine in a streamlined body suit. Instead, I was wearing thermals and an anorak, astride theEastway ST 1.0, a steel-framed turquoise beauty better equipped for cycling to work than apeing le Tour de Yorkshire. It has built-in mudguards, for starters, and chunky tyres designed not to get a puncture when you cycle past a rough pub after a heavy night of bottling. But it looks good, getting the all-important nod of approval from my friend Mark, a single-speed poser who disdains hipsters despite patently being one.The makers, St Albans-based Fisher, get extra cool points for the brand name, which is inspired by the old road racing circuit now buried under London's Olympic park.Heading up and out towards Ripon, I got a little stuck with the gears, operated by pricey SRAM Apex shifters. These, I eventually learned, require a double tap in order to reverse the gear strength – ie, if you want to go down a gear and you've previously gone up a gear, you tap the lever twice. Great for those of us with small hands and short arms, because you don't have to strain to shift the chain on to&nbsp;another chain wheel as you do with Shimano. I also developed a bit of a thing for the bar tape, a luxuriant, velvety, black fabric that was a joy to hold.It is not a fast bike – no one in the peloton will be riding it through Yorkshire in 2014 – but if you're looking for an all-weather, all-round bike that won't let you down on the way to work or on a weekend spin, the Eastway is worth a look.Eastway ST1.0Price£999FrameReynolds 530 steelChainsetSRAM S150 50/34BrakesTektro CR710
150 schoolchildren from across London were chosen to take part in workshops with tech entrepreneurs at Google Campus in east London. Photo: GoogleGoogle needs to do more to engage with black and minority ethnic people in local communities, Diane Abbott has said, describing the company's east London Campus project as "a spaceship landed in the East End, removed from the community it is in the middle of".Speaking on the first anniversary of Google Campus, Abbott, who represents the neighbouring borough of Hackney &amp; South Newington, told the Guardian that she had been surprised by the lack of diversity of such an important project for east London."This is a community that is two-thirds black and minority ethnic and yet Google looks very different to that. Taking Google at its word, that it really wants to include the community, it really has to do a lot more to involve black and Asian kids."Abbott also said there are much more deep-rooted problems with how technology is taught in schools."The people who live around Silicon Roundabout have so much potential but the one thing I hear is that children are just not being taught the skills they need," she said. "There needs to be a look at the curriculum and the dysfunctional gap between computer science and what is happening in the tech industry."Abbott welcomed the open day initiative at Campus, in which 150 London schoolchildren were invited to meet and learn from local entrepreneurs, pitching their own business ideas and experimenting with Raspberry Pi computers. But she said she would like to see Google develop more of these projects in schools and colleges, particularly to encourage female talent, and make the Campus building more inviting for the local community.Diane Abbott at the Campus open day with London schoolchildren. Photo: GoogleCampus was launched in partnership with TechHub, Central Working and SeedCamp to provide workspace, mentoring and networking for early-stage entrepreneurs. In its first 12 months it hosted 850 events for 60,000 people and has 10,000 members with 22 nationalities. Ethnicity of members has not been monitored but membership is open to all, via theCampuswebsite.Most members are aged between 25-34 and women make up one in four – far high than the ratio of one in nine at the neighbouring Tech City initiative.Google does operate internaldiversity schemesincluding the Black Google Network talent, Women@Google and Gaygle, which supports gay and lesbian staff.One developer, who did not want to be named, claimed that several female applicants for engineering roles at Google had been advised to pursue project management positions instead.
Shinji Mikami, creator of the Resident Evil series, has announced a new survival horror game,The Evil Within, which is due for release next year. Thetrailerdepicts plenty of bloodthirsty supernatural nasties, although proper details remain sketchy.Games currently doing the rounds includeLego City Undercover: The Chase Begins(3DS), a law-abiding GTA-alike that loses much of its comedic charm in translation to portable;Dark(Xbox, PS3, PC), a low-budget stealth action game with vampires and a cel-shaded look; uninspiring racing game,Crash Time 5(Xbox, PS3, PC), which is apparently based on a German TV series; lightweight RPG,Mars: War Logs(Xbox, PS3, PC) about settlers on the Red Planet; andThomas Was Alone, the excellent and strangely moving independently produced platform game is making its way to PS3 and Vita.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe first story-driven downloadable content for Dishonored is The Knife Of Dunwall, putting you in the stealthy boots of Daud the assassin, the man responsible for killing the empress, thereby starting the whole dishonouring process. There are three substantial missions that open new areas of Dunwall, and they prove much harder than the main game and at least as intense. We learn more about our Michael Madsen-voiced antihero as well as discovering fresh skills and enemies in this brilliant add-on.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewNot a true sequel, but far larger than mere downloadable content, Dragon's Dogma: Dark Arisen is an expansion pack that generously includes the entire original game in case you happened to miss it. As well as the original levels, players get a new mysterious subterranean realm, Bitterblack Isle. It's clearly intended for seasoned players, because the new beasts tend towards the brutally difficult, including the towering, scythe-wielding figure of Death itself, who must be dealt with over multiple encounters. Ominous, deadly and hugely involving, Dark Arisen is a fitting extension for Capcom's superb and underappreciated role-playing game.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewArriving in time to ride the wave of hype preceding the new film, Star Trek the game tells a side story about Kirk and Spock buddying up to save the galaxy from a doomsday device stolen by thieving lizard men, the Gorn. Like fellow well-intentioned but eventually awful sci-fi film adaptation Aliens: Colonial Marines, this is clearly made by people wanting desperately to produce a decent game. Unfortunately, despite occasional moments of interest, its clunky climbing mechanics make it wearyingly pedestrian.
A self-confessed British internet "troll" has admitted threatening to kill 200 people at a US school by posting menacing comments on a memorial Facebook page.Thousands of pupils stayed away from the school in Warren county, Tennessee, after Reece Elliott, 24, of Fossway, South Shields, South Tyneside, left terrifying messages under an assumed name.Elliott, a father of one, went online in the weeks after the mass shootings at Sandy Hook, the primary school in Newtown, Connecticut, where 20 children and six adults died.Newcastle crown court was told that after the messages were posted, security was stepped up at schools across the area in Tennessee as the authorities implemented a "lockdown" with armed guards on duty and restricted access to sites.Elliott appeared at court dressed in a grey top and admitted one count of making a threat to kill and eight of sending grossly offensive messages. He has been held in custody since his arrest in February.Using a false name, he wrote on a tribute page to Caitlin Talley, a 17-year-old girl at the Tennessee school who had died in a car accident in October: "My father has three guns. I'm planning on killing him first and putting him in a dumpster. Then I'm taking the motor and I'm going in fast. I'm gonna kill hopefully at least 200 before I kill myself. So you want to tell the deputy, I'm on my way."Caitlin, a popular pupil at Warren County High, died in a car accident in October. On the commemorative website, Elliott wrote: "I'm glad the fat bitch is dead. Let's drink to drink driving. No-one gives a shit that she's dead, get over it. If I was there now I would rape you."Using the same pseudonym, Elliott then posted the threats about driving into school. He said: "I'm killing 200 people minimum at school. I will be on CNN."Gary Buckley, prosecuting, said: "The residents of Warren County and all the people who have access to the Facebook page were clearly concerned. I am told that the local authority immediately put all the local schools in the area on what was called lockdown."Because of the hysteria caused, around 3,000 children were kept off school on that specific day. Inquiries made by the FBI and Homeland Security managed to trace the user name to an address in this area."The American authorities contacted police and various inquiries were made in order to identify who made these postings. It would appear that Reece Elliott was well aware that he was wanted. He handed himself into South Shields police station."He [Elliott]  said he was a part-time troll [the term for those who make unpleasant remarks online]. He said he decided to post offensive comments to see what kind of reaction he could provoke.""He was asked if he knew what had been going on recently and he said he was well aware of the recent incidents following the shootings in schools."He confirmed he did post the postings on Facebook and therefore did make these threats but he didn't expect the threats to be taken seriously and didn't expect them to cause the reaction they did."Buckley said by using the US terms "dumpster" and "deputy", Elliott made his threats seem more believable to local people. He pleaded not guilty to four other counts of making threats to kill, which the prosecution accepted.Elliott is due to be sentenced on June 10th. Judge James Goss QC said: "You will remain in custody until the sentence hearing, as I'm sure you will appreciate the offences are serious matters."A prison sentence is of course the inevitable sentence in respect of these offences."On being told the news of the guilty plea, Anthony Cassel, executive principal at Warren County High School – where Caitlin studied – said: "If that information is correct, I'm grateful that justice has been served and that agencies on both sides of the world worked together to bring this individual to justice and hold him to account."Obviously the threats caused concern and attendance issues. It is fair to say that the stress level was elevated, especially in light of the events in Newtown, with the Sandy Hook shootings. It heightened the sense of alertness not just of students but of their parents and families." The case highlights the determination of law enforcement agencies to deal with comments on social media and the internet in the same way as if they were made in traditional media.Public awareness appears to be slow in catching up with the idea that laws governing libel, threats, hate speech and other such offences are being applied online as much as to any other area of life.Assessing the severity of a threat made online is, nonetheless, a problematic area for the courts. The 'Twitter joke trial' involving Paul Chambers – who eventually overturned a conviction for sending a menacing tweet on the grounds that it was never meant to be taken seriously – showed that the courts must take into account the intention and impact of any message.
In an era of information overload and ephemera, where an online sensation may last all of five minutes, word is spreading that the internet has a memory, and its name is not Google.Even more surprising, it has a physical address: 300 Funston Avenue, Richmond, San Francisco. It is a sleepy, unremarkable street, until you come to an imposing, neo-classical building with Greek pillars, heavy metal doors and a flag of the world planted on the lawn.Step inside, and the first thing you see at reception is a heap of newly-delivered boxes containing hard-disk drives, each capable of storing 4 trillion bytes of information. Follow the humming sound up a flight of stairs and you encounter rows of machines, lights blinking, methodically hoovering up humanity's knowledge. This is the Internet Archive."Our mission is universal access to all information all of the time," said Rick Prelinger, president of the board. "We are part of the infrastructure of the web. We are the web's memory."The Internet Archive, a non-profit, is the digital equivalent of the ancient library of Alexandria, a burgeoning hoard of websites, video, film and music which could otherwise be lost. It currently holds 281bn webpages, or URLs, and each month adds billions more. It also captures and stores books, journals, YouTube clips and cable news. Long revered by scholars, techies and librarians, the Archive's fame is now spreading among ordinary people,drawing more than a thousand hits per secondto its website. Many, however, remain unaware of its existence, and as he gave a tour to the Guardian, Prelinger said:I'm tremendously surprised that there are not more internet archives. It's the medium of our time but there is an ethos of ahistoricity. We're trying to negate that.The organisation, which was co-founded in 1996 by Brewster Kahle, an internet pioneer and entrepreneur, considers its mission to be increasingly urgent. Technological, economic and political pressures devour digital information, just as termites – once dubbed the "teeth of time" – chomped through ancient libraries. Disks fade and warp, destroying information. Businesses go bust, or evolve, and in the process shed much if not all of their digital archives. Governments and institutions like to delete information that becomes inconvenient or embarrassing, leaving 404 error messages where once were pages."During the Iraq war the [Bush] White House quietly took down some of its earlier press releases. But we had them," said Prelinger, whose speciality is archiving film. "Digital information is part of our cultural heritage but it's tremendously volatile. It's fragile." Storing it is not just an act of historical preservation, he says, but a means to hold institutions accountable. "We want to help keep the internet honest and safe and defend it from ignorance."'Philosophical allies'Aaron Swartz, the internet activist and developer of Reddit, who died in January.  Photograph: Fred Benenson /creativecommoners/flickrPhilosophical allies includewww.wikimedia.org, Mozilla, the free software community, theElectronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights advocacy group, andthe internet activist Aaron Swartz, until his death in January.Google is not on the list. It is a marvel, said Prelinger, but tilts search results. "Its algorithms are not public. We don't know why we're seeing what we're seeing and we don't know what we're not seeing. Google knows your profile and adjusts accordingly. They want to sell you ads. We're not Google. We're a library."Staff held a party last October to celebrate a milestone: 10 petabytes – equivalent to about 10 billion books – archived. Librarians and scholars acclaim the Archive's workers as "heroes" and "rock stars", but staff members are likelier to call themselves geeks and nerds. They joke about kilowatt consumption and meta-data replication.Some take part of their pay in Bitcoinand have persuaded the neighbouring Chinese restaurant to accept the currency. There is a growing throng of half-size terracotta statues depicting workers with more than three years service. The Wayback Machine, a searchable online museum of billions of web pages dating from 1996, is named after a segment in The Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoon show.Kahle, a computer scientist who made a fortune in the 1990s with tech ventures, including Alexa Internet,dreamed of a Great Library of Alexandria 2.0 since he studied at MIT. The archive's first headquarters was in the nearby Presidio district. In 2009 it moved into a former Christian Science church on Funston Avenue; its pillars and facade evoke antiquity.About 50 staff work here and another 100 work elsewhere in the bay area and in 32 scanning centres, usually in libraries, around the world. The centres digitise books, microfilm and regular film. Automation proved imprecise so it is done manually, each worker processing 800 to 1000 pages per hour. This labour means material such as Boston's John Adams Library, the Hoover archive and the 1930 US census are now online and free. Institutions such as government agencies, libraries and universities, many outside the US, pay modest fees for special requests.The archive has also stored 750,000 actual books at a nearby climate-controlled storage unit, a literary equivalent of the Svalbard global seed vault.There is space for another 780,000.Engineers "crawl" the world's top million websites, capturing and storing pages which link to other pages which are captured and stored. Every three months they start over, because the list of top million sites constantly changes. An average web page lasts 75 days. In 2009, they raced against the clock to save as much as they could of the web-hosting service GeoCities, before Yahoo shut it down. If the owner of a defunct website prefers that the pages remain dead, he or she can ask the archive to remove them, requests that are almost always granted.Engineers also collect news from more than 60 TV stations worldwide and YouTube videos, selecting the latter according to Twitter mentions. "It's not perfect but tweets give us an idea of what people consider important," said Alexis Rossi, the web collections manager. She estimated that the 10bn URLs saved each every three month cycle represented – very, very roughly – about a 10th of the internet's output:It's a Sisyphean task. We know we'll never get it all. The web by its nature is infinite.The archive's three bay area data centres use 180 kilowatts, the equivalent of 45 homes, to power servers and keep the lights on. New disks hold 4 trillion bytes, in contrast to earlier models which held 2 or 3 trillion, helping the archive keep pace."I'm proud that we're keeping all this going. We do it on a shoestring budget," said Jim Shankland, director of operations. "As long as we do our jobs, the bytes will live forever and ever."
Congratulations toSoundcloudandSwiftkeyon picking up awards atEuropioneerthis week; this is a scheme sponsored by the European commission that managed to pull in some big name judges (our own Charles Arthur, for one) as part of itsStartup Europeplan.Soundcloud's Alexander Ljung and Eric Wahlforss won European entrepreneurs of the year. It's a service easiest to shorthand as the "YouTube for sound", but the real experience is rather more polished, more creative and more industry-focused, with several bands and musicians using it to promote work to a loyal, early adopter audience and, delightfully, issue tracks for fans to remix.Its status in the upper circles of music tech was sealed with the recent launch of Twitter Music, which integrates Soundcloud tracks alongside iTunes, Rdio and Spotify. Audio might often be seen as the uglier, less lucrative sibling of video, but it has charms of its own – not least that you can listen while you do something else. If you've ever tried to watch a video while walking down a street, you'll know what I'm talking about.On latest metrics, Soundcloud is accessed by about 200 million people monthly and 10 hours of music and audio is uploaded each minute; for comparison, YouTube sees 72 hours of uploads every minute.Swiftkey's Jon Reynolds was awarded young European entrepreneur of the year. Swiftkey, who came in to talk to us in the Tech Weekly podcast recently, has also been on a roll. Their own moment of ordination as a tech success story came when its technology was used for the BlackBerry 10 keyboard, which is a bizarre open secret they don't seem to be allowed to acknowledge.Neelie Kroes, the European commission's digital commissioner, said the idea of the initiative was to encourage people to think about startups beyond Silicon Valley."They often think about America, and the American dream. Well, I have a European dream, too. That Europe becomes a place where entrepreneurs and innovators start and stay – before growing globally. So let's bring to an end the myth, the fairy tale, that all of the good ideas come from Silicon Valley."There is a full list of winners inthe EC release, including Spotify, Deezer, Wunderkind, Mind Candy, Klarna, Rovio and GoCardless.
