I stumbled acrossthis sitethis morning when trawling through my Digg feed and, before I realised it was part of Mind Candy's ARGPerplex City, I'd tagged it formy research site- where I'm trying to understand an aspect of the six degrees of separation phenomenon. Now I get to write about it here, because it's part of a game. Marvellous. I love it when my worlds collide.Let me back up.The site is searching for a Japanese man named Satoshi whose only context is a photo of him in Kaisersberg in Alsace (not far from Strasbourg, {where my mum used to work with fellow scientists...from Japan)HSFP). His identity bears some relation to the answer to a puzzle card in the Perplex City ARG, which, rumour has it, is approaching a dramatic conclusion. While there's no prize for figuring out who Satoshi is, the ultimate winner of the game will receive a phat wad of cash.Chances are, you know who Satoshi is even if he looks like a stranger to you because according toStanley MIllgram'sempirical study of theSmall Worldphenomenon, the whole world is connected to one another by an average of 5-7 people. Sure, the theory's contested and sure, there are more scientific projects out there seeking to understandhow we're all related in a connected age, but for the fun of it - does anyone know Satoshi?Answers, please, toFindSatoshi.com.
Buy a PC game last week? If you did the chances are it was Burning Crusade, the World of Warcraft add-on that is sitting top of the charts after accounting for nearly 1 in 3 PC game sales last week. The game has become the second fastest PC game in chart history as the WoW juggernaut shows no sign of slowing down. You have to feel a little sorry for upcoming MMOs like Vanguard when faced with this kind of competition. Life is almost too short to play one MMORPG properly, never mind two. Elsewhere in the charts the disappointing Lost Planet - great landscape, average action - falls to number two while the ugly, yet oddly therapeutic, World Snooker Championship 2007 hits the top ten.
All may not be well in Vista land. According toGameDailyandGigaGames(via/.), the operating system may spell death to indie games. From the article:What is at issue is the new Game Explorer, a one-stop application within Vista designed to make game installation and accessing information about installed games far simpler than previous versions of the operating system. It also makes note of the local rating of those games that have received ratings, and it allows parents to enforce them or not. ... But many casual games, which are typically created by smaller developers with skimpy budgets, are not rated for many reasons, including the fact that the ESRB [and the BBFC in the UK, and PEGI pan-Europe] charges a fee to rate games. Some developers fear that they will now be forced to go through the ratings process or risk having their games "vanish" from desktops if parents set Game Explorers to ignore unrated titles.It seems the days of bedroom coders are well and truly over, if they want to develop for Microsoft platforms, that is.
In a piece online today, the Guardian's Katie Allen reveals that Wally - the popular children's character from the Where's Wally? books - could be theface of a new search engine for kids.And so soon after we sawJeeves kick the bucket(sorry,retire). Apparently Acquisitive Entertainment Rights, the company which has bought the chance to produce a Where's Wally search engine believes it could be a great brand for young boys.The best bit about the story, however, was that chief executive Mike Heap came out with a corker of a line:Referring to Google's happy position where to "Google something" has become an everyday phrase, Mr Heap said Wally would soon be muscling into the search engine corner of cyberspace."In the future I think you will be saying 'I'm going to Wally it'," he said.Doyouthink you'll be wallying in the future?
Just a little announcement from Nintendo today. The company reckons shifting ten million machines in the space of less than two years makes DS the fastest selling console in European history. Apparently, 1.7 million units were shifted in the run up to Christmas.So, this next-gen console war... what if theyalllose?
Lots of worthy entries in this week's Friday Afternoon Question, where I asked aboutyour earliest memories of tech.Honourable mentions go to Fred2, who attempted a little bit of BASIC to let us know where things started for him, and to WasBascule - who captured the essence of early videogames by saying "Tennis (two white bars hitting a white square around the screen) Squash (one white bar hitting a white square around the screen) Football (four white bars etc etc)".But I think the overall winnerhadto beEvilClanger, who managed to take everybody on a tour of childhood: from TV to radio and beyond, with cameo appearances from Hitchikers', a ZX81 and even the Two Ronnnies.We did all have personal tech: cassette recorders for busting copyright every sunday evening taping the Top 20 off the radio on to C120s from WHS, 3-speed record players, and best of all, the transistor radio. Signals from all round the planet, well, almost, on 3 bands, and if you were very lucky, SW too. With all the whistles, hums, and clicks. Under the bedclothes with your tranny late into the night...9pm, 10pm. Pirate stations, and strange foreign chattering. Pushing the envelope of home entertainment. CB came later, from America.It did all go a littleRon Managerthere for a while, but for sheer effort a1GB Samsung YP-U2 music player(reviewedhere) will be winging its way to you.
Vista may still be experiencing some hiccups - especially where game audio is concerned. Sound technology company Creative has just announced the beta release of a new app,Creative ALchemy, which brings proper surround sound back to 'older' games like F.E.A.R, Rome: Total War and WoW - all of which allegedly revert back to basic stereo when running on Vista systems. According to Steve Erickson, vice president of audio at Creative:"The result of Microsoft's removal of the hardware audio abstraction layer for Vista will confuse many gamers. Many people who have experimented with popular legacy games on the Vista beta release have been unable to experience multi-channel audio, with Creative and other sound cards, and even with motherboard audio. This is not something that a driver update can fix."This isn't the only problem PC gamers have encountered. Final Fantasy XI remains a tricky ride on Vista -the last word from PlayOnlinewas that the company has been working with Microsoft to resolve incompatibility issues.Any Vista owners out there care to share their experiences?
Here's an amazing new idea: a site calledGet A First Life, fromDarren Barefoot. Apparently it's a huge 3D analogue world with no server lag! We plan to investigate within the next few months....Darren has also hada great letter from Linden Labwhich says, among other things: "Linden Lab is well-known for having strict hiring standards, including a requirement for having a sense of humor, from which our lawyers receive no exception. In conclusion, your invitation to submit a cease-and-desist letter is hereby rejected."
Wikipedia has become one of the biggest forces on Google: most basic searches bring results from the online encyclopedia back very high, often in the top two or three positions.But the result has not just been more traffic - it has been more pollution, especially as unscrupulous individuals (spammers, nasty search engine optimisers etc) try to game the system. After all, even if a spam link lasts just a short while, Wikipedia's high ranking and open format means it can be a successful way of gaining exposure.As a result, the Wikimedia board has decided to use Google's "nofollow" attribute for all links out of Wikipedia. Brion Vibber makes the change viathisemail, and you can read a following discussion among Wikipedians about the decision:Having been requested by Jimmy to do so, and having seen a fun rumor of a "search engine optimization world championship" contest targeting WP[1], I've gone ahead and switched rel="nofollow" back onto URLs in en.wikipedia.org's article namespace.Nofollow was inaugurated two years ago by Google as a way ofcombatting comment spam on blogs, but now it's a crucial tactic in trying to dissuade spammers from abusing entire sites, and search engine listings themselves.(By the way, there are more details on the2007 SEO World Championship here- the best optimiser wins a car)
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
In November 2003, Jim Allchin, head honcho for Windows at Microsoft, tried a digital music player to see why on earth Apple had already built such a big lead over rivals.He found out - just like lots of other people had. It was because the rival players did the job badly. The email he wrote - entitled "sucking on media players" - has surfaced as part of acourt case in Iowa in which Microsoft is accused of antitrustbehaviour (goodness me). The difference about the Iowa case is, as the Groklaw site explains, that consumers, rather than just computer makers, get to be paid money. Nice.Anyhow, here's what Jim Allchin - whose emails have already turned up one in which he said "If I weren't working at Microsoft now, I'd buy a Mac" - had to say. In part. (Orread the whole 2-page email exchange in PDF. Thanks to theSeattle Business blogfor the link.)I bought the high end creative labs portable player. It was the NOMAD Jukebox Zen Xtra.] have to loll you my experience with our soltware and this device is really terrible. I expect you already knew this but I had not personally experienced it Now I spent the time last night really playing with it. My goodness it is terrible. What I don~t understand though is that I was told that the new Creative Labs device would be comparable to Apple. That is so not the case.| The physical device is not even in lhe same league as the iPOD. I mean it is ugly, not smooth to the touch (hard edges and uncomfortable to hold, etc.), fragile (easy to break), the controls are difficult and they hurt your finger if you use the "jog" dial much at all, etc.2. A reboot is required.3. Two unsigned drivers are loaded. I have NO idea what these are needed for.4. They ship their own music jukebox software and organizer. The installation encourages you to use theirs over WMP.5, Setting up a relationship to copy all the music from WMP is very un-intuitive. Copying the contents of a playtist isn't too bad, but doing everything is very strange6. The actual Playlists themselves are not copied overto the device. So you just lose that capability on transfer.7. There's no synchronization as you know. You copy it across and the next time, you have to copy it ALL across again.8. One of the worse problems I had is that it appears NONE of the meta data that you put in the WMP Iibrary is carried over. In other words, the copy ONLY uses the information in the file itself. So, if you have Wave files and you copy them, then you lose all the meta data (e.g., artist, album). This also appeared to be true for files that DID have metadata fields in the flies. It's like WMP doesn't force updates of these fields back into the files themselves. So all the entering of information in WMP library is lost if you move the file to another machine. I hope that is not the way it works, bui it sure seems like this is the case.I am REALLY counting on wm9.1 to fix this terrible experience. Apple is just so far ahead. How can we get the IHVs [Independent Hardware Vendors] to create something lhat is competitive with the iPOD [sic]? I looked at the DELL system and that's not close either. I would like to try to use any alpha software you have.We're sort of interested to hear what he thought, three years later, of the Zune. Which reminds us, a Microsoftie said he would drop by the Guardian offices with a Zune for us to try. That was over a month ago. Tch.
Every week we get more (and longer) letters and blog pingbacks than we have space to print. Fortunately, we have the web, with lots more space. So click through to read the letters and pingbacks we chose from...BROADBAND WOESThe report today, 12 January, was very interesting. However it does seem to miss a brand new phenomenon of "Faulty Tie Pairs" These seem to be a wonderful invention which is now limiting those, like myself, to sit in a strange limbo not being able to have any form of broadband, nor any idea on when I am likely to receive it as both the provider (Sky) and BT both seem not to deal with this issue, nor seemingly care when it is solved. This followed a 4 month process of trying to leave a provider, which was only sorted after I contacted Otelo for intervention. So yes, the activation time is a big issue, but having a system in place where buck passing didn't take place would be much more acceptable. Keir Bramman, LondonInteresting article today. But SKy invariably mentions TIE PAIRS problem at BT exchanges. Funny, your article doesnt mention this either. Neither does any other ISP mention this as ever a problem at the exchange. So is Sky pulling a fast one on its custoemrs for its ineptitude? Can you investigate this issue and report. Would be interesting if you look up www.skyuser.co.uk . Tie pairs is the biggest gripe. By the way, I have been waiting since August to be connected to SKy broadband. And there are many like us . You could do a whole story there. Guatam Thakker, Harrow {I'll explain tie pairs in a separate blog post - Tech.Ed]I really do not understand the logic of an article like this appearing in a supplement called Technology Guardian. The article draws attention to the length of time it takes here for the broadband switch to take place at the local telephone exchange. You explain in a column " broadband turns pairs of copper wires designed for analogue telephones into a conduit for digital services." Not for me it does not. And the telegraph pole out in the street, note word telegraph, which carries my BT line to the house no longer carries my broadband. It used to when I was with Tiscali till June 2006. I even once burnt through the cable from the telephone point to my computer when a log fell out of my open fire. But in June I ran into a display stand in Slough High Street for a company called Now. Now gives broadband over a radio wavelength similar to that used by mobile phone companies. Indeed our local dishes are above the local police station and Legoland in Windsor Great Park. I know this because instead of talking to a very helpful Indian person in India with Tiscali when I had a problem I had a very helpful Asian young man turn up all the way from Slough when my receiver failed three months ago. He replaced it at no charge. I pay the same as I did with Tiscali. But look at the advantages. I know a chap in the old peoples' flats in my street who has done away with his land line connection and BT fixed line because his mobile phone serves him well. He is going for wireless broadband. Another guy who lives on a boat on the Thames here finds the same. Difficult to make your telephone line stretch to the shore when you are cruising down the river. Instead of an article bemoaning how long it takes to put the semaphore arms up on Telegraph Hill I want to know why mobile phone companies such as Virgin , Vodaphone and I think Orange, announce broadband but still use the nineteenth century technology of the telegraph pole and copper cable..One of the reasons for making thousands of perfectly good TV's redundant is to free up frequencies. Why aren't the mobile phone companies using broadcasting? " Now" is limited in its coverage at the moment but it is bound to start small. The future always does. And the more publicity the future gets the quicker it will happen. http://www.mynow.co.uk/ Dave Nicholson, WindsorI was intrigued with the article on Broadband connections, as my own personal experience is with a change of telephone provider. In May 2005 I was influenced by the marketing advertisement by Bulldog Communications, which was then a subsidiary of Cable &amp; Wireless now a member of the Pipex group, to use their Broadband service plus their telephone facilities. Besides the problems that occurred with the Broadband connection which the article explained in detail, the Bulldog marketing made the claim that when signing your telephone service over to them, you would no longer have to pay 'Line Rentals' to BT. My telephone service had three lines two of which are made up of a Alarm activation line to a Central Station (so that when the premises are entered illegally the station is alerted). and the other for a separate Fax line. Although I have been writing to both BT and Bulldog over the course of the 20 months since these two lines were still connected to the BT system with charges on 'Line Rentals' to each, plus extraneous charges for installation and reconnection even though these lines were installed in 1993. BT do not respond to my letters,the CEO of Bulldog was written to on two separate occasion, besides the constant e.mails to their Customer Services. Bulldog reply that the matter is being attended but no development takes place, Due to my frustration I have now closed the additional Fax line, but remain connected to BT with the Alarm line, this action was taken as I was under the impression that Bulldog and BT were not communicating and the problem was just left in limbo so that eventually I would grow tired and give up on my quest, which is exactly what has transpired. David Ratner, LondonTwo weeks for a Broadband connection ??!!! My 'free' broadband from Orange took two months! J Kempster, London.I have just finished reading your article "Broadband's turn-on frustrations" Where you visited a BT exchange to explain why it takes so longer to get broadband into a new home and to switch provider, this got me thinking to my current situation I am currently in with Orange Broadband. We have been without the internet since Christmas day all the details of my current situation are documented in the attached letter which was sent to the Managing Director and Board of Directors at Orange Head Office in St Albans, as yet we are still awaiting a reply. We are desperate to get the Orange mark off our line and go to another provider. Unfortunately we are under contract with Orange until March and they say we have to pay a cancellation fee which equates to the remainder of our contract. We feel this is grossly unfair when you consider the shocking level of customer service we have received from Orange and the fact that surely they are in breach of the contract by not providing us with a service and doing nothing about it. Calling the company is incredibly expensive and the only way we can cancel and not pay the excessive cancellation fee is to speak to a non existent supervisor in a non existent escalation team that never calls back, they refuse to put me through and never call me back and I under by doing so they are breaking law. After doing some research I understand that our exchange is run by LLU despite being on a BT line so rather than just get a migration code we have to get Orange remove their marker which seems almost impossible at the moment unless we pay this absurd cancellation fee There are a number of websites and forums dedicated to complaints about people's experience with Orange Broadband formerly Wanadoo. www.orangeproblems.co.uk is just one of many such websites. We have wrote to Ofcom, BBC Watchdog and have recently contacted ISPA with regard to the problem, no one as yet has been able to help us. I am contacting as many people as I possibly can to expose Orange as the disgraceful company they are and any help you can offer would be greatly appreciated. Chinedum Ukachuku, LondonIt's not the length of time taken to hook me up to Broadband (Broadband's Turn On Frustrations 11.01.07) that I find exasperating, it's the appallingly slow connection speeds being achieved now I'm there. I migrated to Talk Talk partly because the Broadband is "free, forever" (though you pay for the phone service that you have to have with it) but largely because it promised speeds of "up to 8 Meg". However a series of checks over a number of days this week found that my downloads are actually running at between 119 and 137 Kbps. Barely double dial-up speed. Email complaints remain unanswered. Phone complaints are (eventually) channelled through to a call centre in India which leaves you on hold for so long that the line cuts out. I know, I know: caveat emptor. But am I alone with this problem? And has anyone found a way of getting Carphone Warehouse to address it? Kent Barker (no post town given)Thanks for explaining why it takes so long to connrct to broadband. I wonder if you could find out why connecting to Orange broadband is so frustrating. After going through the online process - very clear and straightforward and taking about 10 minutes - and giving payment details - the very last page says Sorry, thanks to our improving the system ,we can't take this order now! The help line don't seem to know what's going on and after three goes on three days, I'm about to switch to another company! It wouldn't be so bad if they didn't blame an improving service and why can't they tell you at the start of the process that you won't be able to complete? Michael Peet (no post town given)Some time last year I transferred from Wanadoo (now Orange) to BT Broadband. When I had Wanadoo my connection was 1.1MB even though I was paying for a greater connection speed - 1.1MB was the original speed but they upgraded the service. However, I was told via the Wanadoo website that the fastest available connection on my telephone line was 1.1MB. I changed to BT and suddenly had a 4.4MB connection (which can fluctuate between 3.7 and 4.7). This seemed to me that BT were abusing their monopoly on telephone lines and only providing faster connections to BT customers. Furthermore, why is it not possible to have a broadband only telephone line without signing up for weekend call packages etc? Kevin Williams, YorkTECHNOBILE - NOKIA 1100How dare Peter Judge attack what he doesn't understand. I am a tech-savvy twenty-something who has used a variety of phones and 'smartphones', and knows his Symbian from his Siemens. Yet when I needed a new phone, I sought out the Nokia 1100 (which cost me £32 unlocked), for its simplicity, great looks, and great design. The menu interface is not just familiar, but also straightforward. Four buttons (up, down, clear and 'OK') suffice to navigate it. It is not filled with obvious ergonomic gotchas, where you find yourself pressing the same sequence of buttons again and again. The screen is not crowded, nor is it sluggishly unresponsive while loading over-designed colour graphics, unlike some phones at three times the cost and four times the processing power. Neither the manufacturer nor my network have seen fit to load the phone with intrusive adverts, unwanted 'Applications', or unnecessary screensavers. Peter Judge nitpicks that the phone doesn't work the way he likes it to. Here's a hint Peter, to turn off predictive text you select Options/Dictionary/Dictionary Off. Meanwhile, he dismisses in one sentence a thoughtful and original design touch (incorporating a torch) as well as the thing that really makes the 1100 worth having - its fortnight long battery life. Jack Grahl, LondonI traded in a defunct mobile (can't remember the make now) for a 'simple' model designed for the older user: I too only want to make the occasional pay-as-you-go phone call or text. I was sold a Vodafone Simply, for £60. I assumed the high price was the way they get the money back from someone who spends less than £10/month. The phone is fine for making and receiving calls, more complicated for texting (though I can't make a comparison with another model as I've never tried it on one). Screen is OK for the long-sighted, sound can be made louder. My beef is the instruction book. There are other things the phone can do, connected with computers, but I won't find out what they are from the book. It's more or less useless, like most instruction books with electronic gadgetry now, e.g. set-top box, TV, recorder etc. etc. These things should be written by someone who has only just learned how to use them, not the children who seem to be their authors, and who know by instinct. The hours spent struggling to bend the equipment to one's will, with instructions that use undefined vocabulary, or leave out crucial steps, can cause one to lose any interest in using it at all. On things I really, really want to make use of, I end up writing out my own idot-proof recipes for various procedures, the fruit of hours of fuming. Does this ring bells with anyone else over 65? Susan Saunders, TeddingtonWith reference to the Technobile article on 11th January, I would like to suggest that 'simple is as simple does' and it depends on what side of the fence you come from. As an uncertain'newbie' moving from a very old, unfriendly Motorola, to a Nokia 1100 I have gained new confidence. It matters not to me that it does not have a camera or music player, nor that predictive text is difficult to turn off, and there is plenty of space for my friends' telephone numbers. I can agree with Peter Judge that mobile phone designers ought to start again and design a very simple phone that will meet the needs of an ageing population, but at £19.50 from Carphone warehouse, the Nokia 1100 will do me nicely for now. S.Tideswell, Newcastle upon Tyne.So what's wrong with the Nokia 1100? Its a bit of an old design. Yes. Its got a long battery life (most people think this is good: you may be unique here Peter). Its a bit clunky. Yes. Predictive text is hard to turn off (true; but you may be clutching at straws here - is that really what makes it awful?) It costs £50 - only if you are stupid - the prices I've seen vary from £4.99 to £30 (with £10 airtime). But is it really worth an article to tell us that? Is Technology section short of good ideas (or good writers)? Why don't you tell us what simple mobiles are cheap and easy to use? (But that would take work: I can see a simple largely uninformed rant is much easier and fills space quickly). I know Guardian supplements are not the same quality journalism as the main paper, but you could at least try ... A disenchanted (can you tell?!) reader. Keith WaltonI've just bought my first mobile phone. I'm still not comfortable with the idea of people being able to contact me anywhere, but I'm quite technologically literate and did my research very carefully. Peter Judge, presumably, is only literate in the tones of righteous indignation. The Nokia 1110 is an old phone. There have been at least three iterations in the design since it was released. I bought a new and network free 1112 for £35 very easily after a quick search on the internet. I don't know what offer Mr Judge tried to pay £50 for, but it makes no sense with a low end phone such as the 1110. Contracts and Bundles were designed for expensive phones to reap the costs back from tying a customer down to the network. The principle attraction of a cheap phone is that you can switch network cheaply and easily at home or abroad. The Nokia 1112 still has many of the defects that Mr Judge complains of in the 1110 but to correct these would require an investment in User Interface Design which would push the price well above it's attractice entry level range. What advances in design that can be passed cheaply downstream (principally improved predictive text and menu navigation) have been. That is enough for price conscious customers like me, especially when supposedly top of the line phones like the Motorola RAZR have the same address book shortcoming of one number per contact. I can see the point that Mr Judge is belatedly trying to make. There is no cheap low end phone targetted specifically at first time users. But is there even a market for one? If you still don't have a phone, can't read a manual and don't have a friend who can help you learn then that's probably because you don't have a friend to call with it. Caoilte O'Connor, PooleIn response to Peter Judge's Technobile (today) I feel I have to spring to the defence of the Nokia 1100. It's far and away the easiest to use phone I have ever owned, to the extent that I refused the offer of an upgrade from my supplier just a couple of months ago. The interface is logical, consistent and predictable. And personally I prefer to have home, mobile and work numbers as separate entries in the contacts list. OK the underlying metaphor does take a little bit of getting used to, and I have seen new users struggle a bit at the start. But if all else fails there's always the manual, and in any case those nice people at CarPhone Warehouse are happy to help if you're stuck, even if you didn't buy the phone from them. Compared to the Nokia 1100, the Vodafone Simply for example (a Sagem VS3 underneath), which was heavy promoted by Vodaphone as being particularly easy to use, is a nightmare of confusion and inconsistency. Alistair Kilgour, EdinburghNokia 1100 - there is one part of the community that finds this phone easy to use, the blind. I have 3 blind friends with these and they are over the moon. Even one who has a Owaysis (ithink that's how it's spelt) phone especially designed for the blind is tempted. As well as being cheap, blind people are usually jobless but need help in an emergency, they are easy to use when you can't seen the buttons or display thanks to keypad design and tones. I have written instructions on use in braille for the use of the phone facility (I'm not blind but have one of these as a spare phone/Vodafone Sim when my Sony Ericsson Z600 /Virgin has no access especially abroad on payg). Shame Nokia stopped making a phone with a hearing aid loop for deaf users. So if being able to use a phone with your eyes shut doesn't make it easy, what does? If you try this with many new technology phones the keypads are useless - try the Razr for example. John Loader DotSix Brailling Services, ElyYour Technobile column has been causing me much frustration over the last few weeks. I'm not sure what it's supposed to be, but it reads like a column about technology written by someone who has absolutely no knowledge or understanding of it. For example in today's column, Peter Judge struggles to come to grips with the Nokia 1100. "Want to turn predictive text off? You'll have to find someone to do it for you." Or try pressing the hash key twice. Not particularly complicated. "Get the price right. £50 for this is a crime." I bought this phone two years ago from Carphone Warehouse for £30, obviously you shop in the wrong places. Likewise the previous week demonstrates a complete lack of understanding of basic computer security, along with the fact that he said he wrote it down on a post it note which is a very basic no-no of computer security. I could go on for the past weeks (The Blackberry email signature is a very normal form of advertising, just like when you email from Hotmail and it includes a Hotmail advert at the bottom of the message, nothing you can do about it apart from use a decent email service). Andy Stallard, TrowbridgeIMAGE SPAMOpera's mail client does an excellent job filtering out image spams (What have image spam and Captchas got in common?, January 11). Just a few days of training will relegate image spams to Opera's spam folder. Peter Kahrel, LancasterTERABYTE DRIVESOrdinary domestic IT users will have to become far more aware of backup issues in the future as drives get larger and larger. Charles Arthur makes the case for writable HD disks. I feel this is mistaken - I would argue that any backup routine that depends on the user actually doing anything themselves on a regular basis will ultimately fail as they will forget to do a backup at a crucial time. So if you are contemplating buying a terabyte drive you should consider buying two - one to store your precious irreplaceable data onto and a second to use as a clone which you will make sure is incrementally backed up every night, automatically, by a suitable backup programme. So this means it will do its stuff so long as the computer is switched on, without requiring any human intervention. I currently use a very simple but effective backup routine - over my home network my computer's internal 750gb hard drive is copied to a 1 TB NAS - network storage drive/server - (it's a Buffalo Terastation BTW) every night at 1:30 am. So at the very least I always have 2 copies of my personal stuff should anything go wrong on the computer or the backup! If I'm away from home on holiday I can lock the NAS away for even greater security. Anyone who trusts irreplaceable things like photographs to only one internal hard drive does not get any sympathy from me if it crashes. Keith W Robertson, LlanberisAs a former Senior Systems Engineer I would just like to say that I consider the Charles Arthur is one of the more foolish authors that I have read in many a year. He have, in one short article on January 11th 2007, undone many long hour work by Computer Professionals who have worked hard to get users to install safe, easy RAID 1 systems into their computers. Now that Motherboard manufacturers have learned to place the support hardware on most models all that is required of the user is to purchase the second hard disk and a whole world of pain and suffering can be avoided. Not just because their data is rarely backed up, but because their operating system and applications do not have to be reinstalled. Yet Charles sees this step forward to be "for the geek-erati" and he then immediately implants the idea of the computer bursting into flames. Know you nothing of psychology Mr Arthur? I will return to my RAID 1 equipped computer in disgust at an opportunity lost. Perhaps it is a good opportunity for my regular backup? John Paterson, Long Jetty, Australia.BILL'S CES VISIONI was surprised to read in "All abuzz, Bill sets his sights on networking your home ..." about the future of the in car system Sync "that will offer hands-free dialling, synchronisation with your mobile's address book, voice control of your MP3 player and even read your text messages to you". Fields from Microsoft "didn't explain how that will be implemented" but he could have as it is already in my Fiat Grande Punto as "Blue&amp;Me" which has done most of this since early 2006 and more recently read my texts by a downloadable software update. "Blue&amp;Me" is a collaboration between Fiat &amp; Microsoft so he has already implemented it! It will even control my iPod nano! See http://fiat.com and click on Blue&amp;Me Dr Chris Taggart, CoventryLG's DUAL DVD BETI'm gland to hear that LG is doing something about the current DVD format mess. I'm still upset that I have to be "stuck" with over 250 VHS movies in my collection. I'm not "allowed" to copy them to a DVD format because of antiquated copy right laws! The movie companies have FORCED me to buy the same movie, AGAIN, in a DVD format. I won't fall for that mess again. Once the new player,DVD HD or Blue Ray becomes the standard and the price for these player are reasonable, below $250, then I'll consider purchasing one. I'm happy to hear I don't have to replace my current collection of DVD's. That's good news. I'm leaning toward Blue Ray, what do you prefer and why? Moses Wogu, Harrisburg, PennsylvaniaAPPLE BUGS MONTHI fellow sent us the link to Charles Arthur's article related to the MoAB. While I don't necessarily agree with some of the points, there are others which lack of technical accuracy. "..... Which is probably a good thing for Apple, whose new iPhone runs OSX. If you're saying a company's software is full of holes, it looks bad when you're reduced by day 3 to pointing to a weakness in VLC, a cross-platform open-source media viewer. Things weren't much better on days 6, 7 or 8, which showed flaws in the PDF specification - which is hardly an Apple-only issue - in the third-party Omniweb browser (which got fixed the same day) and in a third-party add-on called Application Program Enhancer, which is far from universally used." Actually, the VLC bug is truly independent. But we, as stated in the FAQ, are publishing issues in widely used applications for OS X. But now, on release 6, I don't see the point of using it to down-play or question the MoAB itself, just to justify making an assumption regarding current Apple's software security. It affected Spotlight and the Preview applications because both rely on the same facilities to operate with PDF files. Regarding OmniWeb, the format string vulnerability is in Omniweb, but it involves a Apple library as well. "and in a third-party add-on called Application Program Enhancer, which is far from universally used." Well, ironically the author mentions afterwards: "Apple has not yet issued any fixes for the flaws. However, if you're fretting that d00dZ might be out to pwn your Mac, you could visit Landon Fuller's site, where he's trying to offer fixes and soothing noises for each of the MOAB bugs." Landon is making use of this APE application to create those fixes, thus everyone who has installed the "fixes" is exposed to the vulnerability (a privilege escalation issue which allows users to gain root privileges, and if used as payload for a remote exploit, allow complete compromise of the system). And again, the author has missed points about the whole thing: the vulnerability abuses a condition inherent to OS X right now (the fact that users in the 'admin' group, that is, all users by default who have a non-server copy of OS X, have write access to /Library/Frameworks) as well as the problem in APE itself (execution of a binary from a root-privileged process). Maybe next time the author can drop us a line for any questions and/or doubts he might have about the project, the issues being published and their security implications. "LMH"
The Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University has publishedGoodbye Gutenberg, an issue of Nieman Reports devoted to newspapers and journalism in the digital age.Contributions include Are Journalists the 21st Century's Buggy Whip Makers? by William Dietrich (Seattle Times), Will News Find a Home on YouTube? by Morris Jones (a lecturer in journalism) and Community Building on the Web: Implications for Journalism by Craig Newmark (founder of Craigslist).
Peter Gutmann from the University of Auckland, New Zealand, created a stir last month with a scary account of Vista's content protection systems and their overheads. (seeThe high cost of Windows Vista Content Protection, below.)Microsoft has now responded witha post on the Vista team's blog, with info from Dave Marsh, a lead program manager responsible for Windows' handling of video. And the response is pretty much what you'd expect: Winodws already contains code to support content protection (eg for DVDs), the code in Vista is required to play copy-protected high-def content, and it generally doesn't have any impact in other areas.There's a Top 20 questions, including this interesting example:Will the Windows Vista content protection board robustness recommendations increase the cost of graphics cards and reduce the number of build options?Everything was moving to be integrated on the one chip anyway and this is independent of content protection recommendations. Given that cost (particularly chip cost) is most heavily influenced by volume, it is actually better to avoid making things optional through the use of external chips. It is a happy side effect that this technology trend also reduces the number of vulnerable tracks on the board.One of the problems is that most people don't have any experience of protected high-definition content on Vista (including me), and most people have no comparable experience with other platforms. We can't, for example, compare Microsoft's approach with what Apple is doing in OS X, because Apple is keeping it secret. (It seems unlikely that Macs will be unable to play protected HD content.)
The door to the future is unexpectedly plain, a bare wood surface indistinguishable from thousands of others in Microsoft's functional headquarters. It gives no clue to the flights of fancy hidden inside.Step through it and you are immersed in a world of virtual wallpaper, intelligent fridges, talking recipe books, wardrobes that dispense fashion advice and the entire human catalogue of art, film and literature on demand.Microsoft built the 'home of the future' in Redmond, near Seattle. Its policy is that all the items in the home should take no longer than six years to become affordable to consumers. A measure of scepticism does not go amiss, for the 'home of the future's' record as an oracle is mixed. When it opened in 1994, it featured interactive TV, a forerunner of today's growing broadband television services, and 'audio on demand', which anticipated consumers' ability to get any song streamed into their home, now a reality thanks to websites such as iTunes.Less prophetic was a touch-screen fridge, an idea which went unrealised because while fridges are expected to last between 10 and 15 years, their digital element becomes dated in about three. Earlier versions of the home - it is updated every two years - were opened by iris scans rather than keys and contained miniature cameras in every room, but neither concept was in evidence when The Observer toured last week.The home looks affluent but not particularly space age. Cutting-edge technology has been grafted on, while trying to remain unobtrusive: speech recognition, tiny radio frequency tags and ultra-thin moving light displays combine with wireless internet.Conducting the tour, Jonathan Cluts, Microsoft's director of 'strategic prototyping', unlocked the door with his Pin-protected phone, stepped into the lobby and adjusted the lighting with a rotating switch. Then he spoke to the switch. 'Grace, what's up ?' A synthesised female voice replied: 'You are meeting with international reporters today. Jessie is out and has left an important message for you. You have a meeting later with Charles. Should I continue?'Saying Grace at the family table has a whole new meaning in Redmond. In every room Cluts could converse with the disembodied voice. But he denied that Grace is the central 'brain' of the entire house - evocative of Hal, the ship's computer in 2001: A Space Odyssey - and liable to lock you in the attic. 'It works as a central unified system, but it's just a mesh of different computers.'Cluts added that although his young son will one day think nothing of conversing with a wall, today people crave something more visual. On the wall appeared a computer display showing the latest weather, family members' messages and locations, the house temperature and security control and entertainment options. There was no screen. Instead the graphics were projected from behind the paint on the wall.The home of the future naturally has a wide flat-screen television. Cluts said: 'Ten years from now it's imaginable that all the content ever created will be available on your family TV. But the worst thing imaginable would be to throw it at you all at once.' So even your TV becomes 'intelligent': it suggests Field of Dreams because today is the anniversary of your trip to Iowa to see where it was filmed.Nearby, Cluts placed a souvenir miniature of the Eiffel Tower in an alcove and, as if by magic, photographs from his trip to Paris filled the eight surrounding digital frames. Could it really recognise the Eiffel Tower? Not exactly. The souvenir had been fitted with a radio frequency identification, or RFID, tag which told the computer it matched the dates when Cluts took his photos in the French capital.The tags, which each cost about a penny to produce, will be central to the home of the future. When a paper invitation containing an RFID tag is pinned on the family bulletin board, it communicates automatically with the worldwide web, and a virtual display drops down asking if you want to RSVP. The board is full of such displays, woven into its fabric. Cluts believes that five or six years from now the board may be available for less than &pound;100.All these remain 'concepts' which may or may not see the light of day. The home of the future offers some tantalising hints about the way we might live in the not so distant future. But those who want to move in now should think twice. Microsoft did not build a bathroom.
Iveco StralisPrice:&pound;70,550Miles per gallon:9Payload:28 tonnesGood for:Long haulersBad for:Lane crawlersTruck drivers. All brawn, belly and brainlessness. And whether they're cutting you up or menacing you with their bulk, HGV drivers are the Yorkie-chomping heifers of the highway who take a prop forward's approach to road manners. Well, not quite. Like most stereotypes, there's a pantechnicon-sized gulf between fact and fantasy.To start with, the new generation of power-assisted, super-responsive trucks can easily be driven by someone who makes Kylie look like Phil Vickery. Secondly, Paul, a lifelong trucker who has agreed to talk me through the finer arts of handling a vehicle the same size as an adolescent blue whale, is as gently spoken, patient and courteous as David Niven (though when I replaced his dashboard copy of the Sun with The Observer and his chocolate with a bar of Green &amp; Black's, it was all he could do not to choke on his roll-up).There is currently a massive national shortfall in the number of people choosing to become truckers - an estimated 25,000 HGV drivers are needed to fill the gap - and, like it or not, almost everything we buy starts or ends up on the back of a lorry. At the moment only 1 per cent of drivers are women and only 3 per cent are under 25, so the organisation Skills for Logistics is working to combat the industry's poor reputation by showing hours can be flexible, that pay is good (a skilled tanker driver can earn &pound;40,000) and that huge lorries are not 'too heavy to handle'. If they have their way, knitting circles and pilates groups will soon be setting up in trucker stops across the country.As a novice, I've been invited to the Millbrook Proving Ground, outside Milton Keynes, to pit my wits against one of these behemoths of the motorway. I don't have an HGV licence and have never driven anything bigger than a Transit, so the car-free roads of the test centre are not so much a bonus as a necessity. Paul rolls into view in an Italian Stralis 450. It's hard not to be gobsmacked by its enormity - 16.5m long, 2.4m wide and 4m high. It is fully loaded with steel blocks and weighs in at 40 tonnes. The 10-litre, 6-cylinder engine grunts as it takes the strain. The truck does about 9 miles to the gallon - there are sports cars out there that do less than double that, but not many of them have a payload capacity equivalent to 20 Transit vans.Paul invites me to climb the four steps up to the 'air-ride' cab. It's impossible to escape that king of the road feeling. The vast engine generates so much torque that even fully loaded it easily pulls off in third gear; first and second being reserved for inclines. After that, well, it's a doddle. Going forward is, anyway. Reversing was another matter, and it took me four goes and dozens of yards of smeared rubber to back my trailer into a mocked-up warehouse. Towards the end of the day, I took the truck out on to a long stretch of road and, selecting 12th gear, accelerated up to the 90kph limit. I looked out at the grey ribbon stretching ahead of me, the walkie-talkie squawked into life and it was all I could do not to give the air-horn a long, loud blast.&#183;For information, go toskillsforlogistics.org
A couple of years ago, I wrote a column (From 'Baby Bells' to the big cheese) about how the US Justice Department had disassembled AT&amp;T, America's telephone monopoly, and how it was being reassembled by the market.The same point has been beautifully made on US TV by Stephen Colbert, and you can watch it as 1 minute 14 seconds of YouTube video.What's missing is that many of these telco deals involved vast amounts of money. At the extreme, SBC bought Ameritech for $62 billion while Verizon (formerly Bell Atlantic) bought Nynex for $25.6 billion and GTE (General Telephone and Electronics) for $53 billion. We can also assume that these multibillion dollar deals generated a lot of business -- and fees -- for the people involved, including the lawyers. It wasn't just a case of changing the labels.So while the US Justice Department's interference ultimately failed, it probably made a lot of people obscenely rich. But not the phone companies' customers, of course.
A rich and extremely secretive multinational megacorporation is planning to take over the world, according to the man who goes by the stage name ofRobert Cringely:We won't know if we're accessing the Internet or Google and for all practical purposes it won't matter. Google will become our phone company, our cable company, our stereo system and our digital video recorder. Soon we won't be able to live without Google, which will have marginalized the ISPs and assumed most of the market capitalization of all the service providers it has undermined -- about $1 trillion in all -- which places today's $500 Google share price about eight times too low.Cringely specialises in adding two and two and getting at least 17.94. In this case, the sum includes Google's control of vast amounts of communications network fibre and its strategy of building lots of huge data centres next to sources of cheap power. This is necessary, says Cringely, so that Google can supply us all with the 3GB (or whatever) of downloads we'll need per day, instead of the 3GB we use per month. Or whatever. We don't need to mention Skynet, do we?The column belongs to the great tradition of "And tomorrow, the world" stories that always used to be about IBM or AT&amp;T, and later were about Microsoft. Among today's monopolies, Google is starting to approach "best fit". It's all good fun, as long as you don't take it too seriously.
Every Extend ExtraPSPBVG, &pound;40Tetsuya Mizuguchi, the games maestro behind Every Extend Extra, was previously responsible for Rez, a game that combined pulsing techno and hallucinatory visuals with a beautifully crafted shoot-'em-up. He also made the popular but bland Lumines and it's no coincidence that EEE sits uncomfortably between the two. A pumped-up remix of free web game Every Extend, its central conceit is that, rather than shoot enemies, you blow yourself up as enemy formations converge on the screen, taking as many of them with you as possible in a series of increasingly intricate chain reactions. Timing your conflagration is everything, and power-ups gradually speed the flow of enemies letting you rack up bonuses. Alluring, visually exciting and peculiarly mellow for its genre.Star Fox CommandNintendo DSNintendo, &pound;30The Star Fox series has episodes that range from brilliant to bland, but is undoubtedly is at its strongest when it concentrates on letting you shoot things up in space. Star Fox Command spends approximately 60% of its time doing just that, putting you in control of Fox or one of his space-faring woodland chums as you take it to Star Wolf and other foes of the Lylat System. You also then need to undertake a spot of mildly tactical work, plotting flight paths on the touch screen and protecting your mother ship from attack. While fun and reasonably challenging initially, the shooting levels lack sufficient variety to make you thirst for more and the strategic bits seem distinctly anaemic if you're used to the subtle delights of Advance Wars. With a plot so mica-thin it smacks of not really trying, Star Fox Command is a reasonable game suffering from a slight identity crisis.Lost Planet: Extreme ConditionXbox 360Capcom, &pound;50Human colonised ice planet EDN III is under attack by alien insect species the Akrid. Your job is to cull them, along with the crafty Space Pirates also hiding out on the planet, harvesting the energy they leave behind to keep from freezing to death. The usual coterie of machine gun/shotgun/rocket launcher is joined by Lost Planet's other weapon of choice, the Vital Suit - those robotic walking tanks Japanese game designers are so fond of. Levels make you walk from one end to the other, systematically killing everything in your path. Players of angst-ridden, giant-killing simulator Shadow Of The Colossus will be wondering whether all this extermination is morally justifiable, but for those untroubled by such ethical dilemmas, it's engrossing stuff and very hard to put down when you're cutting a swathe through the large, angry arthropods.
MondaySecond Life goes Open Source, and other virtual world newsNintendo salesInternet news gatherers savour PS3 gloomTuesdayPoliticians don't have to be gamers...Burning CrusadeTamagotchi meets WiiLost Planet finds top of chartsWednesdayHow computer games helps children learnPS3 launches, cancellations and awardsTen sacked in Wii tragedyThursdayTechnologyVistARGXbox 360 is where Gates wants it to beFridayBurning Crusade interviewRaph Koster talks AreaeFriday haiku challenge
Time for this week'sFriday Afternoon Question, where we ask you to amuse, entertain and inform us all with your answers.With the turn of the new year fading from our memories, my mind was cast back to the dim and distant past, and the origins of geekdom. Well, my geekdom, anyway. So, in the spirit of living history, here's this week's question:What's your first tech memory?Mine, I think, was taking apart a Fisher Price record player - you know, the sort where you play tinny notes using a plastic disk covered in bumps - because I wanted to know where the noise was coming from. That led to a series of de-constructions of gizmos (or destructions, more accurately) including, most tragically, a prized Megatron transformer on Christmas morning. In my enthusiasm to take the toy apart, I managed to snap it in half, leading to much kiddy angst.Yes, I know, Fisher Price isn't hi-tech - but it's a clear memory of the first time I mucked about with something in this way... a pattern which progressed to computers and suchlike in my tweenage years.So, get reminiscing: the winner will receive an as-yet-unspecified prize from my technological goody bag.
You'll remember iSuppli as the company that worked out the cost of the parts in an Xbox 360 and showedhow expensive the PlayStation 3 was to make. Now it has costed Apple's iPhone -- without having one to take apart. And it reckons the margin is around 50%.According to the press release::iSuppli estimates the 4Gbyte version of the Apple iPhone will carry a $229.85 hardware BoM and manufacturing cost and a $245.83 total expense, yielding a 50.7 percent margin on each unit sold at the $499 retail price," said Andrew Rassweiler, teardown services manager and senior analyst for iSuppli. "Meanwhile, the 8GByte Apple iPhone will sport a $264.85 hardware cost and a $280.83 total expense, amounting to a 53.1 percent margin at the $599 retail price."iSuppli claims it has "a high degree of confidence in its conclusions".The disappointing thing is that the bill of materials doesn't include a CPU, andsince the first few minutes of the unveiling, I've beenwondering what the CPU is. iSuppli only includes an "application processor" priced at $18.50.When asked what the CPU is, Apple refuses to say. So, does it have one, and if so, what is it?If you are opening a book on the answer, the main contenders have been (1) the Acorn ARM chip (as used in the Apple's previous PDA, the Newton), and (2)some unannounced Intel chip, probably from the designers in Israel. These guys did the Banias processor (see my report from September 19, 2002) used in the Centrino package, leading Intel to abandon its line of US-designed NetBurst Pentiums and switch over. Rank outsiders could include a Transmeta chip or some in-house Apple design.The Intel theory does have some appeal -- why else would Apple keep the processor a secret? However, it would mean that Apple took a big bet several years ago on Intel coming up with a secret x86 compatible processor with ARM-like performance per watt. That would be an impressive leap of faith on Apple's part. Especially for a company with a history of ridiculing Intel chips in advertisements that claimed the Pentium was toast.Also counting against the Intel idea aredenials from both Apple and Intel."Intel's is not the processor in the iPhone," a spokeswoman for Apple in San Francisco told Reuters by telephone, denying an earlier statement by a spokesman for Apple Germany who had said the processor was Intel's."We are not providing the silicon inside the iPhone," Intel spokesman Bill Kirkus told Reuters. "We are providing the silicon inside the Apple TV."But if the iPhone is running what's claimed to be a version of Mac OS X at a reasonable speed on a $20 chipfrom PortalPlayer Inc, why bother putting Intel chips in Macs?Charles Arthur adds:iSuppli's costs do include "non-hardware items", including an intriguing "$7.00" (don't you love that three-sig-fig precision?) for "OSX". (Note, notMacOSX.) Quite how they come to this conclusion is, frankly, anyone's guess, because they don't show their working. (Nul points.)Nothing however for cost of sales, marketing, R+D, and those other little things which occasionally trouble the accounts department of any small or big organisation.You'd have to think that on this the cost of Microsoft Windows Vista as calculated by iSuppli would come out at around $1 per disc. Hey, the physical media are cheap.. Actually, we'll keep a lookout for that press release.
As a technology journalist I've spent the last few months perusing thousands of lines of stat-packed analysis regarding the current state and immediate future of the videogame industry. Frankly, if I have to read one more gargantuan forecast on the next-gen console wars, I think I'll flip out and go into some kind of psycho-technological meltdown.What we need is some clarity.So here's a Friday afternoon challenge for you - construct a haiku to explain, and perhaps even predict the outcome of, the Sony/Nintendo/Microsoft situation. Scholars of Japanese literature would probably shudder at my brevity, but for our purposes a haiku is a three line poem of 17 syllables - five in the first line, seven in the second, five in the last.Here's mine...Sony's grip is tried By playful old Nintendo Xbox watches. Waits...Youcando better
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
The rocket carrying New Horizons takes off last year. Photograph: Terry Renna/APA Nasa spacecraft on its way to investigate Pluto and the Kuiper Belt is making a useful pitstop/pass at the solar system's biggest planet.New Horizons, which took off from Cape Canaveral last January, has now reached Jupiter, according to this fromScience Daily:The New Horizons mission team will use the flyby to put the probe's systems and seven science instruments through the paces of more than 700 observations of Jupiter and its four largest moons. The planned observations from January through June include scans of Jupiter's turbulent, stormy atmosphere; a detailed survey of its ring system; and a detailed study of Jupiter's moons.The spacecraft also will take the first-ever trip down the long "tail" of Jupiter's magnetosphere, a wide stream of charged particles that extends tens of millions of miles beyond the planet, and the first close-up look at the "Little Red Spot," a nascent storm south of Jupiter's famous Great Red Spot.However, the most important reason for passing by Jupiter is to get a little bit of speed up: using the planet's gravity to shootNew Horizonseven faster into the depths of the system - to an incredible 52,000 miles an hour.However, even at that rate, it's still going to take some time for the ship to reach Pluto - which, of course, isn't even a planet any more. It doesn't get to that particularKBOuntil July 2015.
Raph Koster's pre-Christmas announcement about his new projectAreaekicked offdigital mountains of speculationabout what the celebrated game and virtual world designer (and prolific blogger) had up his sleeve. The details out there are sketchy, often scraped together through a combination of information fragments, rare snippits of insider knowledge and raftloads of speculation, so I contacted Raph to find out just what this new MMOG-meets-Web 2.0 project is all about.There's been a huge amount of speculation about your new project, Areae. Most of it centres around the marriage of MMOs and Web 2.0 applications. Why marry these?It's clear that the Web has developed tremendously in the last decade. We have better applications, way better interactivity and interfaces, much more agile development, open standards and APIs all over the place... On the other hand, the MMO world still looks much like it did in 1996-1997. We have big proprietary closed services, with no interoperable data, specialized clients - basically, it all looks like AOL used to.I think there is a lot for each side to learn from each other. A lot of the web services have gotten more interactive, but not more compelling - there's a lot that games can teach about incentive structures, feedback, and well, just plain fun. People tend to like all the game-like features on websites, like collecting stuff, ratings, badges, rankings, and the like. And on the flip side, I think that games have a lot to learn from the way the Web works today, from almost every angle. Some of those lessons are the same ones that other content industries are learning rather painfully: about new distribution models, digital delivery, the value of free content, DRM, and so on... and others are about things like different development practices, "launch early, launch often," rapid feedback cycles listening to users, that sort of thing.Looking at the Areaeadvisory board, you've got a nice mix of game developers and web community gurus. What can game developers offer Web 2.0 creators?The fact is that Web 2.0 is increasingly encroaching on entertainment's turf. It tends to be shallower, less immersive entertainment than the big budget productions that the traditional publishers create, but it's still entertainment. There's now a massive and rapidly expanding ecology of games and game developers that bypass the mainstream industry altogether, and a lot of those folks are approaching it from the web side: stuff like Club Penguin, Gaia Online, Habbo Hotel, and so on, aren't the sort of thing that would ever be made only within the game industry.If I had to identify the big things that web developers can learn more about from game developers, I'd say it's about flow, entertaining the user, content, direction, incentive structures.What can Web 2.0 creators offer game developers?I actually wrotea whole postcovering this on my blog a while back.I think a lot of what the game world can learn harkens back to the old cathedral and bazaar thing. Games are clearly cathedrals, as built right now. Each one is a moon shoot. (That's why we get so little innovation in the games, really: the costs are so high that is limits innovation). I'd say that chief virtues the Web has that games could emulate include the notions of digital distribution - basically, an acknowledgement that we basically sell worthless bits, and have to reach an accommodation with the current world on that -, the notion of products as platforms, particularly data-driven platforms. Games tend to be one-shot special case code. The notion of theKISS[Keep It Simple, Stupid] principle, because again, games are basically baroque in their complexity both as code and often in the user interaction model. And lastly, a lot of the web characteristics like "small pieces loosely joined," open APIs and client agnosticism, and so on, are clearly things that are missing in the game world.Which interactive apps have inspired you from a design perspective (perhaps even unsuccessful ones)?On the Web side, I think one is wise to look at the big hits - Amazon, eBay, MySpace, Flickr, del.icio.us, and so on, of course. But also many of the smaller things have a lot to teach. A really cool one I just saw wasGeni, which is a very Web 2.0 genealogy site. Really, learning is everywhere, you just have to be open to it.Which innovations do you feel are the most successful in practice?It's important not to over-innovate - and by that, I don't really mean trying too many new things, but rather not stretching beyond what the users really want. It's all too easy to get caught up in the coolness of what you are making without pausing to consider whether anyone else actually wants it. This means that often small incremental innovations are the best way to go. But the danger there is also that if you only ever pile small stuff on top of more small stuff, you end up with these fractally complicated sorts of apps, like Microsoft Word. Sometimes you have to go back, wipe the slate clean, and question fundamental assumptions. I think each approach has its merits at different times in a product's lifecycle.The market for MMOGs exploded with WoW, but arguably, the worldwide population who plays them is dwarfed by the number of people who engage in Web 2.0 apps like online social networks (MySpace, for example).Why is "game" important in Areae?The most successful social networking apps were the ones that had "something to do." People don't show up to just chat. They show up to chat about something. It's just like the real world - you plan social events around activities of some sort. On something like Orkut, the only thing to do was to gather more connections. But on MySpace, clearly a lot was driven by the emphasis on music, and still is.In our case, we think that having fun stuff to do right off the bat is incredibly important. And that's where games come in. Practically everyone is a gamer -- it's really a question of what games they feel comfortable playing, be it bridge or Battlefield 2142.Expect more on Areae later in the year.
You've probably seen thelaunch event picsbut World of Warcraft's first expansion pack, Burning Crusade, arrived this week. Blizzard execs were over in Europe for the occasion and I had a chat with the Euro boss Itzak-Ben and game designer Jon LeCraft. Stupidly I forgot to ask when they expected the first players to reach the new highest level of 70. Apparently it took a committed/sad playeronly 28 hoursto do. Anyway...What is BC is how will it improve on WoW?Jon LeCraft - It will take WoW to the next level, literally, and allow you to experience a whole new set of challenges and content. You'll be able to do a lot more things with your friends as we have a lot more instances, many with lower requirements. Also you can play as a Horde Paladin or Alliance Shaman, which will certainly add a dimension to the game.Why do you regard BC as so important? Isn't it just an expansion pack?Itzik Ben Bassat - I think a lot of it is down to our history as a company. Every time we release a product we've had huge interest and we don't release anything until it is meets the quality level we set ourselves.What were the challenges in creating BC from a design point of view? How easy was it to merge the new area with the original?JL - It was relatively easy, although I shouldn't probably say that, as we already had the dark portal. All good design looks like it was easy to do but it took a long time to get that to where we wanted. We had to balance the demands of the more committed players and yet still appeal to more casual players. So we've got the whole of Outland with a load of quests, dungeons and new things to see and do, such as jewel-crafting. And then we have the two new races with unique starting areas. So it was a challenge to make sure everything ties together and also keep a constant eye on the balance of the game.Do you expect BC to tempt in new players, or is it for hardcore fans only?JT - New players will enjoy the new races and the starting areas so BC is definitely not just for current players..How do you keep the hard core players happy? Do you take any notice of the forums?JT - Those guys are very important to us and we do keep a close eye on the forums. We provide content as quickly as we can while maintaining the Blizzard level of quality. A lot of that content is very difficult and a real challenge. IB - All the new content is heavily played on our test servers before we launch it on the game proper. This gives us good indication of how popular the content will be.Other MMOs such as Everquest have higher PC requirements and arguably better graphics?IB - Having the game have reasonable computer requirements is an important part of what WoW is about. It isn't just about being popular in Europe or the US. WoW is popular in Thailand, Turkey etc. We don't want our players to spend 500 pounds on a graphics card just to play our game. We think WoW has great visuals and you won't get bored looking at it.How important is PvP in BC?JL - It isn't essential by any means. You can still achieve your goals or get great gear by doing the instances. But we've revamped the whole system now. There is no rank decay now, which means you don't lose rank when not playing. The new arena system is skill based and makes things more varied and competitive too.How do stop gold-farming and cheating in general?IB - We have the tools in place which we have developed to combat this and we regularly delete accounts and tackle the problem. But there are cheats in the real world too; this isn't just a virtual world issue.What were the particular challenges for Blizzard setting up in Europe?IB - There were a lot of challenges, the biggest initial one being the establishment of our European office. We set it up in 2003 and it took a tremendous effort. Once we established that we helped foster a Blizzard culture with people from 24 nations coming together. On the bigger level we had the challenge of becoming a global company. Not only a relatively small game developer from Irvine, but a massive global company that provides games development and services.Doesn't this growth mean you lose focus and a grip on the quality of games?IB - For some companies it might have done but Blizzard is run and managed by gamers. VPs in the organisation have been in the company for 11 years. The core philosophy hasn't changed. People talk about leaving Blizzard and coming back but we're proud of those guys who have gone on to create their own development teams.One of the most appealing elements of WoW is the sense of a coherent world. Does BC, and the new external area of Outland, disconnect players from Azeroth and ruin the sense of place?JT - You step through the portal and it feels like it's connected. But Outland is far away and it does look different. But when I step through the portal I definitely feel I'm still in the Warcraft universe.How important do you think the lore and story of WoW is for players.JL - The lore is very important as it is what makes this a realistic world. We know not everyone gets into is as other people. But it's there and even if you glimpse a piece of it here and there it's going to be cohesive and make sense. We've got these big storylines with people like Illidian and you're going to want to know what goes on with him. And even at the lower levels with people like Van Cleef.Do you have any stats on male/female usage in WoW and any idea why WoW has proven more popular with women than other MMOs?IB - It's around 80/20 male female. The main reasons are the social aspect of the game and probably the customisation element. We have attention to detail in the game and the action isn't just about shooting or super fast reflexes.When are you releasing a new Starcraft or Diablo?IB - As you know we have two other very successful franchises - Diablo and Starcraft. All of us really want to see both of these games continuing their progress; there is nothing we want more. It has been too long since the last Starcraft game. Back in the 90s we launched Battle.net which had over 13 million active subscribers, despite the ISPs charging by the minute. Battle.net really helped develop the Diablo and Starcraft franchises. WoW is a progression of this and the broadband future holds huge promise for how we develop games. How will you communicate with your friends? In-game, cellphone, we don't know. And then there are the possibilities around in-game broadcasting. There are so many possibilities with broadband and it is up to us to keep the quality while exploring these new opportunities.
"I can't stand the sound of today's CDs," says Roland Stauber, a 39-year-old music lover who works in the automotive industry. "They sound harsh and loud. I hardly buy new releases any more."Music nostalgia is nothing new, but this is different. There are solid technical reasons why CDs mastered today sound inferior to those made 15 years ago. The engineers who make the "master" - the mix from which the CD is pressed - are under irresistible pressure to compromise sound quality.Tim Young masters albums at the Metropolis Studios in London. He has impeccable credentials, having worked with bands from the Clash and the Smiths back in the 1970s to Madonna, Iron Maiden and the Sugababes today. "Everyone's chasing immediate impact," he explains. "What happens is all the loud parts of the album have to be as loud as the opening track. So you get a fatiguing effect. There's no light and shade in it."Young has first-hand experience of the "loudness wars", where studios compete to make ever louder CDs. "When CDs emerged as a format in the mid-80s, there wasn't a great deal you could do to make them louder. In the first half of the 1990s, various [electronics] boxes started to appear that meant you could get more apparent loudness. Mastering engineers, initially in America, started using these to make CDs louder. The impact travelled across the Atlantic," he says.Damaged music"In 1992 I did an album for a British heavy metal band. I got a panic-stricken message from their A&amp;R man in America, saying 'We're really worried, the new album, it's not as loud as Aerosmith' or something. That was the start of it."Of course, the mastering engineer has no control over how loud a CD gets played. But this is about the volume of the low-level signal encoded on the CD. Artists and record companies hope that louder music will stand out, but in practice the listener may just turn it down. Unfortunately, the techniques used to maximise the volume are damaging the music itself.Steve Hoffman specialises in remastering classic rock albums, and he's a vocal opponent of the loudness wars. Asked to comment on recent releases, one from Lily Allen and the other from the Arctic Monkeys, he says: "Everything is loud, everything is bright, there's no subtlety in it at all, it's a sound that one would tire of fairly quickly."Why does it sound bad? "A lot of signal processing is in the mastering stage, the type of processing that was almost impossible in the old days of analogue," says Hoffman. "Now you have digital workstations which mercilessly zap all the dynamics out of music. The other problem is overuse of equalisation (EQ). Equalisation done digitally is very harsh, and most mastering engineers tend to overuse it. You just crank up the EQ and then you compress it digitally so everything sounds like a machine gun, and then it all sounds really loud."Unfortunately, once the dynamics are shaved off music, it's impossible to get them back," says Hoffman. "It doesn't matter what volume you're playing at. When everything is loud, it doesn't sound loud any more. The only way that something can sound loud is if there's something quiet that precedes it, or else there's no frame of reference."Jason Howse is a sound engineer who has worked with artists including Diva, Faceless and A Guy Called Gerald. Referring to dance music, he said: "You basically want the record as loud as you can possibly get it, because it's going to be played in an environment where level is everything." But why not use the volume control to avoid the loss of dynamic range? "That would be the thing to do," he answered, "but it's just what's demanded from record companies, not from the listener, but from record companies and artists."Mastering engineers have little choice. "One of the myths that I'd like to eradicate is that this is all down to mastering engineers going crazy with their controls," says Young. "It's not. It's the artists and the producers who demand it."I had a famous 60s singer who's making a comeback this year. I'd mastered his album and I said, 'What do you think of it?' He said, 'It's great, but it's not as loud as the new Paul Simon. You've got to make it louder'."Hitting the wallHow much does it matter? To a small but vociferous minority it matters a lot. Internet forums buzz with discussions about which older CD or LP release has the best sound as fans seek out the music of their youth."There's nothing wrong with distorted over-limited CDs per se," says Graham Sutton, a musician with Bark Psychosis and a sound engineer. "It's all aesthetics, after all. But what might suit Whitehouse or Merzbow might not be right for Norah Jones. It's now at the point where CDs cannot get any louder, just more distorted."The brick wall has been reached. I wonder how long it will be before the record companies re-re-release their back catalogue, re-re-mastered for additional dynamic range?"&#183; Compromised CDsLily AllenAlright, Still (Regal, 2006)This bouncy pop might sound better if it were not mastered for loudness at the expense of dynamic range.Iggy Pop and the StoogesRaw Power (Columbia, 1997)Remixed by Pop in 1997, this remains among "the loudest CDs ever made".Red Hot Chili PeppersCalifornication (Warner, 1999)Criticised for excessive compression and distortion. Subject of an online petition calling for a reissue.Oasis(What's the Story) Morning Glory (Creation, 1995)Exceptionally loud album that forced others to compete in volume.RushVapor Trails (Warner, 2002)"I can't get into this album at all, it lacks clarity, the songs sound the same," says one user review on Amazon. The overloud mastering may be to blame for this perception.Paul SimonSurprise (Warner, 2006)Even long-established folk stars are competing in the loudness wars, to the detriment of the sound quality.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I'm gearing up for a slap. No, I've not been boasting about my unbeatable record in multiplayer Advance Wars DS again. I'm going to make a controversial claim that my fellow gamesblogger Keith adamantly - and violently, according to last week's column - believes is false. Games are an accepted mainstream art form. I'm going to go even further out on that limb, and say that they have been for years. So stuff that in your console, Mr Stuart.Let me explain. Just because notorious and vociferous Conservative MP Boris Johnson wrote a damning condemnation of the genre and the head of a film festival removed a controversial game from its lineup doesn't mean that they aren't art. Since the first person picked up the first paintbrush and tagged the local cave walls, there have been critics. Johnson's ire and the Sunbelt Festival's decision surely do more for the medium as art, cementing it both as a public focal point for outrage and a platform for creativity.The most surprising thing about antagonistic responses to games is that people actually listen to them. The medium has screeched so quickly to a position in which a huge number of people not only care but feel the need to impose their 2p-worth that most of the early coders have whiplash. It's taken less than 20 years for games to saturate the mainstream and to be accepted as a lifestyle choice. If we were two decades into the early years of cinema, we'd barely be out of the first porn era. Sure, computerised entertainment has had its fair share of sexual hiccups, but these have been extremely rare. It was only last year that there was enough gaming content to support a conference dedicated to its seedier side.In fact, gaming's first 20 years have had a profound effect on other media. Creatives from other entertainment arenas have adopted and adapted games' narrative structures, their look and feel and even their characters for their own devices. The industry has championed new production techniques that bring special effects to the big screen and simulations of history to the small one. They have introduced new platforms for statements and for satire, for public participation and for education.If you still don't believe that gaming is a mainstream art form, then visit London's Science Museum, where the Game On exhibition demonstrates just how much people accept the art and the entertainment of computer games as a mainstream medium.So before you lash out, remember that recognised great works of literature are still banned and a huge swathe of the population thinks Big Brother is great telly. Indeed, when contemplating what the mainstream thinks about art, there really is no accounting for taste.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you have ever found yourself wasting time with computers, there is a book just published to reassure you that you are not alone. Scott Rosenberg's Dreaming in Code describes four years in the life of some very clever, experienced, well-funded and thoughtful people trying to write Chandler, a better calendar and email program in a world which already has hundreds of them. After five years of full-time work, they have reached version 0.7alpha 4 - in other words, something hardly ready to be given away.This sounds like a farce. Yet some of the people involved are real coding heroes: the project was set up by Mitch Kapor, who designed Lotus 123; for the first two years it had the services of Andy Herzfeld, who wrote much of the firmware for the original Macintosh. So it's not easy to describe what went wrong. Rosenberg comes up with several explanations, but none of them are wholly satisfying. In fact his book is itself a casualty of Chandler.Obviously, the book would have worked if the program had been a tremendous success, as everyone expected in the beginning. Then there would have been a clear narrative thread: the story of how these people succeeded, around which could be woven explanations of why most software projects fail, as most do. And if Chandler itself had been an unequivocal failure, that would have been a story, too. As things stand, though, Chandler has passed into what Rosenberg calls "Software time" - a nightmarish state where the distance to the original goal increases the more work is done.So did Rosenberg's book. The more he wrote, the further he came from any conclusion. This is a shame, because he is an intelligent and thoughtful writer with an admirably clear style.Yet the only success stories he can come up with are those where very small teams - often only one programmer - try very hard to do one small thing rather than change the world. That is how Lotus 123, the first PC spreadsheet, was built, which made Mitch Kapor's fortune.The original Macintosh had only five programmers, among them Andy Herzfeld. But nowadays we have far more powerful computers and languages at our disposal than the pioneers of the 1980s did. Perhaps that is the real problem.Chandler was a much more ambitious project, in some ways, than a mere spreadsheet, or even than an operating system. It was, at least originally, a program that would reflect and order all the contents of our workspaces. You could put into it all of your thoughts, tasks and emails, and the program would let you understand and order it.There are already all programs that do parts of this. Rosenberg, like me, loves an old Windows one called Ecco Pro, which is fantastically good at linking people and snippets of information into coherent projects. But Ecco was dropped by the company which made it when Microsoft's Outlook came out, though you can still get it for free (atcompusol.org/ecco).But even Ecco users need email, which it doesn't handle. There is no one program that does all that Chandler should, though the web is full of software that promises to organise us. Perhaps the real problem is that mental organisation depend on a discipline that only human minds can exercise, and even we find it hard and time-consuming to acquire.Ordinary users know that computers are anti-productive devices, which make much greater demands on our self-control that pencil and paper could. There are so many things you might do that actually accomplishing any of them is impossible.Dreaming in Code proves, if nothing else, that this problem can affect extraordinary programmers, too. One of Rosenberg's heroes is the great computer scientist Donald Knuth, who in the 1970s took 10 years off from writing the definitive work on programming to write the programs with which it could be typeset.Today, he doesn't even use email, because it would interfere with the work of finishing his five-volume work, the Art of Computer Programming. It should be ready any year now, honest.thewormbook.com/helmintholog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's more than two decades since the last computer interface revolution - the mouse - and now the next one is just around the corner. Slightly lessthan a year ago, Jeff Han, a researcher at the computer science department at New York University, stood up in Monterey at the annual TED (Technology, Engineering, Design) conference, a showcase for interesting new products and ideas, and began demonstrating his new big idea.Standing in front of a 36" by 27" screen tilted towards him, he began demonstrating how he could operate a computer using just his hands. The crowd whooped. "I think this is going to change the way we interact with computers," Han said. (The 10-minute video can be seen onlinehere.)Future pointersThen last week Steve Jobs, chief executive of Apple, stood in front of an adoring crowd and showed off the iPhone. "Are we going to use a stylus?" asked Jobs rhetorically. "No, we're not. We're going to use the best pointing device in our world. We're born with 10 of them: our fingers."He demonstrated how he could, with a finger, flick through album art in its iPod capability, and then view a photo, and by pinching his fingers together on the screen make it smaller, or by drawing them apart enlarge it. (The iPhone demonstration can be seen viaapple.com/iphone.)Both Han and Jobs were showing off "multitouch" screens. But what makes those two demonstrations, 11 months apart, so remarkable is that they use two different technologies, on two screens of such different sizes, to identically dramatic effect. The upshot: this could be the start of a revolution in how we interact with computers.Jobs claims that Apple's "Multitouch" is more accurate than any standard touch display, that it ignores unintended touches and particularly lets you use more than one finger. "And boy, have we patented it," he added.Following Jobs's speech, Han said: "The iPhone is absolutely gorgeous, and I've always said, if there ever were a company to bring this kind of technology to the consumer market, it's Apple."Bruce Tognazzini, one of the original Apple team who is now a user interface expert, says the idea isn't new. "William [Bill] Buxton was pushing multi-hand input back in the 1980s," he notes on his blog (asktog.com). "Several researchers were experimenting with gestural interfaces in [the] 1990s, myself included. I was reminded of this only minutes after Steve's speech when my partner, Jakob Nielsen, called me to say, 'Jobs just announced your pinch interface!' ..." (Tognazzini enunciated the idea of "pinching" onscreen elements in a book in 1996.)But, he adds: "What's important [about the iPhone] is that, for the first time, so many great ideas and processes have been assembled in one device and made accessible to normal human beings. That's the genius of Steve Jobs; that's the genius of Apple."And it's certainly time for new ways to talk to your computer. When I spoke to Tognazzini in 2000, he remarked that the interface hadn't moved on since 1984: "You only have a single way to speak to the computer at present, which is the mouse click," he said. But he'd seen work at the University of Maryland: "You could use a gestural interface, so that to copy you would put two fingers on the object on the screen - a screen that would be on your desk, because it's tiring to hold your hands up to a vertical screen all day - and then pull them apart ... now, that would be a big improvement. And you could mix those with gestures and voice recognition." It sounds just like multi-touch systems.But revolutions, especially in the computer field, can't happen until all the pieces are in place. The mouse was the first interface revolution, but had to wait for computers to catch up.Replacing the proxy finger of the mouse with the real thing, or at least a handheld stylus, seemed like the GUI's obvious next development. That was the aim of Apple's Newton - a handheld computer launched in 1993 that, it was claimed, could recognise handwriting. (It could, but not necessarily the writer's.) The Palm interface, with its stylised "Graffiti" input via a stylus initially did well, but did not take over the world; people stuck with buttons on telephones.Nor have styluses worked for bigger computers; despite Bill Gates's forecast on the launch of the tablet PC in 2001 that "within five years it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America", they make up only about 1% of the market.Multi-touch systems could be the real revolution, though, by letting us do what we're good at - working with both our hands. For example, to open a folder and then sort the photos or documents in it by date or name, you could do it the long way, using the mouse, pointing, clicking, pointing, clicking. But with a two-handed screen-driven system, you'd tap on the folder and sort the items directly by hand. The closest we have at present is Opera's "mouse gestures" (also available in Firefox via an extension) which lets the user define actions with predefined mouse movement (such as closing a window when you inscribe a circle). But it's some way short of the potential of multi-touch screens.Apple's technology comes from a company called Fingerworks, which had been making multi-touch sensitive pads. Han's group has released engineering drawings of their system, which uses a semi-transparent screen with the computer output projected on to it from below. The position of a touch on the screen - to an accuracy of better than 2.5mm - is detected by its effect on the screen's reflectivity, measured by light bounced off its underside. But will it stand up to intensive use? Yann LeCun, the professor overseeing Han's work at NYU, says: "Jeff's technology is actually pretty robust. The sensing technology is optical, hence the sensor is not subject to wear and tear. The surface material on the screenis cheap and easily replaceable."The only thing that the touchscreen is not particularly good for is typing text," says LeCun. "For everything else, multi-touch is more convenient and more natural than a mouse or a stylus (including reading text). Also, using your hand and fingers is nice with a large screen, but not so nice for small screens. Jeff's technology is geared towards large-screen formats."Embrace the wavesBut isn't it tiring standing up waving your hands around? "It can be," LeCun agrees. He adds: "The idea of multi-touch interaction has been around for a long time. It's a pretty natural idea, really. The real question was a technological one: what sensing/display technology could make multi-touch practical, durable and cost-effective? Jeff's technology is the first one that demonstrates the practicality of large multi-user/multi-touch sensors, with essentially no limit in size."Of course, rather as it took a while for software developers to respond to the eagerness of users to embrace a GUI, the success of the two-handed or two- fingered screen will depend on how quickly applications appear that make the most of them. Those struggling with the ever-multiplying cascade of torn-off menus that programs such as Adobe Photoshop offer might cheer. The only question now is how quickly it will happen. Perhaps all the tablet needs to be a success is to lose its stylus - and grasp the future with both hands.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Government proposals to clean up the reputation of official figures on crime and hospital waiting lists have been criticised this week by watchdogs and data users. The Statistics and Registration Service Bill, now before Parliament, aims to create a new body to produce and scrutinise official statistics, free from political spin. However, critics say the proposals do not go far enough.Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign is interested in the bill for two reasons. First, national statistics are an important example of public sector information being posted free on the web. We would like to see all impersonal data collected by government to be made available this way, for the benefit both of democracy and the knowledge economy. Second, the governance regime now before Parliament could be applied to other types of data, from maps to weather forecasts.The bill, which had itssecond readinglast week will create an independent body called the Statistics Board, taking over the functions of the Office for National Statistics and its regulator, the Statistics Commission. However, the commission has warned that the bill could leave statistics vulnerable to meddling. It calls on the government to separate the board's "production" and "scrutiny" functions.Users of statistics have raised similar concerns. "We welcome the general idea, but it doesn't go far enough," said Keith Dugmore of the Statistics Users' Forum (statistics.gov.uk/about/statisticsusers). He warned that, as currently drafted, the bill would only guarantee the independence of statistics produced by the present Office for National Statistics - but not by other bodies which generate the headline-grabbing figures on education, health and crime. Given the Home Office admission this week that 30 of its 160 main sets of data are not good enough, that looks important. Dugmore says the board, rather than ministers, should be responsible for what data qualifies as "national" statistics.Present government policy is to allow the "market" (often other public bodies) to ensure the quality of data produced by its trading funds. If data were to be made freely available, that discipline, as well as revenue, might be lost. Free access to public-sector data will also require some independent mechanism to ensure that quality is maintained. If suitably amended, the statistics bill suggests a possible model: national data for the national good.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Imagine you are on the television programme University Challenge. Your starter for 10: identify which mobile has these specifications. Don't press the button until you are sure. Ready? Weight: 135 grams. Camera size: 2 megapixels. Data storage: 4GB to 8GB. Talktime: up to five hours. Connectivity: Wi-Fi and quad-band. Screen size: 3.5 inches; multi-touchscreen. At this point some bright spark presses the button ahead of you to say it is the KE850 variant of LG's Chocolate phone. Jeremy Paxman is thrown, because he has Apple's iPhone as the answer to the question, which was set before Engadget revealed that the Apple multi-touchscreen - almost the defining point of the phone -looks very similar to the LG phone, which won the International Forum Design Product Design Award for 2007.None of this is to detract from the amazing chutzpah with which Steve Jobs unveiled the iPhone last week, grabbing headlines all over the world. In terms of free publicity for a product that won't be available for six months - and then only in America - it was almost without precedent. It looks gorgeous, designed with the user, not telephone company revenues, in mind, and will have an eager market not least among Apple users (of which I am one).But hang on. Jobs claimed: "Once in a while a revolutionary product comes along that changes everything," adding that the device was "five years ahead of what's on any other phone" and would change the way people thought about mobile communication devices. Well, the mobile phone industry is at a crossroads at the moment. The "revolutionary" path would be in the direction of free telephone calls through the internet and capitalising on the revolution in user-generated content.I have been testing a couple of devices which are innovative in these directions. One is the Nokia N800, which has a much bigger screen than the iPhone, is driven by the Linux operating system and is an internet-only device unconnected with the mobile operators. It is impressive but, sadly, has to wait until the rest of the world catches up by installing widespread wireless networks. But it remains my best user mobile experience with the internet.The other, which I have mentioned before, is the 3 network's adaptation of Nokia's N73 model. In addition to good-quality streamed television (eat that, Steve) and unlimited data downloads to your phone under a fixed-price tariff, it also has a 3.2 megapixel camera with a Carl Zeiss lens that is almost certainly better than the iPhone's 2 megapixel device. At the weekend I tested the N73's Skype function, which gives you free one-click phone calls through the internet to any other Skype user.It is the only operator I know of on this side of the world that offers this through Skype (though other companies such as aq and Truphone offer free internet calls). The reason is simple. Operators are scared of losing all those lucrative voice revenues. The Skype button on the main screen of the N73 worked first time and I had a 30-minute conversation of reasonable quality. 3 is also pioneering user-generated content through mobiles with its SeeMeTV service, while the "revolutionary" Apple is sticking to its famed "walled garden" to keep out the backroom programmers who have been shut out of the mobile revolution but who thrived with the BBC B and the Spectrum. It is also limited in the US to one operator, Cingular, and, in what may be seen as its biggest weakness, the touchscreen is not obviously suited to single thumb-based texting, which - unlike in the US - is the main use of the mobile phone in Europe. Did anybody tell Steve that?But it is beautifully designed with special features and that may be enough to see it through. It is just a pity that this unique opportunity to redesign the mobile from the user's point of view didn't go a few, well, revolutionary steps further.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Four years ago, I was fab, fit and in my 40s with a dynamic marketing and media business, exciting social life and active sporting schedule. My lifestyle was exciting and affluent."But devastating symptoms forced Sarah Dacre, now 50, to transform her life. She rarely leaves her house in north London, which she has screened from electromagnetic radiation with foil-lined wallpaper and Nasa-designed silvered cloth over the windows. She limits her computer use and makes telephone calls only on a landline. "If we go out for a quick meal we have to be out at seven and leave by eight because that's when everyone arrives with all their phones and their BlackBerrys," she adds.Why? Because she is convinced that the cause of her symptoms is the electromagnetic fields (EMFs) emitted by computers, mobile phone handsets, cordless telephones, phone masts and the rest.Bewildering symptomsFaced with a bewildering array of symptoms - including hair loss, severe headaches, memory loss, insomnia, dizziness, heart palpitations, tinnitus and digestive problems - three doctors failed to diagnose and treat her illness. After 18 months of debilitating illness she made her own diagnosis, with the help of the internet. She believes she has developed electrosensitivity (ES).Estimates of how many people suffer from it are scarce, but they range from 3.2% in California to 8% in Germany. In the UK around 4% of people claim to experience symptoms. "There's a lot of [ES sufferers] around," said Denis Henshaw, a physics professor who is head of the human radiation effects group at Bristol University. "They are otherwise sane and sensible people. They are not all nutcases."Yet the scientific case for ES is almost non-existent. "I think the picture is getting more conclusive that it is not EMFs that are causing symptoms," says Dr James Rubin, a researcher at the Institute of Psychiatry in London. He has reviewed 31 studies into ES; none showed ES as a statistically significant cause of symptoms. "That still leaves open questions about what is the problem in that case. These people are certainly ill, and experience real symptoms."The World Health Organisation backs up his view. A position statement drafted in December 2005 says: "There is no scientific basis to link ES symptoms to EMF exposure. Further, ES is not a medical diagnosis, nor is it clear that it represents a single medical problem."The clearest data come from provocation studies, in which people who claim that, say, mobile phones make them ill are placed in a room with a mobile phone that is either on or off, and report to an researcher how they feel. Neither the patient nor the researcher knows when the phone is on. This double-blind condition eliminates the possibility that a sufferer might feel ill because of a psychological association between their symptoms and the phone's status.The researchers later compare the timings of the worst headaches, for example, for any correspondence with the times when the patient was bathed in radiation from the mobile phone. The message from dozens of provocation studies is clear: EMFs, or "electrosmog" to the campaigners, do not cause the symptoms.Dr Rubin's group published one such study in the prestigious British Medical Journal (tinyurl.com/yekoxp with criticism, and responses, at tinyurl.com/ydun89). It found no difference in reported effects, phone off or on. Dr Rubin suggests patients are experiencing an extreme "nocebo" effect: expecting something to make you unwell prompts real symptoms. This diagnosis is not very satisfying for sufferers. Rod Read, who runs a campaign group called electrosensitivity.org, says: "I find it really obnoxious to suggest that all of my 300 people are deluded. We reassure them that what they are experiencing is real."He initially encouraged sufferers to help the scientists by participating in research, but now advises them not to. He said that several sufferers have dropped out of studies because they have been made worse. Rubin responds: "When [participants] do drop out, they are just as likely to drop out after a placebo [exposure] as after a genuine [exposure]. So even here there is no evidence for genuine sensitivity."Also, even without the most sensitive of the sensitive, the people who do take part in these studies still report severe symptoms, even though they are subsequently shown to be not due to the EMFs. There is no real reason to think that the mechanism for the symptoms is psychological in these people, but biological in the ones who don't take part."Martin R&ouml;&ouml;sli at the University of Berne in Switzerland said although drop-outs might affect the results, after more than 30 studies there should have been more positive data if something really is going on. "You always have these drop-outs. If these people dropped out only in the exposure condition and not in the sham condition this would be reported in the study," he said. In his own study, the drop-outs were evenly distributed between the real and false exposure conditions.But Magda Havas, of Trent Unviersity in Ontario, Canada, says that scientists are demanding impossibly high standards of studies. "The medical community and the scientific establishment is very conservative," she says. "People doing novel research that begins to question the status quo have a very difficult time getting it published. Initially when you are working in a totally novel field you can't get money for that sort of research."Others maintain that research on the chronic effects of EMFs - for example, research suggesting that living under power lines might double the risk of leukaemia in children (tinyurl.com/y9unnu) - means scientists should keep an open mind. "There's an enormous number of studies showing various forms of effects," says Olle Johansson at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm. "It is of course of paramount importance to know exactly what is causing these problems."Whatever the cause, some scientists believe that some organisations set up to help sufferers may actually be making things worse by encouraging them to take elaborate measures to avoid EMF exposure. These include moving beds to line up with magnetic north or changing from a metal-sprung mattress to a foam one. Some groups sell or advocate expensive devices for detecting or shielding from EMFs. Rubin and his colleagues noted: "A danger exists that [these adjustments] will reinforce a patient's view of himself or herself as being sensitive to electromagnetic fields and put him or her at risk of developing symptoms association with other electrical stimuli."Benefit for patientsStacey Eltiti, who is part of a team doing a provocation study at Essex University, says: "I think in some ways [self-help groups] can be helpful and in some ways be harmful ... If all the time sufferers are being perhaps told false information or information that has been spun to make them more fearful and perhaps not showing them all the facts, that can put them into a worse state."One thing that everyone can agree on is that there needs to be more research into how to relieve the symptoms. Dr Rubin has reviewed nine studies into how to treat the condition. Four used cognitive behavioural therapy, two used computer screen filters, one looked at a shielding device and one studied acupuncture.He and his colleagues concluded that although the quality of all the studies was limited, only cognitive behavioural therapy showed a benefit for patients. They are cautious, though, because in none of the four studies did the researchers have a true control treatment. The apparent beneficial effects on patients may simply have been due to spending extended periods with a sympathetic therapist.For their part, the ES sufferers just want answers. "We are not unscientific or anti-scientific. We fully agree that there is not a scientific consensus," says Read. "We think the important question is how and why these people are suffering."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
On New Year's Eve there were two big bangs and the internet went away. Not just the internet: anything running on electricity."Neighbourhood transformer," said my host, dialling the automated line. About an hour later a truck rumbled past and the heat, TV and Christmas lights came back on.Not, however, my connection to my home mail server, which had by then been out for some hours. A little testing showed that the problem applied to a selection of British sites, not all provided by my home ISP, and friends confirmed they could reach my server.They call this "internet weather".I did the obvious thing: use a network tool known as "traceroute" to watch a few packets of data travel from here (Pennsylvania) to there (London). The test packets went from my host's home broadband provider, Comcast, to a New York router, where they were transferred to a backbone provider, Level3, which transmitted them to London and then handed them off to my ISP. There was a timeout - an internet black hole - at the point where Comcast met Level3 and another where Level3 went from New York to London.My ISP (whose owner chats on the same IRC channel I do) was sympathetic but his responsibility - my connection - was fine; and, he said, those timeouts shouldn't be a problem anyway.Calling Comcast's idiot-customer line seemed hopeless; its broadband connection was also fine, and why should an American cable giant care if an obscure British site was unreachable? Level3, the backbone transit provider, doesn't deal with end users; it only talks to its customers, ISPs.A tiny outage like this matters to an individual, but not to the net at large. When the net was smaller and simpler (and broke in big ways a lot more often), you might have had direct access to someone who could fix the problem. But whereas your local electricity infrastructure has a defined owner and known design, the internet has no central authority, no one's really in charge, and anyone can change their piece of it at any time. You would have to change the internet's fundamental nature to turn it into something as easily fixed as the electricity supply.Still, some way to tell a transit provider that something's going wrong midstream would be nice - perhaps a web notification form where you could post a traceroute, either on the transit provider's site or on the sites belonging to the main peering points such as London's LINX. It may not matter if an ecommerce purchase is delayed by a day, but supposing we switch to internet voting and a tranche of overseas or home voters can't reach the polling site on election day and there's no way to tell anyone?I just waited it out. Three or four hours later, Comcast's connection died entirely for a minute and then all of a sudden everything worked. Weather's like that.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If it reaches a court, even a judge might have to flip a coin on this one. You never would have thought that people went into the world of trademark law to live on the edge amid a swirl of stories and rumours, but that's been the tale of the "iPhone" ever since Steve Jobs uttered the word on Tuesday last week in San Francisco.People were stunned partly because the subject had been researched to death, and all the trademark databases suggested that Linksys, and its subsequent parent Cisco, filed for the "iPhone" name some time ago - 1996 in the US. (Have a look onuspto.govunder "Trademarks".) And generally, with trademarks, the first one in wins.Talks between the two companies which would have ceremonially handed the iPhone name over to Apple stalled the night before Jobs's speech because Cisco wanted to work with Apple on "interoperability". Quite why Jobs found this unpalatable isn't clear, but perhaps that's why he paused perhaps a touch longer than usual when next day he said "And we're calling it ..."Apple subsequently suggested there was no trademark overlap, because it is the only one using it for a mobile phone. Unfortunately, its description of the trademark's use contains the phrase "computer hardware and software for providing integrated telephone communication with computerized global information networks" - identical to Cisco's.But wait! To retain a trademark, you must use it. Cisco had six months to use or lose "iPhone", at least in the US, last May; it put out a product in December, seven months later. Could Apple squeeze in? Stay tuned! But in Canada, Toronto's Comwave has had an "iPhone" since 2004. Never mind, Steve: we hear "iPod Phone" is still free.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's the out-of-alpha-into-beta form of the Venice Project. Still bemused? The Venice Project was a cool codename for an online television system, and in reality came from a hotel conference room: not one Cornetto required. Now it's called Joost (joost.com) which, if it's Dutch, should start with a Y sound and rhyme with host, or toast. (Try "yohst".)This may not sound too cool to you, but it probably does to the co-founders, Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis. And before you skip the rest, those are the guys who launched the peer-to-peer music-sharing system KaZaA and the peer-to-peer telephone system Skype. Thus they have already shown that you can become disgustingly rich via P2P networking. Not many people are willing to bet against them hitting three jackpots in a row.Joost is billed as "a new way to watch TV, free of the schedules and restrictions that come with traditional television. Combining the best of TV with the best of the internet." However, it is not just another YouTube nor a rival for dozens of other ways to share short video clips. The ambition is provide a full-screen television service where users can do things like change channels - a streaming service, rather than a file download service. This needs a lot of bandwidth. Even with digital compression, it could easily consume a gigabyte per hour.On its blog, Joost says its (of course) P2P software downloads a maximum of 320MB per hour and uploads up to 105MB per hour. "We've made what we think is a reasonable tradeoff between the quality of the picture and the bandwidth usage, but this is full-screen TV-quality video - so there are limits on how low we can keep bandwidth usage while delivering good picture quality." Internet service providers will either be starting to worry (if their users have uncapped accounts), or dreaming of the money they will rake in for excess data charges as users blithely smash their monthly 1GB and 3GB data caps.Content is, naturally, thin at the start of the beta service. The intention is that Joost will offer programmes from the leading TV networks, with deals yet to be announced, and with digital rights management (DRM) where required. There will also be paid adverts.Users will be able to create their own TV channels and upload their own programmes, as well as using the net to chat among themselves.And Joost will cross national boundaries. The company, founded by a Finn and a Swede, operates from Luxembourg - the centre of the European TV industry - and already has offices in five countries. That should amuse the TV regulation bodies.But if it doesn't work? Well, Friis and Zennstrom have not given up their day jobs at Skype.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Only connectTwo weeks for a broadband connection??!!! My "free" broadband from Orange took two months! (Broadband's turn-on frustrations, January 11).J KempsterLondonKeep it simple, stupidI am a tech-savvy twentysomething, yet when I needed a new phone, I sought out the Nokia 1100 for its simplicity, great looks and great design (Technobile, January 11).The menu interface is straightforward. The screen is not crowded, nor is it sluggishly unresponsive while loading over-designed colour graphics. Neither the manufacturer nor my network have seen fit to load the phone with intrusive adverts, unwanted applications or unnecessary screensavers. Judge dismisses in one sentence a thoughtful and original design touch (incorporating a torch) as well as the feature that really makes the 1100 worth having - its fortnight-long battery life.Jack GrahlLondon&middot;My beef with the Vodafone Simply is the instruction book. There are other things the phone can do but I won't find out what they are from the manual. It's more or less useless. The hours spent struggling to bend the equipment to one's will, with instructions that use undefined vocabulary or leave out crucial steps, can cause one to lose any interest in using it at all. Does this ring bells with anyone else over 65?Susan SaundersTeddington&middot;As an uncertain newbie moving from a very old, unfriendly Motorola to a Nokia 1100, I have gained new confidence. It matters not to me that it does not have a camera or music player, nor that predictive text is difficult to turn off and that there is plenty of space for my friends' numbers.I agree that mobile phone designers ought to start again and design a very simple phone that will meet the needs of an ageing population, but at &pound;19.50 from Carphone Warehouse, the Nokia 1100 will do me nicely for now.S TideswellNewcastle upon Tyne&middot;There is one community that finds the Nokia 1100 easy to use: the blind. I have three blind friends with this phone and they are over the moon. As well as being cheap, the phone is easy to use when you can't seen the buttons or display thanks to keypad design and tones. If being able to use a phone with your eyes shut doesn't make it easy, what does?.John LoaderElySweet sound of OperaOpera's mail client does an excellent job of filtering image spams (What have image spam and Captchas got in common?, January 11). Just a few days of training will relegate image spams to Opera's junk folder.Peter KahrelLancasterHumans are the weak linkCharles Arthur makes the case for writable HD disks (How the terabyte drive could end the DVD wars, January 11). But any backup routine that depends on the user actually doing anything on a regular basis will ultimately fail as they will forget to do a backup at a crucial time. So if you are contemplating buying a terabyte drive you should consider buying two - one to store your precious data and a second to use as a clone that you will make sure is automatically backed up every night. This means it will do its stuff so long as the computer is switched on, without requiring any human intervention.Keith RobertsonLlanberisAlready on the roadI was surprised to read about the in-car system Sync "that will offer hands-free dialling, synchronisation with your mobile's address book, voice control of your MP3 player and even read your text messages to you" (All abuzz, Bill sets his sights on networking your home, January 11). This is already in my Fiat Grande Punto as "Blue&amp;Me", which has done most of this since early last year. "Blue&amp;Me" is a collaboration between Fiat &amp; Microsoft. It even controls my iPod nano!Chris TaggartCoventry
Broadband frustrationsLast year I transferred from Wanadoo (now Orange) to BT Broadband. The Wanadoo website said that the fastest available connection on my telephone line was 1.1Mbps, but when I changed to BT, I suddenly had a 4.4Mbps connection. Is BT only providing faster connections to BT customers? Also, why isn't it possible to have a broadband-only telephone line without signing up for weekend call packages etc?Kevin WilliamsJack Schofield replies:BT is controlled by Ofcom, and it has made the company split its operations so favouritism should be impossible. BT Wholesale (btwholesale.com) provides broadband services to accompanies. BT Retail sells services to consumers, including BT Fusion, BT Talk Together and BT Broadband. BT Wholesale is contractually obliged to treat all its retailers the same and not favour BT Retail customers.Your Wanadoo connection would have had two major parts. The first is the phone line connection to your home, the "local loop". The second is the network connection from the exchange. Broadband suppliers can let BT Wholesale run both parts or they can pick up your broadband connection at the exchange. They can also install equipment in the exchange and control the line to your home. This is called LLU (local loop unbundling).The whole connection will only be as fast as the slowest link. With Wanadoo, you probably had standard ADSL, provided by BT Wholesale, at least as far as the exchange. With BT Broadband you are now getting the ADSL Max service provided by BT Wholesale. ADSL Max is a "rate adaptive" system which initially doesn't have a set speed: it is vulnerable to interference and does the best it can. It is correctly described as a "regrade" rather than an "upgrade". The results are variable and sometimes they are worse than ADSL. I think you've just hit lucky.On line charges, again, Ofcom is ultimately in control. Under its direction, BT Wholesale offers a service called WLR (Wholesale Line Rental) which reflects the value and costs of operating the copper telephone network. Ofcom has set a price ceiling of &pound;8.39 per month (residential) for WLR and also requires customers get "a single bill that covers both line rental and telephone calls".BT Retail does not have the cheapest deals for renting a phone line plus calls, but whichever way you cut it, roughly &pound;100 a year goes to BT Wholesale for the cost of your line. The only ways round that are to use a different set of wires, by switching to a cable TV provider, or not to use a line at all, by switching to a wireless broadband service.After TaxCalcLast year you were looking for alternatives to TaxCalc after Intuit abandoned it. As the Inland Revenue is now HMRC, I now cannot find its list of acceptable software.Jonathan HawJS:TaxCalc was taken over by Assured Solution Providers Limited, which already provided the TaxChecker program, and is still going strong at taxcalc.com. All credit to the tax people, the Inland Revenue address I gave two years ago is being redirected and still works. The correct address for a list of UK tax filing software and forms iswww.hmrc.gov.uk/efiling/sa_efiling/soft_dev.htm.Mystery KB fileAmong the mystery folders on my Windows XP machine is one called afa38d28 (etc). It contains msxml4-KB92798-enu.log, which comprises 284KB of impenetrable (to me) code. Do I need it?Colin BoatmanJS:You can delete both file and folder. However, the msxml indicates a Microsoft core file and KB92798 tells you where to look in the Microsoft Knowledge Base. Checkingsupport.microsoft.com/kb/927978says it concerns MS06-071: Security update for Microsoft XML Core Services 4.0, sent out in November. This had (ahem) "known issues" so you should follow the instructions or try to make sure the patch has been installed.Save itWhen I download a program with Windows, I have to choose between Run and Save. Which should I use? I hope this query is not too elementary!L R GriffinJS:You should save programs, not run them. If you choose to run a program, it usually has the power to do anything you can do, such as delete files and install spyware. This makes web-based installations a higher risk. If you save the file, you can check the download to make sure it isn't malware in disguise. However, it helps if you always save files to the same place. I have a folder called My Downloads for the purpose. This also keeps the desktop clean and saves a lot of hunting around.Backchat&middot;Daniel Whelan asked why his computer was being attacked by what his Norton software called "HTTP Apache Redundant Slashes DoS". Unlike me, Karl Wilcox, a lecturer in computer science, noticed that the attacking computer was also called Daniel. He deduces that Daniel "has loaded a page containing a link (probably an image link) which contains lots of slashes, something like .../images//////picture.gif. You get these sometimes from generated page links or sloppy editing. Daniel's PC loads the original page, then tries to load the image which Norton Internet Security interprets as an attack. Same thing happened to me!"&middot;Thanks to all the readers who have written in support of HomePlugs, including Chris Wheater, John Martin Johnson, Roger Haydon, Arthur Chance, Martin Jones and Huw Price. Louise Barrett, from Solwise, a HomePlug supplier, says that 14Mbps devices typically work at between 5Mbps and 8Mbps and something faster would be needed for streaming video to an Xbox 360. However, she warns that the 200Mbps HomePlug - ideal for streaming HDTV - is not compatible with the slower devices: "They will co-exist on the same mains but will not 'talk' to them."
How green is my Apple?Greenpeace has made the "greener" Macworld keynote it thinks Steve Jobs should have made.youtube.com/watch?v=2Uo_4kyrkDcWikiseek liveThe Wikiseek search engine has gone live. It is billed as "a better way to search Wikipedia", but does more.wikiseek.comElvis sightingWowWee of Robosapien fame has unveiled ananimatronic version of Elvis Presley, which can mime to eight songs. Its previous effort was a monkey.Educating SaatchiThe Saatchi Gallery hopes to create a worldwide resource by inviting all museums and art colleges to upload their profiles to its website.saatchi-gallery.co.uk/museumssaatchi-gallery.co.uk/artcollegesAlternate reality westBristol-based Licorice Film is launching a free ARG (alternate reality game) where players act as detectives.enter-geist.comDo you U-doo?Oddcast's U-doo reckons it has launched "the first ever talking avatar ringtone application" online.u-doo.comSupport bandsAnother way to support the music industry might be for fans to finance their favourite bands directly.sellaband.comIBM patently topFor the 14th year in a row,IBM has taken out the most US patents. In 2006, it received 3,651. Samsung was second with 2,453.
Illustration: EngadgetSeparated at birth, asks Engadget? LG is capitalising on Apple's forthcoming iPhone by beating it to the punch withthe award-winning KE850, which Engadget featured in December.Now it has been unveiled asthe sleek LG Prada, "which they proudly tout as the world's 'first completely touch screen mobile phone.' Er, unless you consider the ones from Motorola, HTC, and others," says Engadget. (Pity Engadget slips up by calling it an "iPhone look-a-like". If anything, the iPhone is a Prada look-a-like.)Even the open source movement can benefit from iPhone hype. Gizmodo ran a story on the Linux-basedOpenMoko FIC Neo1973 smartphone last November, complete withan illustration of its pinch interface. More recently, Gizmodo has also put the OpenMoko next to an iPhone to show how similar they are.Of course, as mentioned intoday's Technology cover story, this stuff goes back a long way. Indeed, it's not even new in phones.I'm not sure when the first all-touch-screen phone came out, though I certainly used one in 2000: it was aSagem WA3050-- essentially a PocketPC with a monochrome screen. It worked very well. Even before that, I think, we had the Handspring Visor, a Palm-style PDA, that could take a plug-in to turn it into a mobile phone.Now there are lots of touch-screen phones, including theHP iPaq h6315 PocketPC Phonethat are small and have colour screens. It's a phone! It's a music and movie player! It's a PDA!!! -- an abbreviation that Steve Jobs apparently can't bring himself to utter, perhaps because it was popularised by John Sculley, who replaced him at Apple.
Dean Takahashi of Mercury News has finally got round to transcribing an interesting-ishinterview with Bill Gates, recorded during CES. The Microsoft figurehead was in bullish mood, firing out quotes like Windows error messages. Sure, a lot of it was about IPTV, but there were some decent videogame bits. Here is his assessment of the competition:"Sony has always been our most direct competitor. Nintendo of course is a competitor. But look at the resolution you get with a controlled experience like that. Say to yourself, how in terms of using a game for a long period of time, what kind of accuracy and capability do you want? Look at the classic Nintendo positioning. Look at the graphics. Look at Nintendo's execution in terms of online capability. We have this thing that nobody has ever seen before. When you say to your friend, hey let's play online, you say then you have to buy an Xbox."I'm not sure I'm ever likely to say to myself, "how in terms of using a game for a long period of time, what kind of accuracy and capability do you want?" because it's a grammatical apocalypse, but I understand what he's getting at - does Wii provide a long-term experience, or is it just a novelty that everyone loved for five minutes until their arms got tired? I have friends who've already shelved theirs...Anyway, Gates wasn't finished there. Here he is on the PS3 hardware. Beware, this is almost Pinter-esque in its employment of scatter gun non-sequiturs..."They were going to have the Cell be the video processor. But they didn't know what they were doing. They said the Cell is the video processor. But they turned to Nvidia at the last minute, but Nvidia can't do embedded DRAM. Go look at the bandwidth problems. Go ask the guys running ... now. They took their year and burned it by not having a decent CPU strategy and then turning to Nvidia at the last minute. It's a very unusual thing. Those processors are isolated from each other. You are seeing great game developers. Things will get better on us and on them. We think they're get better on us. That is so close. We claim we're better. It doesn't matter. It's just like pointing at the Xbox 1. We were 20 percent better. But it didn't matter. We were a year late, didn't have the best games. We had this bigger box. We did have online. We didn't switch positions on that."Meanwhile, Microsoft's Chris Satchell hastoldGamesindustry.biz that over half of those who've bought Xbox 360 did not previously own an Xbox."So there are lots of new people coming in, which kind of surprises you. What we're actually finding is that our customer set is broadening, which we think is important."So Microsoft believes broadening the customer base is important?! Sothat'show they've become so successful...Anyway, it's an interesting revelation, which would seem to add credence to Gates' assertion that new people are coming to 360 simply to discover online gaming - they're notallgeeky day-one Xbox fanatics.Talking about online gaming with Xbox 360, veteran casual game publisher Popcap has just launched an Xbox Live Arcade version of its unapologetically old skool side-scrolling shooter,Heavy Weapon. The game is an attempt to re-live the glory days of co-op blasters like Ikari Warriors, and the Xbox 360 version features four-player online action as well as 19 single-player missions. It's, quite literally, a blast.
Robert Anton Wilson: from his blogToday's Guardian hasa nice obituary of Robert Anton Wilson, co-author of the wonderfulIlluminatus! Trilogy. He had been ill for some time, and last year we followedBoing Boingin asking fordonations to support his last days. There's an appreciation atReason Onlinewith links to numerous other obits.One consolation: in an earlier age, someone like Robert might well have died in poverty and obscurity. In today's global village, just hittingTechnoratidemonstrated that he was widely loved.On his own blog, near the end, he wrote:Thank you all very much for your kind comments. In a way I am glad about my illness; it has taught me that many people think more highly of my writing than I do.
Back in July,we reported herethat regular Technology Guardian contributor Kieren McCarthy was standing for membership of the ICANN board - in order "to make the ICANN community realise that you can ultimately achieve more by being open".Well, it seems he got part of the way there.Following recent movements viahis blog, Kieren's obviously been getting involved in some work with the group, which basically runs the internet. But then browsing a series of staff announcements by them, I sawthis:Kieren McCarthy has been appointed to the role of General Manager, Public Participation. The position reports to the Executive Officer and Vice President Corporate Affairs, Paul Levins. The primary responsibility of this role is to ensure active participation in ICANN processes by Internet stakeholders, including end users.Kieren is well known to many members of the ICANN community through his work as a journalist... He recently built and ran a remote participation web site for ICANN's São Paolo Meeting held in December 2006. He has a Masters degree in Mechanical Engineering from Nottingham University.Kieren's been a regular critic of ICANN, as well as one of the people who has followed their movements closer than anyone else. So will he be lifting the lid even further inside this impenetrable organisation? Let's see...
Phantasy Star UniverseXbox 360/PS2, &pound;39.99 (plus &pound;9.99 a month)cert 12+, Sega, 2/5When Phantasy Star Online arrived on the Dreamcast in 2001, it meant that online gaming, previously the preserve of PCs, was now available to console owners. Perhaps because of this novelty, PSO was overrated at the time, though there was something appealing about the simplistic yet compelling sci-fi RPG. Now the sequel is finally released. Nothing has really changed, though. You could forgive limited levels, repetitive gameplay and a fiddly interface in 2001, but the bar has been raised since then. Paying a monthly fee seems ridiculous considering the paucity of content. The main improvement is the offline game, which is well presented but still can't disguise the button-bashing gameplay. The colourful sci-fi look is still appealing and in a good group the old magic can briefly reappear, but Phantasy Star Universe is looking burnt out.GHLost PlanetXbox 360, &pound;39.99cert 16+, Capcom, 4/5On a frozen and inhospitable planet populated by deadly bug-like creatures called the Akrid, you are the amnesiac Wayne whose last memory is of his father's death. You fall in with a ragtag band determined to exterminate the Akrid. Lost Planet is a true next-gen game which looks gorgeous and plays superbly. The gameplay doesn't break much new ground - it's a mix of third-person shooting on foot and on snowbikes - but it's hard and absorbing, with some truly evil bosses and great weaponry. Long missions, punctuated by widely spaced waypoints, add up to a meaty whole. A hardcore gamer's must-buy.SBWarhammer: Mark of ChaosPC, &pound;34.99cert 16+, Black Hole/ Deep Silver, 3/5The Warhammer games have never achieved mainstream success, but it's not through lack of trying. Mark of Chaos strikes an impressive pose in the epic animated opening sequence. Then it's down to hardcore warring, eschewing resource-gathering and base-building in favour of big armies clashing. Controlling capture points grants you reinforcements, a lot more satisfying than most real-time strategy games. On the negative side, the turn-based world map won't give Total War any sleepless nights, and the two single-player campaigns contain few surprises. However, the four playable factions make for a well-balanced multiplayer game. It's a shame the storytelling flair of the opening movie could not be carried through the whole game. But Mark of Chaos is still worth a look.MA
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Simon Phipps went to work for IBM and helped to turn around the image of an evil empire that was inherently proprietary and anti-Unix into one that was inherently proprietary but pro-Linux. Not only did he help to put lipstick on the old pig, it stuck. Then he went off to Sun, where open standards are core to the company's DNA.So far, nothing unusal. However, Simon did notice that he was beingedited out of IBM's history. He writes:when I left IBM in 2000, the (extensive) mentions of me on IBM's web pages were gradually edited away until today, six years later, there seems to be only one or two left that date from my pre-Sun days (doubtless they will also get expunged now).This one's interesting-- my job title has been changed to Sun even though I was still at IBM on the date I gave the talk (7 months before I gave my notice in fact).He also notes the same thing happening to former high-flying IBM Fellow Don Ferguson, the "Father of Websphere," who has defected to Microsoft.In a comment to Simon's post, IBM's Christopher Barger says: "Perhaps we could have handled it better. But while I'll cop to that, I don't agree with your characterization of the situation". The gist of the reply seems to be that IBM's "developerWorks blogs" are actually marketing material. In other words, if you want to do any real blogging, do it in your own place, where it won't be vulnerable to outside interference.Ferguson's blog is back up, but I don't expect that's going to stop the company from rewriting history.[Hi, Simon! Long time no see....]
More robotic development in the steel city, as researchers at Sheffield Hallam university are building robots that will investigate fires before firefighters.Small explorer robots will soon be the first team to enter buildings to assess for structural soundness, dangerous airborne chemicals and locate small but smoke generating industrial fires. Ordinarily, these instances could not only impede rescue of casualties through time delay, but also endanger the rescuer.Jacques Penders, a senior research fellow at Sheffield Hallam, is working in partnership with South Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service and four other European organisations, to develop two mini robotic miracles. Named the 'Guardians' and the 'Viewfinders', both robots are just 16cm in diameter.Apparently the little beasties act somewhat like those crawler robots in Minority Report, working in teams that string together to send data back to the firefighters to let them know what's going on inside a building.
Last year I transferred from Wanadoo (now Orange) to BT Broadband. The Wanadoo website said that the fastest available connection on my telephone line was 1.1Mbps, but when I changed to BT, I suddenly had a 4.4Mbps connection! Is BT only providing faster connections to BT customers?Also, why isn't it possible to have a broadband only telephone line without signing up for weekend call packages etc? Kevin WilliamsBT is controlled by Ofcom, and it has made the company split its operations so favouritism should be impossible. BT Wholesale (http://www.btwholesale.com/) provides broadband services to a large number of companies. BT Retail sells services to consumers, including services such as BT Fusion, BT Talk Together and BT Broadband. BT Wholesale is contractually obliged to treat all its retailers the same, and not favour BT Retail customers.Your Wanadoo connection would have had two major parts. The first is the phone line connection to your home, the "local loop". The second is the network connection from the exchange. Broadband suppliers can let BT Wholesale run both parts, or they can pick up your broadband connection at the exchange. They can also install equipment in the exchange and control the line to your home. This is called LLU (local loop unbundling). In any case, the whole connection will only be as fast as the slowest link.With Wanadoo, you probably had standard ADSL, provided by BT Wholesale, at least as far as the exchange. (But like Talk Talk and Sky Broadband, Orange has been moving heavily into LLU.) With BT Broadband you are now getting the ADSL Max service provided by BT Wholesale. ADSL Max is a "rate adaptive" system which initially doesn't have a set speed: it is vulnerable to interference, and does the best it can. It is correctly described as a "regrade" rather than an "upgrade". The results are variable, and sometimes they are worse than ADSL. I think you've just hit lucky.On line charges, again, Ofcom is ultimately in control. Under its direction, BT Wholesale offers a service called WLR (Wholesale Line Rental) which reflects the value and costs of operating the copper telephone network. Ofcom has set a price ceiling of £8.39 per month (residential) for WLR and also requires customers get "a single bill that covers both line rental and telephone calls".BT Retail does not have the cheapest deals for renting a phone line plus calls, but whichever way you cut it, roughly £100 a year goes to BT Wholesale for the cost of your line. The only ways round that are to use a different set of wires, by switching to a cable TV provider, or not to use a line at all, by switching to a wireless broadband service.Backchat: Many thanks to Dave Smith for pointing out an error in my answer. He says: "WLR and LLU Services are provided by BT Openreach, not BT Wholesale. It's more than a little confusing that 'Wholesale Lines' are not provided by BT Wholesale especially when 'Wholesale Calls' are. However, you need a UK wide network (which is managed by BT Wholesale) to deliver calls; you just need local access to the exchange (which is managed by BT Openreach) to provide a line." BT Openreach (http://www.openreach.co.uk) was spun off at Ofcom's request, and since last summer has provided what BT calls "LLU Equivalence of Input (EoI) via the Equivalence Management Platform (EMP)." In other words, BT Wholesale gets the same LLU on the same terms as other suppliers.
Last year you were looking for alternatives to TaxCalc after Intuit abandoned it. As the Inland Revenue is now HMRC, I now cannot find its list of acceptable software. Jonathan HawTaxCalc was taken over by Assured Solution Providers Limited, which already provided the TaxChecker program, and is still going strong athttp://www.taxcalc.com/. All credit to the tax people, the Inland Revenue address I gave two years ago is being redirected and still works. The correct address for a list of UK tax filing software and forms ishttp://www.hmrc.gov.uk/efiling/sa_efiling/soft_dev.htm.
