Next week is over-run with games related events, and while most are situated in the nation's capital as part ofLondon Games Festivalor theLondon Games Fringe,GameCityoffers an option for people who don't wish to travel to the Big Smoke.After a successful run last year (including a session hosted by our very own Keef), this year's three-day festival is tackling some tougher issues. In particular, they're hosting a whole series of features on the effects of games on their players.Starting with the world premiere ofPlaying Columbine,a film directed bySuper Columbine RPGcreator Danny LeDonne. LeDonne will be on hand for a Q&amp;A afterwards, accompanied by Keef and Sam Roberts from the Slamdance Film Festival, which controversially removed the game from its finalist selection at the last minute.The Who's Afraid of Videogames panel offer the public the opportunity to ask a panel of experts (including a developer, a psychologist, an e-learning consultant and a BBFC examiner) for answers to the tough questions gamers grapple with.Offering a buoyant alternative to these sobering sessions is the keynote from Katamari Damacy creatorKeita Takahashi.The schedulelooks fantasticso check it out. And if you do happen along, be nice to Keef and say hello!
The great and good of the web world are assembled in San Francisco - and they're hungry. While attendees at theWeb 2.0 Summitchowing down on their corporate swill with gusto, while legendary media mogul Rupert Murdoch andChris DeWolfe, the boss of MySpace, prepare to take to the stage for a chat.No food for me - I'm simply eating up the rarified atmosphere and typing like a frenzied monkey. Catch up with the news as I follow their conversation live: more details after the jump.Murdoch's looking perky, Chris has a smile on his face: they're about to open a MySpace office in San Francisco. DeWolfe says he's hiring as many people as they can. "If they're good," says Murdoch, with a smile.The first question - "what's it like to work for Rupert Murdoch?" - gets laughs all round. DeWolfe takes it on quite seriously, and talks about working for News Corp... how it has "infused" an entrepreneurial culture inside the company. It's a very flat organisation with quick decision making, which has been really great for MySpace to keep competing with startups that have two or three guys in a room making all the decisions. We feel very grateful."Murdoch: "I had to go through a lot of different cultures; I learned the hard way to build a company that embraced different cultures. The internet culture is different to the others. We treat ourselves as trainees."DeWolfe and fellow co-founder Tom Anderson have renegotiated their jobs to stay for at least another two years.What do you make of Valley culture? MySpace is based in LA, and Murdoch elsewhere. What is the Valley to you? Murdoch: "I think it's the most exciting place on earth in many ways. We're going through a period of incredible innovation, it's getting faster and faster, and this is the centre of it in many ways. I'm sorry I don't spend more time here, meeting more people. every time I come I get excited. It's not just internet or media, it's everything: biotechnology, climate change - there's tremendous innovation and this seems to be the centre of it."What did Murdoch see that made him want to spend the money on MySpace? Most of the coverage thought you were a bit nuts, but now it's clearly a good deal. "Ross Levinsohn [former Fox Interactive boss] was a great scout, we found MySpace and talked about it for a couple of weeks. We found that it was almost committed to another company and we said, what would it take to close the doors to them?" [That other company, he admits after a quick tussle, was Viacom]. "Now the value is at least 30 times what it was two years ago."How is the deal with Google going? "We're very happy?" Google owns YouTube, which is making a play to compete with MySpace in a number of ways. "Everyone competes with everyone these days, Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, they all have products that compete with us. You pick the best product and move forward with a partnership." Murdoch: "We have a great relationship with Google. We have competitors everywhere, whether it's in Britain or China or Japan, and we watch them all with respect."Your companies have a lot of intellectual property assets, and those sorts of companies have traditionally been a little hostile to Google. Is it a threat, or a friend? "It's both," says Murdoch. "It's a threat in that all information providers are a threat to old media." Do you see Fox Interactive as a business unit, or as a virus infecting the body of News Corp. "It's a very important unit, and other things we do which may or may not be part of Fox Interactive Media - such as WSJ Online, our newspapers - in Britain we have two newspapers with more than 10 million uniques per month... how they wrap together is different."Chris DeWolfe makes the official pre-announcement of the MySpace Platform: "We believe was the original open platform, our competitors didn't let you do much apart from post pictures and send messages. One of the key components was to allow third party developers to build widgets and put them on MySpace. YouTube drove nearly all its early traffic from MySpace. That's kind of where we've been as an open perspective. Within a week or two we'll develop a catalogue of widgets, categorising it and making it easy for users. We are opening our platform in the next couple of months - you heard it here [to which TechCrunch takes the opportunity to point out that they published something about this a few minutes ago]. There's a sandbox and then you'll be . The idea is to make sure the applications are safe, secure and pass a certain level of values. It's a measured approach, but we expect most of the application."What's changing in the relationship between media companies and advertisers? Murdoch: "Traditional media is so fragmented - you buy 200 channels these days, not 3 networks. Nobody's able to deliver huge audiences any more, except very occasionally. It's changing all the time. A lot of money is going onto the internet and into search, but a lot of that comes from people who have never advertised in their lives before. We've got good relationships with nearly all of the top 100 advertisers, and they are with us in all media, both old and new."DeWolfe continues by saying that "hyper targeting" - selling advertising spaces based on user behaviour - is working really well for them.What do you make of Facebook? Murdoch: "It's pretty cool, but different to us. It's more of a utility, but we're more about connecting people with different cultures and interests, not just looking up friends." DeWolfe: "I agree with everything that Rupert said." Bdsh-tum!"We're a global company, and there's a local competitor nearly everywhere. In addition to that we've got Yahoo, MSN and AOL trying to launch social networking. There's a certain focus you have to have in any business to be good at what you do. If you're going to one of the big portals to look for a finance quote and you suddenly tell people to socialise, it's very difficult. We consider ourselves rivals to those portals, but we're more of an activity engine. We're aggregating a lot of content."How's Dow Jones going? "I don't know, I haven't paid for it yet! We're expecting to close some time in December. We have a lot of plans and a lot of ideas that have to be refined. I want to improve it in every way, in what it does now in finance, but I also want to add national and international news. [kill the NYT] That'd be nice. I want to add major coverage nationally of the arts, fashion and culture." Fox is a news channel, it recently launched a business channel. "It's two and half days old and it looks terrific. Everyone in the industry is congratulating us on how different it looks, in terms of liveliness, difference, change. We got a whole load of new programme ideas - but what do you say after three days of a new channel? I stick with things, at least for a few years."What areas might you acquire in? Murdoch: "Everything's too expensive. I want to develop all of our news platforms, and if we can find other social networks, smaller ones, then we'll look at them. We want a bigger presence, certainly, in the internet. But things are changing so fast, I don't know what things are going to be in 5 years, 10 years - so why pay 30 times earnings for something?"Questions from the floor: How does Murdoch know when the price is right for something? "I don't know, I just hope."Are application developers going to be able to make money off it? "Yes. Developers will have a 'control' page that they own, and MySpace may be able to make it easier for them to sell advertising inventory."Will you commit to data portability? "The answer's yes, as long as it's secure and useful. One of the deals we just did with Skype. The more deals where we can port at least a portion of the MySpace profile to another site, that's great."If Facebook's about to announce investment that makes it worth $15bn, what's MySpace worth? "Forty-five, fifty billion dollars - but what i really tells you is that News Corp is totally underpriced. We have a value of $70bn market cap, and this year it's going to make $5bn."That's it. Now, I believe, there's a MySpace party over the road - let's see if they turn out there as well.
In years gone by, potential recruits to the secret services would be approached with a quick flash of the old school tie, or a discreet chat in an Oxbridge junior common room.The spymasters of today are resorting to very different tactics to sign up the next generation of spooks: GCHQ, the government's electronic eavesdropping service will this month become the first intelligence agency to post recruitment adverts in the virtual worlds of online computer games.The advertisements will appear as billboards in the backgrounds of computer games such as Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Double Agent.A spokeswoman for GCHQ - the surveillance branch of the intelligence service - said the agency was looking for recruits who were "computer-savvy, technologically able, quick thinking"."We find increasingly we have to use less conventional means of attracting people ... to go beyond the glossy brochures and milk-round stalls," she told the Times.The agency hopes to "plant the idea in the minds of younger players" of pursuing a career in the secret services."We will monitor the results from this campaign and are ready to change our recruitment methods. We know we can't stand still," the spokeswoman said.The move into computer-game adverts is the latest sign that the security services are attempting to shift their recruitment practices away from the old-boy networks. Earlier this year, MI5, the security service, advertised for staff on the side of London buses.GCHQ was consulted on its scheme, but the decision on where to place the adverts was made by its advertising agency, TMP Worldwide.Kate Clemens, head of GCHQ digital strategy at TMP, said: "Online gaming allows GCHQ to target a captive audience. Gamers are loyal and receptive to innovative forms of advertising."In recent years, Britain and the US have put increasing emphasis on "information warfare" in their efforts to confront terrorism and rogue states.But thrill-seeking video gamers hoping to live out their Tom Clancy fantasies in the real world may well be disappointed by the reality.GCHQ is the signals intelligence branch of the security services, and its main work is the interception and decryption of emails and phone calls. Most of the recruits will be software experts who will be put to work at the agency's main listening post at Cheltenham in Gloucestershire.
Nearly 110m global devotees of the internet's top social networking site, MySpace, will soon be able to make free telephone calls to each other through a deal with Skype. Under the tie-up, MySpace will embed the internet telecoms specialist's voice communications technology in its existing instant messaging function which allows members to chat to one another.The arrangement could be crucial both to MySpace's parent company, News Corporation, and to Skype's owner, eBay - both under pressure to demonstrate they can make money out of huge online followings.Ebay last night revealed a third-quarter loss of $936m after taking a $1.4bn charge to write down the value of Skype, which it bought for $2.6bn two years ago. Skype broke into profit this year, but has failed to live up to eBay's hopes of turning it into a major moneyspinner.Skype offers free calls between its 246m subscribers, although it levies a fee for calls to landlines and mobile phones. It also makes money through premium services such as voicemail and call forwarding.MySpace hailed the "groundbreaking" relationship with Skype. Its chief executive, Chris DeWolfe, said: "Our network has no geographical boundaries - internet calling is the natural next step for how our members communicate."
I use Photoshop 7 and I would like to upgrade. I see that the latest issue is CS3, but I cannot afford £550! Must be legitimate, though.Ronald EggintonUnfortunately, Adobe will not sell you a copy of the previous version, Creative Suite 2, let alone a cheap upgrade to CS2. However, Adobe says that for its creative products, the upgrade path includes the previous three versions, so if you have PS7 then you can buy an upgrade to CS3 for £163 inc VAT. "For those with older versions, there is no upgrade path, and you are right: we would remind users to be wary of buying from non-authorised outlets," Adobe says.Tony Sleep bought what he thought was an authentic version of a "new retail CS2" on eBay for £110. However, Adobe said: "Please note that this is an unauthorised serial number," and refused to register the program. It's worth reading Tony's account athttp://tonysleep.co.uk/photoshop-cs2-on-ebay.Note that any copy advertised as an OEM version is probably counterfeit. Also, while you could buy a secondhand CS2, this is also not legitimate if the previous owner has used it to get a big discount on an upgrade to CS3. The other alternatives include Photoshop Elements, which doesn't do the job, and defecting to another program such as The Gimp, which is horrible. It's hardly surprising that Photoshop is widely pirated. As Sleep comments: "Perhaps it is time [Adobe] looked again at their pricing, upgrade policies and activation as a deterrent to illicit use, because all they seem to have achieved is a massive business opportunity for a better class of counterfeiter."
I usually use Firefox as a browser, but recently I clicked on Internet Explorer and found the home page had been hi-jacked to asecurityservice.com. I don't understand how this can have happened when we are supposedly fully protected by MacAfee!Barbara WilliamsI don't know how dangerous asecurityservice.com is, but it could be connected with the great fake anti-spyware scam. Examples include SpyAxe, SpyCrush, SpyDown, SpyFalcon, SpyGuard, SpyMarshal, SpySheriff, SpySoldier, Spyware Vanisher. These may "detect" problems with your PC to lure you into installing them, but are sometimes bundled with downloads you are said to need (but don't) to play multimedia files. An antivirus program can miss these either because it doesn't see them as malware, or because the user (administrator) is installing them. It's therefore a good idea to run one or more anti-spyware programs from time to time, as well as an antivirus program. Examples include AVG Anti-Spyware (formerly Ewido), Super AntiSpware and Microsoft's Windows Defender. Since you have a known infection, run one of these from Safe Mode.Otherwise, if asecurityservice.com is part of a fake anti-spyware system, then Siri's SmitFraudFix (http://siri.urz.free.fr/Fix/SmitfraudFix_En.php) will probably remove it. If not,Techspothas a long and arduous routine that will remove most malware one way or another.
Please can you suggest a suitable antivirus installation for Mac OS X 10.4.10?Jeff AdamsI don't know of any Mac viruses that are in the wild, so it doesn't seem worth paying for a program that could introduce its own vulnerabilities. However, Apple has been bundling ClamAV with Mac OS X Server 10.4, and you can download the user-friendly ClamXav version either fromclamxav.comor fromApple. It's free and open source.
I plan to get an Apple iPhone and I'm happy to pay for the phone, but UK contracts seem expensive. I could buy an unlocked phone in the US, which should work with my existing contract, but are there reasons to avoid this?Robert MaitlandTwo good reasons are that you may not get much, if any, support, and that Apple's software updates can "brick" an unlocked iPhone, rendering it useless. Since Apple is apparently getting a hefty slice of income from the network providers selling locked phones, it is not in its financial interest to play nice. There could be an interesting software war as Apple locks phones and geeks unlock them, but if you just want a phone to make calls, either pay for a contract or use a different phone. At least wait until after Macworld in January to see how things pan out.
We'll be on the moon soonThis really is rocket science: the Cassini-Huygens probe's descent to Saturn's moon Titan. The graphics and ambient "music" come from the onboard tracking instruments; Eno must be envious.tinyurl.com/2f2eskIf you blend it, they will comeApple's iPhone against a blender. Is it a contest? No contest? Are the bits of metal that fly off from the iPhone, or the gleaming, hungry blender? Come on, you have to love it.tinyurl.com/yu4w9eWho are these 'IBM' people?Ian McNaught-Davis with 1985's news about new Sinclair "superchips" invented by Ivor Catt. We kid you not.tinyurl.com/yoqxhdSend links totech@guardian.co.uk
In-game advertising is big business. Or so the analysts tell us. A few months ago, ABI Research, based in the US, predicted that in-game advertising on consoles could reach $852m by 2011 - a figure that's simultaneously exact, impressive and meaningless. The thing is, no one really knows where this booming form of invasive marketing is actually going, nor if it really works. There's a cruel dramatic irony at the very heart of the business. Gamers tend to accept in-game billboard ads because they make an urban environment more naturalistic. But employed this way, ads merge into the background as mere authenticating visual data. They are reality, and reality doesn't sell.Which is why big corporations are finding new ways to engage gamers, apart from handing over wedges of cash to see their virtual posters pasted over digital walls. Recently, for example, the first "advergame" (a game designed and distributed specifically to advertise a product) became available on Xbox Live Arcade. Toyota's Yaris title invites gamers to drive around attacking enemies with a fireball-shooting tentacle in the car's bonnet (apparently this is not a genuine new feature of the popular hatchback). It sounds lame, but the key element is that players can earn achievement points by completing tasks in the game. These points - which add to your overall GamerScore, the mark of your ability in the online gaming world - are keenly sought, and have never been available for free before. To so-called achievement junkies, this is a godsend.Meanwhile, several mobile game distributors - including Orange in France, Israeli mobile operator Cellcom and UK publisher Player X - have recently started trialling ad-funded titles, in which games carrying some sort of advertising message are available for free download. Mobile infrastructure companies have been pushing this concept for ages and it seems to make sense. At the moment only 5% of handset users download games and of those, only half come back for more.Finally, my favourite example is the recently announced partnership between Electronic Arts and BP, based around the forthcoming town-building game, Sim Societies. Apparently, the oil company's branding will appear on the side of power stations that utilise eco-friendly windmills and solar panels. This is brilliant because it's advertising disguised as ecological messaging and it also rests on the unfeasible notion that an oil major can tell us off about climate change. This is definitely more like it, though: advertising is, after all, based on fantasy. Forget fitting in with gamer culture - give us free stuff or make us laugh with your sheer cheek. Any more of this and ABI's 2011 figure is going to look ridiculously conservative.
The &pound;199 laptop is about to hit the UK, in the form of the RM Asus MiniBook. RM unveiled the first example at the Handheld Learning conference in London last week, and is taking orders from educational institutions; a consumer version is expected later. Today, however, it's the tiny white hope of those who have aspired to have "one laptop per child" ata price schools can afford.This 850g subnotebook will inevitably be seen as a rival for the XO laptop developed by MIT's One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) for use in the developing world. The Asus Eee PC, by contrast, has been developed in Taiwan as a commercial implementation of Intel's Classmate PC. This is meant to benefit education, of course, but it's also about "creating demand for Intel platforms".What wasn't expected was the subtle positioning that RM's chief executive Tim Pearson gave the MiniBook during his talk at the conference. Using a graph that showed increasing functionality from a simple mobile phone to a desktop PC running Windows, he distinguished between "appliances" (phones, smart phones, Nokia's Internet Tablet) in the bottom left quadrant and "computers" (ultra-mobiles, laptops, desktops) in the top right. The RM Asus MiniBook sits in the middle, he said, and bridges the gap between the two.Fixed functionalityWhen the MiniBook is shipped running Linux, it's an appliance, and when it's running Windows XP, it's a computer. Later, Pearson expanded on the reasons for his approach. He explained that RM's business was increasingly about taking responsibility for the equipment used in schools. However, a typical secondary school runs about 250 applications, including specialist programs for music and video. If every child has a computer, this soon becomes impossible to handle: "The support lines just get too big."But Pearson reckons that 90% of educational needs can be satisfied by an appliance such as the MiniBook, with its built-in web browser and office suite. "If you've got a fixed level of functionality, it doesn't matter what the operating system is," he says. "How many of the people who have a BlackBerry know or care which OS it runs?"The MiniBook appliance runs Linux, Firefox and OpenOffice, but they'll only be supported by resetting them to the factory defaults. "I don't expect the man in the Orange shop to give me technical support on changing drivers: that isn't part of the deal. With an appliance, you can only expect to use the apps it came with."It's different when the same hardware runs Windows XP. "If we offer an XP version, we will almost certainly support it as an XP system," Pearson says. "We'd offer full connectivity and support for any XP computer. That's the difference between an appliance and a general-purpose PC, though you might find it quite hard to explain that division to a Martian."Apple has taken a similar line with its iPhone, which it sells as an appliance. Because it comes from a computer company, runs a computer operating system (OS X) and does computer-y things like web browsing, many want to treat it as a computer. But as Pearson would say: "That isn't part of the deal".Brian Gammage, a research fellow with Gartner, reckons Pearson's idea makes sense, given the cost of the device and the cost of support. "But let's not confuse the appliance function with the appliance support model, which means that we deal with it at the device level. When it breaks we either replace it or else we erase its contents and start again," he says.Gammage wants to take this idea further. "The sheer scale of the markets and the issues to be addressed by the IT industry now mean that we all have to make zero operational cost and overhead a design function. That means we really have to start dealing with these things as sealed units. That's a broader trend. And it means that big operating systems have to become a thing of the past, which has massive implications for certain established companies that sell big operating systems."Of course, there's nothing new about the appliance model of computing: dedicated word processors, games consoles and some early home computers such as the Texas Instruments TI-99/4A were all designed that way. It also resurfaces every few years. The problem is that almost every appliance has flopped.The two biggest attempts to launch the "computer as appliance" idea were based on the NC or Network Computer and the PIA or Personal Internet Appliance. Oracle boss Larry Ellison launched the NC idea in 1995, originally based on a set-top box designed by Acorn, the small British supplier of educational computers. The PIA, which was hyped towards the end of the 1990s, was based on having a sealed box that accessed the internet.Microsoft has tried harder than anyone in this market. In 1996, it launched a small modular operating system - Windows CE - for this new consumer electronics device market. It has been used in games consoles (Sega Dreamcast, Gizmondo), handhelds (Compaq iPaq, all PocketPC designs), mini-notebooks and tablet PCs (Compaq Aero etc), set-top boxes, cars (AutoPC), and mobile phones (Windows Mobile), as well as sewing machines, jukeboxes and other devices. It has even been used by Microsoft's rivals, such as Palm and Psion, without ever really taking off.Stripped downWhether computer appliances will succeed now is anybody's guess. JP Gownder of Forrester Research says that "in a world where many households own more than one PC, there's more scope for specialised PCs. For example, a home theatre PC will look like a stereo component. This type of PC exists today, but more will come - PCs built for specific settings and unique consumer segments. Whether these will be stripped down to 'appliances' is debatable, but I do believe PCs will evolve beyond just 'laptop and desktop' into a much wider panoply of form factors."Whether or not the devices are appliances, it seems likely that the support functions will be. To get to the next billion users, the industry can't afford anything else.
Don't you just hate leaving all that unused ketchup in an otherwise empty bottle? No matter how much tapping, shaking or squeezing you do, you'll always leave some behind. It's the same with other foods that stubbornly stick to the sides of their containers. And that's not only wasteful but also means tedious rinsing before recycling.Dr Michaela M&uuml;ller is trying to solve this problem. As a polymer chemist, she's working on an applied research project at the Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and Biotechnology (IGB) in Germany. Another Fraunhofer Institute - Process Engineering and Packaging IVV - is also involved, along with industrial partners and the Munich University of Technology. The project was initiated by the food manufacturing company, Nestl&eacute;.Although finding non-stick surfaces for packaging isn't new, M&uuml;ller's approach involves plasma coating the insides of bottles. While it's possible to make coatings using other methods, the resulting layers would be too thick. "We need a very thin coating and only plasma processes will give these very thin coatings in the range of nanometres," M&uuml;ller says.The method is remarkably simple. M&uuml;ller places the bottle to be coated inside a vacuum chamber with an electrode inside the bottle and another electrode outside it. She then introduces a polymerisable gas and switches on an electric current. As the plasma glows - just like a neon lamp - it forms an ultra-thin film of polymer on the inside of the bottle within seconds. By adjusting time, gas flow and current, films of around 20 nanometres or less are deposited.Although M&uuml;ller is secretive about the composition of this luminous gas, she says that it contains precursor molecules for the plasma polymerisation process. "If the coating is only nanometres thick, the adhesion is very strong to the substrate,"  M&uuml;ller says. Not only is the polymer inert - it does not react with foodstuffs - but the amount used is extremely small.So what stops the ketchup sticking? This isn't nanotechnology, but chemical interactions between the food and the polymer which is designed to repel specific food groups. At the same time, it's hydrophobic which allows water to run off easily but, overall, this isn't the same as water-repelling clothing or self-cleaning glass."Mainly it's the chemistry," M&uuml;ller says. "We choose the right chemical groups that have very low interaction forces with other molecules. The food group composition strongly influences the emptying properties."Over the next two years, M&uuml;ller will perfect the formula for the polymer coating to more than halve leftover traces. Two or three different types of coatings may be needed for different food groups. Her fellow scientists are looking at issues such as mechanical stress resistance, temperature fluctuations and contact with acids or alkalis.It's not just going to be ketchup lovers who'll enjoy the results. Cosmetics, chemicals and motor oils, along with anything else that's sold in a container and leaves wasteful residues, will benefit. And because the process could be applied to foils, much larger containers may be possible too.Philip Barlow is the scientific and technical advisor to the Food Innovation Research Centre at Sheffield Hallam University. He points out that consumers have already seen a change from glass to squeezy plastic bottles, making it easier for a product such a ketchup to slip out. He says it will be important to conduct food safety tests to ensure the new coating is not a contaminant."It's a very innovative and useful approach, and it has benefits both for the consumer and the industry. This, I think, is the next stage forward in that you hope to get even less wastage," Barlow says. "It's also going to give you cleaner materials for recycling."
Words of wisdomI'm very impressed with the wisdom Matt Mullenweg shows as such a young age (WordPress makes a stand for open source morality, October 11). More businesses could learn from WordPress and the decisions they've made.userfirstweb.comInstead of giving people exactly what they want, he advocates making a standard one-size-fits-all solution that meets most requirements - and doing it in a disciplined and competent manner that doesn't lose sight of the most important objectives: make it easy to use, make it work well, make it work safely. This is food for thought for economists, managers, politicians and bureaucrats everywhere.nevertrustahippy.blogspot.comOn your bikeSean Dodson quotes former Cardiff mayor Russell Goodway as hailing personal rapid transport as "public transport that is waiting for you, rather than you waiting for it" (Welcome to the transport of tomorrow, October 11). Well, the people of Cardiff are still waiting for it - five years after the high-profile launch of a test track. While content to bask in the white heat of PR, it's a shame the city's councillors haven't done more to back up their fine words with hard cash.Andy Roberts,Cardiff&middot; The day the UK is at or near the top of any league for implementing advanced technological public infrastructure projects will be some time after it has dropped its absurd ideological objection to the government both taking the lead and funding such projects rather than leaving it to the market.John Walters,Bexhill-on-SeaSomething like this might be a step in the right direction in moving us towards something more sustainable.benelling.wordpress.comNo ringing endorsementI am 79, and have just purchased my first mobile phone (Why can't the phone makers build handsets for everybody?, October 11). The phone - a Nokia - is no problem to use but, although I speak three languages, I can barely understand a word of the printed instructions.Leon Schneidermann,by email&middot; I have had an Easy5 phone for three months. The emergency call button is placed in such a place that it can be pressed unwittingly. I seem to know more people in the emergency services now than I have in my circle of friends.Jennifer Wilkie,GlasgowLand of the free data?In the article Time to take the jewels from the crown? (September 6), you stated that the US government makes its data available free. Only the US federal government does; local and state governments may or may not. Also, why do we have to pay for United Nations data, as our governments pay for the UN?Joe Rich,by emailWaves of nonsenseThe statement in John Barrett's letter (Letters and blogs, October 4) claiming that using tidal energy would significantly alter the rotation rate of the Earth and destabilise its orbit "within a generation" is without foundation. The tides arise (mainly) from the interaction between the Earth and the moon, and have been very slowly altering the rotation rate of the Earth and the period of the moon's orbit over the entire lifetime of the Earth-moon system. Even if tidal energy extraction were to alter this interaction significantly, it would still have a negligible effect over a generation. This conclusion can be backed up by calculating the total energy of rotation of the Earth and the energy of the moon in its orbit. I will not give the details here, but both are vastly larger than the annual electricity use of the human race, and hence human activity in harnessing tidal energy will not significantly affect either of them.Professor Ted Forgan,University of BirminghamRead all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
iPod TouchThe latest iPod is a real advance for Apple, featuring one of the first truly usable touchscreen interfaces. The friendly iPod menus of previous models have been stuck to as far as possible, with some tweaks and upgrades to take advantage of the new functionality. Aesthetically, the absence of the scroll wheel makes this iPod - priced at &pound;199 for the 8GB version and &pound;269 for the 16GB - the best looking yet. There's one button on the front which is used both to power up and return to the main music controls from whichever screen you're in. The touchscreen itself is intuitive, although not mistake-proof - some of the buttons need repeated pressing to get a response and the keyboard can take a while to get used to. The iPod Touch also has Wi-Fi. Overall, it's without a doubt the most exciting iPod yet. However, with the iPhone launched next month, it will only hold that crown for a short time.Susi Weaserapple.com/ipodtouchSamsung F210 PurpleThis Samsung phone is the upgrade from an existing handset, which featured the same small form factor, with the keyboard sliding out and around from under the screen. This makes the overall package about the size of a lipstick case - which, combined with the purple paint job, goes some way to indicate who this phone is aimed at. With this small size comes some trade-offs on usability. The keyboard has been improved and now has the traditional 3x4 digit grid, as opposed to the 2x6 which made texting difficult. However, this does mean that those with large fingers will find it nigh on impossible to press the buttons accurately. The front of the phone features a small screen and a scroll wheel, which means you can access the music player without opening the phone. The 2 megapixel camera and small screen means that it's not designed to replace your camera. What it does excel in is the music functionality. 1GB of internal memory can be expanded by the microSD slot, which is accessible without removing the battery cover. There's also a passable external speaker, should you want to share your music.SWphones4u.co.ukIon USB Tape2PC cassette recorderIt is probably a good 10 years since you last considered buying a cassette deck, so why invest &pound;100 in the Ion Tape2PC? Well, it is a twin cassette deck that has been set up to make it easy to turn demos of your garage band or those compilation cassettes into MP3s. The cassette recorder is well specified with two decks, a dubbing option and a noise reduction system. Transferring recordings to MP3 is very simple. Once you have loaded the software and hooked up the deck to a PC you press play, create a new recording and then the Tape2Pc lets you name the recording and slots it into your iTunes folder. It archives at 192kbps which is good quality. A few quibbles: there's no remote control and the software doesn't automatically sense the end of a track - you have to manually tell it to the split the tracks. Overall though, the Tape2PC works pretty well.Ashley Norrisiwoot.com
You would have to say that both are looking a bit crispy. AOL is to make redundant one fifth of its 10,000-strong workforce, after a memo from its chief executive, Randy Falco, who in a masterful piece of spin suggested that this was a sign of strength and growth in fulfilling his aim: "My vision for AOL is to build the largest and most sophisticated global advertising network while we grow the size and engagement of our worldwide audience."Good luck with that one, Randy. Meanwhile Henry Blodget, the once-shamed analyst, pointed to a Google spreadsheet (tinyurl.com/33nbub) showing that the Microsoft Online Services division's profit has gone from $68m (a 12% margin on revenue) in 2005 to a $732m (&pound;360m) loss this year, even though advertising revenues and the number of active Hotmail accounts have both grown solidly. So what's gone wrong at the two companies which ruled the online world? Simply, dialup and broadband subscription revenues have fallen off a cliff.In AOL's case, growth in subscriber numbers peaked in 2002, with 34m members; but revenues from subscriptions then began to drop as people discovered that they didn't need a single company to provide their internet connection, email, web browser and chatrooms. The wider web beckoned, and AOL members voted with their wallets and feet.By last year, when Carphone Warehouse bought AOL's UK business - more precisely, its subscribers - the numbers were in favour of high-speed connections: there were 1.5m on broadband and 600,000 on dialup. The cuts being planned by Falco will not affect those customers, but are expected to fall in the UK on those who run the UK-specific part of the AOL website.MSN too is suffering from the increasing sophistication of today's internet user. Both sites now have to persuade people that they're the place to visit - among the millions of portals doing exactly the same all over the net.As Blodget notes (attinyurl.com/2paeom), they're not doing it well. "Unless Microsoft's disappearing access business is losing a lot of money - which we doubt - all of the division's losses are attributable to the advertising and media business. That means that MSN is losing nearly $0.50 for every $1 of advertising it sells."Compared to rivals such as Google, Yahoo! and even AOL, that's dreadful, says Blodget. "Google's profit run-rate is $4.4bn on $16bn of revenue. Yahoo!'s run-rate is $750m on $7bn in revenue. Even fellow-cellar-dweller AOL is printing cash: $1bn profit pace, on about $2.1bn of revenue."Yet with its huge parent's cash pile to buoy it up, it'll be a while before MSN needs to consider throwing in the towel.But the question that nobody seems to be asking is: what, now that the "exclusive content to our internet subscribers" model seems dead, is the point of AOL or MSN?
Nokia touchedNokia has demonstrated some Symbian-based smartphones with touch-sensitive user interfaces. They will be available next year.tinyurl.com/2nvd75LightSabre for WiiLucasArts will show its LightSabre for the Nintendo Wii console for the first time on October 26, which is Star Wars day at GameCity 2007 in Nottingham.tinyurl.com/2t8fgbEarth to YouTubeVirtual travellers can now watch YouTube videos about the places they visit in Google Earth.tinyurl.com/3ygojzHandier recorderSamson has launched Zoom's Handy H2 digital recorder in the US. It is smaller and cheaper than the H4.tinyurl.com/28lvthtinyurl.com/2lvoobSpace for lifeRedHalo is offering every British schoolchild 1GB of "free, ultra-secure, personal learning space that they can use for online collaboration".redhalo.comKaraoke plus cameraGoodman's portable XB5CDG Karaoke Machine (&pound;70) has a built-in camera so you can watch yourself singing on TV.tinyurl.com/2sjjb2Write hereHarperCollins UK plans to launch an online literary community.authonomy.comOnline everywhereWith Tariam's BGAN (Broadband Global Area Network) and a small portable terminal, travellers can be online almost anywhere, via satellite.tinyurl.com/2dvpmk
Why hasn't the Recording Industry Association of America sued a library yet? As a means of getting music to rip, the local library is hard to beat. It's free, or very cheap. It will lend CDs for a fortnight, from a fairly wide range which can be browsed in a comfortable and convenient place;  and if it does not have a particular CD, or even DVD, it will make an effort to find it. If I wanted to build a collection of published music for which I did not pay, the local public library would be more useful than the whole internet.Public libraries are invisible in most debates about copyright as it affects mass consumption. Perhaps American public libraries are less splendid than ours? Or maybe the good public libraries are in affluent areas where people make private provision for everything. Still, they are the institutions which have the longest experience of making copyright goods available fairly to people who have not paid directly for them; and in all the time libraries have been around, no one has come up with a better model.Libraries don't abolish copyright, and in some ways are more scrupulous about it than most institutions. But they allow the price of copyright goods to be lowered to the point at which they become worthwhile both for individual buyers and for the makers. Of course, this is a lot lower than the makers would like. Every year I get statements of Public Lending Right (PLR) showing that thousands of people have borrowed my books from British libraries, and as a result I will make, ooh, &pound;17.36 or thereabouts from it. On the other hand, this is rather more than shows up in most royalty statements, and it is approximately &pound;17.36 better than nothing. At the same time, the readers have access to something they are clearly not prepared to pay anything more for than an imperceptible slice of general taxation.PLR incorporates another principle useful in the digital age, which is that the creators of works are entitled to continuing profits even after something has been sold for the first time. Digital content is much less stable than analogue or paper versions. Constant effort is required to maintain it, and it is a pretty safe rule that anything digital which is not upgraded is being degraded. We need a method to reward the labour of maintenance, and PLR is a sketch towards that.But the real value of libraries comes when they deal with large, expensive and valuable digital stores of information. The county of Essex's library system, for example, offers everyone in the country access from their homes to a lot of really useful databases. There is the Lexis/Nexis newspaper database; the full version of the Oxford English Dictionary; the Grove Dictionary of Music; Encyclopaedia Britannica in all its various forms; Who's Who and Who was Who, along with the complete Naxos catalogue of classical music.To any individual subscriber the cost of all these would run into thousands of pounds a year, yet this reliable information is available free, without any of it being stolen. In private libraries, the system can be even richer. My subscription to the London Library gets me access to 8m or so books, and if I can trust the handwritten suggestions book maintained in the front of the library, it will soon offer access to JSTOR, the definitive database of academic and scientific papers.At the moment access to JSTOR is restricted to universities and their members; unaffiliated researchers of any sort can't buy its articles. I don't see that this material can, or even should, all be available for nothing. Someone has to pay for the labour involved in collecting and maintaining it. But it needs to be made available at a price ordinary people are able and prepared to pay, in any country that wants to take real advantage of the internet. This isn't a technological problem; Google already indexes a great many publications available on JSTOR. The problem, as usual, is a social one: it can only be solved by collective action, and there is no better means of sharing in the information age than old-fashioned, unglamorous libraries, even when you can use them at home.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
The government's nautical mapping agency, the 200-year-old UK Hydrographic Office, is the latest state-owned information business to find itself at the receiving end of a complaint alleging that it abuses its monopoly. Later this month, the Chart and Nautical Instrument Trade Association, which represents private makers of digital charts, will decide whether to pursue a complaint it lodged earlier this year with the European Competition Commission.According to the association, member companies are worried that the hydrographic office, a government-owned trading fund, may be abusing its position as the definitive supplier of accurate surveys of the seabed by launching new commercial ventures. The hydrographic office would not comment on the complaint. However the very existence of the complaint is a sign of the problems caused when suppliers of government information are required to act as profit-generating businesses. Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign argues that these problems could be removed by making unrefined data gathered by government organisations freely available to all comers.Under scrutinyThe hydrographic office's future as a trading fund is under scrutiny from two parts of central government. A study by its sponsor department, the Ministry of Defence, is expected to decide by the end of the year whether the office continues as a trading fund or becomes a fully-fledged company owned by the Ministry of Defence.The agency's managers, under new chief executive Mike Robinson, are understood to favour the company route. Like its sister mapping agency, Ordnance Survey, the hydrographic office has transformed itself from a publisher of paper charts to a supplier of digital information services to customers around the world. Last year its turnover grew by 13% to &pound;76m, only 14% of which came from sales to the MoD. Unlike Ordnance Survey, it does carry out its own surveys but also builds products based on raw data owned by other parties - the MoD, the Maritime and Coastguard agency and foreign governments.The MoD's review is due to report by the end of the year. It is likely to be beaten by a second scrutiny, of the costs and benefits of the trading fund system as a whole, carried out for the Treasury by economists at Cambridge University. Among other things, it will examine the possibility of supplying information for free.The Cambridge study is part of a new wave of official interest in the way the government makes data available to the knowledge economy.According to documents seen by the Guardian, the trading fund study will analyse the costs and benefits of existing and alternative models for public sector information provision by trading funds: "Pricing strategies covered should include market price, full cost recovery marginal cost of distribution and free." However the study specifically excludes "any changes to the legal status of public sector information trading funds". The study is due to be submitted by November 19.Answering a question in Parliament last week, Derek Twigg, the minister responsible for the hydrographic office, said that the report's recommendations would "inform licensing policy following completion of the review of the UKHO's structure and ownership".The hydrographic office itself is in no doubt of which direction it wants to go. "Nearly 90% of our revenues come from sales into the commercial market, against increasingly fierce international competition," it says. Its annual report boasts of "moving ahead to implement its more market-orientated strategy" and of "a much tighter, smaller top team, designed to empower the organisation to focus on the current business priorities".Big gunsEvidence that the MoD is considering turning the office into a standalone business emerged last month, when the ministry publicly shelved a plan to move it to Exeter, where it would be able to share facilities with the Meteorological Office.The hydrographic office was born in turbulent times: it was founded in 1795, when a young Captain Horatio Nelson was making a name for himself by engaging his 64-gun ship Agamemnon against overwhelming odds. Today, the big guns seem to be on the admiralty's side; whether that is good for Britain's knowledge economy remains to be seen.&#183; Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Linux vendors and developers didn't get to relax for long after an August court ruling had the effect of ending SCO's copyright lawsuit against IBM and Novell over their distributions of Linux. Last week, IP Innovation LLC filed a patent claim against Novell and Linux vendor Red Hat. In the complaint, IP Innovation asks the court to award both damages and an injunction prohibiting the two companies from continuing to distribute Linux."For us this is the start of a new anti-Linux campaign," says Pieter Hintjens, a Belgian software developer and president of the Foundation for a Free Infrastructure, which campaigns against software patents. The complaint cites three Xerox patents dated 1991, 1995 and 1996. They may have been intended to cover the Star computer, whose interface influenced both the Apple Mac and Windows. IP Innovation also cited the earliest patent in its April 2007 action against Apple over its OS X v 10.4 Tiger operating system, in which it asked for $20m (&pound;10m) in damages. That was settled out of court in June; terms of the settlement were not released.The language of the patents themselves is so vague that it's difficult to tell what they are trying to describe. But the owner doesn't have to care, if companies will pay up rather than risk the kind of expensive and lengthy litigation that has put SCO into Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Novell is now demanding that SCO be required to hand over the money SCO collected in licensing fees from Microsoft and Sun. An SCO SEC filing estimates SCO's liability to Novell at $30m.To many open-source advocates, Microsoft seems to be implicated in the new patent suit. IP Innovation is a wholly owned subsidiary of Acacia Technologies Group, a California company. Its dozens of press releases announcing licensing deals from this year alone boast a constantly growing patent portfolio, covering a wide variety of commonly used technologies (81, as of September). Among its corporate officers are three former Microsoft executives, one of whom specialised in managing intellectual property. However, Acacia has also sued Microsoft in the past.Suspicion in the open-source world has been at a high since last week, when Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer told a London question-and-answer session that: "People who use Red Hat, at least with respect to our intellectual property, in a sense have an obligation to eventually compensate us."However, most open source licences preclude charging this type of fee. Hintjens believes these statements, "seem to indicate that Microsoft are now rolling out their long-awaited strategy of using patent claims on free software to try to create an alternative income stream".In May, Microsoft general counsel Brad Smith told Fortune magazine that various portions of the GNU/Linux operating system violate 235 of Microsoft's patents. In response, Red Hat promised its customers that it would replace any software eventually found to be infringing - but noted that there had never been any patent suits against Linux, anywhere. That, of course, was then.
This column reads 282-page government documents so you don't have to. However, by the time I'd absorbed the first 90 pages of Meeting the Aspirations of the British People, the chancellor's pre-budget review published last week, my mind was beginning to wander.Luckily, on page 92, a sensational revelation woke me up. It was the announcement that, from next September, anyone paying car tax on the web will get five working days' grace before needing to display the disc in their windscreen. OK, as sensational plot developments go, it's not exactly the prime suspect being found with an oriental dagger through the ribs. Significant, nonetheless. The concession - supposed to allow time for tax discs to arrive through the post - is a rare example of government altering an official procedure to increase its e-friendliness.That's a traumatic step, for officialdom. Until now, e-government schemes have tended to create electronic reproductions of existing paper processes. In this model, e-bureaucracy involves finding the website of the agency we'd previously have dealt with in person and filling in onscreen facsimiles of paper forms to set off a procedure that mimics the traditional one.Having won that battle, Whitehall's "transformation" team is now looking for other bureaucratic bypasses it can use to make e-government more attractive - and a better business proposition. Because the government will save serious money with IT only when computers start enabling the abolition of existing bureaucratic processes, not duplicating them.For clues to the government's thinking in this direction, look to a paragraph on page 38 (or attinyurl.com/22nmyv) of the chancellor's review, announcing a "service transformation agreement" for the government. Regular readers will already know about the planned "tell us once" service for reporting changes in circumstances, as well as plans for sharing personal identity data across government.But there are some new ideas, too: a scheme to combine the processes of applying for driving licences and national insurance numbers, a single application for all social security benefits, and a "single window" to handle multiple processes needed in international trade. The big idea is to cut by half all contact with government. Achieving it will require painful changes in procedures, as well as IT.So after 10 years of cosmetic frippery, is e-government finally entering bureaucracy's DNA? Maybe, but there are two reasons for scepticism. One is the NHS. Thanks to many perceived and some actual failures of the NHS IT programme in England, enthusiasm for making e-enabled changes in healthcare processes is probably lower than it was a decade ago. With the programme apparently leaderless and imploding, there's little sign of change.The second reason is the running sore of digital exclusion. Transforming bureaucracy to make electronic transactions the streamlined norm condemns those without e-access and e-competencies to a second class service. That can only lead to a further spiral of exclusion. We're not talking about small minorities here. This week, the organiser of the Silver Surfer of the Year Awards, Emma Solomon of Digital Unite, claimed that 14 million Britons are digitally excluded principally because of age.This is a mainstream issue. If e-transformation of public services misses out 14 million people, neither the chancellor nor anyone else in public service can claim to be meeting the aspirations of the British people.
The words "serious" and "games" do not exactly go hand in hand: the former is to do with disasters and global warming, the latter being associated with things like fun, excitement and pleasure.Despite this, the term "serious games" has become a catch-all term for software which uses videogame design principles to deliver educational and training experiences. Typically bespoke, they are designed to run on standard PCs or games consoles, immersing players within a virtual environment where they must perform a series of objectives in a similar fashion to a mainstream videogame."Learning through play is a well established educational principle," says Mary Matthews at TruSim, the serious games division of independent video games developer Blitz Games. "The fact that it's now being applied to adult learning should not be a surprise to anyone. Look at roleplaying: nobody bats an eyelid at that as a valid form of training. Transferring that to videogames is the automatic next step."Yet sometimes association with the word "games" prevents serious games being taken, well, seriously. "Generally, awareness is not what it should be," says David Wortley, director of the Serious Games Institute. "And it's not what it should be simply because 'serious' and 'games' don't go together."RecognitionDespite this he, still believes the name is appropriate. "It's the fact they go beyond simulations. They use some of the techniques in games that make you want to go back and play again. That's the key thing: you get rewarded for doing better. So 'games' is important in the definition."According to Jim Piggot, chief executive of TPLD, a Dundee-based developer of serious games, the name is now starting to win recognition and acceptance. "In the early days when we were pitching this to organisations it was either as game-based learning, serious games or simulation. Now the industry seems to have settled on the 'serious games' terminology."Serious games are often developed using widely available videogame engines such as Crytek's CryEngine, which was used for the PC game Far Cry. "There are over 400 different game engines," says Professor Robert Stone, director of the human interface technologies team at the University of Birmingham. "For example, a submarine spatial awareness project we're currently involved in uses the Ogre3D engine, which is actually free."Although serious games can be used in areas such as education, culture and heritage, business and the environment, they are particularly popular with the military and healthcare sectors as they allow them to explore high-risk scenarios safely.TruSim is working on a prototype which explores a process called triage sieve, the first evaluation of casualties that medical personnel make when they arrive at the scene of a major incident.The prototype works by simulating an explosion in a generic-looking European city centre using data provided by the Manchester Royal Infirmary to generate injuries. If someone suffers a stomach wound, for example, the symptoms that are visually displayed to the "player" - or trainee - such as the level of respiration, panting, heartbeat, sweating and eye focus are all medically accurate.Casualties are randomly generated for each playthrough and decay in real time, so if you arrive five minutes, half an hour, or even longer after the explosion has happened, the situation will have changed significantly.The serious games market is still a fledgling one. In the 1990s virtual reality promised to revolutionise education and training, only to flounder when it did not live up to the hype."They [virtual reality developers] were professing that by the end of the 1990s we were all going to be wearing headsets and gloves and interacting in these wonderful virtual worlds, but of course it didn't happen," Stone says. "There's a bit of a problem now in that some people think serious games are the second coming of virtual reality."However, Matthews believes the situation today is sufficiently different to prevent the market imploding. "I think with virtual reality it was very much technology-led and now we are working and living in a different era," she says."The average gamer is 33. These people have grown up with games, understand how to play, how the technology has developed in that time and the possibilities." Custom-built simulators and virtual reality systems are vastly more expensive to develop or purchase when compared to serious games."We're using technology that's off the shelf and fits with everyday use, whereas simulators or virtual reality required dedicated pieces of hardware," Piggot says. "It's a price point that people can afford, it's technology that they can use and it gives them the experience they require."Hard evidenceAcademic research into the effectiveness of serious games in achieving training and learning goals is lacking at present, something Wortley hopes will change soon."A lot of people are sceptical about serious games and they're looking for hard evidence as to why they are better than traditional e-learning or simulation techniques," he says. "One of the missions of the Serious Games Institute is to provide that evidence."Although there is still a long way to go before serious games are considered an integral part of an organisation's training and development plans, those involved in their development are committed to proving their validity as a medium."There is no cowboy industry," Matthews says. "The companies who are working in this area at the moment are doing absolutely the right thing."From the US army to an artificial reef: five gamesAmerica's ArmyA tactical multiplayer shooter owned by the US government. Created as a tool for US army recruitment.Interactive Trauma TrainerA prototype commissioned from TruSim by the Ministry of Defence for field hospital personnel to refresh skills for common procedures.Improvised Explosive Device (IED) Search &amp; DisposalUsed for training search and disposal specialists, featuring virtual terrains based on a hypothetical Middle Eastern route and a real search training facility in Kent.MRSA Awareness and Training ToolSimulates the spread of MRSA in a hospital and aims to help doctors, nurses and patients understand infections policy and procedure.Virtual ScyllaHMS Scylla was scuttled in 2004 off Cornwall to create Europe's first artificial reef. Users can explore the Scylla in different stages of its development by controlling a virtual remotely-operated underwater vehicle.
Adobe photoshoppedI use Photoshop 7 and I would like to upgrade. I see that the latest issue is CS3, but I cannot afford &pound;550! Must be legitimate, though.Ronald EggintonJS:Unfortunately, Adobe will not sell you a copy of the previous version, Creative Suite 2, let alone a cheap upgrade to CS2. However, Adobe says that for its creative products, the upgrade path includes the previous three versions, so if you have PS7 then you can buy an upgrade to CS3 for &pound;163 inc VAT. "For those with older versions, there is no upgrade path, and you are right: we would remind users to be wary of buying from non-authorised outlets," Adobe says. Tony Sleep bought what he thought was an authentic version of a "new retail CS2" on eBay for &pound;110. However, Adobe said: "Please note that this is an unauthorised serial number," and refused to register the program. It's worth reading Tony's account at tinyurl.com/2ozwqo. Note that any copy advertised as an OEM version is probably counterfeit. Also, while you could buy a secondhand CS2, this is also not legitimate if the previous owner has used it to get a big discount on an upgrade to CS3. The other alternatives include Photoshop Elements, which doesn't do the job, and defecting to another program such as The Gimp, which is horrible. It's hardly surprising that Photoshop is widely pirated. As Sleep comments: "Perhaps it is time [Adobe] looked again at their pricing, upgrade policies and activation as a deterrent to illicit use, because all they seem to have achieved is a massive business opportunity for a better class of counterfeiter."Insecure asecurityI usually use Firefox as a browser, but recently I clicked on Internet Explorer and found the home page had been hi-jacked to asecurityservice.com. I don't understand how this can have happened when we are supposedly fully protected by MacAfee!Barbara WilliamsJS:I don't know how dangerous asecurityservice.com is, but it could be connected with the great fake anti-spyware scam. Examples include SpyAxe, SpyCrush, SpyDown, SpyFalcon, SpyGuard, SpyMarshal, SpySheriff, SpySoldier, Spyware Vanisher. These may "detect" problems with your PC to lure you into installing them, but are sometimes bundled with downloads you are said to need (but don't) to play multimedia files. An antivirus program can miss these either because it doesn't see them as malware, or because the user (administrator) is installing them. It's therefore a good idea to run one or more anti-spyware programs from time to time, as well as an antivirus program. Examples include AVG Anti-Spyware (formerly Ewido), Super AntiSpware and Microsoft's Windows Defender. Since you have a known infection, run one of these from Safe Mode. Otherwise, if asecurityservice.com is part of a fake anti-spyware system, then Siri's SmitFraudFix (tinyurl.com/jw39j) will probably remove it. If not, Techspot has a long and arduous routine (tinyurl.com/khcuw) that will remove most malware one way or another.Antivirus for MacPlease can you suggest a suitable antivirus installation for Mac OS X 10.4.10?Jeff AdamsJS:I don't know of any Mac viruses that are in the wild, so it doesn't seem worth paying for a program that could introduce its own vulnerabilities. However, Apple has been bundling ClamAV with Mac OS X Server 10.4, and you can download the user-friendly ClamXav version either from clamxav.com or from Apple (tinyurl.com/3cpfvr). It's free and open source.Unlocked iPhone?I plan to get an Apple iPhone and I'm happy to pay for the phone, but UK contracts seem expensive. I could buy an unlocked phone in the US, which should work with my existing contract, but are there reasons to avoid this?Robert MaitlandJS:Two good reasons are that you may not get much, if any, support, and that Apple's software updates can "brick" an unlocked iPhone, rendering it useless. Since Apple is apparently getting a hefty slice of income from the network providers selling locked phones, it is not in its financial interest to play nice. There could be an interesting software war as Apple locks phones and geeks unlock them, but if you just want a phone to make calls, either pay for a contract or use a different phone. At least wait until after Macworld in January to see how things pan out.Backchat&middot; Toby Price wanted a reminder program, and readers were surprised that Microsoft Outlook wasn't enough. Henry Malt points out that: "Outlook offers a selection of reminder times, but these are templates; they can be edited." You can, for example, take the "2 weeks" option and simply change the number. David Wood says: "Go to Help and search for 'Create reminders as far in advance as you want' and 'Create a recurring calendar reminder'."&middot; Donald Hawthorn wanted to print to a Windows USB printer from a DOS program that wanted to print to an LPT printer port. David Stephens, from Cadomel Library Systems, reckons DOSprn will do the job. "It's a small utility that allows you to direct output from any MS-DOS program to any printer, including USB and network printers. We recommend it to users of our heritage MS DOS applications."&#183; All the answers to your questions atblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack. Get your queries answered by emailing Jack Schofield our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
I have had a long and mostly quite harmonious relationship with iTunes. I fell in love with it when Apple finally made it available for Windows users. Before that I'd had a stormy relationship with MusicMatch, which Apple shipped with early versions of its first Windows-friendly iPod.When iTunes finally came to XP, I marvelled at how it pulled all my songs into one place and made them easy to navigate. Back then, it was slim and sleek, as we all were when we were young and in the first flush of love. It didn't do some of the more sophisticated tricks - album art, "coverflow" - it does now; those seductive skills have come with maturity.But I've moved on since my dewy youth. I've upgraded from XP to Vista and in the meantime, my constant companion, iTunes, has become middle-aged. It doesn't like having to get along with the shiny new kid from Microsoft; and as lovers do when they're past their sell-by date, has turned into a lardy, demanding bastard and I've almost forgotten why I fell in love. Frustratingly, though, it still shows glimpses of its former beauty: you can turn off all the flashy graphical stuff and use it in a minimalist, text-only way, for example. And it's got better-looking, as men do as they get older; they leave awkward youth behind and grow into their looks.And it has learned a few new tricks, as any good lover should if they want to keep a relationship fresh. It goes and gets album art without fuss, and syncs with any folder of photographs I like. A particularly pleasurable trick it's picked up since the early days is that it will stream music to an Airport Express (you know, a wireless network device) connected to my network and my speakers.But sometimes good looks hide laziness, and iTunes doesn't deliver on some promises. It whispers honey-toned promises about syncing my iPod with Outlook, but I've never managed to get it to do that. Most annoying of all, it has all but forgotten how to play music.Ever since the most recent version, it's had trouble on my Vista machine, as though it were deep in a midlife crisis. The audio stutters and drones, and if the PC does anything else - like check for email or respond to input from me - the music slows so it sounds as though it's being put through a wringer. Most infuriatingly of all, the connection to the Airport Express drops without warning.Sometimes it's just too huffy even to bother to connect to the Airport Express, and doesn't show any alternative to the PC's own speakers. Other times it will deign to show me the options, and once in a while it will even connect to them. But only when it feels like it. That's until it gets in a strop and drops the connection. This is particularly infuriating as setting up the Airport Express was not what you'd call easy.So I'm going back, thanks tofilehippo.com, which keeps older versions of freeware and shareware, to an earlier version of iTunes, which is behaving much better than the fat, moody twat I'd been living with. It's a bit like trading it in for a younger model.
If you have an online bank account then you will almost certainly be asked for your mother's maiden name before entering sensitive areas. This is regarded by the banks as a near-perfect security question because only you and your immediate family will know that fact. How wrong can they get. Your mother's maiden name, along with other personal information,  is very available online - from the register of births, marriages and deaths - and can be picked up by search engines. I found this out for myself when, after yet another scam on my bank account, I signed up to a service that claims to discover how much sensitive information is out there on the web so I can at least take precautions against it happening again.The website -garlik.com- claims to get to parts of the web that Google can't yet reach by using techniques that tag data to give it context. It is because of this "semantic" approach that Garlik has Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, as an adviser.We certainly need a new approach as well-insured banks don't take identity theft very seriously, and criminals are getting sophisticated. I have come across several examples of victims being rung up shortly after an identity theft by their banks to offer help. Except it is not their bank but the thief that made the call, to find out whether the crime had been reported or to elicit more confidential information. If someone tells you your mother's maiden name then it is easy to be convinced that they are from your bank.A survey carried out for Garlik by 1871 found that a stolen identity was worth &pound;84,000 in terms of the income it could generate for thieves. The going rate for a driving licence is apparently &pound;1,000 and &pound;5,000 for a sham marriage to a British citizen.Tom Ilube, chief executive of Garlik, says he used to think that if you were a victim of identity theft once it was less likely to happen twice - but this is not so, as information is sold on to others. He knows one person whose identity has been abused so often he doesn't know how to get it back. Small wonder that lots of criminals have stopped rummaging around in dustbins, to search instead the cornucopia of information now on the web from public databases, electoral rolls, bank details, post codes, credit cards, credit ratings, Companies House and the explosion of social networking websites.Ilube points out that Facebook might seem private but if you "whisper" to 250 friends it is no longer so private. Nor is it illegal to collect such information as it can all be justified as market research, which often makes it difficult to prosecute criminals. It is only a crime if it can be proved that data is being sold on for criminal purposes. Thieves are less interested in your bank account than your mobile phone or credit card which may have a spending limit of &pound;5,000.Garlik's aim is to give users ownership or control over their information (at &pound;2.99 a month after a free trial). Unlike Google, it takes much longer to search all the nooks and crannies that Garlik looks into. I hope to write about it more when I get fuller reports on what has been happening to my online identity. In the meantime, I have already learned enough to make me behave differently, starting with always giving a false maternal maiden name and considering having my name taken off the published electoral roll which otherwise enables companies and others to mine a lot of data about me.One curious thing was that I only got three out of a possible five stars for my credit status despite not having taken out a loan or an overdraft for years. That's the problem. If you don't take out credit you don't get a rating. If I were to go tomorrow to my local department store and use a store card with a lethal interest rate of around 29% my credit rating would immediately improve. Funny old world.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
A shock profits warning from Sweden's Ericsson, the world's largest maker of mobile phone networks, sent telecoms and technology stocks lower across the globe yesterday and even dented the Swedish currency.Shares in Ericsson recorded their biggest one-day loss - down nearly 30% in a fall wiping almost &pound;10bn from the value of the business - as it admitted that operating profits for the third quarter were well below expectations. The company, buyer of bombed out British rival Marconi for &pound;1.2bn two years ago, has seen the flow of network upgrade contracts run out as telecoms groups merged or cut costs in maturing US and west European markets.At the same time it chased emerging markets where fierce competition has forced competitive deals to get a foothold, leading to a dramatic drop in margins.The news was particularly shocking because last month the company held a lengthy investor day at a London hotel where chief executive Carl-Henric Svanberg said industry growth was "strong".Yesterday he admitted that the company "could have elaborated more on the dynamics and understood the consequences ourselves a bit better" of the change in the market since then.Ericsson was scheduled to report its third quarter figures next week but released its profit warning as soon as it realised the market had moved against it. The dire profits warning is likely to cast doubt on the company's reporting system and Mr Svanberg's future.He joined Ericsson four years ago when it was struggling after the dotcom crash, and helped revitalise the group through further cost reductions and a reorganisation into three business units: selling fixed-line networks, wireless networks and multimedia services.Yesterday he said the company had failed to secure lucrative contracts from customers such as AT&amp;T in the US. Instead it won deals for new networks in emerging markets including China and India.The move from high margin to lower margin contracts means that while sales in the third quarter of the year rose a slightly weaker than expected 6% to 43.5bn Swedish kronor (&pound;3.3bn), profits plunged 36% to SEK5.6bn. Analysts had expected nearer SEK9bn.The news hurt shares in rivals such as Nokia, Nortel and Alcatel-Lucent. and saw shares in UK-based telecoms equipment testing business Spirent drop 5%.The decline in Ericsson's share price cost the company its position as the country's biggest quoted company, and clothing retailer Hennes &amp; Mauritz took over the top spot. The dramatic slide even hurt the Swedish currency, forcing it lower against the dollar."This is a bad profit warning," said analyst Richard Windsor at Nomura. But he added that "the fundamentals of the mobile industry remain intact" as growth in new subscribers continues and customers increasingly use more data services rather than just using their phone to make voice calls and send texts."This means that sooner or later operators will have to resume spending on both capacity upgrades and software," he added. "Consequently we expect Ericsson to recover, but how long it takes to regain its former glory remains to be seen."
The main hall at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco is packed as everybody at theWeb 2.0 Summitwaits for the man of the moment, Facebook founderMark Zuckerberg.We're promised some insight into what he's thinking at the moment. Does he think Facebook is reallyworth $10bn? With Microsoft, Google and Yahoo amongthose reputedto be trying to take a share of the company, where do his instincts lie? What about thecourt casehe's fighting back east? And who does he poke the most?All this and more as we're on hand to watch events unfold...After a cheerleading introduction with John Battelle and Tim O'Reilly - in which Tim says "social networking is not just another class of application" and Battelle claims that Microsoft are "edgy" - Zuckerberg rolls onto the stage.He looks around the stage, sits down. Battelle, with tongue in cheek, asks "Don't you think you're selling yourself a little short at $15bn?" Zuckerberg plays it back - "We'll see". I think he's not going to join in too easily.How much time does he spend worrying about corporate stuff? How much time does he spend thinking about an IPO? "An IPO? None." We spend a lot of time on product development. It's not that we don't think about the revenue model, it's that We don't focus on optimising the revenue we have today. We've always had this philosophy that it's just how we operate, we don't want to burn through the money.Little more than 300 people working there now, but expects that within a year it might be something like 700. Most of the hiring comes through the network, recommendations.How do you define the term social graph? "When we talk about the social graph, we're talking about the set of connections that everyone has. All we're trying to do is take the real connections people have in the world and map it out. Once we have an accurate model, we can expose those connections to applications. Those applications help people to share their information more effectively." (He's lapsing into preacher mode, I think he's well-practised at giving this little snippet to people)"We're moving into a time where the cost of communication between individuals is decreasing all the time."When did you figure out that you wanted to do the Facebook platform? "The early guys who built the company, we discussed building the development platform before we actually built Facebook. It's been incredibly humbling to see all these people developing; we made a conscious decision that we wanted to release this very quickly. Let's get this thing out in the world and see how people are going to use. It's going to take 30 years - or tens of years - before this becomes a really mature platform. It's just been amazing."What about the terms of service? They're terrifying, because you can yank the applications any time you want. How do you weigh the fear that I might be building a business that's too much leveraged on yours? "We don't want to go around yanking out applications. We've gone out of our way to make it that people can develop anything without talking to us. But we didn't know the full set of rules and the full set of things that we might have to restrict in the future. I don't think the intent there was what the language sounds like."Will you ever decide to use the fact that you're the platform to crush people. "It wouldn't be good for us. We need to make sure there's enough flexibility so that we can create the next thing." But Microsoft, for example, saw a great profit in applications and went after it. What areas might Facebook be interested in? "There may be something in ads. In the next few months there will be a lot more on that. We reserve the right to create anything and launch any application, but we want to work from a level playing field."This is a fascinating discussion, precisely for what Zuckerberg isn't saying. He's remaining very restrained, restricted, not really playing the game here."We're not really a media company... The types of stuff we build and the types of problems we solve are deeply technical problems. That's the sort of thing Facebook's going to be interested in building towards."How is the deal with Microsoft going? "I think we're both happy... I'm pretty sure." Are you interested in going outside the Facebook platform? He says wait three months, and then he'll start to talk about their plans.Battelle starts moving towards a different set of questions. What about privacy? Is there a view of privacy that Facebook takes? "There's privacy and granular control that people have. Take a photo album I have; on the open web I choose to share with everyone or no-one. But for a lot of people if they have the choice, they won't do it. We can let a lot of people share a lot more. Four years ago a lot of people were afraid to share their first and last name on the web; because Facebook only tells people around you, they're OK with that. Nobody would want to share their phone number with 45 million people, but if they can say they only want to share it on their friends. Giving people tight control over how they share their information on a really granular level is what makes the system work."But that information lives on your servers, and could be subpoenaed: would you endorse the maxim 'Don't be evil'? "We probably would."Questions from the floor: We have lobbied Facebook to let us export data from your system. That really gets to the essence of a closed platform. Who owns the data? "It's the user's data. We want to get there, that's the goal. If you look at where we've gone in four years, from just one college letting people share a very limited amount of information... we want to get there. It's a flaw in the system now and we want to get it out as soon as we can. I don't know how long it's going to take."A long question about a man who has a Facebook profile without ever creating one. Zuckerberg's a little thrown... "I assume it was some sort of... error," he responds.What differences do you see in different countries and different global markets? Does that influence your product development? "There are definitely some really fundamental underlying things - people all over the world have social connections. At the same time, people in different countries like using different applications. We're finding that there are a lot of local applications that a lot of people there use."Are you happy with the large number of frivolous apps? Do you wish it would take a different turn? Is there an app you'd like to see developed that hasn't been developed yet? "It's still fairly early. Some of the stuff is great - looking at the applications we ourselves have built, photos, videos, and the verticals that have been filled in. This is something we think we'll be building and adding to as well. It's incredible to think that there are 6,000 applications and 100,000 developers. There are some really interesting applciations, stuff related to health, for different types of things that are outside in personal media. I don't pick favourites."What about people entering profiles for bands, like on MySpace. Are you thinking about going in that direction? "We saw that people were using profiles to create other types of concept. In order to keep the integrity of the user profile, we made groups. We'll probably enable to build more specific types of group - this is already something that's available through a lot of platform applications."How do you handle subpoenas? The social graph is useful in lots of ways. "I don't know the answer to that question."In this culture, at some point or another you've got to bring in a grownup to run the company. Any comment? "There's nothing to comment on." Have you been thinking about it? "The way we've been thinking about it is building a team. Rather than hiring a CEO who's experienced in the space - and we're not convinced they exist - we focus on building out a really strong team." Battelle sticks in a joke about Chris DeWolfe, from MySpace, who (it has been rumoured) might be leaving at some point. Zuckerberg doesn't even smile at the quip.And with that, swiftly, he exits the stage.
We get many more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room for in print. So here's the full text of those we chose from. The question of tides got people quite exercised...NABLUSCongratulations to Clare Simon for her informative article, 'Nablus' online link to the world.' Her article explains really well how the restrictions on travel impact on the daily lives of people living in the Occupied Palestinian Territories, affecting both work and contact with family and friends. Janet Green, LondonIPHONE LOVE AFFAIRThe reason there isn't a 'Maytag users group' (iPhone could mark the end of the geek affair with Apple, 04/10/07) is probably because Maytag don't spend their time cultivating a cult status for their appliances, upgrading them every year so you feel obliged to buy a new one with all the latest widgets and funky new colours, and their owners don't obsess about how much cooler their machines are than their boring white-box rivals. Apple's products (like most PCs) are a long way from being the kind of household appliances you can use and rely on for years straight out of the box without worrying about instant obselecence. Derrick Cameron, Stoke-on-TrentWhat "geek affair with Apple"? Jack Schofield is, yet again, barking up the wrong anti-Apple tree. We use Mac's precisely because we aren't geeks. We really aren't bothered with all the tat that PC users need to even make their machines function; we really do want to just plug-and-play (or even work). The iPhone may well be a turkey, but the only geeks around are all the poor sods who are endlessly Ask(ing) Jack how to keep their PCs upright. Mark Pringle, London&gt;&gt; Yes, but what is a computer? A PSP has a web browser built-in, so is that a computer? Many phones use operating systems of one type or another. Of course you can look inside and say that it has the potential to do this or that - but at your own risk. Yet people do try to hack almost every device imaginable - particularly games consoles, which are also clearly marketed as "closed" devices on which you can only run specific games. Indeed, the business model for games consoles is that the hardware is sold at a loss and the software is highly profitable. The iPhone business model is similar - you have to subscribe to a plan from a specific carrier (AT&amp;T in the States, O2 in the UK) and Apple get a share of that money. So of course Apple will try to prevent people "unlocking" the phone.http://www.ordinarygweilo.com&gt;&gt; Some crazy columnist for The Guardian says that because we've locked down iPhone, the product "could mark the beginning of the end of the geek love affair with Apple." Just look at him in that picture, with his pipe dangled at a jaunty angle. Likes himself a little too much, don't you think? How much you want to bet this same guy is first in line begging for a free "review unit"?http://fakesteve.blogspot.com/&gt;&gt; I'm absolutely certain that at WWDC 08 will see an SDK for the iPhone. It need to happen. We've already seen many applications made for the phone that shows that there is a real need for it (and even if it already had every conceivable app on it, we'd still see proof of concept apps). There's, I think, two reasons for that we haven't seen the SDK yet: 1: iPhone's OS; even as it's running OS X it's still really young of an OS... 2: They want to see what type of apps people are ready to install even if it means they might break their phone. ... It's easy for Nokia to allow third party apps on their Symbian based phones as they've been running and developing Symbian for a decade.http://tapaninaho.com/blog/[Written about two weeks ago, this turns out to be almost exactly right: Apple says it will have an SDK for the iPhone in February 08 - Tech. Ed]&gt;&gt; Jack Schofield's piece makes no sense. Apparently Vista is a flop. Except it's not. Apparently because Jack Schofield says so. Except he smokes a pipe. So can you trust him? No Greg, you cannot. Exhibit B: his take on the locked down iPhone.http://viruscow.blogspot.com/TIME AND TIDES WAIT...If you thought Mr Barrett's letter was plausible enough to be worth printing I have this design for a perpetual motion machine that you might like to buy … Peter Wright, PolegateFrom where did John Barrett get his theory about Tidal Wave energy? As all 15-year old Science students (should) know, it is the gravitational pull of the moon in orbit around the earth which creates the fluctuating tides. As long as we have the oceans and a moon in orbit around the Earth, the tides will never abate. And for Mr Barrett's benefit it is the complex arrangement of celestial bodies in our solar system and the relative gravitational forces in complex interaction which keeps our planet on axis and orbit. Not the bloody tides! The conclusion of Mr Barrett's confused theory is ludicrous 19th century sci-fi. Whether climate change is a cyclical event, albeit one to which we are clearly contributing, is still up for debate but the fact that there are people out there still peddling such crazy half-notions as this is incomprehensible. In conclusion, tidal energy is indeed a renewable energy source. Neil Sanderson, SheffieldI don't know how John Barrett (Letters, Oct 4) arrived at his alarming conclusions about the effects of harnessing tidal energy, but a knowledge of basic physics is enough to show that the Earth has enough rotational energy to power the Severn Barrage for four trillion years, or around 300 times the age of the universe. Meanwhile, the Moon is already slowing down the Earth's rotation through tidal effects. It draws as much power as 60,000 Severn barrages, and in doing so, it lengthens the day by a few milliseconds each year, an effect so small that only a handful of astronomers even notice it. And the speed of the Earth's rotation has no connection at all to its orbit around the Sun, which has remained stable for the past four and a half billion years, and which will be much the same in another five billion years, when the Sun becomes a red giant and expands to engulf the Earth. Now THAT is global warming! Dr David Harper, Cambridge (professional astronomer)ID CARDSMichael Cross refers to UK ID card 'eligibility', and how we will have to be 16 to 'qualify' as though we are going to be given a choice. How can these terms apply to something that will be mandatory? What part of the proposed punishments the government will impose on us for refusal to hand over our fingerprints and a wide range of private and personal information, is he unaware of? I might qualify for a credit card, or be eligible for a bus pass, but I wont be fined £2500 for not applying, sorry, enrolling. Andrew Calvert, RuislipOFCOM ET ALVictor Keegan said "peer to peer" (4 October). I thought "p2p" stood for "pirate to pirate"... Gordon Joly, LondonALFRESCO&gt;&gt; If asked about the biggest threats to Documentum I would say MOSS and Open Source. However for some reason Open Source seems to be getting left behind in the UK and I feel great sympathy for the likes of Alfresco. From what I have read about Alfresco, and a little bit of dabbling, it seems to be built on an open and flexible architecture. Yet it is really struggling in the UK. The article above points an accusing finger at the big systems integrators in the UK…is this fair? The Public Sector market in the UK has been very good for IT Consultancy firms in the past 5 years and this is a market, especially in the UK which is risk averse.http://ecmobservations.wordpress.com/&gt;&gt; Open source gives a company global reach without boarding a plane. My cost of sale is almost negligible. Most of my team never gets on a plane. But we're doing a tremendous amount of business globally...including in Silicon Valley. And that despite the fact that we have an anemic presence there. That's the power of open source.http://blogs.cnet.com/IN GENERAL..Do we have to have a letter almost every week telling us how safe Macs are from viruses? So is my Commodore 64, but that's for pretty much the same reason: hardly anybody uses them. If Macs suddenly gained 95% of the market, do you think the majority of viruses and trojans would still target Windows? And can we limit letters concerning Apple computers to maybe 2-3% of the letters page, roughly equivalent to their market share? (Even less if you only consider the letters concerning computers specifically) Daniel O'Toole, Galway, IrelandTECHNOBILE (BLOGGING)&gt;&gt; Amusing article, as it happens and coming to my notice only as a result of my dear beloved's casual remark this afternoon as I attempted to start yet another bloody blog. My dear beloved (DB) thinks blogs and blogging are a complete waste of time. He could be right. My reactions to his usual disparaging remarks have been inconsistent; over the past year of dabbling with blogging I have gone from a patient 'wait and see' attitude to a rather unsubtle 'be damned and go to hell' cursing fury. I cannot even claim a 'blogiversary' after a year, as I deleted my first ever blog a few months after I had started it.http://flookwittery.wordpress.com/WORD FARMSHaving read assertica.co.uk's comments (Letters, 4 October), I can only surmise that he neither truely appreciates the meaning of plagiarism and the purpose of citing references within academic research. For clarification, to 'plagarise' is to pass off someone else's original work as one's own (see:http://dictionary.reference.com/search?r=2&amp;q=plagiarism). The point of citing other peoples' work, with full references, within academic publications is not only to give them credit for their own original work but also either to bolster, provide a counter-point and in doing so, expand upon the discursive element of your own original academic research. The two activities are, in fact, opposite to each other and by conducting the first, you only undermine and destroy any credibility in your own original research - something a true academic would avoid, regardless the quality of writing or its entertainment value. Indeed, if academics relied solely on plagarism, academic research would grind to a spectular halt as no one would have orginal ideas any more! However, I do share his hatred of the 'spelling and grammar prigs' whose only recourse to destroying an article is to pick holes in the spelling and grammer; if anything the web has enabled access to a medium to those previously excluded a voice within publishing and within wider society as a whole. I've always stood by my old English teacher's argument that there isn't a correct way to spell - just an accepted one! Rick Holyomes, BrightonREADING VS PODCASTS (ANDREW BROWN)I'd rather read than listen or watch anything and that's exactly what I do. I watch TV about 50 hours a year and read while I do it. I listen to podcasts and read or work while I do it. I go through 300 books a year and wish I could do more. I couldn't live without reading. Hugh Giblin, Durham, North CarolinaIPHONE: SHOULD YOU BUY? (SEPT 20)I have been an iPhone user since the day it came out in June. I live in the San Francisco Bay Area (Silicon Valley). Fyi: the Wow Factor still exist here. Everywhere I go, and when my phone rings, or I pull my iPhone out of my pocket, it get people coming up to me and asking me about it. For example just yesterday alone: I had a sign being put up at a building, and I was talking with the installers of the sign and my wife called me on my iPhone. After I hung up with her, they ask for a demo of the phone, and yes, one more iPhone sold. (Their comments were: NO S**T is does that?, are you f**king kidding me, I am going to get one!) Later that evening, I was invited to an event (party) and I was asked if I had a camera. I said yes, but it was my iPhone camera. I took the picture and then I had at first four people around me asking me about the phone...then five minutes later four other people surrounded me and asked for another demo. Two iPhones sold. This was just yesterday. This happens to me almost every day. Did you know that my wife laughed at me when I got the iPhone...then she tried it. Guess what: did you know after about four days after I got her one, one evening she said to me "Thank you, this is the greatest phone I have ever had, and it is so easy to use.Thank you, thank you...THANK YOU!" Misconceptions: the data transfer rate is not as slow as you think. Yes, YouTube still works but takes longer than Wi-Fi, and remember Wi-Fi is alot faster than G3 (at least here...I had a Sprint G 3 card and returned it and said goodbye paying $50 per month to that); my email application is killer and I use it all the time. Google Maps is another killer app on the phone.. and you will never have to use the yellow pages again. The iTunes sync app to the iPhone is fantastic. Pricing: give me a break...here I have four phones, two with Sprint and 2 with ATT....I left Sprint for ATT, but kept my kids on the Sprint plan.. guess what ... my pricing for all 4 phones are the same as if I was with sprint... but less minutes but I got rollover minutes with ATT that sprint did not offer and I still have 1700 minutes left in roll over... get the point? Finally, after having the iPhone for over 3.5 months..... it is better that what it is advertised as! Brett Weber, California
While box blurb is usually nonsense - Halo 3 isn't even the game of year, let alone "the decade" - the praise on the front ofThe Orange Boxis merited. Out this Friday, The Orange Box is clearly the "best deal in videogames", assuming you like your first person shooters. The package includes the original Half Life 2, plus two smaller (around 5-10 hours long) episodic follow-ups, the latter of which is newly released. Multiplayer only Team Fortress 2 and innovative puzzler Portal round off a package that is hard to criticise.Sure, Half Life 2 is getting on a bit but playing through it on the 360 over the weekend was still a hugely enjoyable affair. In many ways I enjoyed it more on the 360 than the PC, partly because of the big screen and partly because the temptation to quick save every few seconds was negated by a relatively annoyance-free checkpoint system. The loading times are frustrating though and combined with the odd sudden death scenario remind you that things have moved on/got easier. Bioshock - perhaps Half Life 2's spiritual successor in the story driven first person shooter genre - is certainly more forgiving. But Half Life 2 deserves its new console audience.I never played the original so Team Fortress 2 doesn't have the emotional attachment that it does to some but the fact that the character design is more Pixar than space marine and that it encourages players to properly work together put it above the majority of 360 multiplayer shooters.Portal is the dark horse though. Essentially a puzzle game, Portal asks you to shoot exit and entry "portals" through walls, outwit gun turrets and manouvre crates across seemingly impassable barriers. A welcome change of pace, Portal perfectly complements the other four games. But the Orange Box as a whole is recommended. And with the newDS Zelda gameout this week too - initial impressions very positive, although the controls may annoy Zelda purists - this Friday is shaping up to be an expensive one.
The Apple iPhone will be sold in France by Orange, which is owned by the dominant telephone company, France Télécom, for €399 ($560). And since French law bans phones being locked to a network for more than six months, Orange will also sell an unlocked version, reportsInternational Herald Tribune. However, Orange spokesman Béatrice Mandrine declined to reveal the price when unlocked.Would French buyers also pay a swingeing Apple Tax on every call?Mandrine declined to say whether Orange had agreed to give Apple a portion of the service revenue that iPhone users will generate with the device in France. Analysts have said Apple is receiving up to 30 percent of operator revenue for the phone, something unheard of in an industry that has been dominated by operators.Anyone planning a quick trip to Paris next month?
I'm in San Francisco for theWeb 2.0 Summit, a technology conference put on by O'Reilly Media and CMP.The speaker list is certainly substantial - Rupert Murdoch, Steve Ballmer, Meg Whitman, Mike Moritz and Mark Zuckerberg among others - but there's a sense that this event isn't really much about Web 2.0, but just the dotcom business world (the startup focused parts have now split off into another event, theWeb 2.0 Expo).There is due to be a slew of announcements made to time with the event -this one from MySpace and Skype looks like the first- but most of them aren't likely to be worth bothering with. It'll be fun to see who comes up with the best (read: most ludicrous) piece of marketing guff (I imagineValleywagwill be on the trail, too.Anyway, apropos of the recent discussion betweenPaul GrahamandRyan Carsonabout startups outside Silicon Valley, it's worth remembering how much gravity this part of California has in terms of technology and startups.It's easy for us to talk up the dotcom scenes in London and around Europe - and they are starting to blossom - but there's a massive difference between being part of a small group of like-minded people and being part of what'snormal. For example, fuelled by coffee last night I popped into a party organised byRedditto celebrate one year of being part of the Wired family. The small venue was packed, with faces new and old. The big difference was that nobody thought it was too weird... you don't get that back home very often.
Internet Tablet Talk has published pictures of the Nokia N810 Internet Tablet just before it's officially announced. Main new feature over the 800: a small keyboard.
From ourBetter Late Than Neverdept: as expected, the Open Source Initiative has approved the two "shared source" licences submitted by Microsoft.The OSI says:Microsoft came to the OSI and submitted their licenses according to the published policies and procedures that dozens of other parties have followed over the years. Microsoft didn't ask for special treatment, and didn't receive any. In spite of recent negative interactions between Microsoft and the open source community, the spirit of the dialog was constructive and we hope that carries forward to a constructive outcome as well.AsMicrosoftnotes, the existing licences were renamed, so the Microsoft Permissive License (Ms-PL) has now become theMicrosoft Public License (Ms-PL). It's readable, and impressively short.The OSI is trying to reduce "licence proliferation" but must have felt that in this case it was justified.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Websites must act to prevent unscrupulous marketers trying to reach children, internet experts have warned.With youngsters spending increasing amounts of time online and bans on advertising during children's TV programming, more companies are turning towards popular websites and virtual worlds as a way to influence younger consumers.But one of the world's most popular websites for children,Habbo Hotel, said it has been forced to patrol its website to stop unwanted advertisers from hawking their goods to children.Habbo, which consists of a series of 3D chatrooms, is visited by more than 7 million users a month - mostly teenagers or even younger.The website runs some advertising deals with companies such as Coca-Cola, but co-founder Sampo Karjalainen said that some companies were pushing unsolicited advertising at its users."According to our rules, it's not acceptable," he said. "We co-operate with certain advertisers and sponsors ... but we've had to bring in strict rules and policies and hire people to moderate it and build filters, to protect the teens.""I'm not a big fan of advertising in general. But in online communities brands have to provide something that's seen as valuable and isn't pushed in your face."Investors are eyeing the children's market as a potential way to cash in on the latest dotcom boom.One recent study suggested that more than half of children are expected to belong to a virtual world by 2011, double the numbers today, and it is estimated than more than £500m has already been invested in new virtual worlds by venture capitalists.That growth has encouraged many brands to invest in new child-friendly online services.Last week the BBC unveiled its plans for an online children's game called Adventure Rock, which will launch by the end of the year. The site will be free of advertising and will not contain chatrooms in an attempt to protect its users, who are likely to be aged between 9 and 12.Marc Goodchild, head of BBC children's interactive, said it was crucial to be aware of every aspect of child safety when working online."Kids wants to recreate their playground experiences at home," said Mr Goodchild. "But as a public broadcaster, it's paramount to make sure children are as safe as possible."The BBC's move is the latest in a series of high-profile investments, most notably Disney's $350m acquisition earlier this year ofClub Penguin, a social website popular among pre-teens.Toy manufacturer Mattel opened its own virtual world dedicated to theBarbie doll- which now boasts more than 4 million registered users – and toys that interact with the web such asStardollandWebKinzhave proved massive hits with children.Some dotcom veterans said they were worried that the vast sums of money now involved meant that commercial pressures would lead some websites to cut corners and run more advertising aimed at youngsters."There are a lot of concerns about advertising to children in these places," said Michael Smith, the chief executive of MindCandy, a British internet company which is due to launch a virtual game for children later this month."The ways you can connect with kids is so much more powerful online. It's going to be tough for people to resist the lure of advertising money."
What is it about MMOs and their orcs, mythical/space locations and swords of uberness? Why must successful games in this genre adhere to such traditional notions of gaming? If you look at the battery of MMO-related products which have seen the long-term, you'll find there's little room on the list for games that don't feature dwarves or large space battleships. How so?It's not for wont of trying. NCSoft did attempt to break free from its history of epic storytelling by releasing Auto Assault, an MMO based on a mega destruction derby. Unfortunately, it went belly up before its first MOT. The Sims Online, another mainstream attempt to go massively game, has been in steady decline since its release. It never even reached these shores.GameTribeis a new MMO hub making its beta debut in the UK with three easy-to-grip MMO concepts: one traditional (for the die-hards) and two alternative MMO titles: Kick, a massively multiplayer footy offering, and KongKong Online, a "jumping race".I have a hard time seeing how these are going to be "massively" multiplayer. Instead, I see GameTribe and others like it as a multiplayer hub for minigames that, like the Dreamcast's ChuChu Rocket puzzle game and Xbox's Live's enormous library, offer a handful of people to play together.So is it possible for games to be massively multiplayer without the orcs or space platoons? Is there a MMO EastEnders in our futures?
The embattled internet search specialist Yahoo! suffered a fresh fall in profits last night as it lost ground to rival Google - but investors took heart from signs that the company could be turning the corner.Yahoo's third-quarter net profits fell 5% to $151m (&pound;74m), continuing a long-running decline. But its revenue surged by 12% to $1.76bn and the figures comfortably exceeded analysts' expectations.In after-hours trading on Nasdaq, shares in Yahoo! jumped 8% on hopes that Project Panama, a widely hyped upgrade to the company's advertising technology, is beginning to reap rewards. "We are encouraged by the early signs of improvement in our business," said Yahoo's chief financial officer, Blake Jorgensen.Beset by criticism over strategic drift, Yahoo! ditched its chief executive, Terry Semel, in June and co-founder Jerry Yang resumed day-to-day control. Since then, the firm has engaged in a 100-day review to determine a long-term path.The firm told investors last night that it intended to continue as a broad-based internet advertising outlet in spite of Google's dominance of online searches. According to research firm ComScore, Google accounted for 37bn of the world's 61bn internet searches during August while Yahoo! provided 8.5bn.On a conference call, Yahoo!'s president, Susan Deckerm suggested that the company's ability to make money out of searches was improving. "I'm very pleased to say our global roll-out of Panama is nearing completion," she said. "Substantially, all of our global advertisers have now been migrated to the new system."Excluding traffic acquisition costs, Yahoo!'s revenue was up by 13% in the US and by 9% elsewhere in the world.Jeffrey Lindsay, at stockbroker Sanford Bernstein, said of the result: "It's possibly the least attractive scenario in that it's improved, but only just enough."
Guardian Unlimited posted a couple of stories today that you might just have missed. InBBC iPlayer Mac-friendly by 2008, Mark Sweney reports that:In a link-up with Adobe, the BBC will use the company's Flash-based video system to make the iPlayer service available to be streamed by Mac and Linux users by the end of the year.Also:The deal with Adobe will see the rollout of an embedded media player for both video and audio content that will also allow users to share the content for the first time on websites including Digg, Del.icio.us and in blog posts.Mark further reported thatOfcom raises iPlayer HD doubts, because "delivering HD programming via the internet as on-demand downloads will be vastly more expensive than standard programming"."We believe that the BBC Trust should take into account the costs arising in this area," concluded Ofcom in its recommendations and proposed modifications section of its BBC HD channel market impact assessment."If they are likely to be significant, they may offset the public value generated by the service."
In September 1999 Chris Smith, then culture secretary, announced the government's intention to switch off the analogue television signal. Not only was it considered uneconomic to have analogue and digital transmission, it would allow new uses for the released spectrum. The government highlighted the public service benefits of digital TV and said it was important that Britain remain a world leader in television technology. The windfall from auctioning the spectrum was also undoubtedly a factor.The collapse of ITV Digital in 2002 appeared to deal a blow to the plans but proved a blessing when Freeview, a BBC-backed service offering around 30 channels without a subscription, took its place and became hugely popular.As pressure grew on the government to unveil a timetable, arguments continued about who would pay for it. Following work by the regulator, Ofcom, Tessa Jowell said in 2005 that switchover would take place region by region between 2008 and 2012. The government also confirmed a &pound;600m support package for the elderly and vulnerable, to be paid for out of the licence fee. Everyone will need a set-top box or inbuilt tuner for each television and some will need to upgrade their aerial. Alternatively, viewers can install satellite or cable.Digital UK, a consortium of the terrestrial broadcasters and the owners of the digital spectrum (National Grid Wireless and SDN), was set up to co-ordinate the conversion of 1,073 transmitters throughout the country and oversee a &pound;200m marketing campaign. Switchover will begin in the Border television region next year, followed by West Country, Wales and Granada in 2009, then West, Grampian, Scottish, Central, Yorkshire and Anglia in 2011. Meridian, London, Tyne Tees and Ulster will follow in 2012.With the timetable agreed, attention will turn to what the released spectrum will be used for. Terrestrial broadcasters would like to launch high definition services on digital terrestrial, while Ofcom appears determined to auction it to the highest bidders.
I've been reprimanded by my pals atGameCityfor not yet covering this year's event, which is taking place in Nottingham between October 24-28. It's another amazingly diverse festival of gaming culture utilising dozens of locations around the city centre. It was great fun last year and I was due to host another Gamesblog event this year - a showing of Danny Ledonne's documentary, Playing Columbine, followed by a video interview with the director himself. Sadly, I can't attend as my wife is due to give birth around the end of October, but luckilythe eveningis going on without me.Anyway, here are a few other highlights:Alexey Pajitnov: the Tetris creator will be a hosting a series of events including a screening of 'Tetris: From Russia With Love', a documentary that explores the bizarre and complex history of the game.Star Wars: The Complete Saga: Jonathan Smith of Traveller's Tales' publisher TT Games introduces the latest title in the Lego Star Wars series and will show off the Wii Light Saber for the first time.Jim Cliff - The Man from the BBFC: The veteran BBFC examiner talks about the process of games classification and will, of course, touch on the whole Manhunt 2 controversy. If you've been enraged by the board's decision regarding Rockstar's release this is absolutely essential.The Lost Levels: I'm really pleased about this one. 8bit music mastersLost Levelswho I wrote about on this blog after they contacted me via MySpace, will be playing at Lee Rosy's Tea Shop on October 25. I'mguttedthat I'll be missing this.
As a sometime contributor toFrieze MagazineI get sent lots of press releases about art exhibitions. I can't usually do much with them, but this one immediately caught my eye. Young British artistEmily Allchurchhas just opened a show atFrost &amp; Reed Contemporaryin London entitled, Urban Chiaroscuro. It's a selection of photographic transparencies digitally compiled from dozens of the artist's own snaps and organised to resemble the series, Carceri d'Invenzione (Imaginary Prisons), published by master Italian etcher Giovanni Battista Piranesi in 1749.When I first saw the image above I was struck by how much it resembled a piece of videogame level design: the gothic architecture, the use of shadowing to add definition and atmosphere, the multi-levelled platforms and staircases. Interestingly, Allchurch adds contemporary elements to the original etchings - lager cans, CCTV cameras, street signs. Her aim is to suggest a 'claustrophobic climate of fear - and indeed the prevalence of the technology of surveillance' - both themes of level design in dark adventures like Half-Life and especially Bioshock (which also merges period architecture with modern technologies).Anyway,hereare some more of the images. I think they're all eminently deathmatch-able. I'm not sure what the artist would make of this observation.
Just in case you didn't see this yesterday, HMV will be opening a new gaming zone in its Edinburgh store this Friday. The area is set to feature 27 Xbox 360s, big Samsung HD screens and the capacity to run multiplayer gaming for up to 16 participants. Access will apparently be controlled through a membership scheme with customers paying five pounds for three hours of play or three quid for 60 minutes. Regular competitions are planned, based around the likes of Guitar Hero 3, Project Gotham 4 and Halo 3. If the concept is successful, HMV plans to roll out gaming zones across its other large stores. (Morehere.)I was quite interested in this idea until I discovered the business model. A fiver?! A fiver for playing disrupted Halo sessions against confused shoppers and feral teenagers who've been there for five days on a diet of Red Bull and tartrazine? It's Laser Quest all over again.Does HMV charge customers to use its listening posts? No, because they're a nicely complicit form of advertising. Of course, the overheads are greater with a dedicated gaming-zone - apparently, it's 2000 square feet which is a considerable slab of retail space. But is a competitive, monified environment really the best way to encourage consumers to try and buy new games? I'm just not sure what demographic HMV has in mind here.A while ago I posted about how game stores need to re-think how they treat customers. The gaming population is growing up - the average age of a UK gamer is now 28 (source:BBC UK Games Research) - and games retail isn't growing with them. I'm not sure how many 28-year-olds will want to pay for three hours of gaming - what theymightwant to do is spend ten free minutes with a couple of games they were thinking of buying.What do you think? Have I got this all wrong? Perhaps the gaming zone is all about tempting youngsters out of social networking sites and back into records shops. Perhaps it's not really about gaming, it's about creating a community within the confines of a music retail space. Perhaps I don't understand it, because it's not for me.
Meangene's pagedoes have a bit of Flash, but stay with it - it's the perfect description of what's happening to so many sites (hey, don't look at us, or at least not only us) as they wriggle around trying to up their presence in the Google rankings.In its way, it's as note-perfect a parody as the "Microsoft designs the iPod packaging" one made for internal consumption and then leaked.Let's see, we've also had "Google as designed by Yahoo". What else is there in this genre?
Apple has done what many expected - put out a press release on Tuesday (its favourite day for releases; perhaps it gives the people the weekend to sort everything, and then a day to check it all) saying that OSX 10.5, aka "Leopard", will ship on Friday October 26. At 6pm. Giving you just enough time to hurry home, install it, and stay up all night posting comments on the web saying "Wow, it's snappier!"Hang on, though, what's this? "Leopard, the sixth major release of Mac OS X, is the best upgrade we've ever released," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "And everyone gets the 'Ultimate' version, packed with all the new innovative features, for just £85."Yes, we're sure he stood there and said it for the benefit of the person with the clipboard.But what's thison Apple's site? "Leopard, the sixth major release of Mac OS X, is the best upgrade we've ever released," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "And everyone gets the 'Ultimate' version, packed with all the new innovative features, for just $129."Hmm, at current exchange rates $129 = £65, add VAT = £76.38. Who's walking away with the extra £9? Discuss.Meanwhile, one gets the feeling that this has been quite a tight piece of management. As announced in April Leopard was alreadydelayedfrom June to this month by the iPhone's introduction, as Apple diverted people from the computer OS team to the phone OS team. One suspects that they stayed a bit diverted, or distracted, having to do fixes (which bricked some iPhones). All in all, the "Gold Master" version of Leopard didn't circulate until last Friday evening, according to all the usually (un)reliable sources. That leavesten daysin which to sign off, create the master, duplicate the master, duplicate, box and ship the millions of copies that are surely going to ship. (If anyone knows precisely what order one does this stuff on a major operating system, enlighten us.)However this also leaves a lingering doubt that there will be various, um,issuesremaining in the software which will have to wait for a .1 fixup before everything's sorted. It's always thus - in the end, you can't make money without shipping something. (This is true of previous versions of any operating system, of course; they're all moving targets.)There arelots of new things in Leopard; I've realised in the past week or so that I'm quite looking forward toSpaces, which gives you virtual desktops for different (user-defined) groups of applications.Two questions for you, the reader: -will you buy Leopard at once, or wait for the .1 release? -what, if anything, are you looking forward to in it?
Greenpeace has been attacking Apple for its environmental record with itsGreen my Applecampaign, and its analysis of the iPhone suggests the company still hasn't cleaned up its act.Greenpeace saysits analysis "revealed that the iPhone contains toxic brominated compounds (indicating the prescence of brominated flame retardants (BFRs)) and hazardous PVC. The findings are detailed in the report,Missed call: the iPhone's hazardous chemicals" (PDF).Greenpeace adds:Dr David Santillo, Senior Scientist at the Greenpeace Research Laboratories, commented, "Two of the phthalate plasticisers found at high levels in the headphone cable are classified in Europe as 'toxic to reproduction, category 2' because of their long-recognised ability to interfere with sexual development in mammals. While they are not prohibited in mobile phones, these phthalates are banned from use in all toys or childcare articles sold in Europe. Apple should eliminate the use of these chemicals from its products range."Other criticisms include the iPhone battery being glued in place, which "makes separation for recycling, or appropriate disposal, more difficult," and Apple's failure to have a global take-back policy like Nokia and Sony Ericsson.Nokia is top ofGreenpeace's green listwhile Apple is close to bottom.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Oops! Didn't mean to do that ...Steve Jobs's presentations don't always go smoothly. "Whoops! All righty ... found a little bug ..." His fixed smile as he waits for Sony's president to please shut up is priceless. Bring your camera ...A nuclear reactor in ourgarage?All you need is a vacuum pump, neutron dosimeter, and a defibrillator for Dad when he finds out. Though it's probably not really a fusion reactor - at least, not the sort you could power a city with.You say that girl's really a robot?You've surely seen someone just like this at every trade fair you've ever been to. The blinking needs work, though.
This week marks the two-year anniversary of Apple's video iPod and, concurrently, my two-year anniversary as a web series producer. And, boy, times have changed.Back in the day, videos created for the internet had a punk rock edge. Video on the net was to be the "new indie", a reinvention of television the way we want it.It was the hope that this movement would change the face of media forever. And, two years later, web series have gone from being basement productions to high definition shows with huge audiences.While the amateur has become professional, the professionals have taken notice. Hollywood celebrities are now working online, new media personalities are crossing over into the mainstream, and the entertainment industry is bridging the two worlds. Internet video is no longer a "new  media"; it's an industry standard."It's all media," says Zadi Diaz, host and executive producer of hit web seriesJETSET- and the more time passes, the more the realisation hits.In fact, it has reached every corner of the entertainment industry, and talent agencies have launched new media divisions to discover and connect online talent.And, just as it has become important for agents to dip into the web for talent, agents are becoming a must-have for most new media personalities.Hollywood studios are also immersing themselves in the new media realm. AOL and HBO recently launched a web-only series calledThe Smart Show, a quirky documented road trip across the United States discovering "smart" American innovations along their journey.There is some concern, however, over the entertainment industry's interest in the online world.Now that so many Hollywood celebrities are working online, influential unions like the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA) are setting up work groups and committees to determine their role in online media.But part of what many creators enjoy about working online is the lack of gatekeepers and rules. Adding union guidelines to the mix may put pressure on studios and advertisers to stay away from non-union creators, therefore, pushing away the very creators who popularised the internet video revolution in the first place.Concerns also arise over governmental jurisdiction over internet content. Earlier this year, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) showed interest in expanding their domain to new media as a way to promote homegrown talent.Though it sounds like a thoughtful sentiment, it also raised questions as to what else they will regulate if they have jurisdiction over Canadian new media.The convergence of the mainstream and the web suggests that online entertainment is becoming less of a fringe. But while they embrace the net, the suits are often missing out on one thing that the punk rock generation of online creators have: interactivity.Smashface Productions, the creators of JETSET, are calling their intimate, character-driven style of interactivity "immersive entertainment".While television has traditionally been a passive experience, these innovative web series pioneers are using online tools like social networking sites to promote interactivity and cultivate communities around their show.So is Hollywood really creating "new" media if they bring television to the internet? Each one of us holds the future of the media in our hands, and our actions will determine how the entertainment world is shaped.· Casey McKinnon is co-producer of the video podcastsGalacticastandA Comicbook Orange.
The Cumbrian coastal outcrop of Whitehaven will tomorrow become the unlikely advance party for a complex digital revolution costing billions of pounds.In the early hours the BBC2 signal will disappear from the town's television screens, to be followed on November 14 by the other analogue TV channels.By the following day Digital UK, the industry body set up to handle the switch, is confident each of the town's 25,000 inhabitants, plus a further 35,000 in the surrounding area of Copeland, will be watching digital TV via either satellite or Freeview.For more than a year the inhabitants of Whitehaven have been bombarded with promotional literature warning them of the impending switchover and underlining their importance as guinea pigs for a government project that it cannot afford to fail.Just one mouthful into haddock and chips at Crosby's cafe, and retired civil servant Derek Sykes starts explaining the ins and outs of getting his aerial checked and tackling "reception freeze" on what everyone in the handsome little Georgian port calls "the digital".His wife, Margaret, claims "I leave all this sort of technical stuff to Derek", but she is impressively up to speed herself on Scart leads, the local Big Rig transmitter and Wednesday's night's disappearance of analogue BBC2 in the town and its fellside hinterland."You couldn't not be after the campaign we've had here," she says. "I can't imagine how anyone could have missed out on all the information. We've been bombarded day and night."The message that everyone in Whitehaven needs the digital by November 14, when all analogue reception ends locally, has been promoted by everything from regular warnings on TV to tips from Brian Gribbin, the ice cream man. He parks his van every day at the harbour next to the countdown board put up by the Digital UK consortium, which ticks off the days to Wednesday's start of the switchoff."I tell them everything I know, because we've had to fit the digibox at home," says Mr Gribbin, whose regulars include staff from Age Concern. Much the biggest worry in Whitehaven is the fear that some elderly people may have failed to get help and will see their sets go dead."There has been a tremendous effort to reach everyone," says Claire Dobson of Age Concern. "But we wish we could do more than advise, and actually get volunteers to take elderly people through the process of changing their systems. The broadcasters are wanting to learn lessons from Whitehaven and that would be a useful one."The point has been taken by the &pound;600m national targeted help package organised by the BBC and funded by the licence fee. Kevin McDonnell, the BBC's organiser in the port, says 9,000 elderly or disabled people have been contacted about getting a free or reduced-price changeover and 6,000 have visited the Help Centre. "Part of the service is carefully taking people through the new system, and running an aftercare system so that if they forget or get muddled, they only have to contact us, and someone will go out and run through it with them again," he says.Friends and relatives have organised the changeover for others, but Age Concern worries that a small minority - who are under 75 or do not meet the disability criteria - could still miss out.There are also concerns around second and third portable sets, which will also need converting, and video recorders, which will no longer be able to record one channel while watching another. But Ford Ennals, chief executive of Digital UK, is confident the problems are being ironed out."Everyone we speak to seems to be aware of the issues around second sets. We are finding differing attitudes. Some people will convert two and leave another for later. On recorders, it has taken more time to get the message out to people," he said.Andy Renton, who runs Andy's Aerials, and has not had a business boom like this since winter storms wrecked roofs four years ago, agrees the new system needs to be hammered home. "I'm finding I often get called back twice or three times," he says. "Once we've got the changeover under way that'll probably increase."One couple in the stream of largely silver-haired callers at the Help Centre, Ivan and Dorothy Schofield, ruefully agreed that the digital was not proving as simple as they had hoped. Both retired and with plenty of time to study their machines and manuals, they had given up and come back for more advice."It just hasn't been as straightforward as I was expecting," said Mr Schofield. "But everyone we've dealt with has been extremely helpful." The broadcasters have even altered the appearance of the changeover symbol - a robot called Digit Al - because his slanting green eyes were considered intimidating.The culture secretary, James Purnell, said more than 80% of households already had at least one digital set. "Digital switchover is about completing the process, ensuring fairness for viewers, and is essential if we are to meet our goal of providing universal access to quality broadcasting. Without it, millions would be stuck in an analogue ghetto."The town's hour of fame is due to its compact size as a testbed, plus unusual transmission conditions. Lake District mountains have foiled terrestrial digital signals up to now and analogue reception comes from Scotland, Northern Ireland and the Isle of Man, as well as from the Big Rig mast above the town.In that sense the Whitehaven experience will be less instructive as a guide to elsewhere, said Mr Ennals. "They recognise that for them digital switchover is a good thing - they're getting 20 channels they couldn't get before and they're getting digital radio for the first time."
Blast Theory, the folks who merged the city of Manchester with an internet-based game inUncle Roy All Around Youand mixed the mechanics of TV hit series 24 with player-generated avatars inDay of the Figurinesare at it again. Their latest mixed-media adventure is Rider Spoke, already under way at the Barbican in London.From the release:Take a cycle ride in the streets around the Barbican. A games console mounted on your handlebars will guide you as you roll through the City of London. Slip down an alley and find yourself in a quiet corner. Make a recording then move on glimpsing traces of other players, eavesdropping under a bridge or from the top of a multi story car park.It's a kind of Geocaching hide-and-seek treasure hunt, via bike. The aim, according to thewebsite, is to explore the places where gaming meets communication to create new social spaces.More on Blast Theory ishere.
Ah, the point and click adventure game, how we miss you. The genre that gave usMonkey Island, Beneath a Steel Sky and numerous sleepless nights back in the early 90s has long since faded into obscurity. Seemingly destined to languish in low budget Myst-inspired hell, point and click adventures were a doing a good impression of being dead. Until now.Simon the Sorcerer 4(did I miss 3?) is getting a "worldwide" PC release next year.Essentially a British take on the US dominated genre, Simon The Sorcerer was an occasionally humorous - in a Pratchett/Python style - and regularly frustrating adventure. But in my nostalgia-addled mind's eye I can only remember the good stuff. So the release of Simon 4 is worthy of attention, if only because of the potential of the genre. The Wii has shown publishers the huge gaming market beyond the 16-30 male core, and what better way to reach this audience on a PC than with a point and clicker? After all, you don't need a high-end PC or reflexes to play. Patience and puzzle solving skills are all that's required, plus the ability to envisage that a parrot and a pipe cleaner may help you unlock a cave door.Could Simon The Sorcerer 4 herald a new age of point and click games are I am being far too optimistic? Oh, and go on then - top three point and click games? Monkey Island 2, Monkey Island 1 and Indiana Jones Fate of Atlantis for me.
