One good thing about a four-wheel drive is that it can climb out of a marketing hole. This year, Mitsubishi seeks to prove this with the Challenger. Faced with yet another type of off-roader to shoehorn into its forecourt, the Japanese maker has reached for a new label: SUVSUV means 'sport-utility vehicle' and has become the new black in 4x4 terminology, applied with abandon to the flanks of anything more lumpy than a Mondeo but skimpier than a Range Rover. In reality, SUVs are mongrels with all the kerb-conquering ability of a true off-roader, but less of the social pedigree.After Vauxhall, Honda and Toyota, BMW now has an SUV in the pipeline, too. The X5 will be here come summer 2000, but the car will be known as an SAV because its think-tank prefers 'activity' to 'utility'. Marketing has ways of making you sleep.Priced from £20,365, the Challenger sits between the Shogun and the L200 Double Cab, which is the sort of thing you might use to ferry your sister to the local hoe-down. In effect, the price is its USP: walk into a Mitsubishi dealer with £24,495 in your pocket and he'll escort you to a V6 GLS Challenger, bristling with extras.For a V6 Shogun dressed in the same spec, you'd need another £4,000. But will you feel shortchanged? No. Unlike such 4x4s as the Discovery, Monterey and Shogun, the Challenger has a natural dimensional advantage. Its outline is relatively squat and it feels more likely to hold its own on a long sweeping bend, and less likely to do the lambada if you have to suddenly change lane.While a traditional 4x4 poses no real change to your driving style - as long as your day job is delivering fridges - the Challenger is simply an elevated family estate. Albeit not so high, the V6 feels pretty mighty, upstaging big-brother Shogun for ride stability and low noise levels, thanks largely to the streamlined body.Because of the high ground clearance and low roofline though, the seats are set close to the floor, so the driving position is an Easy Rider, low-slung affair. Nevertheless, the seats are comfortable and visibility is safe, with no fat pillars to obscure the view. Space for a clutch foot rest would have been nice, though.For the off-road test, Mitsubishi took me to a Hampshire hideaway used by the MoD for testing tanks. I drove the car through deep-rutted tracks and water-logged lanes, the kind of places no one will ever take a nice new SUV. That said, all you need do at the start of the course is switch the second gearstick over to four-wheel drive and you're away. If there were any other tank drivers around, I'm sure they'll be asking sergeant why they can't just have one of these. It went everywhere without a squeak.The diesel option has a turbo-driven 2.5-litre engine that comes equipped with a bonnet nostril, making the car a meaner prospect in the rear-view mirror of a Nissan Micra. However, this is just power dressing - the diesel actually takes 18.5 seconds to reach 62mph. Given that the puniest Micra takes 16.4 seconds, you'll be left red-faced. By contrast, the smooth-bonneted petrol V6, a three-litre with 174bhp to boot, will do 62mph in a trifling 11.6 seconds.So if you have a Micra and drive in a way to infuriate those behind you, it pays to discern the difference. Nevertheless, when you go off road (someone might), the diesel plays a trump card. It has a more grunty, low-end disposition, so when you're nose-diving in first gear into a ravine, the engine will brake the wheels more effectively. It may be academic, but the existence of many off-road mags shows there are people who like to know such things.For normal people, however, if being normal means accepting an average fuel figure of 23mpg, the petrol option is the one to go for. The Challenger might be Shogun's baby brother, but it has enough character and driving appeal to make it no second choice. And certainly no poor relation.
How safe's yours?Car crime is on the increase, according to a new survey. Ten per cent of drivers claim to have experienced some form of car crime in the last year, compared with nine per cent in a survey a year ago. Worst off is Lancashire, the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association found, with southern England safest. Here are some fascinating facts about car crime: •  Vehicle crime accounts for a quarter of all UK crime and affects more than a million motorists each year.• Three UK motorists in every 100 have their cars stolen every year. For the Swiss it's one in 1,000.• England footballers are particularly vulnerable, as Teddy Sheringham, David Beckham and Stuart Pearce have recently discovered.•  About 30 per cent of all auto crime occurs at car parks. Vehicles left there are 200 times more likely to be stolen or broken into than those garaged at home.•  Vehicles in car parks are also four times more likely to fall victim to criminals than vehicles parked on the street.•  One in every 12 stolen vehicles is set on fire and burnt out.•  An estimated 25,000 luxury cars are smuggled out of the UK to Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe every year, in a trade worth more than £700 million.Quote of the week'I think I was made on a Friday night. God told his angels to make just one more person, even though they were running out of parts. That's why I was fitted with the stomach from a Vietnamese pig, the hair from a mad scientist and an Italian's feet. I may be 6ft 5in but I take a size nine shoe and this, over the years, has wreaked havoc with my sporting aspirations.'Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday TimesApologyIn last week's Wheels we said that Top Gear magazine had reviewed a Rover 75 which had been supplied for photographic purposes. This was not the case.
The world'ssmallest Web server is the size of a matchbox: you could carry several in your pockets, if you had a way of attaching them to the Net.  Stanford University's Vaughan Pratt built the server out of a 66MHz AMD K6 processor and a couple of 16 megabyte chips, one for memory and one for the operating software (a cut-down version of Linux 5.2). 
It's now on the Web athttp://wearables.stanford.edu/attracting attention to the new Wearables Lab that Pratt has started at Stanford, following a similar project at MIT.British Telecomis now providing free access to the Web — apart, of course, from the cost of a local call. All you have to do is pick a name and password, call 0845 757 6333, and log on via ClickFree.Children's TVand the Web are due to meet in Sub Zero, which will be transmitted live on BBC 2 at 10.55am on Sundays from February 21, and atwww.bbc.co.uk/cbbc/subzeroDarkzooois billed as "a new form of novel — one that can only be achieved using the Web".It does have multiple narrators, so you can read the novel as separate stories or one kaleidoscopic sequence — but you could do that on paper with more flexibility and fewer tedious downloads. The real advantage of the Internet is that you get an entertaining experimental novel for nothing, and the chance to provide author Carl Frederick with feedback. Either way, the novel atwww.darkzoo.nethas enough plot twists to keep you reading. Try starting  with Kit.The racestarts on March 6, so it's time to start exploring Iditarod sites. This year the official site for the 675-mile dogsled dash across Alaskawww.iditarod.comis somewhat disappointing, but Dogsledwww.dogsled.comand a dozen other sites more than make up for it. Local papers such as the Alaska Daily Newswww.adn.com/iditarodand Mushing magazinewww.mushing.comalso provide good race coverage. The Alaskan Malamute Pagewww.akc.org/alasmal.htmhas background information about the breed used in this historic race.Don'ttry this at home: a team from the University of Kentucky has put up a Web site on the first hand transplant to be performed in the US. Seewww.handtransplant.orgSlate, Microsoft's slick magazine, has abandoned attempts to charge its readers and reverted to being free atwww.slate.comWhich imagesare most commonly found on the Web? ImageLock has the answers 
atwww.imagelock.comNo, it's not what you think. 
This is all about the numerical supremacy of buttons, bars, shaded backgrounds, and little animations of letters being stuffed into envelopes. While it's nice to know what the Top Five Banners are, of course, ImageLock hopes to make money by protecting copyright images, and will open an image search service on February 28.Nessiehas joined the Web, Or, to be accurate, a Webcam pointed at Loch Ness is now feeding the Loch Ness site atwww.lochness.co.uk/livecamAn infra-red camera has also been set up in case Nessie pops out for a nightcap.Onlinejournalists, most of whom write for the Web, can now enter the Netmedia Online Journalism Awards, launched this week with the Guardian among the sponsors. Seewww.jour.city.ac.uk/olja99for details.
The five-year-olds paying for school meals don't have to ask the dinner ladies if they "take plastic" because, in some schools, smart cards have already become the usual way to pay. And the cards used to store dinner money could also be used to register attendance, to borrow books from the library, and to collect merit marks, displacing those old sticky-backed gold stars.After Easter, Sedgefield Borough Council in County Durham, in prime minister Tony Blair's constituency, will roll out just such a smart card scheme in its 50 schools, with about 12,000 children.The project is called Community Rangers, because it won't affect just schools. Children will be able to use their smart cards to collect points for a wide range of activities from healthy eating to picking up litter. Then they can "spend" their points either with the council — for a free swim, for example — or use them to buy things like pencils and rubbers from local shops.
It doesn't matter too much 
if children lose their cards because all transactions are recorded, and lost or stolen cards can be blocked, just like lost bank cards.How the smart card is used "depends on head teachers: the onus is on the schools", says Joy Fletcher, the Community Rangers Co-ordinator. "But we'd like it to encourage good citizenship." That means offering points for learning about first aid and fire safety, for joining in property marking schemes, crime workshops and similar activities. "The kids love it. It's nice to be recognised by the school, or the council," she says.Community Rangers typifies the progress smart cards are making in the UK. It started with a small success — a system installed by Smart Card International for paying for school meals in the borough's Ferryhill Comprehensive — and is being expanded from there.It's the kind of grass roots development often overlooked in media stories about a non-existent "cashless society" based on smart cards, just as all those "paperless office" stories misread the development of personal computing.Bob Cuthbertson, managing director of Smart Card International in Beverley, East Yorkshire, says the school meals application has been successful because it has cut bullying — "there's no money to get off the kids" — and because it satisfies adult needs. "When parents pay for meals, the cash is loaded on to the card, and it can't be used for anything else, except a meal in the school cafeteria." It can't be used to buy cigarettes, alcohol or other drugs, for example.For schools, the smart card reduces the problem of handling cash, and removes any stigma attached to free school meals. Once loaded with meal points, all cards are the same.Cuthbertson says: "We've had a lot of success at grant-maintained schools, and at schools where there's a high proportion of free school meals. A lot of county councils don't seem to have the money to do this sort of thing, but from 2000, all schools are going to be able to put in their own catering systems, and I can see the idea mushrooming."Schools can also put a child's name and photo on the card — like the Community Rangers scheme — and use it for registration and access control.
The systems are inexpensive because they use standard commercial products. The Community Rangers cards are ordinary GemPlus GMP cards, "the same as used in the Boots Advantage and Shell Smart loyalty schemes, we just map it differently," says Cuthbertson.Hertfordshire is making similar progress with a smart card used to collect bus fares. The system is being installed by Transmo, a company founded by John Batten in Royston, Herts. "The smart cards are bus passes, issued by the council," he says. "The scheme began with pensioners and scholars in December 1997. Currently we have about 11,000 cards in use, but it will be over 50,000 by the end of 1999."It's very hard to track the use of ordinary bus passes, but the Herts Smart card is encoded with the postcodes of the start and end points of the journey — perhaps home and school — and will only work between the two. "We put a postcode on every bus stop in Hertfordshire," says Batten. And whenever a card is used, the journey is recorded in a database, so there's no dispute about the number of journeys or the distances involved.Following its success as a bus pass, the card was extended to other areas. "It's being used as a University of Hertfordshire Campus Card,and this week, Hemel Hempstead School is using it as a bus pass, a school meals card and for access to the library. Soon we'll be using &#91;the card&#93; for a park and ride scheme, for access to leisure centres, and as a multiple retail loyalty card," says Batten.Hertfordshire County Council is also talking to local councils about joining Page 3
the various schemes. Transmo's Mifare system uses a "contactless card" based on radio-frequency identification or RFID, which allows for rapid boarding of buses, tubes and trains. It doesn't have to be inserted in a slot but simply passed over a reader: you don't even have to take it out your purse or wallet. Mifare was developed by a small Austrian company, Mikron, which licensed it to a number of suppliers, and it is now pending approval as an international standard. It has many millions of users as the Cartao De Transporte in Brazil, and Seoul in South Korea uses the RFID card for its underground railway.
Batten thinks Mifare and similar systems will be widely adopted because they solve problems like "through ticketing" where buses and/or tubes are run by different companies. Further, smart cards allow councils to offer services equally by "removing the stigma from the people on benefit", and they "fulfil the dreams of John Prescott" by meeting the requirements for Government Direct (which involves moving government services to electronic delivery systems).Nottingham launched such a scheme in October 1998. However, its Citycard is only a "loyalty card" — like a supermarket or air miles scheme — to encourage people to shop in the area. Other cities plan to go further. Aberdeen City Council, for example, will be the first to use a Combi card which offers both contact and contactless (RFID) operation. Next month it will introduce its Citizen's Card, developed by Smartex of Cambridge.Smartex chairman Richard Poynder says a standard card will be used for a pilot scheme for schools, leisure centres and libraries; the dual-interface Combi card will be introduced at the end of the year for a wide range of applications, including bus services. "It's a proper city card," Poynder says, "it isn't a bus card with pretensions."So far, most smart cards in use are not "smart" in the sense that they have a built in microprocessor; they are "memory cards" or "stored value" cards, like BT Phonecards. Microprocessor cards have been too expensive for some applications, like bus fares, and there has also been some confusion about the technologies. While a system called Multos is the market leader in the multi-function market, Sun's Java is also being considered, and Microsoft has proposed a Windows-friendly alternative.Clearly it would be better if all the different cards were compatible so only one type of card reader would be needed. Also, consumers would need fewer smart cards if several applications could be stored on one. However, Peter Cox, chairman and chief executive of card manufacturer and system provider ID Data Group, thinks multi-function cards will be slow to take off outside government and healthcare applications."From a card issuer's point of view, it's anti-brand, and branding is what it's all about," he says. "The infrastructure costs would be lower, but at the end of the day, I want my card to carry my brand logo. I would not be happy to have my products on somebody else's card. It's not a technology issue, it's a marketing issue."Caroline Martin, a market analyst with Datamonitor in London, also thinks multi-function cards are "further away than some manufacturers would like us to think" because there's no system for handling divided responsibilities. "We need to get Tesco talking to Lloyds TSB, and they're not doing it. If a multi-function card is lost or stolen, who's responsible? Who pays?"
This confusion makes it difficult to estimate the potential growth of the smart card market, but even a pessimist like Martin expects the number  used in Europe to double to 1.5 billion by 2002, with more than 200 million cards being issued per year. The largest proportion will be phone cards (712 million) and bank cards (400 million), she says, with UK banks starting to move from magnetic stripe cards to smart cards later this year, and London Transport introducing smart cards via its £1 billion Prestige project. Once the systems are in place to handle banking, healthcare and transport, other applications will not be far behind.Since smart cards were conceived by French journalist Roland Moreno in 1974 — originally as a kind of signet ring, before bankers got hold of the idea — they've been hyped as the replacement for everything from cash to driving licences to passports. So far, in the UK, they've failed to deliver. However, with hundreds of millions of smart cards now in use, costs are coming down rapidly, and that gives new applications a chance. Cox says: "After 20 years, the smart card industry is about to come of age." And he could be right.Pick in a cardStripe cardsPlastic credit cards, ID cards, retail "loyalty" cards and some paper tickets store data on a brown magnetic strip or stripe on the back. Stripe cards are cheap to make but are insecure and easily copied.Smart cardsThere are several types of smart card with shiny contacts. The cheapest and most common is the "stored value" or memory card, such as the BT Phonecard. Memory cards use predefined algorithms and can only do predefined operations. More expensive "chip cards" have a built in microprocessor which enables them to manipulate information on the card — useful for multi-function cards. Most smart cards use EEPROM (Electronically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory) chips.RFID cardsMost smart cards are read by making a physical contact between the card and the reader. RFID cards use radio frequency identification instead, and are "contactless" cards. The card usually has to be about an inch away from the reader.SIMsMobile phones use smart cards called SIMs (Subscriber Identity Modules) to identify the user and store information such as abbreviated dialled numbers and short messages. GemPlus, the largest smart card supplier, has already shipped 100 million SIMs.ID cardsThe security and encryption facilities of smart cards make them useful for identification (ID) purposes for company security and to provide access to satellite and digital broadcasting services. In the future, ID cards will be increasingly used to control access to computers and the Internet.EMVSmart cards are commonly used for banking operations and sometimes to store cash, especially in continental Europe. The EMV standard was set by Europay, Mastercard and Visa. British banks have agreed to start issuing smart cards this year.Hybrid cardsSystems typically start with one kind of card, such as a stripe card, then change to another, which means changing all the readers and/or terminals. This creates a potential market for hybrid cards that are capable of working with more than one system. 
The Smart Card 99 exhibition and conference will be held next week at Olympia, London, February 23-25. Call 01895-454438 or visitwww.smart.card.uk.com
Now pay attention"The number of American children taking Ritalin is estimated to be 1 or 2 per cent. Given that most estimates put the incidence of ADHD &#91;attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder&#93; at between 3 and 5 per cent, are too many children taking the drug - or too few?"Malcolm Gladwell, a critic at large, on children struggling to cope with modern life. New YorkerCut price scholarship"Since 'must-have' science information is 
critical - not just to innovation but also to academic careers - many publishers have realised that they can name their price."Rick Johnson, enterprise director of the Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition, based in Washington, which has been launched to "hijack the hijackers" by publishing alternative academic journals. Chemistry &amp; IndustryCross purposes"A circular format for a change with the across clues being taken clockwise and down clues inward. The usual conventions apply; no answer starts with a zero and multiples of a number exclude the number itself."ZAG, puzzle setter, on the fun that can be had with crossword puzzles. Mathematics Today
Are computers important for you? for the world?Computers are very important. They allow me to acquire, catalogue and deal with more information than I have any need or use for. Without computers I would have to concern myself only with things that were relevant and important to me! Now I can waste extraordinary amounts of time wallowing in meaningless detail and information. The rest of the world is able to suffer the same information overkill, thanks to our friends the computers. It's nice to serve technology in this fashion.What about the Internet? Does it threaten or enhance individual freedom?The Internet is like the People's Wall in Beijing. Anyone can say what they want, no matter how flaky, boring, demented, rightwing, leftwing, perverted. This is good. It's beyond the control of governments and other caring, constricting, paranoid organisations though they are trying to find ways of getting it under control, hence the attempts to panic the public over the dissemination of child pornography and terrorist activity. But the Internet may be too vast to corral.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC?I'm a Mac man.What do you use it for?Writing, e-mail, graphics, Solitaire and Webbing.Any particular favourite software, and anything you'd like but can't have yet?Final Draft, Adobe Photoshop, ClarisWorks, Painter, Goo, Solitaire Til Dawn. No.Any favourite spots on the Net?PythonLine,the Drudge Reportand, when my ego starts wilting,Dreams(to find out what I'm up to!)Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?No.Spend long at the terminal?Too long - there needs to be research into the hypnotising effect of the computer screen.On a desert island , would you prefer a human or a computer for company?Easy - a human - they're much less time-consuming.Professionally, what's taking up your time?A secret
The revival of the ivory trade is shameful. There is nothing quite like the slaughter of elephants to make you feel that human existence is indefensible. Two thousand YEARS we've had of Christian scorn for every other 
living thing, two thousand years of exploiting animals on the grounds that we are BETTER than they. We've freely used them in every way we could think up!Silk, wool, pearls, honey, feathers, isinglass, and tortoiseshell to make tortoiseshell things. We've got fur from bears, leather from cattle, Aids from monkeys, guilt from whales, and all kinds of weird ideas from marsupials. NOT ANY MORE. There is now animal cruelty of a 
different kind altogether; in the domestic sphere we have unwittingly surrendered to daily USURPATION by our pets. Animals have started to turn the tables - we are their slaves!Not only are the bits of them we used to like best - beef, lamb, eggs, milk, cream, butter, cheese - not so GOOD for us after all, but these favoured few domestic companions, with whom we have traditionally shared good times and bad, as well as our leftovers, our little friends who have been honoured with our most intimate secrets, plentiful glimpses of our naked forms and our least endearing 
personal habits, these 
helpless captives whom we have welcomed into our homes, fed, cherished, tamed and TRAINED, these INGRATES turn out to have coveted power and are now subtly claiming it.Look carefully at the pets around you. Don't you see the dissatisfaction in their eyes? These beauteous beasts who used to hover dutifully about your feet have become demanding. This is why you find yourself so frequently referring to them as "the fucking cats" or "the fucking dog".My four cats patrol the household in acrimonious GIRL GANGS. They whine, they dine, they bully, bitch and snitch food. They vomit occasionally and, when not sleeping, which they do everywhere, they gather into strange 
formations to stare at me. These are not friendly stares.One of science's biggest blunders is to ascribe 
healing BENEFITS to the ownership of a cat or dog. Sure, your blood pressure may go down when patting them, but it goes sky high when you're falling over them, sanitising the litter tray, Hoovering up all the fur or receiving the vet's bill. Any other health 
benefit is surely negated by the bacteria they spread on the kitchen counters, the slobbering, the bites and scratches, the so-called "accidents" in corners.Such creatures were 
originally admitted to our homes on the understanding that they had something to CONTRIBUTE, they did not just take, take, take. Cats used to protect our homes from pests, now they BRING THEM IN, half-dead examples of species you may not even have known existed! Dogs too used to DO stuff. They weren't treated like royalty, they had JOBS. They guarded you, brought 
slippers, chased cats. Now most dogs seem suspiciously affable towards cats and just give their owners trouble.There are people throughout the land plagued by 
dogs who need a human companion on every wintry outing, mice who stink up the whole place two hours after you clean their cage, budgies who have to be laboriously moved into another room before you can make a PHONE CALL, and stick insects who despite an enormously 
successful reproductive 
life still manage to bore everybody to death. Horses are the only pet we USE for anything, but we don't really NEED them. Horses are just for fun, the most expensive kind of fun around besides collecting hovercraft or 
eating truffles. As for 
truffles, there are now so few left that the truffle-hunting pigs are all being made into PETS.Is this fair? These 
intruders, these interlopers, these IMPOSTORS used to be our FRIENDS. Now all they do is stink, eat, 
defecate, eat some more, jump at you with muddy paws and come down with expensive ailments. IT'S A SCANDAL. There have been times I couldn't move in my own bed for the weight of cats upon me. Secretly our pets are out to crush us! We're no longer interacting with other species on equal terms, we're just GIVING IN. Soon the only people who relate to animals in any meaningful way will be all those children brought up by wolves.© 1999 Lucy Ellmann
Loggers have torn through a "natural laboratory" the size of the Isle of Wight, wrecking the efforts of international researchers to monitor tropical peat-swamp forests. As hundreds of men  with chainsaws forced their way through her domain in Indonesian Borneo last week, British biologist Nichola Waldes stood amid the wreckage of the laboratory's most precious corner, a germ plasm reserve where all the main local plants had been gathered for research."The whole plot is just massacred," she said. It is littered with broken wood and toppled trunks. Metal tags that once marked every sapling are strewn around. The broken forest is criss-crossed by ramshackle wooden railways and canals, installed by the loggers as they push ever deeper into the swamp. On the far bank of the River Sebangau, thousands of logs are lashed together in a giant raft floating beside a sawmill. More logs head downstream to plywood factories and pulp mills.Welcome to Central Kalimantan, the most remote province in Indonesian Borneo. It's the size of England with a population less than that of Essex  and the local phone book lists six times as many sawmills as taxi firms.The natural laboratory is the focus for an international effort to study tropical peat-swamp forests, begun by Jack Rieley, senior research fellow in the department of geography in the University of Nottingham, and backed by the British Government's Darwin Initiative, a fund to investigate and protect biodiversity. But the forest is disappearing faster than it can be monitored.Why should we on the other side of the world really care? The answer is the peat-swamps' role in slowing global warming. They are soaking up carbon dioxide - the gas that causes global warming - as effectively as they soak up water. They also hold masses of carbon that will swill right back into the atmosphere if they are destroyed. A square kilometre of swamp contains as much carbon as is emitted each year by pollution from a city of 100,000 people.The swamps  may hold more carbon than the world's fossil fuel burning emits in four years. A loss of five centimetres a year from the peat layer will release more than 100 million tonnes of carbon a year into the atmosphere.
The wreckers of Waldes's germ plasm reserve were not hard to find. About a dozen paddled into the reserve along a new canal. They came in three canoes, with their lunch and a couple of chainsaws, stopping next to a thick log of red meranti, ready for the sawmill. The leader, Mr Udin, said they had been in the area for three months. He claimed not to know the forest was protected for science. Who was his boss? He shrugged."It is dangerous to confront these people. They have police protection," said Waldes. So we chatted over our picnics as a snake plopped into the water close by. The loggers eventually headed off back down the canal, chainsaws still stowed.Despite the ravages of forest fires 18 months ago, Central Kalimantan is still the most heavily forested part of Borneo. Many of the forests sit on top of the largest, oldest and deepest tropical peat-swamps in the world, covering an area a quarter the size of England.Once, this boggy terrain was  ignored. But the nine months since the Indonesian economy went into free-fall have seen an orgy of illegal logging. "There appears to be a conspiracy in Central Kalimantan to extract all the saleable timber as quickly as possible," says Rieley.Mafia-style organisations are shipping in thousands of unemployed men from neighbouring islands. "Groups of up to 200 men are living in small sections of the forest, felling trees," says Rieley. I saw several teams of Javanese men jammed in trucks up and down the new trans-Kalimantan highway, which ploughs through the swamp. They join tens of thousands of "transmigrant" families moved by the government from densely-populated Java over the past 20 years.  Many have taken up logging, gold mining and other illegal activities.The British Government has put a lot of aid into central Kalimantan to research ways of making legal forestry more environmentally friendly. But little legal logging activity is left.Says Rieley: "These expensive research projects are meaningless without effective control in the forests themselves. There is an air of corruption reaching from the lowest official to the highest reaches of the Ministry of Forestry in Jakarta that is providing business interests with the freedom to pillage."The tropical peat-swamps are small compared with the great peat-swamp wastes of northern Canada or Siberia. But they are ecologically very different. Cold-land peat is made from moss; tropical peat is made from forest debris that cannot decompose in the stagnant swamp water and is thick with bits of ancient wood. At least half of the world's tropical peat-swamps are in Indonesia. Some, as Rieley and Suwido Limin, his local collaborator from the University of Palangkaraya, have found, are more than 10,000 years old - the oldest anywhere.Unlike cold peat swamps, they are rich in biodiversity. Sharing the natural laboratory with loggers and scientists are sun bears and clouded leopards and 30 other mammal and 150 bird species, as well as plants and fish seen nowhere else. The Central Kalimantan peat swamp forests could be the largest single home for orang-utans, housing 5,000 or more of the 15,000 estimated to remain in the wild.This is a critical moment for the peat swamps. Rieley wants to use the natural laboratory to help draw up an integrated conservation and development plan. Lukas Tingkes, the local director of the government planning agency BAPPEDA, says: "Development has to be based on using our natural resources to meet local people's needs and without destroying the environment. If we do that, I am optimistic about the future."But the truth is that  a chainsaw in Borneo today is a licence to print money. And, with the eclipse of many of President Suharto's cronies who ran the old legal concessions, a new generation of mafia-style operators is in charge. Casual logging workers get paid 40,000 Rupia a day (about £2.82), six times the government daily rate. One independent logger said he gets 190,000 Rupia for a cubic metre of ramin or red meranti. The middlemen get four times as much in Jakarta. But if this goes on, says Rieley, it will "lead to the complete loss of this ecosystem".The formation of tropical peat-swamps may have trapped enough carbon to help trigger ice ages. To release that carbon now, as the world struggles to counter global warming, seems folly indeed.
Milia media martWould you prefer a "lean back" or a "lean forwards" experience? Six inches? Or the full six foot? That question dominated Milia, the annual marketplace for interactive content held in Cannes last week. "Lean back" describes the way we 
experience traditional TV - settling back, six feet from the screen, and passively letting it all wash over us."Lean forwards" describes our approach to computer games, where players are six inches from the screen, focusing intently and interacting as if their lives depended on it. The two 
converge in the form of 
interactive TV. Among the 
examples on show were a 
documentary on the architect Frank Lloyd Wright, with extra buttons allowing further information and VR walk-throughs of his buildings; yachting coverage from the interactive sports channel, Quokka, with e-mail contact with the participants; and a fashion advert allowing viewers to click on items to find out about the range and pricing.Nobody, however, knew how to avoid battles over the remote control, or whether interactivity was possible or even desirable when the family sits down for comedies and soaps. Jim Banister, executive vice president of Warner New Media, noted that "nobody knew they wanted MTV - it's not driven by consumer demand." Not that everyone was unhappy about the 
confusion, as one relieved television executive 
confided: "The best thing I'm taking away from all this is the discovery that our rivals don't know what they're going to do either."Convergence is already an industry reality with 
software, Web, TV, cable, and phone companies engaged in a frenzy of mergers and mating rituals - take, for example, the coming together of Excite, BT, and cable company @Home. But with heated rivalry between different delivery platforms, and the problem of just how people will want to watch, nobody could be 
confident about what we're going to end up with in the 
sitting room.Everyone, however, had similarly impressive charts showing exponential growth in the future. Mark Avnet, chief technical officer of the digital arm of Amirati Puris Lintas, an advertising agency, summarised the entire conference by drawing his own generic chart suitable for any of the industries. A line, rising at 45 degrees from left to right, had three points on it. "This represents the past, present, and future for everything," he explained. "As you can see, before there wasn't very much, now there's some, and 
tomorrow there will be lots."One category of 
content providers riding the growth wave are games companies, often the only group sure about how best to exploit the brave new world of broadband. Two companies, the UK's third largest cable company NTL, and BIB (British Interactive Broadcasting), both announced that they would be offering games. British developers Billco Multimedia will be adapting 
Hasbro games such as 
Trivial Pursuit and Mastermind for Open, the name given to BIB's interactive TV service."Initially you'll simply download free games to a set top box and play against the computer," says Billco director Andrew Howells, "but from day one we'll start to create further interest, like entering your high scores into regional competitions, and down the road we may see people able to phone a friend and play against them." The service will launch in the UK in the autumn, as will a similar offering from French games developer Infogrames, in collaboration with NTL. Microsoft recently invested $500 million in NTL and, similarly imbued with the urge to converge, Infogrames announced that it was 
buying half of the 
multimedia arm of Canal Plus, Europe's dominant provider of digital pay TV.MILIA being the meet 'n' greet fest par excellence, it's no 
surprise that one of the most talked of products was the ROMcard: a CD-Rom the size and shape of a business card. As well as having the usual details printed on it, the ROMcard can be fed into a normal CD-Rom drive where its 16-megabyte capacity allows it to be used to play presentations, videos of customer testimonials, or launch a browser and link to a Web site. Presumably it could also be used to specify whether you are looking to buy into or hoping to be bought by any relevant converging TV/cable/software/trouser press companies. Details fromwww.romcard.comOf course it wouldn't be new media without at least a dose of wackiness, and the box of frogs factor was provided this year by the conference on "deep 
interactivity". Ostensibly a discussion of interface evolution, this allowed a number of diversely dippy 
individuals to show such 
wonders as immersive Karaoke Shakespeare, and a "sensual" interface 
consisting of a white velvet sheet and 15 pressure 
sensors. Star of the show was the Mexican performance artist who created 25-metre high rubber cacti, claimed to have patented the taco, and chose to end her 
discourse by squirting fake blood from a foam rubber heart. If the audience was bemused it was as nothing compared to the confusion of the speaker who had to follow her - an IBM 
executive there to talk about speech recognition.The film festival's Palmes D'Or may have more kudos, but the winners of the Milia D'Or look no less chuffed as they descend the famous steps. The Brits did well again in the games categories, with Digital Image Design winning Action Games with Wargasm, 
published by Infogrames, and Bullfrog taking Strategy Games with Populous III. UK developer AudioRom was a happy surprise, winning Leisure with ShiftControl. The French did well in the Culture category, being a nation with a marked taste for cultural CD-Rom titles, particularly if they happen to be about France. Gallimard's Le Plus Beau Musée du Monde won Culture, as well as the Grand Prix for Content. The only other dual winner was the Franco-
Japanese Nintendo 64 game The Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina Of Time, which won both the Roleplay category, and the Grand Prix for Gameplay.
Bias reportingAlthough the assimilation and regurgitation of sports facts and figures is more likely to be a male preoccupation (I recently witnessed a young man spend nearly two hours in my local library copying down data from a newspaper fantasy football game), why does 
Douglas Rushkoff assume that sports fans are automatically going to be male (Football is a geek's game, February 11)?Indeed, it is the greater 
availability of data on women's sports, which newspapers are still so reluctant to print, that can be considered not the least of the Internet's virtues for a sports fan.Kathanne SindersonGrimsby, LincsI laughed out loud at your comparison of drug dealers with software developers (Micro Lites, February 4). Then the nausea hit - upon seeing that you chose to 
illustrate the former 
occupation with a picture of a black dealer supplying a white customer, as if this is the industry norm.
In my experience, people of African descent occupy a 
disproportionately high 
percentage of the IT industry, but showing that wouldn't have the same impact as 
painting a picture of black male sexuality and criminality, which your combination of text and  illustration alluded to, would it.
The irony of seeing US Black History Month 
featured in Netwatch just highlighted the hypocrisy of a predominantly white media which postures as socially aware whilst perpetuating racist myths.Susan Robbkimbara@pavilion.co.ukEditor's note:many apologies. I selected the picture, and 
didn't notice the skin colour; my only concern was to ensure no faces were visible.Cookie loveI notice Simon Waldman won't answer (nor anyone else at the Guardian) the question about why your Web site is only accessible if I allow you to place a file (content unknown, use unspecified) on my hard disk (Feedback, February 4). In my experience, the Guardian Web site is the only one that insists I accept a cookie before I can gain access.
Consequently, although I registered I have never been (will never go?) to the Web site since you introduced the new system.
Your loss probably as I've discovered a wonderful system for getting the complete contents of the daily paper without anyone asking questions - it's called a newsagent.Ian McRobertianmc@clara.netYou have explained your reasons for requiring 
registration for the Guardian Unlimited Web site. However, I am unhappy about 
accepting cookies, and 
usually disable them on my browser. You  have not explained your reasons for requiring users to accept 
cookies.Martin Spinnlermartin@thirtythree.ndirect.co.ukI'm registered and have no problem with that and I'm not really bothered about the cookies but, oh shame on you for having no "retired" category in the profile questionnaire. Some of your advertisers might be interested in us. Beware Grey Power.Ed Lucasinfo@edsutil.kemc.co.ukI don't object to registration for access to a site like the Guardian's, but I do object to compulsory cookies from 
anywhere. And so would the Guardian in its usual columns. Or are we going to blame the advertisers again?Bob Harrisbob@monitor.softnet.co.ukSimon Waldman, the Guardian's Internet Editor, responds: our main reason for using cookies is to save users from having to log in every time they enter our sites. Once someone has registered, they can visit any of our sites and use any of the features such as bulletin boards, saved stories or job searches without having to enter their username and password again (as long as they are using the same browser). In the future, cookies will also allow us to add a number of personalised 
editorial features. For a full and unbiased discussion of cookies, you should head towww.cookiecentral.comJoin the crusadeYes, Apple's survival is remarkable, as you say, and 
all believers in diversity and choice applaud it (Investors roll up for billion dollar 
bubble, February 4). But no less remarkable is that, despite the demise of Commodore four years ago, the Amiga is still alive and kicking, and available. It is now a 
free-standing unit owned by 
Gateway, and a new (backwardly compatible) operating system is in the final phase of testing. The devotion shown by thousands of users in the face of an uncertain future resembles that of committed Mac users. Both are part of the growing questioning of the desirability of a single system with a single supplier. The success of the iMac demonstrates the viability of alternatives, and Amigans hope to provide further evidence soon.Derek O'ReillyLondon N8I read with interest your article on the Internet campaign to protest at the sacking of the manager of Port Vale, which, it would appear, is a football club (Web battle to save a sacked manager, 
February 4). The article underlines what a useful organising tool the Net can be but, also, in a dialectically contradictory way, demonstrates its limitations. To put it no higher, had an article about the campaign not appeared in an old-fashioned newspaper I would never have learned of its existence.Keith FlettLondon N17Simple solution
Perhaps the reason for the fabled "productivity paradox" is simply that IT buyers for 
the past 10 years or so have been buying substandard equipment that is too hard to use, too hard to learn, too unreliable, and not fit for the job (Year of living dangerously, February 4). I'm talking about Windows and bloatware like Word, applications that 
feature thousands of 
commands that 90 per cent of users do not require.
The solution isn't necessarily Macintosh, but perhaps 
simpler, less powerful systems. I've heard people complain that Word 97 under Win 95 or 98 is "slower" than older 
versions of Word under Win 3.1. Less is more when it comes to getting your work done.Robert McMinnRbtMcM@aol.comTorture taleGood to see a piece on 
graphics cards (All play is hard work, February 4), as this 
continues to be an area where the big computer vendors all fall down. However, you really should know better than to omit any mention, except obliquely, of 3Dfx and its Voodoo family of add-on 3-D graphics accelerators in a piece ostensibly aimed at "computer gamesters" (sic).
TNT-based boards have certainly upped the ante significantly in recent months and are probably the best bet for anyone looking for an all-in-one solution, for the moment. But despite being almost a year old, 3Dfx's Voodoo 2 chipset - in the so-called Scan-Line Interleave (SLI) set-up, whereby two boards are linked inside the PC - remains the one to beat.While V2 was initially a very expensive option, two cards with 12 megabytes of on-board RAM can now be had for £175. Furthermore, 3Dfx-based cards (including the combined 2-D/3-D offering, Banshee, essentially a stripped down V2) have no problem running games written to take 
advantage of Silicon Graphics' cross-platform Open GL 
protocol. A great many cards - the Millennium G200 included - still cannot handle Open GL, meaning games like Quake II, Half-Life or Unreal have to be run in inferior 
software mode. In addition, Voodoo/Banshee cards make use of Glide, a proprietary 
programming language developed by 3Dfx, which is widely supported by developers.Installing these cards is also just as simple as any other - stick them in and load up the drivers from a CD.
Finally, in April, 3Dfx will launch Voodoo 3, a combined 2-D/3-D offering (essentially Banshee 2) that will fit in an AGP slot, giving significantly faster performance in a single board than the current (PCI-only) V2 SLI set-up. While this will sadly not be the giant step forward that Voodoo 2 represented, it should still ensure 3Dfx retains its crown as the "gamesters'" (sic) choice for the rest of 1999. The price - around $150 (approx £100).
By the way, I don't own 3Dfx stock.Tim SteeleTSteele@metalbulletin.plc.ukKeep outI READ the letter from Apple's Tanya Roach (about the new Apple G3s) with interest, 
especially where she points out that the "door literally clicks open to afford easy access to every component" (Feedback, February 4).  As someone responsible for maintaining and servicing a company full 
of Macs and PCs, I'd really rather that it were a little more 
difficult to get inside a G3. Not only will I have to worry about the ease with which expensive memory or video cards can be stolen, I will also need to tell all my Mac-fanatic users to keep their poking fingers out of the static-sensitive insides of their new expensive computers.Ben Lastben@last.uk.comSoufflé scienceI enjoyed your article on the Stardust project but was disappointed not to learn more about aerogel (Catch a falling stardust, February 4). What is a "jelly supported by air", exactly?  How is it made of silicon dioxide? Why does it have its remarkable properties? Is it expensive? Does it have any other planned uses? Does well, you get the picture. Any chance of some more information?Simon BoothSimon.Booth@tesco.netEditor's note:Go tohttp://stardust.jpl.nasa.gov/mission/msn2.htmlTime warpJohn Graham-Cumming (Finding the errors in your way, January 28) is mistaken - the time difference between here and Pacific Standard Time is 8 hours, not 6.Jack Griffithsjack@metroweb.co.ukRoll up, roll up!Are Internet stocks really over-valued? Potentially the Internet not only provides a new medium for communication and commerce but, with societal integration, will have a user base of 6 billion people. The traditional computer industry has matured to the extent that rapid growth is no longer possible but this new, unexplored, embryonic medium holds incredible promise, and is the only arena in which IT can continue to flourish. Whether the Internet is actually viable depends largely on the result of current political infighting, legal wrangling and technical banditry.Our group at the University of Manchester is gathering together an overview of these broader underlying issues to assess security on the Internet. We invite you to complete 
our informative Web-based questionnairehttp://www.net-research.man.ac.uk.  Results of our work will be made available to respondents in addition to a wealth of 
relevant and interesting links.T B Seniortsenior@cs.man.ac.ukFor unavoidable reasons I must exchange my Power Mac for a PC. I have a considerable number of files saved on the Mac in Word, Word Perfect and Excel. I can find no 
software that will let me open 
the files on a PC. I know I could save the files in a PC format on the Mac. I could even keep the Mac as a backup. I would 
prefer something simpler if it existed. Can anyone help?Bernard Tucker
BT's grip on the domestic and small business telecoms market is about to get a good shaking. The attack gets under way in earnest next Monday when other telecoms companies and Internet service providers meet to decide how to force BT to open up access to its lines.Existing phone lines, implementing the DSL modem about to be released in the US, could give speeds of more than 2 megabits per second - 40 times faster than normal lines, and almost 20 times better than ISDN lines.Some argue that, as BT owns 85 per cent of the lines into UK homes and small businesses, a potentially lucrative market is being restricted. Oftel, the industry regulator, says there is not yet a case for action. Monday's meeting will give telecom companies and Internet service providers a chance to influence the debate.In December Oftel produced a green paper examining the case for "unbundling" - opening up BT's lines to competitors - in the light of the new high-speed data transfer technology. It is calling for response from the industry by early March.Next week's meeting, organised by the Institute of Electrical Engineers, the British Computer Society and the Telecommunications Managers Association, is meant to provide information on the technical issues surrounding the action that Oftel could take, and generate an informed response to the green paper.
Peter Walker, Oftel's technology director, says that some service providers are demanding the unbundling of the network without even thinking about the implications.Unbundling has been carried out in the US - initially for the voice telephony networks - and has caused enormous technical headaches. The main problem with many service providers using unbundled lines is "spectrum engineering": how to stop interference between the signals carried by different service providers."If you allow a free-for-all on BT's copper network there will undoubtedly be problems," says Martin Ward, technical director of Marconi Communications. The Asynchronous Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) system being used by BT in a west London trial can cross-talk badly.To counter this problem, BT may be allowed to lease out access to the wires, instead of handing over physical access to them. In a process known as bitstream access, BT would attach the necessary equipment for fast data transfer to a line leased to another operator. Indirect access is another option, which would mean BT operating a higher bandwidth public network, but making it accessible to competitors.Both of these options leave the difficult spectrum engineering problems in BT's hands. "Although the purists, the lawyers and the consultants would say we must have unbundling, I'm not at all sure whether the real players - the other operators - want that," says Ward. "What they want is foolproof access to customers: the fewer the infrastructure issues they have to contend with, the better."Ward will outline other options at the meeting. Cable, radio, powerline and satellite networks are just as capable of providing the infrastructure for a fast data network, he says, and much of the groundwork has been done. "The digital satellite services on which it would depend are just now coming onstream, and I think there will be cable modem deployment within months."But, he points out, the uptake will depend on the pent-up demand, and no one is quite sure just how big that is. "It's very difficult to predict, and I think that's one of the reasons why operators are so nervous about immediate wide-scale deployment."Users keen to avoid the world-wide wait are likely to hesitate when they see the price tag attached to high-speed data transfer. I-Way, one of the Internet service providers that is partnering BT on the trial of the new service, is charging users £450 per month for access."I don't think there is a consumer space for this yet - I think they'd love to have it, but I don't think they'd want to pay for it," says John Rance, I-Way's marketing director."I get the impression that BT have rethought it, and are looking at it more as a SoHo &#91;small office-home office&#93; or business application, rather than a consumer product."BT is well-placed to optimise its position in any emerging market, and to control the speed at which services become available. Peter Walker says Oftel is aware of this situation, but believes that other service providers have little cause for complaint. BT's trial was open to all in the industry, but very few came forward to take part. "I think the real problem is that the rest of the industry aren't themselves ready," he says.• Unbundling in the UK: Bringing higher bandwidth services to the consumer, meeting on Monday 22 February. Details:www.iee.org.uk/Confor Jarlath O'Connell at the IEE, tel 0171 344 5470/8425
How to be a happy hunter
John Graham-Cumming designs software to manage computer networks. This is the fifth in a series of articles about living with the Net
Seek and ye shall find," says the New Testament. Internet users often find only frustration. If choosing between the Excites, Yahoo!s, AltaVistas and Googles isn't enough, you have to wade through pages of "matches" that don't.The answer is to understand how the search engines operate and then make them work for you.There are three types of search available: directories, like Yahoo!; search engines, like AltaVista; and specialised services such as Research It! The key is to know which one to start with, and that means taking a look under the hood.Internet directories, of which Yahoo! is the best known, are built by people. They are WWW Yellow Pages, with sites organised into sections called categories. Each category represents a specific type of information, say Firearms Retailers or French Philosophers.Web site operators ask the directory to include their site. The directory owner checks out the Web site and eventually adds it to the appropriate section. Adding your All Saints' fan site to Yahoo! is as simple as finding the appropriate category, say Rock and Pop, clicking the Suggest a Site button and typing in its Web address or URL (uniform resource locator).You can find The Guardian's Web site listed in the section Regional: Countries: United Kingdom: News and Media: Newspapers onwww.yahoo.co.uk. There's even a review of the paper's Web site included. The reviews can help you choose from a long list of apparently similar sites.Yahoo! is great for finding a specific company or group. For example, finding the Virgin Megastore is as simple as typing "Virgin Megastore" into the search box. The quotation marks tell Yahoo! to look for the exact phrase "Virgin Megastore". Without them Yahoo! can choose to take the words you type in any order.When searching Yahoo! use as many words as possible. Just asking for "Virgin" brings up sites on the Virgin Islands, the Virgin Prunes and Vestal Virgins. The more specific you are, the better the match up to a point. If you're not getting any matches, try dropping a few words.If you can't find a specific site, try guessing its category, then search for that category - just like using the Yellow Pages.Try searching laterally if you can't guess the category. Suppose you want to find The Guardian's site but can't spell Guardian. Search for another newspaper, for instance "Financial Times", and Yahoo!'s results will show the FT's category. Click on the category and you've got a list of all the UK newspapers Yahoo knows about.AltaVista'sdatabase of Web pages is built without human intervention. A program called Scooter trawls the Web looking for changes to Web sites. Its daily bounty of about 10 million pages is merged with a database of more than 140 million pages.Scooter is just one of a number of so-called spiders that crawl around the Web looking for pages. When a page is found its text is read, the words in it are indexed and the results stored in a database. When you visit AltaVista, your search is compared against the database to give a list of relevant pages.
AltaVista attempts to order its results by assuming that you are more interested in pages that have your search words in their title, or when they appear very frequently, or  close together.You can give AltaVista hints. Put title: in front of your search words and it returns only Web pages which have them in the title. Put link: followed by the URL of a Web site and you get a list of all pages linked to that site. And, just like Yahoo!, enclosing a phrase in quotation marks narrows the search. Read more atwww.altavista.com/av/content/help.htmTo find anyone who's declared their love for Geri Halliwell, type "love geri" into AltaVistafor a list of all Web pages containing that phrase. 
Or to find Tony Blair's birthday so you can prepare his horoscope, enter "tony blair" followed by a space and then birthday.Notice how all these searches are in lower case? Most search engines ignore case, so you can save your shift finger by not bothering with it.
The hardest job for search engines is giving you the results in the most relevant order. NewcomerGoogleorders sites by the number of other sites that link to them. The assumption is that if others link to it, you'll find it more useful.Others likeInferencetake your search words and pass them to multiple search engines in parallel. These meta-search engines do the finger work for you by querying the likes of Yahoo!, Lycos, AltaVista, InfoSeek and Excite all at once. They then sort out the results and serve up a single page of matches.Sometimes general approaches aren't useful. If you know the type of information you are looking for, specialised engines are handy:www.shareware.comspecialises in listing shareware,www.download.comis a good place to look for a piece of software or a driver or patch for your existing machine,www.musicsearch.comhas all things musical and there's the excellent but hard to saywww.wwwomen.comSearch "Search Engines" on Yahoo! to find others.Still need help? Surf over toResearch It!where you can look up the meaning of words, translate languages, search the Bible, track a package or convert your pounds to euros.Often the simplest way to find a company on the Net is to guess. You can take a company name, tack on a www. and a .com or .co.uk and get the site without ever touching a search engine. Your friends will think you're an Internet wizard. Just don't tell them I told you how.
Internet enthusiasts have often been compared with trainspotters, so it will come as little surprise that the Internet newsgroups relating to railways are among the busiest, filled with talk of platform numbering systems and the best vantage points from which to photograph a Eurostar.There's also a great deal of knowledgeable debate on railway policy; for instance, the publication of the latest dismal train 
operator performance figures by the regulator, Opraf, triggered some withering online analyses of operators' excuses.One firm, which said it would have to take on more staff, was reminded how it had made staff redundant on privatisation. The newsgroup also highlighted the fact that the best-performing operator, Island Line on the Isle of Wight, used 60-year-old trains, putting into perspective Virgin's complaint about inheriting old stock. Log on and tremble, Richard Branson.For those seeking stronger stuff there are alt.binaries.pictures. rail for hardcore train photographs, and various general UK-based transport newsgroups: uk.transport, uk.transport.ferry, uk.transport.air - the place to debate "air rage" - uk.transport. buses, and uk.transport.london
The uk.transport.london group focused on an attempt last month to break the world record of 18 hours 18 minutes for visiting every Tube station on the map, with the aid of a specially-written computer program to calculate the best route. After starting at Heathrow at five in the morning, the attempt foundered at Shoreditch. The team plans another attempt with judicial use of bus and cross-rail routes worked into the software.A recent posting revealed rumours about a mysterious "lost Tube station" at Bull and Bush, near Golders Green in north 
London, which never opened; instead, it became the site for remote-controlled "special floodgates" as part of civil defence.A lengthy debate broke out on uk.transport.buses around the question: "Why do people insist, when there are no seats left on the bus, on standing crowded right at the front when there's plenty of space at the back?" Among the more printable answers was an intriguing invocation of the Pauli Exclusion Principle, governing the states of sub-atomic particles.
For more on Usenet newsgroups seewww.usenet.org.uk
Last year we had 46,000 CVs sent to us," admits Janet Knott, head of resource management at Cap Gemini. "After a while one CV can begin to look like another. Meeting those people face to face gives them a better feel for us, and us a better feel for them."Cap Gemini is one of the first-time exhibitors at ExhibIT 99, the new recruitment fair for IT professionals running today and tomorrow in 
London's Russell Hotel. Organisers Computer 
Publishing plan three shows this year, and, if ExhibIT is a success in London, shows in other parts of the UK.It's an unlikely time to be organising a recruitment fair, as the jobs market is increasingly dominated by online recruitment through searchable Web sites which simply post a list of vacancies with a telephone number. "At the moment I find 95 per cent of my permanent staff through JobSite, and almost 100 per cent of my contractors through JobServe," admits Carl Beetham, managing director of specialist recruiter Unix Connections. So why is he 
giving up two days to run a stand in the Russell Hotel?Web-based recruitment, he says, is ideal for lower-skilled jobs in areas like PC support. For Beetham, the highly-qualified permanent staff with practical experience that he calls "gold dust" are those candidates the Web doesn't deliver: "People who make the effort to come through the door of an exhibition are  serious about wanting a job. We need to find sharp, astute individuals here.""We set up ExhibIT because the recruitment agencies and employers that we dealt with wanted a new way to meet IT professionals," explains organiser Simon Bennie. "Over the two days they will each meet hundreds of potential employees."And the 2000 IT professionals that Bennie is expecting to attend can meet 21 potential employers too. Rubbing shoulders with Cap Gemini are employers like British Gas Trading and recruitment agency Chamberlain Scott.For Cap Gemini's Knott, who has to find 2,000 permanent IT staff in the next 12 months, ExhibIT 99 is a low- risk way to find high-quality candidates. "If someone joins us as a result of this show, then they have already met the company, and they turn up for work knowing what to expect. They have a chance that they would not otherwise have to meet our people." She adds that inside Cap Gemini there's competition to man the stand from team leaders who want to bag the best new recruits.Another participant is recruitment agency Computer People, whose marketing manager Tony Ahmet freely admits that he has a "need everywhere" for job candidates. "We get thousands of e-mails a day offering us CVs, but we like to see people before we place them with companies. This event lets us have a more rounded conversation &#91;with them&#93;."As skill shortages - particularly for permanent positions - continue, exhibitors know they are being interviewed by candidates as well. "Some of our visitors will be window shopping," says Knott."Everybody else at ExhibIT is our competition. We have to look good," admits Beetham.The result: there's more on offer than just jobs. For example, at the Computer People stand, Ahmet will be dispensing more general advice alongside the hard sell. Visitors can get tips on presenting their CVs, or advice on skills training. "Certainly we expect most of the visitors to be there because they want a job," he says, "but we're open to any sort of conversation."At mortgage broker John Charcol's stand, consultant Andrew Garber will also be making a different sort of pitch. He's not here to recruit contractors, but to help them get mortgages. Traditionally, even the best-paid IT contractors have been unable to get loans, he explains, because they are self-employed, are perceived as having low job security and too few years of trading behind them. "Lenders don't understand them. We help lenders to look at the issue a different way, and the lenders learn to like the contractors." As part of the show, he's giving a seminar on financial planning.The Web may have changed IT recruitment, but the experience of recruitment fair organisers shows there's still a need for jobseekers and potential employers to look each other in the eye. VisIT, a similar fair that holds regular small shows throughout the year, claims to have found new jobs for more than 1,000 IT staff in 1998."The Web is all quantity, and I want quality," says Beetham. "I have 130 e-mailed CVs to go through today, and at least 65 I know now I can't help. With respect, I'm not interested in people e-mailing me job applications from Romania."
When I was approached to write this column, I asked: 'What can I possibly write that will be of any interest?' I didn't dare confess that I've never written anything in my life, unless you count O-level essays, which the examiners certainly didn't. 'What it's like living with the great man himself,' came the reply. 'Oh, that,' I sighed, my shoulders sagging a little. 'The Jeremy Clarkson Wife Thing.' To some, I am not even Mrs Clarkson: I'm invisible. While out for dinner on our wedding anniversary, a man at the bar swooped in on Jeremy, positioning himself so that he stood between us with his back to me. He was so focused on Jeremy I really don't think he was aware of what he was doing.But that's enough of all that: what you really want to know is what this Belisha beacon is really like. Sorry to disappoint you, but I suspect he is exactly as you would expect.Jeremy makes his living by never mincing his words. He doesn't care if he offends a car company or two and nor does he restrain his enthusiasm for the things he likes. Being so extreme and forthright, he can also get it catastrophically wrong. He then has a disarming way of silencing his critics by immediately putting up his hands and admitting to his mistake.Surprisingly, he doesn't have mood swings but there are times when he is tired or preoccupied and not quite so much fun. But he is never stroppy for no reason - unlike me, which happens every 28 days, so he claims.Also, unlike me, who loves everyone until I meet them, Jeremy claims he hates everyone generally and then makes exceptions for individuals. How else could he stay married to a BMW driver? As a driver, he is safe but slow. He laughs at me and frequently quotes me as having said I won't drive anything with less than 200bhp. I think it's just that he's a bit of an old granddad in his automatic Jaguar with its comfy ride and sober interior. I prefer something firmer, harder - a bit of automotive rough.Jeremy is a brilliant, fun-loving father. I put this down to the Peter Pan principle, which enables him to build elaborate dens out of the furniture and turn bath time into a scene from The Poseidon Adventure. But as a hands-on, nineties man, he's not so hot. I am sure he could do it, but he always seems to be in another country, and preferably another continent, whenever there's a whiff of a nappy to be changed.I am frequently asked to defend Jeremy's outspoken comments on all sorts of issues. My retort is that he can be accused of many 'isms' but never sexism. He does, however, conform to a few typical male stereotypes. The lack of nappy changing is one, the drive home from a night out is another.Jeremy invariably drives there claiming he has to test whatever car is in the yard that week. I then get handed the keys for the drive home. It's difficult enough to have to get behind the wheel of a different car each time, in the dark, with seats that won't go far enough forward when you're 5ft 1in (see TVR) or unusual hiding places for critical switches (see any Alfa Romeo). Meanwhile, I'm being lambasted for fiddling when trying to find the keyhole (see Saab) or first gear (his Ferrari). Then to be told how to drive ('you're too close . . . no, not that far,' 'mind the curb,' etc) really taxes the marriage vows.Not content with issuing instructions, he often takes a hands-on role by fiddling with the light, heat and radio switches simultaneously. The drive home is punctuated with me telling him to shut up or walk home. As walking is not something that comes naturally to Jeremy, even sober, the threat usually sorts him out.He sings in the bath, leaves cigarette ends by the side of the sink, never replaces the loo roll, leaves his socks rolled up in a ball under the sofa, sleeps through the loudest of child squawking and farts in bed.So what's he like to live with? Bloody brilliant.This article appears in the current issue of Top Gear magazine.
Has it ever struck you as odd that five seconds after you climb out of that driving school car for the very last time, your smile still lighting up the test centre, you could have jumped straight into a souped-up Porsche and blasted straight out onto the motorway? From now on you'll be a little better prepared because the Government has just announced that on May 4 the long-awaited modernisation of the practical element of the driving test will be introduced. At last test routes will take in faster roads, and some of that time-consuming manoeuvring will be done in the test centre itself.Yet despite these improvements the consensus among road safety experts is that new drivers will still need further training. Kevin Delaney is the RAC's traffic and road safety manager and a former head of traffic at the Metropolitan Police. His view is unequivocal: 'When someone gets their licence they've certainly never driven on a motorway, and they may never have driven at night or in bad weather either - so they must lack key elements of driving experience.' In fact safety experts' calls for post-test driver training have already been answered through a scheme called Pass Plus, which is offered at driving schools nationwide.The course costs around £100 and involves six hours of instruction in the kinds of potentially dangerous driving conditions identified by Delaney, and in the two years since Pass Plus was launched, 50,000 new drivers have taken it. That may sound impressive, but since well over a million people pass their driving test in Britain every year, the overall take-up is under 2.5 per cent.The most likely explanation for Pass Plus's surprising unpopularity is the fact that you'll never meet anyone who'll admit to being anything less than the Damon Hill of the North Circular. Nevertheless, for the experienced motorist who wants to take their driving to a higher level of safety, there are courses and advanced tests available. And the biggest provider of volunteer-based advanced driver training is the 280,000-strong Institute of Advanced Motorists (IAM), which uses local groups to prepare motorists for its test, while police drivers act as examiners.As a result the IAM (0181 994 4403) keeps its costs down, with the whole package of preparation and the test coming in at £70. There's an 85 per cent first-time pass rate, and the IAM proudly points to government figures suggesting that their members manage an accident record that's at least 50 per cent below the average.It all sounds wonderful, but the very idea of sitting next to a policeman, even an off-duty or retired one, is enough to make me drive everywhere at 5 mph, apologising profusely at every junction. But when I go out with IAM examiner Peter Phillips, a retired police sergeant with over 20 years' traffic experience, I soon realise that his shiny shoes are the least of my troubles. Because in fact the IAM experience is nothing like a driving test - it's far harder than that. 'When I examine people they drive me for one-and-a-half hours,' says Phillips cheerfully, 'and they always find concentration the hardest part.' And it is hard to concentrate when there's a man with a clip-board sitting next to you, and you know that every decision you make is being scrutinised. 'I always use an extra rear-view mirror,' he jokes before we start, 'and that's so I can see what chaos you're leaving behind.' Phillips says that he actually senses when people are driving to impress him, rather than doing it naturally, and the long drive ensures that after a while you're driving almost normally.The IAM test isn't just about concentration though, because 'car sympathy' as well as car control are central to success. And so I find myself measuring every gear change, and agonising about whether to hold the car on the clutch for a second or two. If nothing else it makes you reassess every aspect of your driving, and that's something most of us never do.So what did I do wrong? 'You cross your hands on the wheel, and you signal all the time,' says Phillips. But isn't the signalling a good idea? 'No, it's just a habit, and by only signalling when you need to you'll give other drivers the information they really need.' After my drive I ask Phillips how far I am from readiness for my IAM test. 'Not all that far,' he says politely, but he gives the lie to that when he drives me for a while, commentating as we go. He is smooth, safe and surprisingly fast, too, keeping the car moving in situations where I would have stopped completely. And he never once crosses his hands or gives an unnecessary signal. Believe me, I'm watching.Of course the fundamental problem with the IAM is not that the test is hard, but the fact that the people who go in for it are the ones who need it least. Phillips acknowledges that this is the case, but he argues that IAM training allows a half-way decent driver to enjoy their driving more, and that in the end good technique becomes a habit that's as unbreakable as my over-use of the indicator switch. 'You know I've tried crossing my hands on the wheel,' concludes Phillips almost sadly, 'but I find I just can't do it.' Some people take their tests and then don't drive much, and as a result feel nervous when they need to drive again. It's a common situation, and most driving schools offer refresher courses for qualified but rusty drivers. Typically there's an assessment drive, and that's followed by an individually tailored sequence of lessons. My mum did one a few years ago, and she hasn't run anyone off the road since.Finally, for the young at heart there are any number of performance driving courses, which are just the thing if you've suddenly fallen for a car with seats that you only now realise are just a bit too low and slightly too figure-hugging. Outfits such as High Performance Courses Ltd (01789 841229) offer everything from advanced road driving courses to exciting racecraft sessions at Mallory Park.Before we part, Phillips tells me that he'd been given just such a course as his retirement present, but that he didn't get on very well: 'I just couldn't get the hang of crossing my hands on the wheel.'
The best car sound of 1999 is that of a new Rover 75 being furiously backpedalled through the motoring page of the Sunday Times. In its first review, Jeremy Clarkson described Rover's last-chance saloon as 'a shambles'. Then, the following week it was left to fellow columnist Ray Hutton to tap out some of the dings. Suddenly, it was quite a nice car.In Seville, where the 75 is being given its sanctioned airing, Rover's suits were seething. Motoring's enfant terrible had pinched the keys to a model which had been supplied to Top Gear magazine strictly for photographic purposes. Having already pushed the on-sale date of the car back to June because of quality concerns, the last thing they wanted was an opinion based on a dummy.Nevertheless, Messrs Clarkson and Hutton have marked the goalposts for an interesting game to follow. In truth, the new 75 will be a car some will spend their Sundays licking clean, while others wouldn't waste their spit on it. However much salivation there is though, it is Rover's biggest hope for a bright future.BMW's brilliant strategy with Rover, since acquisition in 1994, was to take the badge out of the volume car business. This entails pumping cash into niche models, like Freelander and the next Mini, and killing off the amiable 100 (née Metro). In so doing, the idea was to allow market share to drop from about 13 per cent, down to 9 per cent.In the last few weeks though, BMW bosses have been reaching frantically for the handbrake. Last year, Rover hit that 9 per cent, but kept rolling. In fact, sales in the last quarter of 1998 showed business fell to just 6 per cent. The main reason for this is the absence of anything smaller than the 200 hatchback. There's not a lot of profit in selling Metro-sized cars, but more than there is in telling bemused customers that they can no longer afford a Rover. Add compounded years of under-investment at Longbridge and you have all the more reason why the 75's production line at Cowley has a lot to deliver.The car is moulded to do two jobs. First, it must make the Rover 600 customer smile and replace the 800, a car so venerable that it could easily have been superseded by anything from the gardening section of B&amp;Q. In length, it marks the middle distance between the two. Second, it must not, repeat not, be an alternative to the BMW 3 Series.It is for this reason that the car takes a styling tangent. Not since the days of Dixon Of Dock Green has a Rover (or any rival) sauntered out bearing so much chrome. It has a chrome waistline, chrome thresholds, chrome door mirrors and handles. And it's not the sort of chrome that looks as if it might peel off to reveal a plastic secret. In fact, it's more likely that under the paintwork, the entire car is made of... chrome.Which is perhaps why it's so slow. Okay, the turbodiesel and the 2.5 litre V6 are both fairly perky, but the 2.0 litre V6, the key model for sales, did little else but remind me of a battery-driven car.Setting that aside, the ride is the kind of thing Aled Jones used to sing about. And with two-and-a-half times the stiffness of the 600, the 75 is so rigid that the engineers could stamp out the faintest of bumps, squeaks and flutters. On the same basis, they could have made it a sharper and more obedient player on a tight bend, but overall, it's a flattering car to drive. While the shell is Rule Britannia circa 1955, the interior is complementary posh retro. The instrument dials are pre-war Bakelite chic and the seats even have piping on the edges. The net effect is mini-Bentley.In fact, the whole car exudes a buffed, civic ceremony charm, quaint in a bowler-hat-in-Brooklyn kind of way. And though you may not be the quickest of commuters, you'll definitely be the one with the most swagger.Prices start at £19,525 and first deliveries will be in June. A cheaper, 1.8-litre model in classic spec will cost £18,275 and goes on sale before the end of the year.
PC SALES in Western Europe grew by more than 21 per cent last year, according to a report  last week by computer industry research firm International Data Corporation. News from the Eastern and Central European region was less healthy: sales fell by 10 per cent for the year, and by more than 21 per cent in the last quarter of 1998, as the Russian market collapsed. 
Compaq was the best selling brand: 4.8 million machines for a market share of 16.8 per cent. IBM (8.5 per cent), Dell (7.5 per cent), Hewlett-Packard (6.5 per cent) and Siemens Nixdorf (5.2 per cent) made up the top five.SHARP has launched a small, light notebook computer that runs Microsoft's Windows CE 2.11 operating system instead of Windows 98 or NT. Unlike the Phenom Express it has a full size VGA (640 by 480) screen, and unlike Hewlett-Packard's Jornada 820, it still has a touch-sensitive screen. As well as the built-in "pocket" versions of Microsoft Office applications, Sharp's PV-5000A includes fax and image editing software, because they'd really like you to buy the optional digital camera which comes on a slot-in PC card. But it has a couple of obvious drawbacks. First, the price is too high at £934 including VAT. (The Jornada isn't cheap either, at £849.) And second, Windows CE doesn't run the "mission critical" applications required by any businessman who spends long hours on planes and holed up in foreign hotel rooms: Sim City, Championship Manager, and Civilization.CHAMPIONSHIP Manager 3, which Eidos was due to launch this week, has been held up until next month. The delay to what could be the best-selling PC game of the year — and the absence of its main rival, Gremlin's Premier Manager, which is due out in March —  has been good news for French software house Ubi Soft, which has seen its new Football World Manager race up the Top 20 PC Games chart. Delays are frustrating to football management fans tired of 
playing with last year's squads, and the sight of Premier Manager 99 at the top of the PlayStation games chart is no consolation.LIFE used to be simple: Microsoft wrote software while Intel created hardware and the two companies worked together. Now they've become competitors: they both do toys. At this week's American International Toy Fair in New York, Microsoft duly unveiled the latest plushies in its ActiMates range, the Teletubbies, while Mattell and Intel launched the Intel Play range. The first two products are the Intel Play X3 Microscope and the Intel Play Me2Cam, and they should be out in the US in August at about $99 each. The microscope lets kids display and manipulate still images and time-lapse movies on a PC screen; the Me2Cam is a digital video camera that lets kids "see themselves on the computer screen and use their own bodies to navigate in a virtual world".FREE-PC.COM, a start-up based in California, not only plans to offer a free Internet service, it will also give people free Compaq PCs so they can use it. In return, users have to agree to use the Net for at least 10 hours a month, to download advertisements that are displayed in a strip on the right side of their screens, and to share some personal information with Free-PC.com.
‘The PC is a very exciting platform to work on at the moment," says John Heap, technical director of Liverpool-based computer game company Rage Software. "Not so long ago, the consoles — the Sony PlayStation and the Nintendo 64 — were better performers than the PC, but with the new graphics cards and the processor power we're getting, we can now produce much finer games."PC users have certainly been excited by a stream of action games with high-resolution 3-D graphics, including Rage's Incoming, iD Software's Quake II, Eidos's Tomb Raider series, GT Interactive's Unreal, Cendant's Half-Life, Acclaim's Turok, and many more.But cutting-edge games need cutting-edge hardware, and PC users without  "the new graphics cards and the processor power" used by developers like Rage can find these 3-D games don't run well. The problem is not wholly solved by buying a graphics accelerator or a fast 3-D graphics card, which may be different from those the developers used.There's no standard. A card that works well with Quake II may not do anything for Turok, so buyers must read the small print on the box to find out whether a game supports their particular set-up.There ought to be a better way. The microchip that's the "engine" of every PC ought to make a better job of processing 3-D instructions, and the operating software, usually Windows 95 or 98, ought to provide a standard way for programs to drive 
3-D processors and add-on hardware.Not surprisingly, there is. Since last May, US-based chip manufacturer Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) has been shipping K6-2 processors with built-in 3-D routines called 3DNow, while Microsoft has been continuously upgrading its Direct3D software drivers — which support 3DNow — in the attempt to produce something acceptable to the games industry. With DirectX 6.1, released last Wednesday, they may have finally come close.Of course, 3DNow and DirectX will never provide the very best performance with 3-D games. However, they should at least enable a standard £1,000 PC to provide the consistent performance of a dedicated £100 games console like the Sony PlayStation.AMD wants to make 3DNow an industry standard, and has licensed it to Cyrix and other chip manufacturers free of charge. To promote it, AMD is sponsoring the Professional Gamers League, where the most important game — iD's Quake II — has been optimised for the K6-2 and 3DNow. And with almost 100 3DNow games on the market, AMD is inviting software publishers to come out in support of the faster 
K6-3 chip when it's launched later this month."There's an installed base of 11 or 12 million PCs with K6-2s for developers to write for," argues AMD's marketing manager Richard Baker. "It's reached critical mass..."But the battle is far from over, because Intel, the world's largest chip manufacturer, with more than 80 per cent of the PC processor market, will certainly not adopt 3DNow, but will try to replace it. This week at the Milia multimedia exhibition in the south of France, software houses are showing off the 3-D games potential of Intel's own new routines, code-named KNI (Katmai New Instructions). These are built in to the next-generation Pentium III processor, code-named Katmai, which will be launched at the end of this month.Further, Intel is not entirely happy about AMD's success in the low-cost PC market, and is cutting the price of its Pentium II-based 333 and 300MHz Celeron processors. These chips cost $192 and $149 each when they were announced on August 24, but the prices have been cut repeatedly, reaching $73 and $63 this week.AMD hopes to upstage Intel's Pentium III launch by unveiling the K6-3 a few days before. But industry analysts are not convinced. Kelly Henry, a senior analyst with International Data Corporation's semiconductor group in Massachusetts, says the K6-3 is a K6-2 with "Level 2 cache memory" (extra storage for instructions awaiting processing) on the chip itself (an approach Intel has used to improve the performance of its Celeron Pentium II chips) but it's not a new architecture. She expects the K6-3 to compete with the faster Celerons, not with the Pentium III.AMD's problem is that "bringing the cache on die &#91;ie on to the chip&#93; makes the die size bigger, and they're not sure if they can get premium pricing on that part," says Henry. "So if it costs more to make, and they can't sell it for more, that puts their profitability under  pressure."That's a polite way of putting it. On February 4, AMD warned investors that, "based on a re-assessment of competitive conditions, the company could incur an operating loss in the current quarter". Jerry Sanders, AMD's chairman and chief executive, said Intel's price cuts and "pending product announcements"  probably meant AMD would  be unable to increase its microprocessor average selling prices in the current quarter.Last year, AMD lost $104 million on sales of $2.5 billion, and in 1997, it lost $21 million on revenues of $2.4 billion. Intel's sales were $26.3 billion last year, and its profits were $6 billion. There's no doubt which can afford a price war.AMD will find it hard to keep undercutting Intel by 25 per cent. Baker glosses over this: "We actually said we'd hold K6 prices at 25 per cent less than a comparable processor, but there is no comparable processor at the moment."But it's not clear that mass market buyers are willing to pay more for 3DNow. Chris Hogg, a European marketing manager at Intel, says: "performance is not the key issue in the ‘value market segment' " for PCs costing around £1,000 or less. "Essentially, people buy products on price and megahertz, and the Celeron is being more than competitive in its market segment space."Baker refers to Intel's KNI as "their version of 3DNow", but Hogg thinks the Pentium III goes much further. It has many more new instructions which are also useful for complex imaging and speech recognition, for video encoding and decoding, for bringing 3D graphics to the Web, and other applications. The Pentium III also has a new "memory streaming architecture".The implication is that rather than being months ahead of Intel, AMD is months behind: AMD's own next-generation processor, the K7, won't be out until the middle of the year. And although AMD did adopt Intel's last new instructions, MMX, it hasn't committed to KNI for the K7. "We do reserve the right to incorporate KNI, and we hold the appropriate cross-licensing agreement with Intel," Baker says, "but we don't see the need to do so."AMD still has time, because there may be a limit to how powerful Intel can make  Celeron processors without hurting sales of its own more expensive and more profitable Pentium chips. The question is whether AMD can attract enough games players and programmers to sustain support for 3DNow after Intel's market power has made KNI obligatory. In theory, software houses and PC manufacturers like competition, but in practice, it's cheaper to support one system than two.How do you decide which processor to buy? The answer used to be "price and megahertz". Intel produced a stream of microprocessors — from the 4004 to the 8086, then on to the 80486 — and you bought the fastest (most megahertz) you could afford.Processors started in expensive, top-end computers, then got cheaper until they reached cheap entry-level machines. That changed when companies like AMD and Cyrix started to sell cheap chips with powerful multimedia features. Intel's response has been to change its "trickle down" approach to a "segmented market" approach. It now produces four different types of Pentium chip, with different features, in different packaging, for different market segments. All the chips must be compatible because all must run the same software, but prices can range from less than $100 for a Celeron processor to more than $3,000 for a Xeon.The four types are:Celeron: The cheapest type of Pentium II, aimed at first-time buyers, home users, and the "value segment" of the market. A PC with a Celeron is usully just as fast as one with a Pentium II. AMD and Cyrix also compete in this market.Pentium II: The standard form of Pentium, it's aimed at the "performance desktop" market: mainly second-time buyers and business users. It's also used in low-end workstations and servers. The Pentium II will be replaced by the Pentium III.Mobile Pentium: Aimed at notebook computers and portables where raw speed may be less important than low-power requirements (for longer battery life), low heat production (no need for a fan) and a small modular chip package. AMD has successfully entered this market.Xeon: The most expensive type of Pentium II, aimed at high-powered graphics workstations and large multi-processor computers used as file servers.
If you have an uneasy feeling about the security of Internet commerce, you have probably reassured yourself that the hi-tech security schemes which safeguard your privacy are written by the world’s best cryptographers. Think again.
Victor Shoup, a cryptography researcher at IBM’s Zurich laboratory, has come up with a world first: a practical encryption technique that has provable security. You might be surprised to learn that it may never make it onto the market.
Unfortunately for the public, quality and security are near the bottom of the priority list when it comes to turning a scheme into a product. The spoils go to the fastest. “If you’re first, you win, and it doesn’t really matter if the product is crap,” Shoup explains. “A lot of what’s out there is not the best that could be done, even without sacrificing any practicality.”The upshot is that cryptographers have minimal say in the development of new products. “I have marginally more influence than if I was at a university,” says Shoup. “Much of the cryptography software that’s out there is written by software engineers who don’t know too much about the theory of cryptography — and you can really hang yourself if you don’t know what you’re doing.”Shoup developed his encryption technique with Ronald Cramer of the Swiss Institute for Technology. It is making slow progress through the IBM production machine. Shoup is working with IBM’s engineers to see where it fits into their plans. “In principle it’s moving forward: it could take a year, or it might be derailed,” he says.In the end it might just come down to marketing; can IBM market something that needs three times as much computing time, but offers “provable security”? Shoup seems somewhat disinterested. “If they can, good. If they can’t, fine.”
He is dissatisfied with an industry that, in his view, takes security much less seriously than it should. “I would like to see more of what’s available commercially being directly influenced by the cryptographic research community,” he says. “Then we could have more up-to-date, solid algorithms: by applying the knowledge available in the cryptographic research community we could make better products.”But, he says, there’s generally a huge gap between engineers and the crypto-theory people. “They don’t talk to each other; they don’t even like each other for the most part.”He would not be at all surprised if the Cramer-Shoup system doesn’t replace much less secure systems. The attitude in the industry, he claims, is “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it”. Last February the most widely used encryption technique — RSA — had to be fixed: it was broken into by a researcher at Bell Labs. The wounds have been patched up, but RSA is still not — and can never be — “provably secure”; you can’t know there isn’t a scheme that will tear it to shreds waiting just around the next corner.Shoup is amazed that RSA changed their set-up only when it was left with a gaping hole. “RSA knew about alternatives to what they were using,” he says.“Several years ago they could have switched to a more secure system but they didn’t. They should be embarrassed — it’s really not supposed to get broken — but they maintain that they’re not.”He was also surprised that this attack on RSA didn’t get more media attention. “The attacks that get reported in the media are mostly bugs on obscure bits of software; they’re rarely a head-on attack on cryptography itself. I thought it was quite a serious thing, but all the major players in the field — including IBM — played it down.”The reasons are obvious. There is an enormous vested interest in the apparent security of online transactions; all the companies want the public to use e-commerce. 
“They don’t want to scare people off,” says Shoup. “Anyway, they all license RSA 
software.” 
He believes that the more companies play down security problems without solving them, and the more their online business grows, the richer the pickings will become for those who can beat the encryption systems. 
In the end, he believes, a provably secure technique should be implemented, regardless of whether it is quite neat or fast enough. “We can do it, so we should do it,” he says.How security was breachedRSA is a public-key encryption system; it uses a public key and a private key which are related by a mathematical factoring problem. Messages encrypted using the public key can be decrypted only by someone with the private key.
The only way (or so it was thought) to beat the system is to solve a mathematical puzzle: finding the factors that, multiplied together, give a certain very large number. This number is chosen so as to make the task impossible to carry out within a “reasonable amount of time”.But in February last year Daniel Bleichenbacher, a researcher at Bell Labs in the USA, decided to ignore the difficult path to breaking RSA and played “20 questions” with it. The holder of the private key can’t tell whether the encrypted message it receives is legitimate or a very subtle dig for information. Bleichenbacher sent a series of carefully crafted encrypted messages that produced error responses from the private key holder. By analysing each error message and adapting the text of his encryption, Bleichenbacher gradually gathered all the information he needed to break into the system. This “adaptive cyphertext attack” penetrated Secure Sockets Layer, version 3.0, the standard encryption system used by Web browsers.The Cramer-Shoup system uses an algorithm based on a mathematical conundrum known as the Diffie-Hellman Decision Problem (DHDP). There are two sets of four numbers. The first set, R, comprises four randomly chosen numbers; the second set, D, is composed of two randomly chosen numbers and those two numbers raised to random powers.An algorithm that solves the DHDP can tell the difference between R and D. Put some input x into R or into D, and the algorithm should be able to decide which one x has been put into.Cramer and Shoup have proved mathematically that their code can be broken only by solving the problem: information cannot be teased out of the system as with RSA. It is commonly accepted within the cryptographic community that no practical solution to the Diffie Hellman Problem actually exists — no one has yet come up with one, anyway.
Now that Ford have got us used to their sharp-edged Focus hatchback, they've decided that we're ready for the estate and saloon versions too. But they needn't have worried because, in the metal, both new cars look surprisingly sober.And if they're not sensible enough for you, Ford have also taken this opportunity to introduce a brand new diesel engine, so you can now 'Expect More' mpg too.Let's take that 1.8-litre diesel first, since it's available in all the body-styles, adding £500 to the cost of the 1.6-litre petrol equivalent. If you do lots of miles then you'll soon re-coup the extra dough, because this direct-injection diesel is good for well over 50mpg.The new engine also produces 90bhp, which makes it quick enough, and it's also smooth and quiet. The old Escort diesel engine was a real clunker, but this new one is very nearly a match for the excellent direct-injection diesels fitted to VW's Golf and the Vauxhall Astra.But if the Focus's new diesel can't quite topple the competition, then the estate may well do the job, because it offers the best total load volume in its class - almost 1,600 litres with the back seats down, combined with a flat load area and narrow wheel arches. It's a particularly practical family car and, since Ford seems to have decided that £500 is the figure of the moment, this Focus estate costs £500 more than either the saloon or hatchback models - a bargain, since many manufacturers charge the better part of £1,000 more for estates.The Focus estate doesn't sacrifice any of the hatchback's good ride, snappy handling and general nippiness either, though inevitably the big box at the back does make it a bit noisier. However, exactly the opposite is true of the four-door saloon, which is the most refined of all the Foci. Ford say the saloon is aimed at a more 'conservative' buyer and, as usual, there's much talk of grey panthers and empty-nesters down-sizing -which, translated from marketing-speak, means that older people tend to buy smaller cars when the kids leave home.Thanks to this profound marketing insight, you can only buy the four-door Focus in up-market Ghia trim, which adds fake wood as well as several more useful extras for (you guessed it) £500 more than an LX. When you've sorted out which particular kind of panther you are, you've still got to decide which options pack you need. As a greying but safety-conscious panther myself, may I suggest the oddly-named 'Reflex' pack? For the inevitable 500 notes, it adds side airbags, traction control and ABS brakes to the standard package.That's top value, although I'm still wondering if Ford called their safety pack Reflex because they think we older panthers have lost our once-lightning reflexes, and need all the help we can get as we go careering into other cars and those hard-to-avoid office blocks.One thing to bear in mind: it's worth asking them to 'hold the sunroof' on their top-selling LX model, because then they'll give you air-conditioning instead for just £100 (or as the marketing people would no doubt have it: £500 extra, but with £400 cash back.) So which Focus would I go for? As a highish-mileage family motorist, my choice would be the diesel estate model in the top-value LX trim, with that Reflex pack and the air-con in lieu of the sunroof. If I've added all my lots of £500 up properly, that will cost me £15,600.And although that's around £2,500 more than the cheapest Focus, I reckon my choice will hold its value better than anything in the range, and will also be eminently sensible, safe and fun to drive too.
What are you driving?A Grand Jeep Cherokee, Orvis edition.What does that mean?It's the top of the line Cherokee, so it's got more bells and whistles. Living in America made me a big Jeep fan. When I was a student, I had the Wrangler, then I got the Cherokee. Isn't it a cliche: men in cities driving round in bloody great Jeeps? Yes, a bit naff, isn't it? I've got a good excuse because I live in the country as well as London. It does all the off-roading. We've got an off-road course in Gloucestershire.What does your car say about you?That I'm a modern kind of guy. The modernisation of Britain is embodied in an American imported Jeep. A bit culturally arid, isn't it? There's that old joke: 'What's the difference between a Range Rover and a hedgehog? A hedgehog only has pricks on outside!' I'm afraid there's still a bit of truth to that. In the US, if you drive a Range Rover, you're really cool. It's all quite hip.Describe your driving.It's 'windows of opportunity'. When I get an opportunity to let it go, I do.Ever suffered from road rage?Yes, when I was working in Los Angeles. If you think London's bad, go and sit on an LA freeway for three hours and have someone pull a gun on you. I've got a simple solution. Not therapy, not Prozac - just set off 15 minutes earlier for an appointment. I'd rather do that than have to flip someone the bird, or get into a fight.What do you listen to on the road?In London I usually listen to Classic FM because driving there is so stressful - whether you leave early or not. If you listen to Virgin or a rap station you just get more wound up.Have you ever had sex in a car?Well, it depends on your definition of sex. Are we talking about the President Clinton definition of sex? Well, I've had a few fumbles, a few awkward hand movements. And I've had some inappropriate behaviour in the back seat - but I haven't had what you might call sexual relations.Henry Dent-Brocklehurst is a film producer, socialite and entrepreneur currently developing an off-road event course at Sudeley Castle
Bye bye bird-droppingsAn ingenious new product called Rain-X Rain Repellent claims to be about to make the trusty old windscreen wiper all but redundant - by giving glass a non-stick, Teflon-like coating which makes rain 'simply bead up and roll away'. Fine. But rain's not the only driving hindrance to fall from the heavens. How is Rain-X with bird-droppings? 'Actually very good,' spokesman Grahame Butterworth told Wheels proudly. And how, we asked, was this claim tested in the lab? 'Well,' said Butterworth, 'we don't get teams of trained pigeons to fly at it. But we do have special, em, chemical formulations that mimic the effect of droppings.' Hmm. Given there's now a market for spray-on mud, Rain-X might want to try flogging that stuff too.Union Jack flaggingUnpatriotic Brits are turning their backs on the glorious colours of our beloved national flag when it comes to picking a car. Five years ago, red, white and blue were the most popular colours to be seen driving about in. But now, according to analysts Experian, snazzy silver and eco-friendly green are all the rage. Green, it seems, is a particular hit with country folk, while silver is the top choice for loadsamoney city slickers.Quote of the week'I once said . . . that there should be a minimum limit of 130mph on motorways because at this speed you really have to concentrate. I have questioned the wisdom of Draconian drink-driving laws. I have called for motorists to pip their horns at horses, and for new laws empowering drivers to run down cyclists who deliberately ride two abreast. You can't say these things if you're a politician.'Jeremy Clarkson explaining in the Sunday Times why reports about him becoming a Tory transport adviser were completely without foundation
Think of a symbol for Yorkshire, and you'll probably come up with a white rose, a straight glass of beer or a flat cap. Sorry, but they're all old hat. The new icon of the largest county is to be . . . a taxi - the country's first, specifically regional cab to be precise.Designers were put on their mettle last weekend by Steve Byers, the Trade and Industry Secretary, who launched the search for a 'Yorkshire taxi' at a conference in Leeds, in the form of a competition for sketches and models of something stylish and practical, but above all unique.The idea has come from the fledgling Yorkshire Regional Development Agency, one of nine such agencies across England with a clutch of new powers and a lot of money. One of its first ploys is a bid for a Euro-rating as something called an EU 'region of design excellence'. The Yorkshire taxi, to mangle a transport metaphor, is to be the flagship.'We're looking at other regional icons, including the concept of a Yorkshire teapot,' says Jonathan Sands, Leeds-based designer and chair of the European bid. 'But what's the first thing business visitors or tourists find when they get here on the train or plane? You can't beat the taxi when it comes to giving the first impression of a place.' Exactly the same view comes from downtown Manhattan, where Allan Fromberg surveys the famous yellow dots in the canyons between skyscrapers. As deputy commissioner for taxis and limousines, Fromberg has the cab history handy, and it bears out the theories in Leeds.Beating the Empire State Building or Statue of Liberty to being the cover image of choice for New York guides, the cab, says Fromberg, 'is the first thing you'll see at JFK Airport, your introduction to what, with due respect to other cities, is the world capital'. Some of Mayor Giuliani's instructions, carried in every sunny-coloured interior, may be a bit theoretical (such as the requirement for all NY cab drivers to speak English), but every rookie tourist wants a yellow cab ride as part of the Manhattan experience.This, admits Jonathan Sands, is partly the result of thousands of films, plus the fun of guessing the driver's (usually recent) origins - Uzbekistan? Montenegro? - or checking out some of the world's most inventive home-made car air-conditioning systems. But the yellow cab is genuinely a piece of deliberate design, dating back to 1905.That, says Fromberg, was when another New Yorker called Allan, a taxi fleet proprietor, was hunting around for a livery and became quite intellectual about it all. 'He was reading a psychiatry book that said yellow was a welcoming, pleasing colour,' says Fromberg. 'So he had his cabs done yellow and, son of a gun, it worked - because that's the way they are in Manhattan today.' Colour is likely to be the key ingredient of the Yorkshire taxi, and the Yorkshire Evening Post has got the ball rolling with a witty 'Hockney carriage' cartoon.'What a brilliant idea,' says Sands, snipping out the paper's drawing of a primary-coloured saloon, a David Hockney print on wheels like an arty version of the Harlequin fun model of the VW Polo. Yorkshire's most famous contemporary painter may have biked round Bradford as a young artist, towing a pram with his canvasses inside, but he wouldn't mind giving his name to a cab.'A bit like the British Airways tailfins,' muses Sands. 'And Hockney did do a cover for the Bradford telephone directory. You can do so much with colour in design. Look at the Dyson vacuums or the new Apple iMac.' The project's other inspiration, the famous black cab of London, was important for the second side of the design brief - the need for imaginative practical advantages which would also make the Yorkshire taxi different. The monochrome dignity of the London cab may be part of its appeal but its mechanics are also justly celebrated. As far back as 1906, the Metropolitan Police insisted on a maximum turning circle of 25ft in diameter, hence the London taxi's famed ability to spin on a halfpenny. That appeals to Peter Connolly, whose company, Yorkshire Design Services, has brought various novelties to Leeds, including a landlocked pub-in-a-barge.'Let's look at distinctive and friendly ways of running a Yorkshire taxi,' he says. 'What about insisting on recycled materials for the bodywork and components? Or green fuels: electricity, or this latest idea we've been reading about, compressed air?' Battery-powered cabs were tried in London in 1897, with a maximum 30 miles between chargings and a two-tonne overall weight, which made the victory of petrol-driven versions pretty inevitable seven years later. But technology has shot ahead since then, and Connolly sees the prospect of quiet, urban electric fleets in Sheffield, Hull or York as potentially the key to a regional taxi's appeal.A final early notion combines both colour and technology. Jonathan Sands speculates about a two-colour Yorkshire taxi system which would pass the 'new and different' test but also have a practical use: 'Why not have small urban taxis, coloured yellow and maybe electric-powered,' he says, 'and bigger blue ones for journeys out of town? Visitors would spot the difference straight away, like the colours on the London Underground map, and each type, the yellow cabs and the blue cabs, could build up their own appeal and image.' Bigger cabs ('Why stick at five passengers?' asks Sands) are on the agenda, too. So is disability access, to be compulsory for all British taxis by 2002, thereby opening another door to fresh bodywork designs.Blessed by Steve Byers, the briefs have gone out, promoted by a yellow NY cab pootling round Leeds and talks on practical design by Optare, the city's bus-body makers. You need to be Yorkshire, or to move your studio to Yorkshire, to join in. But there's nothing to stop the other regions outside Greater London getting busy on taxis of their own.
In Cyberspace this week, you can't debate the Irish peace process, advocate independence for East Timor or call for the execution of doctors practising abortion within the law. But you can urge people to have sex with a Pomeranian dog, or have your girlfriend crush a gerbil to death with a stiletto heel.The World Wide Web has become a maze of contradictions, its regulations entwined around each other like spaghetti in a pot. Caught in the middle is America On Line, which is bigger than its main 15 rivals in the Internet access market put together. Last weekend AOL suspended the 'Politics Folder' of its Irish Heritage debating site for a '17-day cooling-off period'.The site was set up as 'a place for cordial political debate in the spirit of harmony' on Ireland, but soon became a posting board for views about 'British Treason' and 'Sinn Fein-IRA Terrorism'. The site had taken 12,000 hits since 1 January.In the past two weeks, another debate site was closed - that on East Timor, which had linked up to dissidents within Indonesia. The site was based, coincidentally, in Dublin and was of iconic significance to its subscribers, creating a 'cyber-nationhood'.The site was forced out of action by a 'cyber-attack' on its computers, and Connect Ireland had temporarily to close down its system. The top suspect is the Indonesian government.Politics apart, the arguments over AOL have mainly revolved around the issues of child pornography, race and abortion. Two of those arguments are coming to a head.In what the US Planned Parenthood organisation called 'a major victory' in the war against 'domestic terrorism', a federal jury in Portland, Oregon, ordered a website that publishes the names, home addresses, family details and phone numbers of abortionists - and urges fanatics to furnish more - to pay damages of $107 million.The site owners, the American Coalition of Life Activists, claimed freedom of expression. But the court was more interested in what became of that freedom when doctors on the list were murdered.Quite the opposite message came in the most far-reaching decision to date on what is or isn't permitted on the Web, concerning children and pornography.
Again, there is confusion. In Boston last month a district judge upheld a federal law that makes it illegal to possess computer images showing children engaged in sexual activity. The case originated in Maine, where a judge had ruled the law was unconstitutionally vague on the question of child-pornographic images. The Boston judgment is the first under the Child Pornography Protection Act of 1996. 'We term it a landmark decision,' said US Attorney Jay McCloskey, 'that brings federal child pornography law into the computer age.'In Philadelphia last Tuesday, Judge Lowell Reed blocked a new law, passed by Congress, intended to shield children from pornography on the World Wide Web. Some 17 plaintiffs - including bookshops, website owners and gay groups - had challenged the Child Online Protection Act, and secured a preliminary injunction against the legislation.The judge ruled that 'perhaps we do the minors of this country more harm if the First Amendment protections, which they will with age inherit fully, are chipped away in the name of their protection'.The most startling shock on the Web last week was linked closely with the paedophile case, and came with the launch of the US Humane Society's campaign against bestiality and sexual abuse of animals in America.Quite apart from the problem the society is seeking to address - with 28 states permitting sex with animals - it has exposed websites for 'zoophiles' which encourage the abuse of animals.'They are equating themselves with homosexuals,' says Ann Church, senior director at the Humane Society, which last week launched a campaign against bestiality on the Web, 'but they are not like that - we equate them with paedophiles'.'It's all very graphic,' says Church, 'what to do with a horse or a dog, what to do with various breeds of dog,  how to do it with a goose or a cat.'
 One of the most disturbing services on the 'zoophilia' websites is a model letter to help those who enjoy sex with animals 'come out' and tell their 'family and friends' about their preferences.'It's to make it sound like a healthy endeavour,' said one official working on the campaign to get the sites - and animal sex - banned, 'like getting a law degree. It's Sodom and Gomorrah on rollerblades'.
Why free speech?Freedom of expression has long been regarded as one of the fundamental principles of modern democracies, in which civil liberties are honoured and regarded as a prerequisite for individual development and fulfilment.The First Amendment in the American Constitution famously guarantees US citizens the right to free speech. In Britain, until a "bill of rights" is established, in the form of the adoption of the European Convention of Human Rights next year, free speech is only defined negatively: we can only speak freely if the laws covering confidentiality, contempt of court, data protection and official secrets aren't transgressed.Getting the balance between freedom to speak and freedom from fear has troubled democracies and democratic theorists for hundreds of years.  The 19th Century philosopher JS Mill, whose On Liberty (1859) remains a potent exposition of the value and limits of liberty, argued that you must distinguish between freedom to speak and freedom to act.Written or spoken encouragement is not action, Mill argued, believing there could be no barrier to the expression of opinions.  Even offensive lies must freely be expressed, for it is only in their expression that they can be exposed as fraudulent, Mill maintained.It is this classic liberal argument that is still used by civil liberties' campaigners on the internet, likeHatewatch, which argues that those "hate speak" groups, such as neo-Nazis, must still speak freely, if only to expose and discredit themselves.However, another respected strand of democratic opinion argues that free speech can never be this absolute. The recent $107.9 million fine against anti-abortionists for publishing a list of abortion doctors on their website - with a clear, menacing intent - represents the victory of those who argue that in assessing questions of free speech, a balance between conflicting freedoms, and different people's freedoms, must be found. In this case, the anti-abortionists' "free speech" incited violence against certain doctors, who were unable to live free from fear.What is the problem with the internet?It is not simply a case of "same old issue, new technology" with free speech and the internet. With its low start-up costs and global reach, the internet enables almost anyone in the West, in theory, to speak and be heard around the world, as well as hear others' speech.Internet speech has potentially far greater impact than speech through ordinary media. It has the potential to be the genuine voice of the grassroots, uncontrolled by any media organisations. It has the potential to communicate in video, audio, pictures and text, as well as reach far more people than the biggest satellite TV station or best-read international newspaper. It also has the potential for people to interact, uniting disparate movements in distant countries or enabling them to add their own information or support.So, internet speech can facilitate or incite action much more effectively than traditional media. In this way it is an intensification of the problems that come with free speech.It is likely that the internet will be the arena in which the tense relationship between the freedom to speak and the freedom from fear will be negotiated in modern democracies.Can the global character of the internet defy censorship?At present different countries' different laws apply to internet communications and content, although there are problems tracing just who is responsible for sites, particularly when they originate from, and are hosted in, foreign countries.Countries like China have successfully prevented their citizens from receiving a huge quantity of (pro-democratic) material on the internet. But it is, inevitably, a qualified success, as users discover ingenious ways of storming clumsy technological barricades.It is not just restrictive, authoritarian governments, such as the Chinese government (which recently jailed Chinese businessman Lin Hai for two years for supplying addresses to pro-democracy e-mail newsletter VIP Reference), which seek to limit free speech from the top down, by filtering out undesirable sites.Governments in the USA, Germany and France, have all taken significant steps to curtail free speech on the internet. And internet idealists are more fearful of a growing "censorship from within" as corporations like Microsoft, seeking the respectability of the censor, embed censorship tools in their software that users are oblivious to.What laws restrict free speech on the internet?The law is flustered and in flux over the internet. There are no international laws governing internet use. At present different countries' different laws apply to internet communications and content, although there are problems tracing just who is responsible for sites, particularly when they originate from, and are hosted in, foreign countries.Despite this, most governments are in the process of developing new laws to better monitor and control internet content.Often it is the Internet Service Providers (ISPs), the "publishers" who provide web space, who have been held responsible for internet content that individuals are the authors of. The anti-censorship pressure group, Campaign Against Censorship of the Internet in Britain, was created in response Scotland Yard's request to ISPs to censor their news feedsWhat kind of free speech fights have broken out over the internet?The way the internet developed, spontaneously and unregulated, led to many of its users to idealise its uniquely free, decentralised and democratic character. Their celebration soon turned to condemnation when big business and government colonised the internet, with the latter in particular, seeking to regulate and control its immense, potential, power.This has led to a series of bitter disputes, particularly in America. Despite the USA's constitutional reverence of free speech, the debates surrounding free speech on the internet are fiercer and its censorship is further advanced in America than in Britain. This is probably because the US is several years ahead of Britain in terms of internet use - there are more providers, more sites and more users across the Atlantic.The relevance of legal wrangles in the US for the internet in Britain is that their findings, like their technologies, are likely to be exported here. The internet is also such a global phenomenon that restrictions in the US obviously affect the availability of US "free speech" in Britain.The US government first attempted to regulate the internet with the President Clinton's Communications Decency Act which, after massive protest from the civil liberty groups and online enthusiasts, was dismissed by the Supreme Court as unconstitutional in 1997.Last autumn, Congress passed the Child Online Protection Act (COPA) which made it a crime for commercial websites to communicate material considered "harmful to minors." However, on February 2, 1999, a federal judge ruled that the law would restrict free speech in the "marketplace of ideas.""Perhaps we do the minors of this country harm if First Amendment protections, which they will with age inherit fully, are chipped away in the name of their protection," Judge Lowell Reed ruled.But the US courts are creating different precedents concerning internet law almost daily.Just a day after Judge Reed's ruling in Washington, an Oregon jury awarded damages of $107.9 million against anti-abortionists for making thinly-veiled death threats to doctors on their "Nuremberg Files" website.This, potentially, creates a potent precedent for curtailing the threat - and the freedom - of hate speech on the internet.Other than legislation, how else can free speech on the internet be stopped?Another way free speech on the internet can be controlled is through industry self-regulation.The Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) was founded in 1996, grouping the two major British ISP associations, ISPA and LINX, with the police and the government. It particularly aims to check the use of the internet to transmit illegal material, like child pornography, through encouraging the classification of internet sites.There are many other kinds of self-regulation on the internet. ISPs often have their own regulations and conditions of use.ISP Demon Internet has an acceptable use policy, referring to their customers' homepages. Demon users are responsible for "ensuring that the contents of these pages do not violate English law" and a  producing a "clearly readable warning page before any adult material is displayed."The anti-abortionist site, The Nuremberg Files, would not have passed Demon Internet's acceptable use policy. Its publication of lists of abortion doctors' names and addresses would have transgressed the UK's Data Protection Act, cited by Demon's conditions of use list.Can free speech on the internet be stopped by technology?Technology is used to censor and evade censorship, although it seems likely that censorship tools will grow in sophistication and use as legislators struggle to censor the internet.Three of the main ways in which free speech on the internet can be curtailed are ratings, PICs and filters.What are ratings?Put simply, website rating is like giving films certificates. Site-developers may "rate" their sites and a family may decide to set their browsing software so it only accesses sites below a certain rating. Until recently, ratings have only existed in a fairly experimental form.What are PICS?In December 1997, a 200-strong internet industry group agreed to accept a common standard of labelling called PICS - the Platform for Internet Content Selection.PICS was designed in particular to help family users prevent their children from accessing material like pornography on the internet. But PICSRules is a complex and flexible ratings language, enabling many different systems of ratings to be constructed, such as the censoring of radical political groups by an authoritarian government.What is filtering?But PICSRules, and the different classificatory schemes, only label sites. Filters actually cut access to sites. At present, most filters do not use PICSRules, because the technology is still quite new.Most censoring groups and governments use automatic software agents to scan the internet, searching for clues to a sites content before they "filter" out access to these sites. Other organisations, like SurfWatch, employ teams of researchers with specialist knowledge of pornography or hate-speech to track down and ban offensive material.Both are still somewhat clumsy. Filtering programmes have blocked access to benign sites on "Mars exploration" for instance, because the letters "s-e-x" appear consecutively in the phrase. But when PICSRules are properly allied to filters, censorship will become more searching and more subtle.Millions of internet users in big offices, cybercafés, education institutions and libraries will use machines or ISPs which have filters installed in them. As filtering techniques become more sophisticated, this stealthy form of censorship is likely to flourish.Increasingly it is recognised that the most effective techniques of censorship are "bottom up". In the US there have been several bills in Congress which have sought to compel institutions like schools and libraries to install filtering software on their computers.What can you do it a site offends you?In 1999, the EU launched an action plan, "Promoting Safer Use of the Internet", which provides for a hotline, where people can report sites which have caused offence. They stress, however, that responsibility for prosecuting and punishing those responsible for illegal content remains with national authorities.Other than calling the law in, which may prove a large and cumbersome sledgehammer to crack a small nut, people can report offensive sites to the ISP which hosts them. As the growth of industry self-regulation shows, most of these are large corporations, anxious to be seen as respectable pillars of the responsible internet community. Given this they will act quickly to shut down offensive sites.More maverick tactics include the use of the e-mail bomb - sending a massive amount of e-mails to a site, causing it to crash - which require technical expertise and tend to be the preserve of lonely and bitter netheads.
Anti-abortion activists described the ruling as 'a moral and constitutional outrage'. They were protesting against the $70 million fine imposed on them by a federal jury in Oregon for publishing names and photographs of abortion doctors on the World Wide Web. They are only the latest in a long line of unsuccessful defendants with a selective approach to fundamental rights. The Internet did not create the difficult challenge of balancing free speech against the right to privacy, but it has intensified the problems. Even the American Civil Liberties Union, while welcoming the verdict as 'a clarion call" for the removal of violence from the US debate on abortion, remains worried by 'the chilling effect on free speech that this case could have.'This was not the UK, where until the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights into domestic law next year, free speech remains a legal left-over - what is left over after the laws of confidentiality, contempt and official secrets have had their say. This was the United States, where free speech has been defended down the years by its written constitution, Bill of Rights and First Amendment. The argument of the anti-abortion activists is not an empty one. It is a landmark case testing the limits of free speech. Ostensibly, the web site and associated posters, involve no physical threats or calls for violent confrontations. Instead they list the names and addresses of doctors who perform abortions and invite readers to send in other names to be added to the list. Hence the concern of civil liberty lawyers.But it is not that simple, as three weeks of legal arguments and five days of deliberations by the jury demonstrate. Sensibly, the jury cut through the specious presentation of the anti-abortionists and looked at the reality: the arson attacks, bombings and shootings targeted on abortion clinics over the last few years. The National Abortion Federation has logged 39 bombings, 99 acid attacks, and 16 attempted murders. Three doctors have been killed. Many have been forced to wear bullet proof vests and suffer intimidatory phone calls. The anti-abortion web site is not as neutral as its defenders pretend. Called 'The Nuremberg Files', the site features foetal blood dripping down the screen. The doctors are accused of 'crimes against humanity' and branded as 'baby butchers'. The details on the web include their phone numbers, car licence numbers, routes to work and even the names of their children. Three doctors on the list have already been killed, their names crossed off like items on a grocery list. Accompanying fliers in the form of Old West 'wanted' posters, offer cash prizes for the names of doctors carrying out abortions.Free speech is a hallowed principle, but even the US courts have rightly set limits. The jury has followed that lead. The punitive fine sends out a clear message: the violence perpetrated by anti-abortionists is unacceptable. The web lists and 'wanted posters' were seen for what they were: hit lists for anti-abortion fanatics. Undoubtedly there will be an appeal, but the appeal courts should take a robust approach. Free speech is not absolute and has to be placed in context. As a famous US judgment noted, no one has the right to falsely shout fire in a crowded theatre. The Press Complaints Commission is currently studying a similar case in the UK: an appeal against a weekly newspaper for the black community seeking the personal addresses of the five men suspected of killing Stephen Lawrence. Deeply unattractive though all five are, they have the right to be defended from lynch law. The reason the criminal justice system was set up was to avoid the injustices which lynch mobs perpetrate.
THE unregulated Internet was facing its sternest challenge last night after a United States jury awarded more than $100 million ( £60 million) to abortion doctors who said their safety was threatened by the inclusion of their names on a website "wanted" list.The anti-abortionists behind the site had also distributed posters naming doctors they accused of crimes against humanity. One of those named, Elizabeth Newhall, said of the verdict: "It means that citizens are no longer willing to tolerate the domestic terrorism that has pervaded abortion services in this country for so many years."But hardline pro-lifers and civil rights campaigners - for very different reasons - denounced the judgment. At the centre of the case is The Nuremberg Files website listing the names and addresses of more than 200 doctors - compared to Nazis - and showing photographs of aborted foetuses."I have no intention of giving money to people who kill children," said Catherine Ramey, one of the defendants, outside the court in Portland, Oregon. "That would be like asking Martin Luther King Jr to pay money to the Ku Klux Klan."Legal authorities said the ruling might violate the US constitution's first amendment, which guarantees the right to free speech."It's tempting but very dangerous to permit long-standing first amendment standards to be compromised in order to deal with this outrageous form of expression. But if we do, it will come back to haunt us," said Robert O'Neil of the Thomas Jefferson Centre for the Protection of Free Expression in Charlottsville, Virginia.Christopher Ferrara, a lawyer for the American Catholic Lawyers Association, who represented several of the defendants, said: "I think the ruling shreds the first amendment. If these posters are threatening then virtually any document that criticises an abortionist by name is threatening. The effect on political protest will be devastating."The Oregon jury of eight, protected by anonymity and heavy security, awarded damages of $107.9 million against two anti-abortion organisations and 12 activists it found to be in breach of a 1994 statute outlawing threats against abortion providers. The jury agreed unanimously that the posters and website were "a true threat by one or more of the defendants to do bodily harm, assault or kill any of the plaintiffs".Four doctors and the pro-choice group Planned Parenthood sued at the end of a decade in which the most extreme wing of the anti-abortion movement is said to have been responsible for 39 bombings, 99 acid attacks, 16 attempted murders and seven killings. The issue was given renewed urgency three months ago with the murder of Dr Barnett Slepian by a sniper at his home in Buffalo, New York state. The sniper has not been caught.Slepian's name was crossed off The Nuremberg Files site (www.christiangallery.com/atrocity) of "deadly doctors" hours after the killing. The names of those who are wounded are listed in grey.Slepian's widow Lynne said yesterday that the ruling was long overdue."It's just the tip of the iceberg, but these low-lifes are so slippery, slimy and sleazy I'm sure they'll find a way to get out of paying."In fact, it seems that they have already done so. The defendants, who intend to appeal, prepared themselves for the case by transferring assets, including homes and bank accounts, to others to make them "judgment-proof".But Kathy Bachman, of Planned Parenthood, said this was irrelevant. "That really is not what we're after. We're after the safety of our patients, the safety of our staff, the ability to provide a constitutionally legal procedure to women who want it."The Nuremberg Files site says that its purpose is not to threaten medical staff but to gather information which could be used if termination was ever deemed a crime against humanity.Whatever happens in the appeal court, the doctors are not convinced that their lives will be any safer. "I think there is always going to be a threat," said Dr James Newhall, one of those who sued. "I'm not going to give away my &#91;bulletproof&#93; vest."
It has none of the charm of a Golden Labrador but the "Leeds mechanical sniffer dog" may mean safer and faster air travel from next year. Laboratory development of a refined laser detection system has gone so well at Leeds University that Home Office scientists are to hold trials this summer.Its method of detecting explosives and drugs could put X-rays in the shade. Professor David Batchelder, Leeds University physicist in charge of the project, says: "You'd have trouble finding a pinhead of explosive chemical in a squash court with current airport security techniques. We could find it in Wembley stadium."Speed is the key to the device's commercial appeal for airlines and airports, whose cumbersome security has become an increasing irritant as traffic grows and terrorist incidents decline. The "Leeds sniffer" is designed to clear large areas like aircraft holds or sections of warehouse by locating tiny elements of explosive chemicals in the air. It uses lasers to find the unique vibration patterns given off by molecules, matching them with data stored in its memory. Tests have concentrated on explosives but the sniffer could be calibrated to search for drugs.It can catalogue all molecules in an air sample, to build up a picture of possible sources in aircraft luggage. The team believes that the process is accurate enough to pin down Semtex, the Czech-made plastic explosive favoured by terrorists because of its inert "invisibility".Batchelder says: "Semtex doesn't give off much vapour, so it's very difficult to detect unless you know exactly where to look.'' The material has frequently passed undetected through X-ray machines, but the Leeds sniffer found its residue on testers' hands, even after repeated washing.The detector has been refined by chemists at Strathclyde University who have patented a means of amplifying weak and scattered light readings returned from vibrating molecules to the detector.   A combination of dye and silver solution enlarges the readings by a factor of more than a million, allowing even a solitary molecule to be found and analysed.The third player in the team is the Home Office's police scientific development branch, which has given practical advice and will test the sniffer during the summer holiday rush. Staff are interested in the "gentle touch" which leaves evidence undamaged and available for re-examination to check forensic scientists' conclusions — the cause of high-profile disputes in a number of terrorist bombing trials.The team does not claim superiority in detecting skills over sniffer dogs, whose ability to nose out drugs and chemicals is not still fully understood. But Batchelder says the machine has the advantage in reliability and, unlike dogs, does not suffer from fatigue and loss of concentration.
Three PC games now due for release share the welcome bond of being some of the finest examples of computer entertainment ever devised. Sim City 3000, Alpha Centauri and Command &amp; Conquer 2: Tiberian Sun are 
all based on classic ideas, they've each taken at least three years to make, they give their players the fantasy of power, and they rely on highly intelligent gameplay to hook their victims.If you buy one of these games, be prepared to change your lifestyle: once you start to play you will not want to stop.First, Sim City 3000. It's based on the 10-year-old Sim City in which the player's task was to plan a city's lay-out. Following the release of the first sequel, Sim City 2000, in 1994, game designers at development house Maxis have delivered an intriguing puzzle which offers a realistic relationship between action and consequence. There's also 
a crisper look to the game, and it offers more intuitive control dynamic.Looking down on a bare landscape, you are offered the chance to build roads, buildings, districts and amenities. Your city will take on a life of its own, as people move into the neighborhood. If you build too much industry, pollution will drive your citizens away. Not enough police stations? Crime is coming to town. Blow your funds on that lovely sports 
stadium too early in the city's development, and your citizens might riot.As a player, you are offered the liberty of creating your very own city, complete with your favourite landmarks. If you wished, you could create a Utopian version of London. 
No crime. No pollution. Just happy people and pretty 
buildings. Sim City 3000 is released in the UK by Electronic Arts this weekend.Command &amp; Conquer 2 from Westwood Studios allows the player to create and control futuristic armies of high-tech machines and personnel in real-time battles. Looking down on detailed terrain, players must gather natural resources, build factories, and churn out death-inducing hardware. Then, the strategy of actually beating armies of tanks, armoured cars, artillery and soldiers begins.Designers at Westwood have concentrated on closely defining each military unit's powers and weaknesses, multiplying the strategic options for defence and attack. Terrain has a profound effect on the decision-making process, as players are required to learn the secrets of utilizing rivers, mountains and glaciers. It's out in early April.Finally, Alpha Centauri. It's a game that's unashamedly complicated. Only a lover of perplexity would attempt to learn its intricacies without the help of its brick-like manual. But perseverance is rewarded by the brilliance of creator Sid Meier, who is best known for Civilization, generally regarded as the greatest strategy game thus far designed.
Put simply, the player must build a civilization on a distant planet by making choices 
presented by the game, and 
by managing the settlements created as a result of those choices. These include deciding which scientific development you prefer, or how you want to interact with other communities also growing on the planet. Diplomacy is a key factor in survival or conquest. Unlike Civilization 2, in which opposing empires acted in 
predictably venal fashion, Alpha Centauri's inhabitants come from very different cultures. Try to imagine a set of opposing colonies founded by the likes of Stalin, Ghandi, 
Einstein and Torquemada, and you get the general idea of the fascinating variety of founding principles and priorities.Alpha Centauri is all about detail. No one will get much out of this game by investing anything less than 50 gaming hours. Put it this way: a "short campaign" lasts 10 hours. The game is out on February 19.So you've been warned: these games will entertain you for many hours, and there'll always be a better way to win next time. This is what makes a great computer game.
'If Ronald Reagan was the made-for-TV candidate, Jesse Ventura is the made-for-Net candidate," says Steven Clift. Bespectacled Clift, who combines the youngish plumpish look of a sharp East Coast political insider with the laid-back, techie demeanour of a Silicon Valley acolyte, does not seem a natural supporter of the flamboyant Ventura, the former pro wrestler who crushed the opposition in November's election for the governorship of Minnesota.Where their interests coincide is in putting politics on the Web. Ventura's low-budget campaign made extensive use of the Internetwww.jesseventura.orgto mobilise volunteers and communicate with voters and the media .In 1991, Clift pioneered teledemocracy. As a graduate working on citizen participation in politics at the University of Minnesota, he concluded the Net would be "the most powerful medium in politics" and set up 
PUBPOL-L, the first public policy e-mail list.He is now pushing the idea across Europe with a lecture tour through Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Brussels, Paris, the UK and Iceland. But his latest trip to Britain has not impressed him. He says the Net's democratic potential is being stifled in the UK by the high price of telecommunications."As long as you have local call charges for the Net, citizen use from the home is virtually impossible. The time it takes to go to the Parliament Web site, look up some legislation, download it, post it to a discussion group and continue a debate about it online becomes very costly. Democracy is inherently inefficient — participation is not about efficiency, it's about effectiveness, which often means investing time."The exclusion of a mass audience from such activity is not merely damaging to the democratic process, he says, it could also hit competitiveness."Whatever Internet advantage I perceived in the UK compared with other countries in Europe 18 months ago, I don't see any more. My sense is that the next step should have been to create a mass consumer market, but it seems that you haven't added that next 20 per cent of the population yet, and that goes back to the pricing issue."It's very different in the US where he co-ordinated Web, White and Blue (www.webwhiteblue.org), 
for November's elections for US state governorships. A non-partisan gateway to 
information sites, it was seen as a dry-run for the wired-up White House race in 2000.Clift says under Ventura there is "a tremendous opportunity to kick-start government online unlike anywhere else in the world".
Peter Tsou plans to use chemistry's most amazing fabric to capture the
stuff from which the Sun and the Moon and people are made. He is going to
catch dust from a comet with a disc of frozen smoke. He is going to trap
the raw material of creation with a plateful of most peculiar jelly ever
made.The solar system and everything in it is cooked-up old stardust, just as
New York skyscrapers are recycled from the remains of Cretaceous creatures
that turned to limestone and chalk. The last remnants of this stardust are
in the comets that hang around the rim of the solar system, like a ring
around the bath, occasionally falling to the centre.The rarer the comet,
the more likely it is to retain the original mix of dust, ice and volatile
chemicals from which the planets and stars were formed. A handful of comet
dust might answer huge questions about the origins of life itself. Dr Tsou,
of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, where they think
about the impossible every day, says ideally you would want to land on the
thing and pick up a shovelful, but that would cost billions.He has thought about the problem a lot. Stardust is his 13th comet mission
proposal. This is the one in which he got lucky, twice. Nasa said yes, and
he found the aerogel.Think about the problem, he says: a comet may be a dirty snowball but, when
warmed by the sun, all those strange, volatile chemicals from which
proteins might be made would disappear. So you want to catch a comet cold,
which means the collector has to be even colder - maybe minus 150C. But the
collector must fly through the coma of the comet at around 6 kms a second.
The particles you want to catch are going to hit the net at 6 kms a second
which means an impact friction of around 10,000C. So the catcher would have
to be made of pretty clever stuff. It would be like catching a bullet
without breaking it, he says, only the impact would be at 20 times the
speed of a bullet.Dr Tsou imagined a way of dissipating the force of the impact by letting
the speck of comet dust pass through a series of gossamer layers as a
bullet might pass though layers of foil, slowing down a tiny bit with each
layer. If they were packed right, it might work. The layers would end up 20
kilometres thick, but it would work in principle.He started playing around - firing high-velocity pellets through Styrofoam
(the stuff computers arrive packed in) and was encouraged: only 35 per cent
of the mass of the particles was vapourised on impact. He got to the stage
where he could preserve more than 90 per cent of the mass, but there were
huge problems. Polymers like Styrofoam turn to powder in ultraviolet light,
of which there is a lot in space. They are also opaque: how do you find a
speck 5 millionths of a metre across in a piece of white foam packing?
Needle in a haystack wouldn't even begin to describe the problem.Then, while visiting a laboratory, he saw something in a case: aerogel. It
had been around since 1933. Chemists made it as an experiment: a jelly
supported not by liquid but by air. It is the food industry's best kept
secret: silicon dioxide powder is used to make ice cream smoothly
homogeneous, to stop salt from clumping, and to keep pill doses precise. It
is in food in such tiny quantities that nobody has to declare its presence
on the packet. In fact, Dr Tsou says, manufacturers don't want you to know
they put sand in your food.Aerogel had everything Dr Tsou wanted, and more. He wanted stuff that would
get more dense with each layer and slow the particle more as it penetrated
the trap; a material which would show the particle's track as it slowed;
something ultra light; a good insulating material. He got it all.If you handed out Guinness Book of Records honours for new materials, Dr
Tsou says, aerogel would probably pick up 14 of them (JPL's official
material more cautiously only claims six). It's the lightest and least
dense for its volume. It can be made in a thousandfold range of densities,
from half the density of air to the density of water. It's a superb
electrical insulator, a wonderful thermal insulator, a terrific acoustic
shield. It could make fantastic lenses, its index of refraction being so
much better than glass. You could stick a flower, or a crayon, or your hand
on top, and set a blowtorch going underneath, and nothing would wither,
melt or blister.And it had astonishing compressive strength. Aerogel supports 4,000 times
its own weight. You could take a square weighing less than 1lb and park a
small car on it. You could take his little laboratory sample cube and
spread it out across 2.5 football fields. And this stuff has been around
since 1933. "I've heard it takes 50 years for an idea to get across," Dr
Tsou says. "Why does it take 50 years? I don't know. Why are we so dumb?"He was born in Xian province in mainland China, came to the US as a
teenager, studied at Berkeley, and joined JPL 24 years ago. He worked on
HIM, the Halley Intercept Mission (it was cancelled) and HER (the Halley
Earth Return) and CRAF (comet rendezvous and flyby) neither of which took
off. So he has spent much of his working life preparing for this flight
which begins on Saturday and ends on January 15, 2006 when a few grains of
precious comet dust return to Earth.The encounter will last just five minutes: particles will slam into the
collector at an impact heat of 10,000 C. But this will last only a
nanosecond,  says Dr Tsou - like skimming your fingertip on a hotplate, too
quick to blister or singe.There'll be another tense five minutes as the capsule re-enters Earth's
atmosphere: how do you preserve the chill of outer space when the heat
shield burns off around you?He hopes to be around for the drama in the lab: how do you open the gel and
study something without damaging the particles next to it? Or search for
amino acids that might have existed in outer space when your laboratory is
swimming with them? Did they collect a fair range of samples? Will the
space dust serve as a Rosetta Stone, a key to decyphering all the other
stuff that has landed from space?"You don't know. If anything, we will probably uncover more intelligent
questions to ask. Now, we don't even know what to ask."Nasa finds travel is cheaper in the long run
ON Saturday a Lockheed Martin Delta II rocket is scheduled to lift off from
Cape Canaveral carrying an unmanned spacecraft about the size of an office
desk with the romantic name of Stardust, writes Keith Devlin. The
spacecraft is fitted with Peter Tsou's equipment for catching dust from a
comet's tail and for trapping interstellar particles.The Stardust mission is scheduled to rendezvous with the Wild-2 comet in
five years' time 242 million miles from Earth. Two years later, after a 5.2
billion-kilometre round-trip, it will pass close to the Earth and release
a capsule containing the samples which will parachute down into the Utah
desert. On Sunday January 15, 2006. At 3am.The maths which have made such precise timings possible is staggering. It
is even more impressive when you consider that the calculations have
slashed the cost of this epic voyage to around 3p a mile - including the
cost of the launch vehicle and all the costs of designing and constructing
the spacecraft.Nasa's mathematicians began the cost-cutting by designing a trajectory that
saves several tons of fuel - fuel that would have required the use of a
much bigger, and far more expensive rocket to launch the spacecraft.
Calculating both the orbit of the comet and the trajectory of the
spacecraft would be difficult enough - though essentially a routine
application of Newtonian mechanics - if the spacecraft followed the most
direct route.But although the Stardust-comet encounter will take place a mere 242
million miles from Earth, Stardust will have travelled 2 billion miles to
get there, and will travel a further billion miles on the return journey.
For Earthly travel, the longer the journey, the more fuel is required. But
without air resistance to slow it down, a spacecraft can make use of the
gravitational pull of the Earth, the moon, or any other planet to propel it
on its way - a manoeuvre called gravity assist.A Delta II rocket will launch Stardust into a wide, eccentric orbit around
the sun. That initial trajectory will bring the spacecraft back into close
proximity with the Earth two years later. As it swings round the Earth,
pulled by gravity, it will carry out what Nasa calls a "deep space
manoeuvre": a small rocket burn will ensure that it will follow a much
wider heliocentric orbit (well beyond Mars and over half the distance to
Jupiter) that will bring it to the Wild-2 orbit.The diagram shows three points where small guidance thrusters on the
spacecraft will be fired to adjust the orbit, in March 2000, November 2001,
and July 2003. These locations are chosen so that a small force will lead
to a significant change in the orbit. Apart from the guidance thrusters,
gravity provides the craft's propulsion, with solar panels generating the
electricity to power the on-board equipment.The major dust collection will take place on January 2, 2004, when Stardust
flies through the streaming tail of the Wild-2, about 75 miles behind the
main body. But it will also make two other dust collections (shown at
points a and b on the diagram). Between March and May next year and between
July and December 2002, aerogel collectors will gather interstellar dust
from a recently-discovered beam of particles streaming into the solar
system from other stars in outer space.After its12-hour encounter, with Wild-2, Stardust will set off on its third
and final wide loop around the sun. This time its loop will bring it close
enough to the Earth to drop off the container with the specimens. But the
spacecraft will orbit round the sun inedifintitely.
Clearing the first hurdle"For want of a polite way to put it, we had to incubate it with human snot
and see if it held up for a reasonable period of time at nose temperatures"Steven Marlin, a researcher at Boehringer Ingleheim, an American
pharmaceuticals
company, on the need to check that a
prospective cure for the common cold could cope with nasal mucus. Discover
magazineThe great liquidity crisis"The 'spontaneous generation' theory, holds that coins spontaneously form
from sub-aquatic muck in springs, wells and fountains. Fountains are the
best environment, as can be seen from both the prevalence of coins and the
absence of muck."Matthew Gertz, of Microsoft  andGlenda Gertz, of the University of
Washington, Seattle. Annals Of Improbable ResearchPluto in the underworld"The Committee is opposed to assigning a minor planet number to Pluto. This
action would undoubtedly be viewed by a broader scientific community as a
'reclassification' of Pluto from a major planet to a minor planet."American Astronomical Society statement.
Dixonswas quick to respond on Monday afterTescosaid it was entering thefree Internet business: it halved the price of FreeServe's helpline to 50p
per minute.Sony was a little slower to respond to the threat of theVirtual Game Station- a program to enable PlayStation games to run on
Apple Macs - but it finally asked the US federal court in San Francisco for
an injunction to prevent its sale. Could this be bad news for the giant
Korean firm,LG Electronics?Lucky Goldstar, as it was called, is taking
over the manufacture of iMacs. (It already helped develop the case.) This
is bad news for Apple's plant in Cork, Ireland, which will lose 450 jobs,
but good news for LG's factory in Newport, Wales. (A few iMacJobs may be
lost in Sacramento, California, and Singapore as well.)Meanwhile,
Microsoft announced a new version of itsWindows CEoperating system,
enhanced to allow palmtop computers to use colour screens. Hewlett- Packard
and Compaq promptly announced colour-screen palm- tops, joining Casio,
Philips  and Everex in a market still dominated by the black and white 3Com
Palm series. The new CE, code-named Wyvern, replaces Gryphon, the earlier
version, with more mythical beasties to come....Bad news of the week: watch out forHappy99messages and don't run the
executable (exe) file that may be attached. It's a worm (a type of virus)
that uses e-mail to circulate itself  (seewww.datafellows.com) and sadly
not mythical at all.
In 1972 Ray Tomlinson was working for Bolt Beranek &amp; Newman of Boston, MA,
a company with an early involvement in development of the Internet, now
better known as BBN.Then, computer messages operated within an intranet and required only the
recipient's name. For a wider use, the recipient's machine would have to be
specified as well. Tomlinson was scouting the keyboard for a character to
separate a user's name from their machine's when he happened upon the @
sign and launched the e-mail explosion.Within 10 years e-mail became so popular on the nascent Internet that an
e-mail standard was necessary.Wary of generating a new complex system, the designers created the Simple
Mail Transport Protocol or SMTP and published it as RFC 821. (The
Internet's founders had settled upon writing a collection of documents
known as Requests For Comments, or RFCs, as a way to lay down standards.
All those standards are online atwww.ietf.org)SMTP is still in use today and more popular than ever. However, its
simplicity meant it was open to abuse, leading to fake messages and
avalanches of junk e-mail, or spam.E-mail itself is just a message, usually text, delivered to an appropriate
spot on the recipient's computer. The first systems simply copied a file
from one computer to another.SMTP specifies two  elements of e-mail: finding a person and copying the
message to the right place.Finding a person - for example Bill Gates,ask-bill@microsoft.com- means
first figuring out which computer belonging to microsoft.com handles e-mail
and then asking it to direct the message to ask-bill.In most cases your e-mail program doesn't need to find out which computer
to send the message to at Microsoft, because SMTP also offers a service
called mail relay. Someone else's computer will do the legwork for you.Your e-mail program will have been set up with the name of the computer it
should contact to send e-mail. That computer works a bit like your local
post  office: it accepts mail from you, and relays it to the real
destination.All your computer has to do is find its local post office, and it does that
by using the Domain Name System (DNS).The mail relay computer also uses DNS. It asks the DNS system for the
Internet Protocol, or IP, address of the computer handling Microsoft's
e-mail. Once it has found the right destination the mail relay connects and
employs the SMTP protocol.The SMTP protocol is text-based - all its messages and commands are written
in text. When sending a message your e-mail program first says HELO (sic)
to the remote computer to identify it. The computer will often literally
reply: "Pleased to meet you."Your program then identifies you, the sender of the e-mail, with a MAIL
FROM: message followed by your e-mail address. Each recipient is listed
with a RCPT TO: command with the e-mail address of the person the mail is
destined for.Finally the e-mail program sends the command DATA before sending the text
of your mail message.Because different computer systems have different ways of storing files, it
would be very hard to create an e-mail system based on copying from
computer to computer. So, SMTP also defines how messages are copied.
RFC 822 defines what the content of an e-mail can be. Typically an e-mail
has a header, with lines like From:, To:, Date:, and Subject: that your
mail program may hide from you or use to present information about the
e-mail.After all the headers comes the body, the text you typed in. It has to be
in Ascii (American Standard Code for Information Interchange) format:
basically a limited set of simple text and other characters. Anything more
specialised has to be first converted to a text form before being sent.Luckily, these days, most mail programs know how to convert to and from
Ascii for you. Just be glad you weren't on the Internet 10 years ago.
One of the most widely used e-mail programs is called SendMail, and is sold
by the company of the same name atwww.sendmail.com.It is
also available as open source
or free software fromwww.sendmail.org.For some people, e-mail just isn't quick enough: they use instant messaging
systems like ICQ or Yahoo! Pager. But for the lowdown on those systems'
operation you'll have to wait for another time.o John Graham-Cumming designs software to manage computer networks. This is
the fourth in a series of articles about living with the Net
In 1997, Wall Street analyst David Readerman cut his rating on Yahoo! shares to a hold from a
buy recommendation because of their "lofty recent valuation" of $55
(£33.50). This didn't stop the share price doubling over the next six
months, then doubling again.Now Yahoo! has been outdone by Amazon, the online book and music retailer,
which has seen its share price increase 11-fold in the past year. Stock
markets haven't seen such speculation since the South Sea Bubble, the main
difference being that the Internet bubble is yet to burst.How can GeoCities, the biggest provider of free Web space for Internet home
pages, be worth the $4.6 billion in shares that Yahoo! agreed to pay for it
last week? That's $1,314 (£801) for every man, woman and child with a
GeoCities home page. Yet just a few hours before it announced the sale,
GeoCities reported a fourth quarter net loss of $8.4 million on revenues
worth only $7.5 million, which is hardly the profile of a multi-billion
corporation. But investors liked the deal, and immediately sent GeoCities'
share price rocketing 56 per cent to $117.25 - almost 10 times its low of
$13.25 less than six months ago.The share prices of two of the Internet's leading traders, Amazon.com and
eBay, also shot up when they announced better-than-expected results last
week. Shares in eBay, the online auction house, jumped almost 40 per cent
to $308 after it revealed that annual sales increased by 724 per cent to
$47.4 million, while profits more than doubled to $5.7 million. Amazon saw
its share price swell by another 17 per cent to $134.625 when it announced
that annual sales had grown by 313 per cent to $610 million, though it
still made a $31 million loss.Amazon, like GeoCities,
has never made a profit, and in a filing to America's Securities &amp; Exchange
Commission said it expects to report "substantial operating losses for the
foreseeable future". But that doesn't matter. Amazon has just raised $1.25
billion in the largest US convertible bond offering ever, and with almost
$2 billion in the bank, it can afford to lose money for another 60 years."Portals" - the companies that act as gateways to the Web and thus attract
the most
 traffic - are also popular with investors, and three leading ones declared
financial results recently. Infoseek, whose major shareholder is Walt
Disney, more than doubled
its quarterly sales to $30.2 million. However, operating losses quadrupled
to $18.2 million, and after making several write-offs, Infoseek posted a
loss of $104 million. Yahoo!'s quarterly revenues almost tripled to $76.4
million and it made a profit of $18.5 million, after deducting charges for
taking over HyperParallel and Yoyodyne. And according to quarterly results
filed last week, America Online's turnover jumped 62 per cent to $960
million, while profits more than quadrupled to $88 million.Of the three, America Online - which has taken over CompuServe, ICQ
(Mirabilis) and Netscape - has the greatest financial strength, because
many of its 15 million users pay $21.95 or £16.95 a month for the service.
But all the Internet companies are minnows compared with computer industry
giants such as IBM, Microsoft and Intel.IBM's annual sales grew by 4 per cent to a record
$81.7 billion, or $224 million per day. The world's largest computer
company, IBM also generated $9.3 billion in cash, spent $6.9 billion buying
its own shares, and still made a profit of $6.3 billion or $24 million per
day.IBM also made $4.1 billion from software in the year's final quarter,
though it wasn't enough to overtake Microsoft, which increased its sales by
38 per cent to $4.9 billion. Microsoft's quarterly profits grew even
faster, soaring by 75 per cent to $2 billion.Compaq, the market leader in personal computing, is chasing IBM hard, and
this summer it absorbed the leading minicomputer manufacturer, Digital
Equipment Corporation. Last week Compaq reported that fourth quarter sales
were up 48 per cent to $10.9 billion, with profits of $758 million. Over
the full year, Compaq's turnover reached $31.2 billion, but the takeover
resulted in a loss of $1.7 billion.Compaq wants to play in the Internet market too, and last week said it
plans to spin off its AltaVista search engine. AltaVista has fallen behind
Yahoo! and Lycos so Compaq will have to work hard to make it a leading
portal, but last month it bought a shopping site, Shopping.com, for $220
million, and other takeovers could be on the way.Apple's latest results, declared last month, show it may have turned the
corner. The success of the iMac lifted quarterly revenues by 8.4 per cent
to $1.71 billion, marking its first sales increase for three years. It also
shipped 944,000 computers, a 49 per cent increase on the same quarter last
year.For comparison, Gateway increased its quarterly
revenues twice as much - by 17 per cent - to $2.3 billion, and its PC
shipments grew by 35 per cent to 1,151,000.However, Apple managed to increase the gross margin on its computers to a
four-year high of 28 per cent, so its quarterly profits tripled to $152
million, whereas Gateway's grew only by 39 per cent to $129 million.What's really unusual about Apple is not that it has struggled but that it has
survived for more than 20 years. Most of the companies that propelled the
micro-
computer revolution at the end of the 1970s - Atari, Commodore, Cromemco,
Exidy, IMSAI, MITS, Ohio Scientific, Processor Technology, Sirius, Tandy
and others - have almost been forgotten.The same will probably happen to today's pioneering Internet companies, but
the people buying their shares are not so much investing as betting. As
Alan Greenspan, chairman of America's Federal Reserve, said last week:
"What lottery managers have known for centuries is that you could get
somebody to pay for a one in a million shot."
It's easy to assume that today's computers are fast enough for everything
we could possibly want to do with them. But did you realise that one of the
most demanding applications for your PC is computer gaming?The calculations involved in creating a game scene while you are making
inputs through your keyboard, mouse or joystick number in the millions, all
within a second.As game scenes get more complex to give the player a more realistic
experience, demand increases. System performance is paramount. The graphics
card plays the biggest role in determining the performance of your game and
the reality of its scenes. Today's card is itself a powerful computer, with
a graphics processor that has more transistors than the most advanced CPU
and with eight or 16MB of high-speed RAM. But when you consider that the
demands of games are doubling every 18 months in terms of scene complexity,
colour and number of objects being animated, it's all today's graphics card
designer can do to keep pace.What should you look for when trying to choose a card? First, you need to
know what type of interface your system supports. Older Pentium-based
computers have PCI (peripheral component interconnect) slots and the
graphics card you choose will need to come in this form factor. (If your
computer doesn't have PCI slots, the chances are it is so old that the CPU
inside isn't powerful enough to run today's games, nor are you likely to
find a modern graphics card in the form you need.)If you have a newer
Pentium II or AMD- or Cyrix-based system, you are more likely to have an
AGP (advanced graphics processor) slot. This is the best interface for
modern graphics cards as it provides the fastest interface between the card
and system that's available today. When manufacturers release their latest
and fastest graphics cards, they usually release an AGP version before a
PCI one.Once you know which form of card you'll need, you must decide what is most
important: games performance or tasks such as word processing and
spreadsheets. If the latter, you can save a little money by looking for a
card that has only 8MB of memory. If games performance is more important,
choose a card that has 16MB of RAM.While such cards are usually more
expensive, they allow more image data to be loaded and kept on the card
while the game is running, which will make play smoother and more realistic.
Next, make sure the card you choose can handle both 2D and 3D graphics as
opposed to a dedicated 3D accelerator that works in combination with your
existing graphics card. Unless you want all-out game performance and are
technically proficient to configure your system with two graphics adapters,
a single card that handles everything from text to games is the simplest to
set up and will provide you with a good gaming experience.Monitor support is another consideration. With 17in
monitors common today, a graphics card should be able to support a
resolution of at least 1,024 by 768 pixels with at least 65,536 colours at
a high refresh rate. High resolution is important, especially when working
with word processing or spreadsheet programs or viewing Web pages, as it
determines how much information you'll be able to see on the screen at one
time. And the greater the number of colours, the more realistic graphic
images can look. High refresh rates are important as lower refresh rates
causes perceptible screen flicker, which leads to eye strain, headaches and
reduced productivity.There are about 10 graphics cards that meet all of these requirements. The
differences  come down to memory, the type of graphics processor,
additional features such as output to video tape and any bundled software
applications that might come with the card. Two of the best are the Matrox
Millennium G200 and the Creative Graphics Blaster Riva TNT. The Matrox
board
supports a wide variety of operating systems and offers the best all-round
balance of support for traditional text applications as well as the newest
games. The Creative Graphics Blaster provides some of the best 3D games
performance at a reasonable price. Expect to pay about £80 (plus VAT) for
the Matrox board and about £90 (plus VAT) for the Creative board.© PC Magazine• Bob Kane is editor in chief of PC Magazine. For the full report, see
March's issue, out tomorrow
The reasons whyThe Guardian's Web site not only requires registration without justifying
it (Feedback, January 21), but also forces users to accept cookies, which
are not necessary for such a site to work. These problems greatly irritate
many Internet users, even those without Cookie Pal, an inexpensive program
I highly recommend.Adam FunkSheffieldSimon Waldman, the Guardian's Internet Editor, responds:there are two
reasons why we ask for registration - first functional, second
financial.
On functions - the fact that users are registered, allows us to operate
features such as our bulletin boards (the first offered by a UK national
newspaper) and the Career Manager on our jobs site (which allows you to
have your own jobs page, pre-selected according to your criteria). It will
also allow a host of further personalisation features to be introduced in
the coming months.On finance - anyone who knows about Internet publishing is aware of the
enormous amount of effort that goes in to creating such a network of sites.
Guardian Unlimited includes the full contents of two national newspapers,
plus the efforts of 30 people to create the best possible content for the
net (which is why John &#91;Sturgeon&#93; is able to call them "excellent", and why
Steve Outing, the US online news industry analyst said they were "an
example to the rest of the news industry about how to craft a quality Web
presence".There is no charge for users to access this, so to help fund this, we need
to sell advertising. To help sell advertising, it helps if we know the sort
of
people using our site, so we ask for a bare amount of personal data (name,
postcode, date of birth and e-mail address).This data remains private, and is not sold on to third
parties without the user's
consent.Incidentally, we are not alone. The New York Times, the Daily Telegraph,
The Times and the Financial Times all ask people to register.Shake it all aboutThanks to Douglas Rushkoff for perhaps the sharpest analysis of the
Internet speculative boom I've read anywhere (Stockbrokers chase Net
profit, January 21). He's right - if there is a new paradigm, it seems to
be only where people want to see it. I just hope the inevitable shakeout in
Net stocks doesn't end up damaging confidence in the Net itself.Nick Merrittnick.merritt@altavista.netPing pongJohn Graham-Cumming (Finding the errors in your way, January 28) should
have mentioned that not all Web servers will respond to ping requests.Microsoft, for example, stopped answering pings long
ago. This is frequently done for security or performance
reasons. Also, if you are behind a firewall, the ping may never leave your
site. This is not likely to be an issue for home users, but office surfers
may find that ping never works.William HudsonWHudson@syntagm.co.ukWrong wordTelling us that the "infamous culex  is etymological" tells us nothing
we didn't already know (Microlites,
January 21). Perhaps adding that it is "entomological" would have been more
enlightening.Jim Jacksonjj@scs.leeds.ac.ukWhat is the full address for uk.legal? Why was it not
published? Don't assume all your readers are so computer literate that they
could work it out for themselves - I thought OnLine was aimed at the less
or non-knowledgable!
David Greengreendat@law.bham.ac.ukEditor's note:uk.legal is one of the open Internet discussion groups known
as Usenet newsgroups. To access newsgroups you need a piece of news reader
software; for more information, contact your Internet service provider, or
see theirWebsiteEasy as Apple pieEase of access is a key feature of Apple's new G3 systems and Steve Jobs
took time to outline this in his recent Macworld keynote in San Francisco,
as your correspondent notes
(Feedback, January 21).
For the first time, Apple's industrial design team worked hand in hand with
the product development team to achieve the most user friendly, upgradable
interior. The door literally clicks open to afford easy access to every
component.
It is true that the Macintosh has historically been easy to access and
customise. However, even the previous G3 models required greater effort to
access components.
Take a look at the new "Open Minded"G3 advert.Tanya RoachBite CommunicationsApple (UK)Class of his ownLet us hope that a "world class" research council is
funding the early discovery
of a cure for the various ills - graphomania, typomania, omniscomania,
paramania,
et al - which so afflict Keith Flett, and also the regrettable Flettophilia
suffered by
yourself and other editors (Feedback, January 7).
John Taylor is a most
distinguished engineer and we are fortunate that he occupies his important
public post.
Of course, words such as
"excellence" and "world class" disturb mediocrities, but you are wrong to
afford them the pleasure of seeing their
jaundiced ignorance in print.D H TompsettHenley-on-Thames, OxonPower pointI thank Howard Wilson Hilton for his support (Feedback, January 7).
However, I don't think any of the present lot of elected politicians would
stand for office just to
"generate initiatives" and "supervise the administration", leaving the
population to make the decisions, as that would deprive them of the one
reason for standing  POWER.Yoav TzabarCarlisleCorrection:Our reference to an all-party select committee as a Government
committee (Encryption driven by market forces, January 28) is wrong, of
course. A select committee is a Parliamentary creature, not a Government
one; its role is to scrutinise what Government departments doAddressingE-mail:online@guardian.co.ukfax: 0171 713 4254
Black balloons will rise from football grounds across the country this
Saturday in an Internet- organised protest at the sacking of a long-serving
manager.For Port Vale Football Club supporters, the sacking of manager John Rudge
had an electrifying effect.After 19 years with the club in Burslem, Stoke-on-Trent and 843 games in
charge, Rudge had been there since before some of the fans (and players)
were born.I found out about his sacking when the first posting to the "valemail"
Internet discussion list arrived in my e-mail headed "Disaster!". Within
hours, a list that usually generates half-a-dozen postings a day had
yielded more than a hundred. It continued in similar vein for the rest of
the week.The first were expressions of how people felt ("gutted") and grumbles about
the chairman, who'd angered even the minority who agreed with his decision
by his failure to thank John Rudge for past services. A "something must be
done" mood took hold. The organiser of the club's Web site
(www.portvale.co.uk) set up an online referendum on whether fans were in
favour of the sacking (88 per cent said no), and whether the chairman and
the board should go instead (79 per cent said yes).On the club's Web site message board, opinion was running 10 to one against
Rudge's dismissal. A supporter in Cheshire called for a protest march at
the next home game. Another in London suggested releasing 843 balloons -
one for each game during his tenure - to mark Rudge's managership. The
organiser of the Sheffield Travelling Valiants ordered 2,000 and raised the
money via an online appeal. Donations and offers of support came from
Canada, Australia, Holland and Norway. Other valemail list members
volunteered to make banners and posters and to contact the media.As the campaign (PV843@aol.com) gathered momentum, an online message board
was set up. Meetings were held in online chatrooms. Details of the balloon
protest were circulated to the message boards and discussion lists of
supporters of other clubs. Fans as far apart as Brighton and Aberdeen
picked up on the idea of releasing black balloons at their club's games to
coincide with this Saturday's protest at Vale Park. They were motivated not
only by respect for Rudge, but by a feeling that his treatment represented
all the worst aspects of a sport in which fans' loyalty is taken for
granted by proprietors who treat clubs as their playthings or are more
interested in profit than the "beautiful game". The Internet brought them
all together in a way that would not have been possible had the protest
depended on face-to-face meetings and snailmail.There is talk of taking things further. A new Web site and an e-zine (For
Whom the Bell Tolls, named after Port Vale chairman Bill Bell) is being
proposed."Rupert Murdoch and the rest might control the game at the top," as one of
the online activists put it, "but we've got our ball on the Net."
The warning
signs are small, but they point in the same direction. In the
heart of Silicon Corridor - west along the M4 motorway from London to
Bristol - nearly 250 IT staff fear for their jobs as Galileo, which
supplies reservation systems for the world's airlines, closes its UK
development centre at Swindon.Top computing services companies say they are cutting staff hirings in 1999
after years of frenetic growth. A bellwether index of IT job vacancies
shows growth flattening for the first time in five years. Starting salaries
at banks, which for years threw money at IT staff, are falling.Bill Gates, Alan Greenspan and Rupert Murdoch join a chorus of warnings
that Internet stocks are overpriced. After defying economic gravity for
most of the 1990s, the IT industry is at best facing a flattening of growth
and at worst a slump."This is going to be the year of living dangerously in the IT market," says
technology analyst George O'Connor of investment bank Granville. He expects
big-spending corporate IT projects to start drying up from the second half
of this year as companies start "bedding down" for the millennium. This
will affect IT suppliers' profits - and the job market.The first firm evidence of downturn appeared last week in a survey of job
vacancies. The SSP/Computer Weekly Quarterly Survey of Appointments Data
and Trends shows that, while the number of vacancies is still growing, the
number of pages of job advertising in the last quarter of 1998 fell by 4
per cent compared with the same period of 1997.Advertising page-count is a reasonable indicator of companies' advertising
spend, and thus the priority they give to putting on staff. "The overall
conclusion is of a slight but significant decline in the growth of IT job
recruitment," the survey says.Individual IT companies back up this conclusion. Cap Gemini, Europe's
largest computing services firm, is recruiting aggressively - but for fewer
staff than last year.According to human resources director Robert Ingram, "1998 was probably the
peak of activity". "We've had a frenetic few years and now we're coming
slightly off the boil." The firm plans to hire 2,000 people this year,
compared with 2,500 in 1998.Most other industries, bracing themselves for an economic downturn, would
be grateful to be hiring at all. In IT, where growth rates of 30 per cent
or more are the norm, any slowdown is a shock.What's going on? The easy answer is that work on the millennium problem,
which has soaked up labour and resources for the past couple of years, has
peaked. The SSP/
Computer Weekly survey bears this out: banking and finance, the two sectors
most advanced in their millennium work, showed the lowest growth rates.Another recent survey shows an even more dramatic change: starting salaries
paid to IT recruits in banking dropped by 26 per cent in the second and
third quarter of 1998 compared with the same period the previous year,
according to recruitment firm Computer Futures.Declining work on the millennium bug problem should be counterbalanced by
Euro-conversion projects, which are still gathering momentum in the UK. But
there is a fear that the IT industry may not defy the coming economic
downturn as it has in the past.In previous recessions, companies increased spending on IT: the sector was
"countercyclical", in business jargon. Banks and insurance companies
invested in computers as a way of replacing staff. In the 1970s mainframe
computers could replace hundreds of clerical workers.In the downturn of the early 1990s, IT also did comparatively well. New
information systems, this time based around desktop PCs, were needed to
support the
fad for "business process re-engineering", or rationalising businesses
around their most profitable activities. BPR often involved outsourcing IT,
hence
the explosive growth of IT services companies.This time, though, the "business case" for spending on IT is much less
obvious. One problem is the "productivity paradox". The phrase was coined
in 1995 by Thomas Landauer, a professor at MIT, in his  book The Trouble
with Computers, which claimed that the US's massive investment in IT did
not correlate with an improvement in productivity.Academics and computer gurus dispute the relevance of Landauer's findings.
But the result, coupled with a reaction to decades of over-selling by
computer-makers, is a new scepticism about the ability of IT to save money.
When times are hard, IT becomes a candidate for rationalisation. The
current wave of corporate mergers seems to bear this out: IT staff are in
the firing line in the Amoco-BP and Deutsche Bank-Bankers Trust mergers.
Predictably, the IT industry has got wise  to this trend. It no longer
sells computers as a way
of cutting costs but of creating new opportunities.In the third wave of computing, "we are not going to re-engineer, we are
going to create new industries," says Tonnies von Donop, a partner at
Andersen Consulting.
The great white hope is
e-commerce - or mail-order via the Internet. His model is the online
bookstore Amazon.com.
There are snags. First, Amazon exemplifies the Internet share bubble: a
firm which does not expect to make a profit for three years. Even Bill
Gates, three years after tying Microsoft's future to the Internet, is
sounding warnings, describing Internet stocks as "monumental risks".Second, creating new industries is not necessarily a "counter-cyclical"
activity. Budding Amazon.coms need  risk-taking investment, which is hard
to come by in times of recession.Finally, a survey  published this week could give pause for thought to
anyone setting up an Internet business in the UK. The survey, from Inteco,
suggests that we are still a long way from the wired society. At the end of
1998, 27 per cent of British households owned a PC, but only 11 per cent
had some kind of Internet or online service. Even among those, the Internet
habit has not really caught on, says Pete Day, a consultant with Inteco."Even among high-income PC households, who dominate overall consumer online
activity, no more than a third report personal online use and this activity
accounts for less than 10 per cent of all time spent at their PC."
Less than half of all recent computer buyers are bothering to sign up even
with free-trial Internet access, Day says. Although the UK is
computer-friendly in comparison with France and Germany, it lags well
behind the US and Denmark, in which more than half of all households have a
PC. Despite the indications that the boom is over, it is hard to find
outright pessimism in the IT industry. John Tilley, UK managing director of
computing services giant Sema UK, says: "Everyone is right to be cautious,
but there is no significant sign of growth reducing."At the MSF union, which counts 12,000 IT professionals among its members,
Peter Skyte, head of the IT professionals group, says: "We have not
observed any clear evidence of a trend to cut back in the sector."The SSP/Computer Weekly survey says salaries rose an average of 5 per cent
last year. At Cap Gemini, Ingram wants "skilled experienced project and
programme managers, who have taken profit and loss responsibility for
projects". Salaries start at £40,000.Even in the stock market, there is still optimism. IT recruitment shares
may be in the doldrums and Internet stocks may be teetering on disaster,
but the smart money is on companies which  supply and service the backbone
of the Net.And if the party really is over, don't expect to see many former IT
managers sleeping on the streets. Computing  skills are still a reliable
ticket to employment for bright
20- or 30-somethings.
FEBRUARYis Black History Month in the US, and Pacific Bell's Knowledge
Network Explorer's  greatBlack History Hotlistis a good place to start out. The Library of Congress has mounted a special exhibition,The African-American Mosaicand added anAfrican
American Odyssey.The National Civil Liberties Museum offersvirtual tours, Time-Life's Pathfinder site looks atBlack History through the Ages, andNetNoirprovides a wider perspective on Black Culture in the US.JOUJOU?You can now buy what is claimed to be Britain's smallest, trendiest
and most fashionable car online. Or at least, you can join the waiting list
for a numbered limited edition at its chicWebsite. This top- less bubble car will be unveiled during London Fashion Week.VOCALISwould like you to try its new Web site, which is accessible over
the phone on 0870 870 3000. The site uses Vocalis's SpeecHTML version of
the HyperText MarkUp Language with speech recognition and text-to-speech
conversion to enable users to talk to a Web site - useful if they only have
a phone, or if they're blind. Afree demo is available.THE BBCis also trying to make the Web accessible to people with impaired
vision.Betsie, the BBC Education Text to Speech Internet Enhancer, can
process Web pages to remove images, vertical frames, JavaScript and similar
rubbish. It also changes columns of text into lines which can be displayed
in large type or fed through a text-to-speech converter. The BBC plans to make the source code available.THE FOURTHAnnual Cool Site of the Year Awards for 1998 were presented late
last month in front of a 700-strong audience in Webster Hall, New York. A
few years ago, people cared which sites were made Cool Site of the Day, or
Year, or whatever, but things have moved on. Sadly, to judge by the winning
links atCoolsiteofthedaythis old Net institution hasn't.DILBERTis now a TV star as well as a cartoon character, and there's a clip from the first episode in the series on the Web at  Visitors can join an Out of Focus Group or even
watch the five live Webcams!THE INTERNATIONALLyrics server in Switzerland has been "temporarily shut
down" by the police following legal action by America's National Music
Publishers' Association.The siteheld the lyrics to more
than 100,000 songs and averaged more than 100,000 visitors a day.WARNERBrothers has come up with a more imaginative way of dealing with the
thousands of "fan sites". Instead of going round like thugs closing down,
say, Babylon 5 sites, Warner is giving fans 20 megabytes of free Web space,
and the right to use original copyright art. Fans can produceTitanic and
Buffy the Vampire Slayersites at where Warner Brothers
can keep a big brotherly eye on them.
The Nuremberg FilesThe website, no longer available, at the centre of the groundbreaking US lawsuit against anti-abortionists' terror campaigns. "Once the tide of this nation's opinion turns against the wanton slaughter of God's children", the anti-abortionists hope to recreate Nuremberg-style trials for abortionists.At the moment though, it is the anti-abortionists who have been in the dock, with an Oregon jury ordering the movement to pay $107 million in damages for what were ruled illegal threats.Dripping with graphical blood, the site exhorts people to add to its extensive archive of abortion doctors' names, telephone numbers and addresses. The professed intent may be to bring to doctors to trial, but the list, with dead doctors crossed out, clearly threatens death.Supporters of ShariahAbu Hamza al-Masri is the London-based Islamic fundamentalist imam wanted by the Yemen government for alleged terrorist activities.The SOS website carries his views "unadulterated by the press". These include: "Any State or group which attacks Muslims should be stopped, by removable if necessary."A supporter of the terrorist leader behind the US bombings, Osama bin Laden, Mr Hamza denies allegations that his movement organised military training camps for young Muslims and trained the British Muslims arrested on terror charges in Yemen.StormfrontStormfront, founded in March 1995 by former Ku Klux Klan "grand dragon" Don Black, boasts of being "the first White Nationalist site" on the internet."I feel like I've accomplished more on the Web than in my 25 years of political activism," Black says.His site offers white supremacist insignia, the latest book by racist activist and former Louisiana legislator David Duke, and Stormfront's "philosophy", including its definition of "racism": "how whites are made to feel guilty and 'hateful' for loving their own people and culture."Survival EnterprisesJust one of the vast array of American milita and pro-gun websites, "the Gunrunner" mixes inflated far-right rhetoric ("American citizens have precedence over non-citizens") with a handy, secure way to order firearms over the internet.The "politically incorrect" are encouraged to take advantage of the "excellent bargains", including a .308 Ishapore Enfield for $100. It's hosted in Mexico, probably because of the opprobrium it has attracted from American authorities.Kurt SaxonTelling people how to make bombs is a particularly problematic part of free speech.In this area, books are still ahead of the internet - surprisingly, the "classic" Anarchist Cookbook isn't available online, although there are plenty of reviews and references to it.Bomb-making sites are hard to find and most, like self-styled survivalist founder Kurt Saxon's US website, simply use the internet to advertise and sell their books on bomb-making.Green AnarchistBritish law remains unclear as to when free speech in print and on the internet should be curtailed.The jailing of three radical journalists from direct action magazine Green Anarchist in 1997 illustrates this.  Publishing details of animal rights actions in the UK was found to "incite violence among persons unknown".The DIY webzine Schnews was among the coalition of grassroots groups which campaigned successfully for the radical journalists' release after serving just four and a half months of a three year sentence. It also published their offending material on the internet here.
British anti-internet censorshipHatewatchAn excellent site which monitors the activities of groups espousing "hate speech" on the internet in the US and in the UK. Anti-censorship, Hatewatch argues that the best way to control bigotry is to expose it. Lists and links to a disturbing array of far right and racist sites.Campaign Against Censorship of the Internet in BritainFormed in response Scotland Yard's request to UK Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to censor their news feeds. Rather unfortunately, it is also recommended by the BNP's site.Cyber Rights and Cyber LibertiesSite run by Yaman Akdeniz, at the Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, Leeds University. Looks at the international issues of free speech on the internet, including the recent imprisonment of Lin Hai in China for for providing 30,000 Chinese e-mail addresses to VIP Reference, a pro-democracy newsletter.Index on Censorship: NetWatchSection of renowned bimonthly magazine focusing on the latest news and issues in Internet censorship.International anti-internet censorshipGlobal Internet Liberty CampaignComprehensive site, including news reports of latest legislation on internet "filters" and data protection in the US and Europe.Internet FreedomOpposed to all attempts to censor and regulate the Internet from newsgroup bans to the use of PICS. Examines issue of "hate speech".International Freedom of Expression Exchange Clearing HouseMassive, Canadian-based up-to-the-minute archive of reports of abuses against free speech around the globe, encompassing cyberspace.FactNetUnlike most other internet freedom sites which focus on the threat to free speech posed by government legislation, FactNet focuses on the dangers of cults and religion. Its mission: "To protect freedom of mind from harms caused by mind control and cults." Not very up-to-date.Citizens Internet Empowerment CoalitionCIEC is a US-based group of Internet users, publishers and online service providers "fighting for the future of the First Amendment and the future of free expression in the Information age."Electronic Privacy Information CentreEPIC is a vast, US-based public interest research centre aimed at focusing public attention on emerging civil liberties connnected to new technology. Searchable archive includes extensive coverage of free speech issues, including anonymous speech, liability and censorship, as well as examining freedom of information and privacy.The Net Censorship DilemmaAustralian-based site contains a thorough critique of PICS and labelling.Pro-censorship of the internetInternet Watch FoundationAn industry-led initiative, established to address the problem of illegal material on the Internet, with particular reference to child pornographyPlatform for Internet Content SelectionPICS is a rating scheme which classifies Net content, designed to help family users censor material like pornography.General anti-censorship sitesPrivacy InternationalHuman rights group Privacy International surveys governments and corporations for abuses of individual freedoms. Includes sections on encryption and issues relating to the private and free transmission of information on the internet.Index on CensorshipOnline version of renowned bi-monthly magazine.Article 19Working "impartially and systematically to oppose censorship worldwide," Article 19 takes its name from article 19 in the International Declaration of Human Rights.
It was the moment royal watchers had been drooling over for months, a few seconds which not only provided visible hard evidence of a relationship they knew had been going strong behind the scenes, but also took a major gamble with the public's perceptions of the royal family.To the whirr of 150 cameras, the Prince of Wales and his long-term companion Camilla Parker Bowles stepped out of the Ritz Hotel in London - and slid into the back seat of the waiting Vauxhall Omega. Not a Rolls-Royce, not a Bentley, not even a Jaguar. Just a normal - albeit top-of-the-range and chauffeur driven - executive saloon.The Omega may well have been a step up for Mrs Parker Bowles, who arrived at the Ritz in a Ford Mondeo estate. But in the space of that single photo opportunity, the couple demonstrated once and for all the radical changes which have taken place in the House of Windsor. Meet the Vauxhall Monarchy - the downsized, environmentally-responsible, image-aware royal family for the 21st century It is still possible to remember a time when a leading royal would rather be caught in flagrante with his mistress than be seen around in a vehicle more popular with the managing directors of medium-size companies.As a young bachelor, Charles developed a reputation as a man with a passion for the finer things in life - namely Aston Martins. He still has two, a DB6 and a Virage, but now they and the Range Rover he keeps for country jaunts have been joined by not one, but two Vauxhalls: the Omega of Camilla fame, and an estate used for carting his luggage and other necessities around. No doubt, that includes hanging a creased suit jacket inside one of the back doors.Charles may have given an inkling of what was to come with his engagement present to Princess Diana, a Ford Escort, although she soon made up for that initial lapse by buying a convertible Audi.But the monarchy and fine motoring go further back together than Charles and Diana. From the dawn of the motoring age, British royals have been keen to set the pace.Back in 1897, Daimler became the first marque of car to convey the Prince of Wales when they were introduced to the future Edward VII by his friend and automobile fanatic, Lord Montagu of Beaulieu.He must have been impressed: three years later, the prince bought one for himself, launching a trend which has seen more than 100 of the cars serve in the royal fleet.These days of course, Daimler is part of the Ford's burgeoning stable, but the link with its past pedigree is sufficiently strong that the Queen still uses one. She also has four Rolls-Royce Phantom VIs, a Jaguar and three Rovers.But there are already signs that the winds of change are also sweeping through Her Majesty's extensive garage. Last summer, Buckingham Palace announced that the time had come for some of its Daimler limousines to be replaced. The new recruits? Two Vauxhall Sintra people carriers, which will shortly be joined by a third.The departure may not be as radical as it appears. The senior royals will stick to more opulent vehicles, while the Sintras will be used as the official means of transport for ladies-in-waiting and private secretaries.But for royalist motoring traditionalists, this may be akin to the Queen decamping from Windsor Castle and moving into a semi-detached bungalow in Surbiton.Before they get too sniffy, however, it is worth considering the reasons behind the change of policy.'The Daimlers were getting old, and in time spares will be hard to come by and they will be expensive,' says a Palace spokesman. 'The people carriers have been converted to run on either unleaded petrol or liquid petroleum gas, and they can carry up to eight people, so they are an environmentally-friendly alternative.' But why Vauxhall? 'We worked out that of all the people carriers on the market, that was the one with the most British content. The alternatives were all either Japanese or American. Having sliding doors on both sides was also a factor.'All very laudible, but undeniably dull. So as usual it is left to Prince Philip to prevent the Windsors from sinking into executive homogeneity. He recently took delivery of a new £30,000 version of his vehicle of choice for getting around London: a black Metrocab taxi.
More and more people are buying Alfa Romeos, but few of them are women. In fact, for every five females who opt for Italy's most romantic badge, there's a queue of 95 slavering blokes. Angie Voluti, the marque's voluble spokeswoman, has a controversial theory about her cars' entrenched male appeal: 'If you think about the 156, it's not hard to work out why men love it. When a man sees the front of this car coming towards him, it reminds him of a woman.'This bodes well for the 166, Alfa's new flagship. Like the smaller 156, it too has a pubic triangle in the middle of the bonnet. Unlike the 156, which hid its rear door handles, there's little attempt to disguise the fact that this is a four-door machine. But for flowing lines, it's up there with the best sports cars. Alfa Romeo, it seems, cannot make an ugly car.You might expect a new Alfa to be launched in the shadow of Vesuvius, or the Alps. Alfa Romeo UK will hear no such thing. Even in mid-January, it prefers to play host at the Ackergill Tower, a castle south of John o'Groat's which boasts the quietest road in the UK. A good place to assess the 166's finer qualities.These are plentiful. For a start, though it's big, it's all crafted to shrink around the driver. The ride is silky though stiff enough to be sporty, the steering is finely balanced and the noise levels are very low. Switch up a gear, squeeze the throttle and listen... whether 2.0 litre, 2.5 or 3.0 V6, all options play Alfa's throaty signature tune.It's just as well that they make sweet music, because the stereo system, along with the trip computer and climate control, interfaces with an LCD multi-control display in an in-car PC which is so unintuitive that it had me in a fit of Luddite rage within a few miles. Are humble knobs for heating and music really such an abhorrence? Extras include a bit of padding on the front doors for your elbows. And if you must have a laptop, there's a plug in the back. If you like to smoke, the car has three ashtrays.Otherwise, you might like to leave the smouldering to the Alfa itself. In a world of soft options, this is a sharp-dressed car.&#149; Prices start at £23,371 for the 166 2.0 Twin Spark, extending to £30,470 for the semi-auto 3.0 V6 Sportronic. On sale now.
APPLE'SiMAC was the best-selling computer in US shops in the last quarter of 1998, but it didn't take the Christmas market. December's top sellers were the Compaq Presario 5170 (which has a 350MHz Intel Pentium II processor) and the Compaq Presario 5150 (with a 350MHz AMD K6-2 chip), says US-based market researcher PC Data (www.pcdata.com). The iMac came third in December followed by PCs with 266MHz Cyrix MII chips: the eMachines Etower, and the Compaq 2266. No wonder Intel started 1999 by slashing the price of the Celeron version of the Pentium II, which is aimed at the low-cost retail PC market.INTELhas backed down in response to the concern created by its new Pentium III, which will be launched on 
February 17, because the chip's design may compromise users' privacy. At the RSA data security conference held in California this month, Intel revealed that each Pentium III has a unique serial number, and it will be possible to extract that serial number via the Internet. The serial number could help make electronic commerce more secure, and reduce software piracy, but a spokesman admitted: "The flip side of the coin for security is privacy." In the PIII chips Intel has already made, the serial number can be turned off, but it's turned on again every time the PC is started. In future production runs, Intel says the default setting will be for it to be off.MICROSOFTOffice 97 has a major security problem which could affect anyone who uses Internet Explorer for Web browsing or Outlook 98 for 
e-mail. Microsoft has posted a patch on the &lt;a href="http://
officeupdate.microsoft.com/downloaddetails/wd97sp.
Htm"target="_new"&gt;Office Update Download PageSee theMicrosoft Security BulletinA less serious security problem has also been found withMicrosoft Office's Forms 2 utilityAnd there's a fix atCORELthe Canadian publisher of CorelDraw and WordPerfect, is spinning off its NetWinder product to Hardware Canada Computing (HCC), Ottawa, in exchange for 25 per cent of the company.The NetWinder system includes network computers and servers running Red Hat's version of the Linux operating system. Although Corel believes there's a big potential market for NetWinder, it's cutting back to its core software business. Last week, Corel reported that its revenues for 1998 fell to $247 million from $261 million, and it made a loss of $30.4 million, against a loss of $231.7 million in 1997.THE PALMTOPcomputer business is becoming more competitive. 3Com plans to bring out a Palm III X version of its market-leading Palm range, while Philips is preparing new models of its Nino (Baby) rival running Microsoft's Windows CE operating system. The Palm III X, due in the US next month, will have four megabytes of memory instead of two, and will be able to synchronise data with Microsoft's Outlook organiser software running on PCs. An ultra-thin Palm V is expected later, and towards the end of the year, a Palm VII with a built-in wireless connection to the Internet. Philips is expected to announce colour-screen versions of the Nino, possibly at the CeBit exhibition in Germany in March. Compaq and others are also expected to launch colour CE machines.HASBROAmerica's giant toy company, is producing games for handheld and notebook computers running Windows CE operating system. The first four — Monopoly, Scrabble, Trivial Pursuit and Slingo — should be out this year.SIM CITY 3000, the third version of a city simulator that won its first game of the year awards in 1989, will be released next week. It's similar to Sim City 2000 but the graphics have been improved, there are more different types of building, you can zoom in for extra detail, and it's simpler to play. Also, for the first time, users have to deal with rubbish (garbage). The latest version of Eidos's Championship Manager 3, one of the two best football management games, will be released on February 5. This could give CM3 an early lead over its main rival, Gremlin's Premier Manager 99. Gremlin Interactive has just released the PlayStation version of PM99, but the PC version isn't expected until March.THE ASA(Advertising Standards Authority) has rejected a complaint made last year that its personal computers are not ready for the year 2000. It noted that "virtually all commercially-available software" takes the date from the BIOS (basic input/output system) chip and not from the RTC (real-time clock) which typically uses only two digits for the year, and cannot tell 2000 from 1900.
Composium 99, two days 
of seminars covering eight "hot topics" in corporate 
computing from the Euro to component-based software. Millennium Centre, Gloucester Hotel, London SW7. Call 01753-774000 or visit theirwebsiteFebruary 1-2Financial Markets Summit ’99, a free conference and exhibition sponsored by Microsoft and Compaq, and focusing on their products. The Brewery, Chiswell Street, London EC1. Visit theirwebsite.February 324-hour Government: 
Customer Service in the Information Age, with Peter Kilfoyle, Public Services 
Minister. London. Call Sara Jones at Kable on 0171-608 0900.February 4Annual Forrester European Forum on Preparing For Dynamic Trade In The Internet Economy, organised by Forrester Research. Grand Hotel Krasnapolsky, Amsterdam.Call 001 (617) 503-5905 or visit theirwebsite.February 7-9Wireless 1999, sponsored by the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association, New Orleans Convention Center, New Orleans. Call 
001 (415) 979-2289 or visit theirwebsiteFebruary 8-10Microsoft Business Applications Conference, Stakis London Metropole Hotel, London W2. Call 01252 771776February 8-11Safety-Critical Systems Club annual symposium (associated with the British Computer Society), Swallow Hotel, Huntingdon. Call 0191-221 2222.February 9-11Milia ’99 Interactive multimedia trade show, incorporating the first Milia Games exhibition. Cannes, France. Call 00 331 4190 4452/4644 or visit theirwebsite.February 9-12Information Management in the Internet Age, organised by the Government Advanced Technology Circle and aimed at the public sector. The Brewery, Chiswell Street, London EC1. Call 01603 704919.February 10European IT Services Forum 1999, an IDC conference, Hilton Munich Park, Munich. Call 0032 2 626 1392 or visit theirwebsite.February 10-12trAce Internet Forum on Web site creation for "writers and 
literature professionals", 
Nottingham Trent University. Call 0115-948 6360 or visit theirwebsite.February 11Software Architecture ’99 conference on "The Art or Science of Building Software", sponsored by The Object Management Group. The Swallow International Hotel, London, Call 0181-570 2182 
or visit theirwebsite.February 23-24The Mission Critical 
Computing Conference, aimed at "world business leaders", Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London. Call 0118-979 5041 or visit theirwebsite.February 23-24Smart Card 99, the 12th annual smart-card exhibition and conference, Olympia 2, London. Call 01895-454438 or visit theirwebsite.February 23-25ISPCON ’99 conference and exhibition for Internet Service Providers (ISPs) — the first European staging of an established US show. Hammersmith, London. Call 0171-976 0405 or visit theirwebsite.February 23-25UK Software Partnering and Investment Forum 
"to spotlight the country’s rising software stars". Hotel Intercontinental, London. CallSoftware Business Networkon 0171-395 6733 or visitFebruary 24-25
Imagine south-east England charred and burning under the deadly onslaught of a rain of molten debris. Too difficult? All right then, try visualising being rooted to the spot on a Cornish cliff while a hundred metre high wave speeds towards you faster than the Eurostar express (on the French segment of its journey that is!).No? I see the problem - it's because these events are just too fantastic. They can't happen in our quiet pastoral land of warm beer and cricket on the village green, can they? Or can they?In fact, both scenarios describe the likely effects of perfectly natural geophysical events that have occurred throughout the history of our planet and which will certainly happen again, possibly in the not too distant future. The first is the predicted outcome of an asteroid impact in western France, and the second the possible consequence of a giant collapse of one of the volcanoes in the Canary or Cape Verde islands. Such natural holocausts have occurred regularly since time immemorial, but with gaps of tens or hundreds of thousands of years. Because we are such new kids on the block, therefore, we have yet to experience one of these Earth-shattering events.It is, in fact, our very recent appearance on this planet that conditions the way we think about geophysical processes and the threat they pose, both to society as a whole and to us as individuals.We fear hurricanes, earthquakes, and moderately-sized volcanic eruptions because we have seen them, if not actually experienced them. But we have yet to know the blind terror of standing defenceless before a wave the height of Big Ben or to witness the utter devastation caused by the impact of an asteroid the size of the City of London.As a result, such threats hold little meaning for us on a daily basis and are often viewed - if at all - merely as scientific curiosities or as quirks of nature that occurred sometime long ago but which could not possibly happen again. This viewpoint is dangerously wrong as demonstrated by the statistic that an individual alive today is more likely to die as a result of an asteroid or comet impact (one in 10,000) than in an air crash (one in 20,000). The reason is that the next impact event is going to kill one hell of a lot of people! In Disaster Man, to be broadcast next Tuesday as part of Carlton Television's First Edition documentary series, I address the blinkered approach that most of us adopt when faced with the idea of a natural catastrophe on a global scale, and warn that we must at least start to be aware of the potential threat.Worryingly, this head-in-the-sand attitude is not confined to individuals, but also afflicts governments and international organisations. Since the threat of global nuclear annihilation has faded, the attention of most Western governments, 0including our own, has focused on the terrorist threat and the peaceful solution of small but nasty wars in faraway places.Despite the fashion for disaster movies, it is unlikely that any thought has been devoted, for example, to the devastating impact on the global and UK economies of a volcanic super-eruption, an event now long overdue. Over the past couple of million years two of these volcanic catastrophes have occurred, on average, every 100,000 years. The last such titanic outburst, around 70,000 years ago at Toba in Indonesia, blasted enough debris into the Earth's stratosphere to lower temperatures by more than 12 degrees C in places. Some scientists have suggested that it might have triggered - or at least accelerated - the last ice age.What can we expect in the UK when this happens again? Failed harvests, frozen seas, snow in Oxford Street in July. How would we cope? Could we cope? Clearly we can't stop a volcano erupting.We can, however, face the fact that natural disasters do not happen only to other people in far-flung countries with strange sounding names. Global natural catastrophes do occur and will severely affect the UK, perhaps changing our country forever. Once we appreciate this fact, the surprise factor is removed and sensible contingency plans can be drawn up to ensure that an orderly society is maintained throughout the chaos that will certainly reign across the planet in the coming crisis.Whether the threat comes from inside the Earth or without - a rock big enough to wipe out a city hammers into the Earth once a century - we must be ready. Our planet is a menacing place and Mother Nature - reasonably benign so far - may turn against us. So far we have prospered, but the greatest battles with nature are yet to be fought and the final outcome remains in the balance.Bill McGuire is the Benfield Greig Professor of Geohazards and Director of the Benfield Greig Hazard Research Centre at University College London.• Disaster Man will be shown as part of the First Edition documentary series on Carlton Television at 7.30pm on Tuesday, February 2.
Dear Cassius,Are you still working on the Y zero K problem? This change from BC to AD is giving us a lot of headaches and we haven’t much time left.I don’t know how people will cope with working the wrong way around. Having been working happily downwards forever, now we have to start thinking upwards. 
You would think that someone would have thought of it earlier and not left it to us to sort out at the last minute.I spoke to Caesar the other evening. He was livid that Julius hadn’t done something about it when he was sorting out the calendar. He said he could see why Brutus turned nasty.We called in the consulting astrologers, but they simply said that continuing downwards using minus BC won’t work. As usual, the consultants charged a fortune for doing nothing useful.As for myself, I just can’t see the sand in an hourglass flowing upwards. We have heard that there are three wise guys in the east working on the problem. Unfortunately they won’t arrive till it’s all over. 
Some even say the world will cease to exist at the moment of transition.Anyway, we are continuing to work on this blasted Y zero K problem and I will send you a parchment if anything further develops.Plutonius.
Yasuo Nishiguchi rests his hands palm down on the low table top and pauses before answering. The geisha, resplendent in kimono and obi, waits just behind the seated executive to serve him with the mushrooms still scented by the pine tree in which they were grown.He says: "If there is no extraordinary change in Japanese customs and the system, then Japan's &#91;loss-making&#93; companies will get into an ever worse situation." The economy was in a far worse situation than it seemed on the surface. Without a fundamental reform of the financial system and Japanese management practice, the country's position could only deteriorate.Pausing to sip from his cup of warm sake, Mr Nishiguchi, vice president of electronics and telecoms company Kyocera Corporation, added with studied anger that the entire Japanese population was in effect bailing out the country's banks for their indiscriminate lending. With interest rates for depositors now at just 0.2 per cent in a bid to revive the disintegrating economy, it was a "crazy" situation.Until the current economic crisis hit Japan, such outspoken criticism of the system would have been rare indeed. Mr Nishiguchi's determination to break with the past was accentuated even further by the setting: he was contemplating the future while seated in one of Japan's most elegant symbols of its imperial history, the tatami floor of a company guest house in the most prestigious quarter of Japan's most historic city, Kyoto.The town, made famous in the West by the best-selling novel, Memoirs of a Geisha, is home to Kyocera (Kyoto Ceramics), one of the few Japanese corporations quoted on the New York and Tokyo stock exchanges and, as a result, subject to remorseless pressure from Western investors. The company, like town and nation, is now engaged in self-scrutiny on a scale never before conceivable. And the top managers are coming to uncomfortable, if rather confused, conclusions.Nishiguchi and Kyocera's chief financial officer Hideki Ishida have in effect concluded that the traditional way of doing business in Japan is no longer viable. At the risk of using an overworked phrase, they are looking for a "third way" between the Anglo-Saxon version of capitalism and its Japanese counterpart which relies more heavily on consensus, relationships between companies and banks, and long-term priorities.Their route map is based on two principles: a new relationship with financiers, and the development of new technologies. Kyocera is not alone in this reappraisal. Speaking from the British embassy in Tokyo, a British official said anecdotal evidence suggested Japanese companies were cutting their R&amp;D budgets as they focused on product development at the expense of pure research.The embassy believes this cut in spending has come about only recently. A survey published in Japan December 4 suggests private sector industrial R&amp;D was still rising in the 12 months to April 1998, up 6 per cent. The cuts have begun since then.But it has to be put in perspective. Japanese firms still spend more than British companies. And the belt-tightening is more than offset by the 38 per cent rise planned for government spending on R&amp;D. This massive increase, ordained in the government's supplementary budgets, will run until April 2000 and see the state taking on the burden of basic research. In short, product development is likely to continue unabated.The financial pressure is affecting more than R&amp;D budgets. Some electronics companies are struggling to unwind their involvement in an over-complex range of businesses. Others, such as Hitachi and Fuji Electric, are struggling to stem losses by cutting jobs or "parking" unneeded employees in associated firms where the costs will remain hidden from investor scrutiny.Like other Japanese executives, Mr Nishiguchi now finds himself at the centre of conflicting demands. Japanese society still expects a large group to safeguard employment, invest in R&amp;D, and to work with suppliers and bankers in a harmonious way. But to satisfy Western investors, he is under pressure to improve the group's return on capital. If he will not slash jobs and sell off businesses, what will he do?The Kyocera strategy revolves around three areas. First, the group is trying to defend its staple business in commodity markets such as printers and semi-conductor parts. The core business — ceramic components used in electronics assemblies — is under threat from plastics alternatives. While proclaiming its adherence to ceramics technology, the group is swiftly investing in plastics like its rivals.Second, the group is hanging on in key consumer markets hit hard by the domestic recession. Sales of Kyocera's upmarket cameras and jewellery have dropped, and the company is expecting the recession to worsen before it gets better. The indications in Japan support that assumption. There are, for example, many readers' letters in local newspapers opposing the government's decision to issue coupons to children, the elderly and the bed-ridden to encourage them to spend money. Kyocera's profits in key businesses have been falling sharply as a result.Thirdly, the group is trying to expand its business in high technology products and 
fast-growing markets, such as telecoms, while investing heavily in solar power for the longer term. Even for a 
Japanese company, Kyocera appears to be pinning a lot of faith on future demand for energy conservation.Two hours by bullet train to the south-west of Tokyo is the company's Shiga plant. Access to the driveway is controlled by a solar-powered set of traffic lights. The street lights are also powered by solar panels. Even a clock near the gatehouse has a solar panel attached.The company makes photo-voltaic cells here, and plans to double capacity next month from 900,000 cells a month. The company believes it will then have the largest facility of its type in the world.The investment seems optimistic, given that the plant is producing at below capacity — 700,000 cells a month — and that Japanese households are proving reluctant to spend on solar energy in these difficult times. But Mr Nishiguchi reckons the state subsidies for solar power will create a viable home market to underpin the company's sales effort overseas.Back in the tranquil surroundings of the company guest house, Mr Nishiguchi acknowledges that Kyocera can no longer invest in long-term research projects without having a much closer eye on the pay-back. Gone is the view that investment for the long term has to be good of itself. So while Mr Nishiguchi argues that "the way investment is handled by American companies is not good", he admits in the same breath that Japanese companies will have to be more opportunistic in their development, picking off products case by case in the way the British Embassy indicated.Kyocera is twinning this tighter control of budgets with an attempt to recast industry's relationship with banks. Finance director Ishida believes Japan must dismantle the old way of doing business, with bank and company locked in embrace for life, and instead embrace sweeping reforms. But it is unclear what will replace the traditional Japanese model. Mr Ishida talks about how Kyocera will have to be more imaginative about funding in future.And he warns that companies must "stand alone" and face up to the realities of their predicament. But there is little detail on how this financial-industrial relationship will be recast. For many young employees, managers such as Nishiguchi and the company founder, Kazuo Inamori, are beyond reproach. They built an international giant out of the ruins of the second world war. Now they face an equally tough challenge: to recast Japan's financial, industrial and technological system. Seated at the low table on the tatami mats, Mr Nishiguchi recalls the company's mission statement.It is anything but Western: "Respect the Divine and Love People." Kyocera's managers want to preserve that spirit while satisfying Wall Street investors. That mission requires integrity and a fresh Japanese vision. They may have the first, but they have yet to clarify the second. Japan's way of life depends on the success of people like them in establishing their alternative way forward.Telephone offers line of hope to troubled bossSpeaking in the more formal surroundings of Kyocera's new headquarters building in Kyoto, Mr Nishiguchi extolls the potential of mobile phones. The growth in the market will be enormous, he argues, and the growth in data transmission unprecedented.The company hopes to gain from this explosive demand through the sale of handsets and related equipment. DDI, a telecoms carrier 25 per cent owned by Kyocera and in which Sony Corporation has a substantial stake, should also benefit.Although Kyocera's sales of telecoms equipment have been knocked by the recession, the company is determined to move beyond Japan into the global marketplace within six months to challenge the mighty mobile companies of Europe, Ericsson and Nokia, and Motorola of the US.This ambition will take some achieving. The company is far less well known than its US and Scandanavian rivals. It has yet to establish a powerful distribution system of the sort needed to take on such well positioned groups. And its much-vaunted role as manufacturer of Iridium satellite phones could come to little if the global telecoms service proves a damp squib — as some detractors are forecasting. But such thoughts do little to dampen Mr Nishiguchi's confident optimism.Holding up Kyocera's latest mobile phone, he praises the company's technology which has produced a phone smaller and lighter than whose on sale in the West. This phone is light enough to float on water and small enough to fit into a shirt pocket.It is on sale in Japan, but it will not be marketed in the West until the company is sure that the small keyboard can be used easily by the larger fingers of Westerners.Kyocera is also making a phone with a flip-down 
keyboard that connects the user to the Internet and e-mail services. Only slightly larger than a packet of cigarettes, the phone will download small amounts of data from a mainframe computer.For the true gadget addict, the company is selling a tiny camera which can capture the user's face on a flip-down display. Providing a video phone is used at the other end, the user can see the other caller as well as his or her own image shown side by side on the monitor.This phone, which was launched in Japan last July, will be upgraded in April with a colour display.
