The last few days have seen two positive stories about game sales. On Friday, Gamesindustry.bizreportedthat HMV saw a 20% rise in game sales in December, "well ahead of other entertainment formats". Guitar Hero: World Tour, Call of Duty: World at War, FIFA 09, Wii Fit and Mario Kart Wii were apparently the key sellers. The story mentions that Far Cry 2, Fallout 3, Mirror's Edge and Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 also did well, but only when discounted in the pre-Christmas run-up. That makes sense - all of these are sort of 'maybe, maybe not' titles; flawed, but interesting enough to take a punt on at a lower price.Today Edge Onlinementionsthat, according to market research company Media Control GfK, games represented 53% of global packaged media sales in 2008, beating DVDs for the first time ever:It was also reported that global sales of videogame software has risen an encouraging 20 percent in 2008, reaching $32 billion, while DVD and Blu Ray Sales had dropped six percent for the year, falling at $29.8 billion. It is thought that the biggest contributing factors to the steady increase in game sales was Nintendo's Wii, while home movie media is being curbed by the transition from DVD to Blu-Ray.Of course, we all know the theory about games being more popular in a recession because they represent excellent value for money. Think how many hours of entertainment you got out of Call of Duty IV last year and compare that to, say, a meal out, or a cinema trip.But, then, life experiences can't really be quantified entirely satisfactorily in this manner. As any sex therapist will tell you, there's more to pleasure than longevity. No, I think there's another reason why games will do will during the recession - they're almost a guaranteed feel-good experience...Games won't, for example, hit you with a double whammy of national guilt and the destructive power of love like The Reader. They won't force you to watch the torture of street children like Slumdog Millionaire. Sure, people get hurt, bad things happen, but the narrative/emotional force is usually blunted by the interactivity - story is often squeezed into the background or abandoned altogether.And even when there is an emotionally affecting narrative, there are still great swathes of the game whereyou'rein control - there's nothing Hideo Kojima can do to stop you messing about in Metal Gear Solid; feel sad that Niko's American Dream is going down the pan in GTA IV? Why not mount the pavement in an SUV and squish a few passers-by?As escapist experiences, videogames are empowering in a way movies aren't. You don't have to sit and have your heart broken by a surprise twist; and even if that does happen, you can provide your own comic relief minutes later when the lead character is back in your hands.In this era of uncertainty and powerlessness, games give us some semblance of control - however illusionary. While the rest of your life might be going down the proverbial pan, you can still complete World at War, you can still play a delightful through-ball to Robinho in the 89th minute of the Manchester derby via PES. For a few brief seconds, life isn't only okay, it's okay because you made it that way. It's a tiny shift, but it means something.
This morning I received a polite email from Office Pest: "Bit late now, but any chance this is going to be uploaded?" Attached was a lengthy Best Of, which he'd lovingly crafted the week before. At work.Unfortunately, I'd managed to overlook his original mail - I've been at the Mobile Games Forum in London for a couple of days, enjoying the palpable sense of panic that's descending on the Java gaming business ("Hello, I'm iPhone, I'm going to take all your customers and best developers, good day to you"). But that's another story.For now, here's another exciting (and excitingly delayed) episode of 'Best of Chatterbox'. Because love means never having to say 'I'm sorry I'm late'...Part One: trouble at Home?Seem's like Playstation Home isn't all Sony hoped it would be:Whynotfatboy:"If you think it is weird using a female avatar, try using a black female. Unbelievably I have had loads of comments: Nigga, slave, go back to Africa, etc. Either black people have a far harder time than I realised, or people feel safe behind a screen to behave in a way they would not in real life. Anyway, these people are clearly thick, so it's easy to take the p*ss for a few minutes then report them for racial abuse through the controller."Salubriousone:"I don't get it - if you own a PS3 and presumably have at least one game to go with it why would anyone spend gaming time trying to 'socialise' with random people. Isn't that what the pub is for? If the pre-game rooms for meeting up and planning (where is my little table-top warhawk map?) ever happen I might get it as an alternative to in-game lobby systems but as it is, I really can't be faffed to switch it on.Real money for imaginary furniture is bonkers as well - who cares if an avatar gets sore feet?"Jihad:"Hear hear. I'd rather really breakdance than virtually breakdance. Maybe that's why so many pubs are closing around the country. Maybe Home has sucked all those suckers in."Owlyross:"@Home... Think I'm going to delete it... I've not downloaded the update, and to be honest, can't see the point of it. A community like this blog is far more preferable to find 'friends' to play online with..."Part two: gaps in the marketThe Gamesblog gives developers some great (and not so great) ideas for new games:BeardOfBees:"It's quite cruel, really, to keep going on about Wipeout. I don't have a PS3 (owning two current gen consoles seems a bit... hedonistic) but this is probably the title that makes me want one most. Wish we had something similar on the 360. Also, I realised we have no space combat sort of game these days, like Rogue Squadron or something used to be. This is unacceptable and I demand that Microsoft and Co sort it out immediately. What's the gap in the market you'd most like to see filled?"(Keef says: I presume you mean 3D space combat? Otherwise, get on XBLA - Geometry Wars, Mutant Storm, Galaga...)HumOfEvil:"I would like to see some JRPGs on the PS3! Valkyria Chronicles is good but I want the old skool exploration of a Final Fantasy. How about a nice Suikoden game! That would be spot on."LazyBones:"A 3D side-scrolling beat-'em-up. Like Golden Axe, Double Dragon or Renegade. With no funny stuff."(Keef says: Castle Crashers? Although to be fair, that does have quite a bit of funny stuff...)Killerbee:"Maybe Nintendo could do a proper successor to Starfox 64/Lylat Wars?  I'd also love to see something like Lemmings given a modern make-over. Maybe take a few of the ideas and contraptions from LittleBigPlanet, mix in some special abilities, digging, blocking, green hair and a "Nuke 'em" button and it'd surely be a winner."(Keef says: look out for Flock when it's released - it's got a real Lemmings vibe to it.)Dizzyisanegg:"I'd like to see something like Flashback. Seems impossible now because it'd have to be in 3D but the story and environments in that game are still amoungst my favourites of all time."TonyHayers:"I'd like to see a regional detective series."Smellavision:"I'd like to see a side scrolling shoot-em-up, like R-Type, in fact just like R-Type, I'd like a PSN R-Type game."(Keef says:R-Type Dimensionsis coming to PSN apparently)ImperfectRex:"A direct port of TIE Fighter and the expansion discs from the PC - maybe update the graphics a bit but that's it."Sorbicol:"Good, fun point-and-click adventure ah la Monkey Island or Grim Fangdango. I would have thought this would have ripe for some sort of indie remake or something similar?"(Keef says: got a Wii?Strong Bad's Cool Gameis, of course, designed by the team behind LucasArts classic Sam &amp; Max...)OfficePest:"I'd like to see Dune II remade. Not Dune 2000 or any other p*ss poor rehash, but the original game with enhanced graphics and more Devastators!"CBPodge:"I'd like a game that would allow me to fulfil my fantasy of being a space marine fighting aliens..."Alfienoakes:"I've always fancied a futuristic blade runner style GTA - Kind of a G Police stylee - All flying cars in between huge neon lit skyscrapers."There were about another 300 suggestions, but I thought it best to stop somewhere.Part three: puzzleblog!Resident blogger Davefalse fires up puzzleblog…again. We thought last week was enough to be honest Dave…Davefalse:"Has anyone seenthis? One of my mates sent it to me the other day and it's pretty addictive."HumOfEvil gets frustrated:"Gah! Damn my tired brain, I can't even do the level 2 puzzle!"Be4ch stumbles at the first hurdle:"@HumofEvil - I read the instructions and couldn't get any further than that."CBPodge says what we've all been thinking:"Oh f**k, not riddle blog again?"This went on for a while, but let's stop before we fill up another 'Best of'with puzzles...Part four: Sony's lack of marketingManic fired off a topic following a post from chubster2010, which led into an interesting debate:"Chubster2010 made a good point about Sony needing to sort out their marketing. It feels like you can't go through an advert break without seeing a 360 advert but I can't remember the last time the PS3 was even advertised. When it is advertised the advert is so obscure and surreal that you wonder how they have even sold X number of PS3s.Sony seems to be running a 'Word of mouth' advertising campaign.LBP is Sony's biggest title yet I can count the number of times I've seen the game advertised on TV on one hand. Sony should have had a full strategy in place. The game came out the same time as Quantum of Solace which would have been an ideal film to run a dual campaign with. Cinema adverts for games have such an impact I hope the Ballet of Death advert is running in cinemas now."Limni came at it from a different angle:"A (big) part of me says who cares what Sony's marketing is like? Why do you care? Presumably you buy games based not on adverts but on reviews, word of mouth, demos, personal preference etc like most gamers.So the only thing a good marketing campaign will do is get other people to buy a PS3, increasing the userbase.I suppose I can see the benefits (to the individual) in this - more software sales meaning more likelihood of good conversions/exclusives or the PS3 being the lead dev platform.But really does that make a huge difference if you already have a PS3? There will still be sequels and good and bad conversions (and games) and if you don't have the time (or money) to play every single game to death then presumably you'll go for the pick of the bunch anyway?This isn't an attempt to start a flame war - I'm genuinely interested in why anyone would care about the marketing for a product they already own.I did see absolutely loads of LBP adverts on TV though - that Cullen Family Planet one sticks in my mind. 'Not the real dog though - he got hit by a car!'"Davefalse spared a thought for the people the console wars left behind..."I think it depends on how much money you have to pay for these things. I bought a PS3 because I wanted to play various games that were only due out on that (at the time). I think this generation will be different to previous ones in that there could be more than one "winner" in the long run. However there are few things more dispiriting than buying a console and then watching it sink slowly, having owned an Amiga, a Dreamcast, and a Gamecube it is annoying watching the other consoles or computers getting all the good stuff and having to make do with first-party games or the generic pap that gets converted to everything.I don't regret buying any of the above machines, they all had excellent games that I thoroughly enjoyed playing and couldn't have played elsewhere. I know some people who do; for example, someone who bought a Sega Saturn claimed he would never buy anything by Sega again as he felt they'd wasted his money."Djhworld:"The reason why people worry about marketing etc is because platforms come and go. Some people thought the Dreamcast was truly marvellous but were sorely crushed when Sega pulled it off the shelf due to poor uptake. I doubt Sony will do it with the PS3, but you never know!"Then Be4ch wrote an essay on the rise and fall of Sony's marketing aesthetic:"@Sony Marketing - When Sony launched the PS1 with its awful S.A.P.S advertising campaign they appeared to want to try and compete directly with both Sega and Nintendo. It wasn't until '97 with the "Shapes" ads followed by the absolute classic "Double Life" ad in '98 that they really began to carve their own niche. Their advertising centred around selling the Playstation as a lifestyle choice and games content was largely missing from the ads of this time. Remember the weird cyber-pixie ad with the 'strange' looking girl talking about mental wealth - no game content at all. The playstation became a brand as much as a console. They moved completely away from the accepted notion that gaming was for kids and targeted a more mature demographic. The games didn't occupy an important place in the advertising strategy.The difficulty as I see it now is that the Nintendo to a certain degree repositioned themselves within the market and whilst still producing 'kiddie' games, have expanded their appeal to cover the whole family and their advertising backs this up perfectly. Basically, if you've got a family and you want gaming to be a social, family activity you buy a Wii.Microsoft made a load of mistakes with the 360 design and it's cost them dearly in terms of repairs and replacements but they were first to market with their next-gen machine and wasted no time selling it to their hardcore fanbase. Aggressive price cuts have seen it become almost the system of choice for the price conscious and that's despite all the hardware problems they've had. By the time the PS3 launched most forums had posts from people saying that the Wii and 360 combination fulfilled all their gaming requirements and the 2 systems weighed in at less than the cost of PS3 as well.Sony seem to be at a real loss as to how to market the PS3. With 2 well established machines in a huge number of homes across Europe and the UK they have to find a way to make people believe they need a PS3 in their life. It's not enough to want one. They tried to replicate the successful adverts of the PS/PS2 era when they launched the PS3 but the 'This is Living' was nonsense when compared to the 'Double Life' one. It didn't shift units it just confused people. They've never really been big on advertising the games and even when they do push a game (as they did with LBP recently) they seem to miss the mark a little. The LBP ads were great if you were in the know and understood the game concept. If you didn't....well, you were kind of lost. It's almost as if the ads were aimed at people who already had the game.I don't know what the answers are (if I did then Sony could pay me a lot of bloody money rather than my post on here :) ) but I think Sony need to get back to basics, get a decent ad out there that shows people what they could get if they buy into the brand again. They need to do a lot of work but if they don't then it could end up costing them in the long run.  Apologies for rambling on so much."Got that?Crispycrumb:"Thing is though you'd have to be pretty one-eyed to say that the PS3 doesn't have a library of decent games and isn't supported as a console. The argument that there aren't as many as on the Xbox is a different matter and one that personally I'm not that bothered about; yes I'd like to be able to play L4D, Dead Rising etc but I've got plenty to be playing at the moment anyway. The truly bizarre thing here is Sony's strategy, or lack thereof - times are tough and their other hardware has taken hits on sales so you'd think they'd be whoring the grill for all its worth to sell units. Odd."And finally, Makar27 brought things to a considered conclusion:"Think davefalse hit the nail on the head when he said that there is nothing worse than watching your console of choice slowly fail. I had an Amiga CD32 and it was painful to pay so much money at a young age for something that never produced any good games - despite the potential.I'm sure the PS3 will continue to be popular (even if it never reaches the install base of the Wii or the XBOX360) but as a PS3 owner I would love Sony to do more advertising, if it means that the User base is significantly increased. I hate missing out on games like Left4Dead because Valve don't like programming for the PS3. I'm guessing that if the PS3 had a massive User base then Valve would get it ported across quick smart regardless of their issues with the operating system (as they are in things for a profit at the end of the day).So am I bothered that I never see any Sony ads - no, I don't really give a monkeys. However, if ads are the way to increase the number of users, then Sony really do need a kick up the ass, as they don't seem to be employing any other strategy to increase sales at the moment."Part five: comic relief!I think TonyHayers was away Friday, so talk turned to comics. Seriously, I tried to concentrate on what was said and put something coherent in here, but it gave me a headache and I had to have a long sit down. Here's list of some of the comics people recommended – the best I could do:From HellSandmanPreacherBoneWatchmenV for VendettaWatchmen.Barefoot GenAll of the Alan Moore Swamp ThingAstro CityMarvel's X seriesRed StarThe collection of Alan Moore Superman stuffDMZPersepolisCerebus: High SocietyThe UltimatesPart six: other stuffQuotes of the week:"Crispy - Remember rule one of Hayers.  Everything he posts should be considered a quote from Alan P, The Big Lebowski or Money until proven otherwise."Limni reminds us all of the Hayer rules."makar - you must remember rule one of Tony Hayers.  It seems my job is reminding people of this..."And again, Limni..."ICO looks great for a 7 year old game, but it's frustrating as anything. I wish I could leave the bint behind. Turned it off after half an hour."Umboros23 does games criticism in the style of a seventies sitcom.LinksPS3DUncharted 2 interviewTopics of DiscussionPeople are still trying to get their hands on a copy of Valkyria Chronicles… and failing mostly.Football was talked about by the usual suspects, but CBPodge summed it up nicely – "Does anyone else feel the crushing inevitability of another Manyoo title? Disappointing."Regimechange's burglary – the thieving b*#@ards!The third runway at Heathrow.The naked plane guy. HumOfEvil – "I wonder how far his undressing got before anyone went 'What the F**k are you doing?!'"HiddenAway – "Final Fantasy XIII won't hit Europe or the US until at least April 2010.  If you're Japanese or can read it, you can get it this year :p."War of the Worlds – the original radio show, the musical and the Tom Cruise movie.Games:Motorstorm 2, Wipeout HD (Tournaments were played), Left4Dead, Fallout 3.
It's nearly a year since Microsoft made the first beta of Internet Explorer 8 available: we saw another beta come along in August, but there's been precious little in the way of final product out there.That's changing today, as the company is opening up itsfirst release candidate for download.What should we expect? Some gentle evolution, said Amy Barzdukas, the senior director for Internet Explorer, when I spoke to her earlier."We've been able to really look at more than 50m Internet Explorer users and see how they use their browser," she told me. "What are the things that people do? For example, we know that 80% of navigation they do is trying to get back to the sites they've been to before. How can we make that easier and faster? Of the top 20 commands and interactions, the only one of those that is not specific to navigation is copy - and the number one thing they do after copying is open a new tab and to go and paste. Looking at those kind of data, we think we've been able to really deliver performance that matters to customers."According to the team, they've made the browser faster, safer and more reliable. There's also built-in anti-click jacking support (that's where nasty people make you click on things you don't want to by using invisible layers of CSS and iFrames).The real question, of course, is whether or not this version of IE will stop the erosion of Microsoft's share of the browser market, orexacerbate antitrust concerns. Over recent months we've seen Internet Explorer's dominant market share fall -NET Applications now says it has around 68%, compared to 21% for Firefox.(incidentally, the largest proportion of visitors to this website use Firefox (42%) while 32% use IE7. Another 14% use IE6, followed by Chrome (4%), Opera (2%), Safari (2%) and IE8 (1%))So, if this release candidate is potentially the final product that millions will use for everyday browsing, is it strong enough to withstand the pressure? Barzdukas didn't address those concerns, but did say that the success of the browser was "critical"."I think that IE8 is an important release," she said. "It's acknowledging the way the browser has become more and more important. For many consumers, their experience on their computer is an internet experience. We look at it more in terms of how well are we able to meet the needs of the consumers we're working with, and making sure they experience the best browsing experience on Windows. From that perspective, IE8 is a critical step."Have you been using IE8? What do you think?
Quite simply,Alltoplinks to "all the top" stories on the web. It already covers dozens of topics from Acne to Zoology, and if you can suggest a subject it has missed, Alltop may well add it.Alltop was inspired byPopurls, and both are "news aggregators": they useweb feedsto pick up news headlines from all over the web. However, Popurls focuses on a small number of prime sites and puts the results on a single page, whereas Alltop collects headlines from hundreds of sites and gives each topic its own page.The site says: "You can think of an Alltop site as a 'digital magazine rack' of the Internet. To be clear, Alltop sites are starting points – they are not destinations per se. The bottom line is that we are trying to enhance your online reading by both displaying stories from the sites that you're already visiting and helping you discover sites that you didn't know existed."There are three ways to find useful Alltop pages. The first and most obvious is to type a word in the search box. For example, a search for "knitting" finds subject pages about Crafts, Needlecraft andEtsyrati. Searching for "health" finds 48 pages from Addiction to Yoga.You can also get larger collections of topic pages by clicking on one of the categories, which include Culture, News, People, Sports and Work. The third option is to look up topics in the index, and that's often the best.When you look at a page, Alltop adds it to a bright red panel on the home page: "Topics you've already visited." This makes it easy to return to the ones you like.Alltop pages vary, but often cover 20 to 30 sites. However, the Photography page features more than 150, which means there are more than 750 headlines. Some of the best sites are at the top, such as DP Review and Steve's Digicams, but I suspect this is too much for most people, and it would be better to organise a few subcategories.As with Popurls, if you position your mouse over the headline, you can read the first part of the story in a pop-up box. This lets you scan a lot of information very quickly before deciding which sites to visit.I keep wanting to customise pages, remove sites I don't want, and change the typography and spacing, which I don't much like. But Alltop isn't designed for people to customise. The site's FAQ makes the point: "Q. Couldn't I build my own custom aggregation using a feed reader, customisable home pages, Netvibes, etc?"A. Yes, you could – knock yourself out. While you're at it, you could backup your hard disk, bake your own bread, iron your own shirts, floss daily, tune your own car, and bike to work.The whole point of Alltop is to provide an easy way to get current headlines without knowing anything about web feeds or even what's on the web. And it works.
On 27 January, your MEP has the chance to hear the facts about copyright term-extension for sound recordings in the EU. Under the terms of a proposal from Charlie McCreevy, the EU's commissioner for the internal market and services, the EU would extend the term of copyright on existing sound recordings from 50 to 95 years.If you read this column, you'll know why this is a bad idea. Independent and government experts from the UK and the EU agree: extending copyright will do little to remunerate recording artists (the majority of artists will receive between €0.26 and €26.79 each year for the first decade), but it will result in a gigantic windfall for a few multinational companies, taking £150m from the pockets of Europeans and transferring it to the record labels – after a tiny slice is shaved off for poor artists.That's the monetary cost; but there's also an artistic and cultural cost. The songs that have gone around our heads and our lives for 50 years are about to become public property, so that every schoolkid can use them in a project, every DJ can sample them, every teacher, documentarian and fan can rip, mix and burn them to their heart's content.And there's the cost to our collective memory. An astonishing proportion of 50-year-old music is "orphaned", with no visible owner. In another 45 years, much of this music is sure to have disappeared forever, never digitised, the last vinyl copies of it broken, thrown out or lost.Economists, archivists, educators, technologists – they all agree that term extension for music is a bad idea, all cost and no benefit.So why is the EU considering it?Because the record companies and a few of their top-earning artists (who stand to make the lion's share of any additional royalties generated by the scheme) want it. They want it because it will enrich them.That's par for the course in government. Some group wants a regulation to enrich itself, and the government must decide what to do about it. If they are wise, they look to see what the costs to other groups will be if the regulation is made. If the benefit is greater than the cost – or if the cost will be unbearably high for the sector that pays it – good government should set aside the policy.Term extension's costs and benefits are now well understood (the record companies that advocate for term extension don't dispute that their goals will tax the public, they just say that it's a fair tax), and it costs more than it generates. The only reason the European parliament is even considering this proposal is that its monied, mediagenic proponents have used appeals to emotion and slick, expensive lobbying to keep it on the agenda.The European parliament has a reputation for being an expert body, the kind of outfit that relies on data and principles to make policy. These lawmakers are distant from their national capitals and the petty special pleading of local interests.Now's your MEP's chance to prove it. On the 27th, a multi-sector open meeting will be held in Brussels to give the other side of the music copyright debate. Archivists, musicians, activists and expert scholars will deliver factual, reality-based presentations on the subject. A group of MEPs will hold a round table. The event is being chaired by Eva Lichtenberger MEP, Green member of the legal affairs committee of the European parliament.This isn't a sea of placards and slogans: it's exactly the kind of input that MEPs are supposed to take on board before making law: balanced, expert opinion from people who don't stand to pocket millions of pounds if they get their way. Chances are your MEP has been given plenty on this subject from the self-interested multinationals who are agitating for it. Will they hear from the other side?It's up to us.Write to or call your MEPand politely ask that she nip out of the office for two and a half hours, in order to get the other side ofthe debate.And if you can make it, why don't you come along too?
If you - like me - spend quite a lot of time searching the web, you might have seen a few changes recently. First it was coming across people's Facebook profiles every time I did a Google search. More recently, it's been Twitter messages coming high up the rankings.Now, I'm not knocking Twitter (even if I am fed up of reading about it): it's perfectly fine if I want to share short messages with my friends. But when I'm searching for information on Google, Twitter isn't necessarily going to give me much value back.Things felt fairly similar back when blogging started to mushroom in the early 2000s: the proportion of blog-based Google results seemed to grow dramatically, and instead of links to static documents, we started finding links to blog homepages - which had often been updated and so no longer carried the information I wanted.This improved over time, however, as blogging developed and Google got a little smarter at indexing and filtering (that said, Google's dedicatedblog search, however, remains fairly pitiful).With the real-time web, it's back to square one, however - or even further behind. Often we aren't getting out of date information or even half-formed thoughts. Instead, we're receiving a link to a 140 character quip that's almost entirely irrelevant to what we're looking for, or a pointer to a page we can't actually see.In a way, I suppose, it's like searching the library for a particular book and - instead of finding the copy you're looking for - finding clippings of newspaper reviews of it, or discovering a bunch of notes from people who have read it.The problem here isn't really that Twitter or Facebook should be blocking Google's robots. It's that Google has yet to crack the question of indexing the real-time web as well as it copes with the slow web.I'm not the first to wonder if this could be Google's achilles heel. Other people have already noted Google's inability to keep up with real-time information, includingReadWriteWebandJohn Battelle. They've also worried that spammers and naughty optimisers might startusing Twitter's PageRank to generate linkjuice.My problem is a simple one: I just want to get to the right information quickly. And if Google doesn't get me there, maybe somebody else will.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Older gamers, especially those who owned a C64 and an Amiga, will have fond memories ofSensible Software. ThinkWizball, Cannon Fodder and, of course, Sensible Soccer – happy days indeed. But one Sensible game we never got to play was Sex 'n' Drugs 'n' Rock 'n' Roll.  Sensible co-founder Jon Harenow tells the storyof what happened..This was a multi-million pound deal, which was almost unheard of in the UK at this time, and amazingly in its eagerness to sign up the new version of Sensible's perennial best-selling Soccer game, Warner had agreed to pay a seven-figure sum for Sensible's ultimate joke game: the over-indulgent fantasy with very British humour that was Sex 'n' Drugs 'n' Rock 'n' Roll.Sadly for Hare the good times didn't last:Warner had decided to bow out of the games business and sold its publishing arm to GT Interactive. Unfortunately for us, GT Interactive was backed by the people behind Walmart, which is run by the strictest most down-the-line bible belt Americans that you could ever wish to meet. What happened next we should have seen coming from the moment the ink dried on the Warner/GT agreement. Let us just say that an 18+ game about snorting cocaine and shagging girls in cars was not GT's idea of family value. But the blood-drenched excesses of Duke Nukem was fine, apparently...Thefull articleis well worth a read. Hare also talks about a new concept album (ask your dad) based around the game idea.Anyway, what do you think? Sound like a good game? And go on then, what was your favourite Sensible game?
To say that your choice of mobile ringtone says a lot about who you are would be to admit that there isn't a lot to say about you in the first place. But it does say a lot about how old you are, and now that virtually everyone has at least one mobile phone, it is possible to provide a basic breakdown of age-appropriate incoming call alerts. Find your age-range below and select accordingly, although chances are you already have.Under 11: Just Dance by Lady GaGaAs well as being No1 in the charts, this is the most popular ringtone download right now. It says you've had a mobile for about four hours, you've just realised that you can choose your own ringtone, and that it can be almost any song. In short, it's your 10th birthday.11-14: Catchphrases from Little BritainOnly a schoolboy, or possibly my bank manager, could find a phone that says "Computer says no" indelibly comic.14-20: Mosquito, AKA Teen BuzzSome ringtones are difficult to attribute to a specific age group, but not this one, because people over 25 can't hear it. This is the ultrasonic "Mosquito alarm" deployed to keep teens away from shops. They're turning our weapons against us.20-25: CTU chirpBy choosing the little sequence of beeps that Jack Bauer's phone produces whenever he receives a call on 24, you are telling the world, "Sorry, I have to take this, it could be of vital importance", even when you've spent the morning in Starbucks with a latte and a freesheet. Answer by saying your own surname, or even just "yeah", followed by "affirmative, cat food is on my list".25-30: Nickelback's RockstarYou don't give a damn what anyone thinks about you, which is clearly a big part of what is wrong with you.30-40: Mission: Impossible themeThe CTU chirp of yesterday, though chances are you only remember the Tom Cruise movies, not the TV series. Interchangeable with ...Match of the Day theme"I love football and haven't an original bone in my body."40-50: Nokia tuneThe world's most recognisable ringtone, immortalised by Dom Joly in Trigger Happy TV. Using it ironically is problematic, not least because so many people still use it unironically.50-65: Old-fashioned telephone ringThis is how a phone should sound. Experimentation has taught you that other ringtones simply cause you to look around in bewilderment, thinking: "Where is that tinny version of the Mexican Hat Dance coming from?"65+: A terrible impression of Victor Meldrew saying: "I don't believe it!"You didn't want a phone, but one of your kids bought you one anyway, and they programmed this for you because you can be really grumpy sometimes, just like Victor Meldrew! You find it insufferable, but don't know how to change it. Luckily you're at home and your phone is ringing on an empty bus seat miles away.
If (when?)Skynetfinally takes control of the world and installs robotic overlords, today will be marked as the anniversary of one of those critical moments when the world changed a bit.On January 25, 1979 - precisely 30 years ago - Robert Williams, a 25-year-old employee of Ford, became the first human to die at the hands of a robot. The tragic events took place when Williams, who worked at a car plant in Michigan, tried to retrieve some stored parts and was struck by the robot arm and killed.Eventuallya court came to the same conclusion that Williams's family had argued - that the robot did not have a sufficient safety mechanism - and hit the manufacturer with damages of $10m.
It's now10 days since I posted something about the Downadup/Conflickr worm for Windows, and it hasn't made that much impact since. At the time, F-Secure reckoned there were 3.5m infections, which became 9m by the timethe BBC coveredit five days later. Since then, what? It's hard to say.On Friday 23 January,F-Secure provided an update:Our sinkhole logged just over one million unique IP addresses yesterday. This is compared to 350,000 last Friday. Remember, there may be any number of computers sitting behind a single IP address.China, Russia, and Brazil have the highest IP count. Combined, they account for nearly 41% of the total.This is the biggest worm attack for years, and in theory could hit 350 million PCs or thereabouts. However, in spite of this "amazing" worm "skyrocketing," F-Secure says: "Downadup infections appear to have peaked during the week." Its latest reported estimate is only 15 million, which is not all that impressive for something that was first seen last November, and should be able to double every day.Maybe the next version(s) will do better. But let's hope not.Of course, there's no real reason why anyone should have Downadup/Conflickr: Microsoft patched that security hole last October with Microsoft Security Update MS08-067 (KB958644), and on October 25, I postedMicrosoft releases critical patch, extra to Windows updateto tell you to install it. I'm sure there are a few unlucky souls among the estimated 15m victims, but I suspect most have got Downadup/Conflickr because they are too lazy or too dim to install Windows Updates, or they're running pirated copies of Windows.There are, however, two catches. First, there are no patches for Windows XP or XP SP1, because the support period for those has expired. Second, it is possible to get Downadup/Conflickr by autorunning a USB thumb drive. Before plugging in someone else's USB stick, it might be a good idea to turn AutoRun off.For anyone who has been caught, Microsoft's freeMalicious Software Removal Toolis one of several that will remove it.F-Securealso offers one, and if you feel vulnerable, you could download it now.
On Tuesday, I noted thatChange has come to WhiteHouse.gov, and pointed to the fact that it now had a blog.The Christian Science Monitor has published a good analysis under the headlineHey - it's a brand spanking new White House website. This includes a note:Full disclosure: As the director of the White House website during President George W Bush's first term, I was part of a similar exchange between the two teams eight years ago.The CSM story also acknowledges what brings a crowd. It says:Whenever we talked about Barney on the White House site, traffic soared. We can only imagine once President Obama gets his new dog — page views will go through the roof.We think a video camera on Vice President Joe Biden's head, however, would be a wonderful holiday video.Meanwhile, ReadWriteWeb has provided a historical view inWhitehouse.gov: Looking Back at 12 Years of the US President's Web Presence. The White House site was launched in October 1994, during the first Clinton administration, and helped motivate other world leaders to get something online. George W Bush's staff then moved it along without attracting too much controversy.Obama's team may not be so lucky. It got off to a bad start by breaking loads of existing links, and by using WebTrends tracking code without making this clear to users. Also, while everybody loves YouTube, it may not be the best idea to serve WhiteHouse.gov videos from there. YouTube is owned by Google, which was one of Obama's contributors.Finally,Econsultancyhas compared the White House site withNumber 10.It's early days, of course. However, Obama has the chance to be the first US president to exploit the web to make a real impact on people, not just in the US but worldwide. Let's hope he uses it.
THROUGH THE BETA WINDOWWindows Vista is OK for me.Just thought I'd stop being one of the silent majority for a change. I've been getting a bit irritated about the oft-repeated bashing of Windows Vista ("Windows 7" article in Tech Guardian 15-Jan-2009).I bought a Dell Laptop in April 2007 with Vista Home Premium. It has been fine since day 1 and remains so. The Dell is an Intel Dual Core with 2gb of memory and is plenty fast. I use a Microsoft Optical Mouse and an ageing (but not ancient) HP printer, also an iPod Nano and Garmin GPS (again not the current models but not ancient).I use Microsoft Office 2003 and a few other bits of open-source software including Firefox for browsing; again no ancient applications. Nothing changed with the Vista SP1 update; all is still fine. I'm in the habit of running lots of windows concurrently with stuff processing away in the background while doing screen work in the foreground. It all works without any dramas.Les Hewitt, WarringtonWhy don't you publish an article on Ubuntu? I deleted XP from my system before Christmas and will never go back to Windows again.Please inform people that there is a choice, an alternative to Windows that is not only simpler and safer (Windows will always be plagued by virus and malware) but completely free, with a growing library of open source software.In a recession, why would people want to pay for another Windows OS, when it is the same old dog with a few new tricks?Martin Wheeler, by emailAMAZON'S UPGRADEPeople have been predicting for years that bookshops would gain print-on-demand facilities, so that the book you wanted would magically appear when you ordered it. But apart from the technical aspects, I don't see who gains from printing on demandHow about this for a reason - lots of books go out of print, I suppose for economic reasons. So when you want one such you have to search around Amazon or the likes. But these books could be retained on a print on demand basis. It is like the film hire libraries where old films can be obtained to view and it is economic to have a few copies with low usage of each but overall a useful return.And then there are ebooks and readers - I can see a use for them too that complements the printed versions. But perhaps I should not get started on that.Brian Tyler, HandforthGALACTICALLY YOURS&gt;&gt; Start from what people like and what makes them feel good about themselves and we can tap into a deep well of goodwill and ambition. Tell people off and ask them to change and you're shouting into the wind.matthewtaylorsblog.comFINGERPRINT THISDr Duncan Hine explains the plans for the use of biometrics in the enrolment process for the National Identity Scheme (Letters and blogs, 15th January), but I am still waiting for a proper debate on why we need the scheme.At stages in the process the government has said the use of ID cards will assist in the fight against terror, act as an entitlement card, prevent benefit fraud, prevent identity theft – and back to assisting in the fight against terror again. No explanation given on how this will actually be accomplished.The scheme would not have prevented the London Tube bombings, the Madrid train bombing or the 9/11 attack in New York.In the first two the attackers were nationals and had whatever documentation was necessary as citizens; the 9/1 hijackers had legal identification.Nor will it prevent people claiming to have a bad back and claiming benefit.It is interesting that the only support for the scheme comes from interested parties – the government, the civil servants who will run the scheme and the computer companies who stand to make large profits from yet another government computer project. Has any government computer project ever come in on time, on budget and do what is what planned to do?Much better to scrap the scheme and spend half the money on better intelligence gathering and improving the border protection of the UK, but that won't happen with a government which cannot see beyond gathering more data on its citizens.Perhaps the Guardian could start a proper debate before we spend even more money? Getting Bruce Schneier to put his views would be a good start.Brian Shorten, SidcupDr Hine, Executive Director Security and Integrity at the Identity &amp; Passport Service, has a plan to prevent multiple identities being established in the National Identity Scheme. The plan depends on the use of biometrics based on facial recognition and fingerprints.As far as facial recognition is concerned, his colleague Marek Rejman-Greene at the Home Office Scientific Development Branch advised the Home Office that "even under relatively good conditions, face recognition fails to approach the required performance" [dematerialisedid.com(PDF) p.15].Which leaves us with fingerprints. Most of us trust traditional fingerprinting. Quite rightly. It works.But that is not the technology on offer from Dr Hine. Instead of rolled prints, taken by police experts, using ink, he is offering flat prints. Quick, clean, no expert required and utterly unreliable, flat print fingerprinting amounts to taking a glorified photocopy of your fingers. When last tested by the the Identity &amp; Passport Service, flat print fingerprinting failed in about 20% of cases [http://dematerialisedid.com/BCSL/NotWorking.html].Dr Hine's plan is further undermined by Professor John Daugman, the father of biometrics based in iris prints [http://dematerialisedid.com/BCSL/Daugman.html].Professor Daugman calculates that, with about 45 million ID cardholders, even if the biometric technology was extraordinarily accurate, one mistake in a million, there would still be billions of false matches to investigate [silicon.com]. Dr Hine doesn't have enough staff to do that and the promise to identify people uniquely can therefore never be delivered.Is there a plan B for Dr Hine's security and integrity?David Moss, LondonTigers can smell each other and humans recognise the faces of friends, but it does not follow that computers are good at recognising people from static scans taken up to ten years previously.Duncan Hine, of the Identity &amp; Passport Service, neglects to mention that when Biometric Enrolment Trials were conducted on behalf of his department, failure rates of 1 in 3 for facial recognition and 1 in 5 for fingerprint verification were encountered.Furthermore, the high profile case of former police officer Shirley McKie, who was falsely accused of being present at the scene of a murder based on a false match of her thumbprint, subsequently losing her job and suffering a decade of costly legal battles to clear her name, demonstrates that biometric matching is not perfect even when forensic experts pore over the prints using state of the art equipment for months at a time.Nor do such failures take any account of what happens when people actively seek to fool biometric systems. The Japanese government has recently discovered that its high-tech biometric immigration system has been fooled routinely by Koreans wearing tape on their fingers to trick the scanners.Dr. Hine believes that storing everyone's biometrics on a central database will reduce identity theft. Such faith in vendors' claims for the wonders of their technology would be touching in a primary school child. In fully grown civil servants and politicians, it is disturbing, to say the least,Dr. Geraint Bevan, GlasgowDr Hine from the Home Office knows perfectly well that 'enrol' implies a voluntary action, not the defacto compulsion that is involved in the vile ID card scheme.Andrew Calvert, RuislipSPAM LEVELSHas the volume of spam fallen because of the recession? On the day that Nick Ryan posed that question, my gmail account displayed 632 items of spam, more than 10 times the (already too high) usual number. Bah.Jean Morgan, FordingbridgeVIRTUAL LONDONS&gt;&gt; What isn't mentioned is what the City of London itself thinks about all this (although the Ordnance Survey people have already delayed one project by a few years by claiming exclusive rights on their maps, despite their bill being footed by the taxpayer). If there's money to be made from a virtual London, I'm certain that the real London will feel it deserves a cut of the action; it's no less ridiculous than a lot of current intellectual property lawsuits.So, will the famous (and not-so-famous) cities of the world start selling exclusive licenses to metaverse developers? Will developers with less scruples build unlicensed replicas anyway? Will there be a panoply of Londons, Amsterdams, New Yorks or Belgrades - the X-rated versions, the Christianised or Islamicised versions, the simplified versions for school trips?And once the bandwidth and bit-rates get high enough, will we ever want to trudge around the originals?futurismic.comFREE OUR CRIME MAPS&gt;&gt; The plan to put the maps online was the result of the publication of a Cabinet Office report noting citizens felt 'cut off' from the justice department. The effort to put the maps online began last summer.It seems they all use different technology (that's fine by me) but I can't find an index of them. I think that'd be a valuable addition. You can see a comparison of offenses by local authority with theInstant Atlas.apb.directionsmag.comHARD DRIVERSLetters to The Guardian (Letters and blogs, 15 January) suggested that Which? had misadvised people and that 'smashing hard drives to prevent data theft could lead to thousands of useful, working PCs being put out of service'.This isn't the case. Which? has always supported the recycling of PCs. Hard drives are cheap and replaceable and destroying them doesn't mean the rest of the computer can't be recycled.Which? Computing research found that even if you delete files from your hard drive, or pay a company to wipe it clean, it's still possible for personal data to be recovered. Increasingly we all have sensitive data such as bank account details stored on our PCs and if you want to be 100% sure that this won't fall into the wrong hands you should physically destroy the drive.Sarah Kidner, Editor, Which? Computing.TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN...I see that your headline 'Signed, sealed, delivered: by who?' has been 'corrected', perhaps under pressure from those like Andrew Papworth (Letters Jan 15), who described that 'who' as 'poor English grammar'. It wasn't 'poor'. Your headline writer was expressing in print what is said by many. This is an argument about register. It could only have been legitimately called 'poor' if the usage had created difficulties for the reader. Neither the 'Guardian' nor anyone else should let themselves be cowed by the grammar bullies, who more often than not, are talking about style preferences. There is a long and noble tradition of putting whoms and whos where prescriptive grammarians don't like them - Shakespeare, the Authorized Version of the Bible, Defoe and so on. What's more, the usual explanation for when to use 'who' (ie when you would use 'he' and 'she') and 'whom' (ie when you would use 'him' and 'her') doesn't apply in all situations and as an explanation has come under fire for being itself a non-grammatical way of determining usage. That's to say, a linguistic form that requires a justification from outside its own paradigm is unsatisfactory. Either way, 'whom' is doomed. People are either creating constructions where they don't need to use the relative pronoun at all, or they 'who' it.Michael Rosen, LondonMAC MINIATUREIn 1993, I needed a computer. I was attracted first by price and then by performance to the Performa 200, from Apple – from knowing nothing about the machine to typing Greek in just a few minutes! Price and performance should attract people to the Mac Mini. Are Apple really going to be so silly as to discontinue it? Have they learnt nothing from the 1990s? They need to go on making good computers for people who have less to spend. Sooner or later, the X86 brigade will succeed in running Mac OS X on somebody else's computer, and making it work properly. Maybe Apple should licence the system, and save them the bother. Then Dell could mop up the market, Apple would make money from licence fees, and everybody would be happy. Or something.P.S. Green computing. Stand forth, Trevor Bayliss. Another invention, please: the wind-up/treadle-operated/solar-powered computer!Roger Larkinson, by email
What's the cost of free - and in particular pirated - software? If you're fortunate, then it's only a rootkit that uses up your CPU to attack a remote website without your knowledge.At least, that was what a number of Apple users discovered last week after they downloaded "trial" copies of Apple's new iWork software that had, hem hem, been through "multiple hands".One suchblogged about his surprise:This morning I found a bunch of these processes chewing 100% CPU on my laptop (OS X 10.5.6)... That's a PHP script, running as root, and DoSing a website. (I've taken out the website URL, but it is one that has recently been under a documented DDoS attack.)Then it was pointed out to him that the cause was a package installed in/System/Library/StartupItems/iWorkServices.And then the realisation:My copy of the iWork 09 trial installer contained a trojan.This copy was passed to me through multiple hands. If I'd done the smart thing, and got my copy straight from Apple, I wouldn't have had this problem.Well, yes. Very stupid really, because the trial installer - which gives you a 30-day trial of the new iWork09 - is available from Apple for free (you only pay if you use it longer).Unless of course this was one of those "trial installers" which promises to have no end date - that is, the sort of thing you find on file-sharing networks.Integowarned about thislast week, but the number of comments on the blog post above suggest that more than a few people may have fallen victim to this one.To repeat: downloading "cracked" software off file-sharing networks only saves money if your time and computer's security are worth nothing. If you don't like the price of the product, don't buy it; there are plenty of usable free alternatives out there (if you want a desktop publishing-style program like Pages for the Mac, there's theScribus project; for spreadsheets and presentations, there'sOpenOffice 3.0, now available in Aqua-style goodness).And, of course, Apple machines aren't immune from social engineering attacks like this, where the malware just needs the permission of the user to be installed. As ever, it's safest to run as a "user", not an "admin", and when you're presented with a dialog asking you to give your password, wonder why.Is it Apple's fault that people can copy its iWork installer, add their own rootkit, and then release it on file-sharing networks? It might make the company wonder whether it's safer to offer such trials on a CD. But that'll not stop people from then taking those discs and releasing hacked versions of the software on the file-sharing networks where people think they'll get something for nothing.Remember the con artist's motto: you can't con an honest guy.
Is Obama President?Some of us, evidently, still need reassurance: here's a site to remind us that yes he could and yes he did.Bill O'Reilly meets Obama GirlRiding high in YouTube's chart is this clip of Bill O'Reilly of Fox News telling Obama Girl she owes him money for "purloining my interview".Best of BushRelive Dubya's finest bons mots with Sky's oddly addictive quote button.Lost ParodiesA definitive collection of homages to the TV series Lost as the new season premieres in the US this weekend. Who knows how anyone coped in the dark days before YouTube?TracksU2, Get On Your Bootsgoyb.u2.com/, free streamFuzzed-up comeback single draws on elements of Elvis Costello and Queens of the Stone Age, offering an intriguing glimpse at the band's new album.Eddi Reader, Green Grow the Rashes OiTunes.co.uk, 79pA poignant adaptation of Robert Burns's songwriting to mark the ploughman poet's 250th birthday. Part of a re-release expanding the Scottish folk star's 2003 tribute.The Pains Of Being Pure At HeartEverything With Youmyspace.com/thepainsofbeingpureatheart, free streamNew York indie four-piece combines exuberant songwriting with understated boy-girl vocals in a sound indebted to 80s pop at its most introspective.VideosDaft Punk vs Adam Freeland, Aer Obamayoutube.com/watch?v=YLni8Zl6TeM, free streamA diverse cast of recognisable plastic figurines celebrates Obama's inauguration in colourful stop-motion glory.
Google is to launch a service that would enable users to access their personal computer from any internet connection, according to industry reports. But campaigners warn that it would give the online behemoth unprecedented control over individuals' personal data.The Google Drive, or "GDrive", could  kill off the desktop computer, which relies on a powerful hard drive. Instead a user's personal files and operating system could be stored on Google's own servers and accessed via the internet.The long-rumoured GDrive is expected to be launched this year, according to thetechnology news website TG Daily, which described it as "the most anticipated Google product so far". It is seen as a paradigm shift away from Microsoft's Windows operating system, which runs inside most of the world's computers, in favour of "cloud computing", where the processing and storage is done thousands of miles away in remote data centres.Home and business users are increasingly turning to web-based services, usually free, ranging from email (such as Hotmail and Gmail) and digital photo storage (such asFlickrandPicasa) to more applications for documents and spreadsheets (such asGoogle Apps). The loss of a laptop or crash of a hard drive does not jeopardise the data because it is regularly saved in "the cloud" and can be accessed via the web from any machine.The GDrive would follow this logic to its conclusion by shifting the contents of a user's hard drive to the Google servers. The PC would be a simpler, cheaper device acting as a portal to the web, perhaps via an adaptation of Google's operating system for mobile phones, Android. Users would think of their computer as software rather than hardware.It is this prospect that alarms critics of Google's ambitions. Peter Brown, executive director of the Free Software Foundation, a charity defending computer users' liberties, did not dispute the convenience offered, but said: "It's a little bit like saying, 'we're in a dictatorship, the trains are running on time.' But does it matter to you that someone can see everything on your computer? Does it matter that Google can be subpoenaed at any time to hand over all your data to the American government?"Google refused to confirm the GDrive, but acknowledged the growing demand for cloud computing. Dave Armstrong, head of product and marketing for Google Enterprise, said: "There's a clear direction ... away from people thinking, 'This is my PC, this is my hard drive,' to 'This is how I interact with information, this is how I interact with the web.'"
Skoda Superb&pound;16,710Miles per gallon:55.4CO2 per km:136 gramsGood for:the last laughBad for:old jokesDespite the huge strides we have taken over the past decades to eradicate prejudice, some stereotypes have been harder to debunk than others. One of the more intransigent among these is "Skodism" - the belief that all Skodas are crap. Here's a good example of Skodist thinking. Last week a friend asked me for some car advice. She wanted something "reliable, good value and not as embarrassing as my knackered old Nissan Micra". "Easy," I replied. "Treat yourself to a Skoda." She laughed heartily, and then said, "No, but seriously..." A nasty case of Skodism.The latest car to roll on to our streets from the all-conquering manufacturer (it's won 38 awards since 2002) is the Superb - the most luxurious vehicle that Skoda has ever built. It's actually the third time that Skoda - clearly not a manufacturer to cloak its achievements in a veil of false modesty - has named a model "Superb". The first was in 1934, a time when fuel prices were soaring and the Czech domestic market was in crisis. Perhaps if Skoda plans to launch a Superb for the fourth time, it would be good enough to let the chancellor know first...The second Superb incarnation appeared in 2001 and went on to sell 130,000 models worldwide. When it arrived on forecourts across the nation, the notion of the words "posh" and "Skoda" appearing in the same joke let alone the same PR puff would have been hilarious. But today a high-end motor at low-end prices is the least we expect from Skoda - and the Superb is proof you don't always get what you pay for. You sometimes get more.Having said that, the Superb is no looker. Being kind, you might say it would appeal to the less flamboyant of motorists; being honest, you'd say it was as dull as watching Big Brother Live at 3am. From certain angles it has a bit of the Audi A4 about it; from others you might mistake it for a Passat's more reserved sister. But who cares? VW, which owns Skoda, expects 80% of its Superb customers to be from the fleet market and only 20% to be retail buyers, so it has deliberately created a product that is as innocuous as possible. And they've certainly succeeded.However, that's not to say that there is anything bland about the interior. The first thing you notice is the extraordinary leg room in the back. Basketball players could stretch out there. The first casualty of a big back seat is usually the boot, yet without producing a strangely elongated car, Skoda has managed to ensure the boot is also enormous. It's as if an illusionist has been messing with the interior dimensions. And the tricks continue: the car features the world's first "twin door" boot - it opens as both a saloon and a hatch.It's also the first car in the VW group with adaptive lighting - so the spread and angle of the beam changes according to speed. Then there's Park Assist, a feature that takes the bumper-shunting and kerb-grinding fun out of parallel parking. A great gimmick, but perhaps a sad indicator of the decline in driving skills. Either way, the Superb is certain to stamp out any final vestiges of Skodism.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Historians face a "black hole" of lost material unless urgent action is taken to preserve websites and other digital records, the head of the British Library has warned.Just as families store digital photos on computers which might never be passed on to their descendants, so Britain's cultural heritage is at risk as the internet evolves and technologies become obsolete, says Lynne Brindley, the library's chief executive.Writing in today's Observer, Brindley cites two examples of losses overseas. When Barack Obama was inaugurated as US president last week, all traces of George Bush disappeared from the White House website, including a booklet entitled 100 Things Americans May Not Know About the Bush Administration, which is no longer accessible.There were more than 150 websites relating to the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, she continues, but these, too, vanished instantly at the end of the games and are now stored only by the National Library of Australia. "If websites continue to disappear in the same way as those on President Bush and the Sydney Olympics - perhaps exacerbated by the current economic climate that is killing companies - the memory of the nation disappears too," Brindley writes. "Historians of the future, citizens of the future, will find a black hole in the knowledge base of the 21st century."Historians have become increasingly concerned that while the Domesday Book, written on sheepskin in 1086, is still easily accessible, the software for many decade-old computer files - including thousands of government records - already renders them unreadable. The ephemera of emails, text messages and online video add to the headache of the 21st-century archivist."Too many of us suffer from a condition that is going to leave our grandchildren bereft," Brindley states. "I call it personal digital disorder. Think of those thousands of digital photographs that lie hidden on our computers. Few store them, so those who come after us will not be able to look at them. It's tragic."She believes similar gaps could appear in the national memory, pointing out that, contrary to popular assumption, internet companies such as Google are not collecting and archiving material of this type. It is left instead to the libraries and archives which have been gathering books, periodicals, newspapers and recordings for centuries. With an interim report from communications minister Lord Carter on the future of digital Britain imminent, Brindley makes the case for the British Library as the repository that will ensure emails and websites are preserved as reliably as manuscripts and books. "This vision of a digital Britain must include the critical public service of preserving digital Britain's collective memory and digitising the unrivalled content within the British Library."The library plans to create a comprehensive archive of such "notoriously ephemeral" material from the UK web domain - there are about eight million .uk domain websites, growing at a rate of 15-20% every year. It also has a collecting and archiving project for the London 2012 Olympics.In 2007 the library worked with Microsoft and the National Archives at Kew to prevent a "digital dark age" by unlocking millions of unreadable stored computer files. Microsoft installed the Virtual PC 2007, allowing users to run multiple operating systems simultaneously on the same computer and unlock what are called "legacy" Microsoft Office formats dating back 15 years or more.The library and national archives have set up projects to capture daily exchanges of information almost entirely now transmitted by emails and texts. Government departments are storing emails and archiving them at Kew, and the library is encouraging individuals to store theirs voluntarily.Historians regard some of today's electronic data as a vital legacy that must be protected. Tristram Hunt, of Queen Mary College, London University, said: "It's essential that mainstream institutions such as the National Gallery or the White House or the Ministry of Defence keep email correspondence, and I think they're quite good about that now. We saw all that come out in the Hutton report and it was fascinating. That's an absolutely essential historical record."But Hunt argued that libraries and other institutions need to be selective. "On the other hand, we're producing much more information these days than we used to, and not all of it is necessary. Do we want to keep the Twitter account of Stephen Fry or some of the marginalia around the edges of the Sydney Olympics? I don't think we necessarily do."There is already one stark warning from history. The BBC's Doomsday Project of 1986, intended to record the state of the nation for posterity, was recorded on two 12inch videodisks. By 2000 it was obsolete, and was rescued only thanks to a specialist team working with a sole surviving laser disk player.• This correction was published in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday 1 February 2009. Above we mentioned a "sole surviving laser disk player" which was used to rescue the BBC Domesday Project of 1986 as the 12-inch videodisks on which it is encoded could not be read on obsolete equipment. We are happy to report that a few enthusiasts have told us that they are still in possession of working Domesday hardware systems.
It's 25 years since Apple first unveiled the Macintosh, a brand that helped revolutionise the PC industry and create the home computer as we know it.In this programme, we hear from some of the people involved in building the Mac in 1984 – as well as those who have used it over the years since then.Along the way we'll hear who it was that Steve Jobs called "idiots"; we'll get our hands on some of the earliest Macintosh prototypes AND we'll discover whether it lived up to its early promise.Sit down and boot up... as we find out how the Mac was made.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
With a 99% new cast, there's a lot of getting to know you about the third series of Skins, which returned to our screens last week. You get more than you really need to find out here, including such trivial morsels as Freddie's sister "wants to be one of those lovely people with red circles around their thighs in Heat". As well as the character profiles, there's a gallery and video clips (to which you can vote "yay" or "nay" if that's your thing - Freddie Mclair, pictured here, is doing well at press time with 93% Yay!), games, photos and a blog. With much of the casting done online over the past nine months, the site really excels with behind-the-scenes footage and information, including auditions and chat from Alex Hancock, the chap who picks the tunes.
I remember once asking a rather haughty woman who had parked her giant 4x4 across two parking spaces, thus denying me the use of one of them, why she needed such an enormous car. She looked at me with an expression of amazement, as if the answer was blindingly obvious, then replied with due indignation: "I've got a baby!""What?" I asked. "That big?"I won't detail what she said in response, but this was a good few years back. Even then, driving a 4x4 was a provocative statement, at least in cramped city environments, where most of them were driven. These days, however, it seems more like an act of nostalgic denial.Not because of the effect on the global climate - if the icecaps are melting, why is it so cold in my loft? - but as a result of the economic climate. The sheer size and presence of a 4x4 suggests expansive optimism, an open road of opportunity - and screw anyone who gets in your way.That may make a certain kind of selfish sense when there's a lot of money around, but it looks monstrously out of place in the midst of a recession. Then it begins to look like some hopeless, oversized beast left over from a previous geological age.And yet, as I look out of the window, there are seven cars in my street, and three of them are 4x4s. There's also one hatchback, a saloon, a people carrier and a Nissan Qashqai +2, which looks like a 4x4 but isn't.The Qashqai +2 is certainly not an off-road vehicle. There are no roo bars or any of that nonsense. But it does have bigger wheels, elevated seating, and conforms to the general shape of a 4x4, the shape that suggests you're crossing the African savannah by way of the local farmers' market.In fact, the Qashqai +2 is smaller than most 4x4s and, being diesel, reasonably fuel-efficient, too (though its CO2 emissions are not impressive), and therefore in theory it's a lot less offensive to, well, Guardian readers. But sitting high up in some pinched urban setting, it doesn't seem like that. It still makes you feel as if drivers in more sensibly proportioned cars are giving you looks that suggest everything that is going wrong in their life - not just the fact that they are stuck in traffic - is your fault.And it's not as if you can wind down the window and shout, "It's OK - it's a Qashqai +2" because how would you pronounce it? I have enough trouble spelling the word. In my head, I hear "Cash Cow" spoken in a Northern Irish accent. And try telling some irate vegan in an electric bubble car not to worry because you're driving a Cash Cow Plus Two, and see how well that goes down.That said, the Qashqai +2 is really just two optional kids' seats in the back that easily fold away to provide boot space. It's more like a glorified hatchback that offers great visibility and, for those with larger families, handy flexibility. The +2 is robust without being uncomfortable, it's not sluggish on the open road, and there's a parking camera that helps you avoid crushing bubble cars.Still, as cash cows go, it doesn't add up to a wise investment.Nissan Qashqai +2 2dciPrice£21,499 (with sat nav)Top speed118mphAcceleration0-62 in 10.9 secondsAverage consumption42.2mpgCO2 emmission177mpg/kmEco rating6.5/10At the wheelUlrika JohnsonBound forRichmond ParkIn a wordCredit-crunched
Twitter is a micro form of blogging that allows users to text (or "tweet") their followers and tell them they're on a bus or, alternatively, their innermost thoughts. Everyone's up to it - including a sizable number of celebrities whose tweets can be found on this labour-saving page. It's a lot more intimate than blogging - Jonathan Ross is particularly addicted and uses it to document his every waking movement ("Have to tuck the boys in. Goodnight all") and bully other celebs. Stephen Fry uses the technology to spread more of his Fryisms ("shower me in envious verbal turds"), Alan Carr to continue his endless Carry On tribute ("Global warming? Tell that to my nipples") and Andy Murray to impress with his abbreviation skills ("Decent match 2day").
•How tomake kids eat cabbage•It's Bacono'clock•Trombone sweatis called sallop•What happenedwhen Star Trek met Doctor Who•The latestcollosal squid news•Joaquin Phoenixis turning into an owl•How todress like MC Hammer•Prison Breakis over•Batman wasa perv•It's goingto be a crap year for Avril Lavigne
Gary McKinnon, the computer hacker facing extradition to the US, who suffers from Asperger's syndrome, yesterday won the right for a full judicial review after the high court ruled that the home secretary had failed to give proper consideration to evidence of his mental condition.Lord Justice Maurice Kay and Mr Justice Simon granted a full judicial review in respect of the possible effect of incarceration on someone in McKinnon's vulnerable medical condition.The court had heard that McKinnon might become suicidal in a US jail. The court set a full hearing for March. McKinnon's lawyer, Karen Todner, said: "No UK court has yet considered the impact on Gary in light of his medical condition."McKinnon, 42, who faces charges of hacking into the US defence and Nasa computers and leaving messages such as "your security is crap", was not present in court but his mother, Janis Sharp, expressed her delight."We are overjoyed that the British courts have shown sense and compassion," said Sharp. "We have always been outraged by the Home Office's decision to have him extradited to stand trial in a foreign land where he would face an out of proportion sentence for what is essentially a crime of eccentricity."She added: "Perhaps now that Obama is in power in America our world might become a more compassionate place."The court had considered written evidence from Professor Simon Baron-Cohen, an expert on Asperger's syndrome, that if McKinnon was jailed in the US there was a risk he would attempt to take his life.The court also saw evidence from the National Autistic Society, whose chief executive, Mark Lever, said: "We believe that the extradition, and a possible maximum security prison sentence, would be inappropriate and very damaging for anyone affected by Asperger's syndrome."Edward Fitzgerald QC had argued that sending McKinnon to a US high security jail in his medical condition amounted to "inhuman and degrading treatment" in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.Fitzgerald also argued that Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, had failed to seek an assurance from the US that McKinnon would be repatriated to serve his sentence in the UK if he received a jail term.The director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, is also considering whether McKinnon should be tried in the UK. Last month McKinnon's lawyers wrote to the DPP with a signed affidavit indicating that he would plead guilty under the Misuse of Computers Act. The DPP is considering this option and will make a decision by the middle of February.McKinnon first hacked into the computers in 2001 from a flat in north London, in search of evidence of UFOs.
It's hard to believe that Microsoft could kill off the Microsoft Flight Simulator, which was used as an unofficial compatibility tester for the IBM PC after that was launched in 1981. However, its future looks very uncertain, according to reports in Gamasutra and Venture Beat.Gamasutrasays:Development sources have told Gamasutra that a large portion of [Aces] the dev house's staff has been let go -- with multiple reports indicating that the entire Flight Simulator team has been axed.The programwas originally published by subLogic on the Apple II as Bruce Artwick's Flight Simulator, and Microsoft bought the company in 1982. The Flight Simulator program has been hugely successful, and the studio also produced Microsoft ESP, a "visual simulation platform" based on the same technology.Flight Simulator X was recently seen on BBC News simulating a plane landing on water in New York, though it didn't get a credit.Considering Flight Simulator's very large and extremely dedicated fan base, closing Aces looks like an incredibly short sighted thing to do. But that's what seems to be happening.Microsoft's current line is: "All we're announcing at this time is that we are committed to flying games." But without developers, Flight Simulator doesn't have much of a future.AtVenture Beat, Dean Takahashi points out that game developers have had a tough time at Microsoft. He says:In the past year or so, Microsoft has shut down or divested itself of a lot of its hit-making studios. It recently decided to close Ensemble Studios, maker of the Age of Empires strategy games, and spun out Bungie, the maker of Halo games, in a move that gave Bungie more creative freedom to make games that didn't run on the Microsoft Xbox 360 or PC platforms.Microsoft also closed FASA, makers of the Mech Warrior franchise and the not-so-successful ShadowRun cross-platform shooter game. Untouched so far in the layoffs are Lionhead Studios, which just published Fable II; the Forza Motorsport racing game studio; and Rare, the English studio behind many of Microsoft's mass market games.This isn't inspiring when you consider that Microsoft needs exclusive games to give it an edge in the console wars: this is something Sony has done pretty well, and Nintendo a bit too well.In thelatest financial quarterto 30 December, Microsoft's Entertainment and Devices Division (EDD) made a profit of $151 million on a turnover of $3.2 billion. That may be rather small compared to the $3bn in profit made by desktop Windows and the $3bn in profit made by the Microsoft Business Division (mostly Office), but a company with $2 billion per month or$6 billion per quarter in operating profitscan certainly afford to support a few games developers.
What's your favourite piece of technology?The obvious answer is the iPhone 3G, but I'm so bored of saying that … maybe it's theSony Readerat the moment, which I just dig. But my view is that Apple need to get into the e-reader market, then it will just explode – I think they may do it this year.How has it improved your life?One of the things I like to do is read around my subject – and at the moment it's children's literature and robotocs. In a way, the Sony Reader is more convenient than books, because I can have all my books on this one device, and bookmark them. I can keep a very simple digital library with my pages turned to the bits I like – I can go straight to the bits I need to refer to. And you can keep tens of thousands of books on it.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning, to read a sequence from [Stephenie Meyer's] Twilight, which is just brilliant. She's got a haunting way of talking about the weather, which I used to inspire me for the novel I'm working on now (book two in the Dot Robot trilogy).What additional features would you add if you could?I'd make it at least Wi-Fi, and/or 3G – which I know is ridiculous as a concept. I have a preference for 3G over Wi-Fi, because I find my dongle works just about anywhere. Wi-Fi, I think, is the biggest thing that never happened. You want your data to follow you, not the other way around.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Undoubtedly – it will be obsolete in 18 months. We're at such a point now on the curve of Moore's Law where it's about to go almost vertical – we're at that exciting point, where it's going to explode exponentially. In five years' time we're going to see mind-controlled devices – mind control is so going to happen, it's the next big thing.What one tip would you give to people who don't use the Sony Reader?I wouldn't necessarily recommend it – it's a niche product. It's my favourite gadget, but it does have issues – the range of books available isn't big enough yet. If you're a book geek, get it. If not, wait for the next generation (or get theKindle).Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Oh a nerd, without a shadow of a doubt.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?MyPowerPlate– it's a plate that wobbles when you stand on it, for working out. It vibrates very quickly, and by vibrating it gets through to areas of tissue that don't normally get worked on. It's bloody brilliant.Mac or PC?Mac – I work and live my life on my Macbook. But I do have a midlife-crisis gaming PC that's liquid cooled and lit with fluorescents. It's got two graphics cards – it's the equivalent of a pimpedDucati. It's the one thing that I've treated myself to. It's one serious toy.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?Yazoo – Don't Go. I went to see them recently, and they did a very basic 80s gig. It was great.Will robots ever rule the world?Absolutely, without any question of a doubt. Anyone that questions that doesn't understand science. It's an absolute dead cert. I don't thing there will be a separate robot race and a Terminator-style war – it will be us, humans will become mechanised.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Maybe theTesla– I think that's really exciting. I'm a bit of a collector of electric vehicles, and the Tesla is theFerrariof electric vehicles.•Jason Bradbury's novelDot Robotwill be published on 5 February
Even by Apple's standards, the past few weeks have been turbulent. The company delivered itsfinal address, after 24 years, to the crowd at the annual Macworld conference, and then faced the news that co-founder and chief executive Steve Jobs wasbeing forced to take a leave of absencefor health reasons. Earlier this week itannounced record-breaking sales and profits– even as technology giants such as Microsoft, Intel and Sony announced jobs cuts or losses.Yet even these dramatic events pale into insignificance in comparison to what happened at Apple a quarter of a century ago, when it launched what many believe was the product that changed the face of the computer industry: the Macintosh.Apple co-founder Steve Jobs leans on the his Macintosh 128K, the original Macintosh personal computer, circa 1984. Photograph: Bernard Gotfryd/Getty ImagesTwenty-five years ago, on 22 January 1984, the Mac famously launched with a $1.5m, 30-second commercial run during American TV's biggest event, the Super Bowl. More than 90 million people were watching when Apple unveiled the brand that, even after all these years, is still at the core of the company's identity.In a world dominated by computers where a mouse and "windows" are commonplace, it's easy to forget what PCs were like in 1984. Thebest-sellingones, including the $5,000 IBM PC XT, $600 Commodore 64 and Apple's own $1,200 Apple II, offered black screens and typewriter-like lines of green or white letters; to copy a file youtyped obscure lineslike "copy a:\autoexec.bat c:\windows". Mistakes – sometimes disastrous ones – were common. And typewriters, of course, don't need a mouse.The Macintosh, priced between $1,995 and $2,495, aimed to change all that by introducing an affordable machine using the window-and-mouse system Jobs had seen on a visit to Xerox, which had an early version of the system. "It was obvious that every computer in the world would work this way someday," Jobssaid later.But how to tell people of the dramatic change it would offer? Not for Jobs a standard advert showing the machine. Instead, in the science fiction spot – overseen by Blade Runner director Ridley Scott – a legion of worker drones are lectured by a huge, Big Brother-like entity representing IBM and the existing computer companies.Into the picture runs a young woman, symbolising Apple, who is chased by armed police before smashing the screen and freeing the enslaved masses. An ominous, movie-trailer voice then intones: "On January 24th, Apple Computer will introduce Macintosh. And you'll see why 1984 won't be like '1984'."The ad has since been hailed as one of the greatest ever because of its audacious approach and immediate impact. But it also reflected, in part, the optimism and – even hubris – of the young millionaires in charge of the company. Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak remembers the first time he saw the commercial."[Jobs] sat me down in front of a U-Matic tape machine and played the 1984 ad, one time," he told the Guardian in an interview last week. "I was stunned. I was a bit naïve – I thought it was incredible science fiction. It was very rebellious in a sense. I said 'Wow, we're going to show this at the Super Bowl? This is the best ad I've ever seen.'"According to Wozniak, Jobs said the company's board had decided against showing the spot because of the $800,000 price for a Super Bowl premiere – almost leading Wozniak to dip into his own pockets, even though cost wasn't the real reason they'd gone cold on it."I didn't realise the board had turned it down because they were shaky about coming out against Big Blue… I thought it was the money," he says. "I thought about it and thought about it. Steve and I were pretty wealthy by then, so I said 'I'll pay half if you pay the other half… this thing should be shown – this is us.'"In the end, however, it was approved – and seen by an estimated 97 million people. The Mac was born. Though even by then the project had been running for nearly five years.It was the brainchild ofJef Raskin, a computer scientist from New York who had joined Apple in 1978 and believed that computers needed to be easier to use.After seeing the futuristic computer systems used at Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center – which used graphics instead of text input, and used a mouse as well as a keyboard – Raskin decided that it was the only way to successfully sell computers to millions of people.As Raskin and others developed the idea of computers with a WIMP (windows, icons, mouse, pointer) interface, the team slowly coalesced, bringing together people from across the company, with a group including hardware engineer Burrell Smith, and programmers Bud Tribble and Bill Atkinson.Andy Hertzfeld, one of the original software engineers for the Apple Macintosh Photograph: Elliot SmithAndy Hertzfeld, who joined the Mac team in early 1981, ended up acting as a bridge between Atkinson and Smith as one of the main developers behind the core system software. He remembers the group's reputation and how he started gravitating towards them."When this little rebellious skunkworks Macintosh project started up… well, I was friends with the guy he picked to be the hardware designer, Burrell Smith. And so I just started helping Burrell out."Wozniak also joined the team around the same time, drawn by the enthusiasm and ingenuity of the people working on the Mac."I like crazy, eccentric people," he says. "I like people that have brilliant artistic minds; people who think for themselves and contradict the established reality. All those people somehow, the ones who couldn't get a job elsewhere in Apple, who couldn't satisfy a manager very well, were all grabbed by Jef Raskin on this Macintosh project."In the early days, Jobs saw the Mac as an unwelcome diversion and potential competition for his own project, the high-end Lisa computer (named after his first child). The Lisa was also based on a graphical interface – but following a series of clashes with his own team, Jobs found a home with the Macintosh group."They didn't like Steve's personality," says Wozniak. "Steve would have a vision and they would fight it – they would have a different vision of their own. They just got tired of Steve calling them idiots."Jobs took part of Raskin's vision of a low-cost, usable machine and moulded it into his own image. Early prototypes included surprising little additions – such as a screen-flipping switch so that people could use a traditional green-on-black monitors instead of the Mac's black-on-white screen. But the extras were knocked back as Jobs stripped things down and helped guide things towards a finished product."We thought we were going to change the world," says Hertzfeld, who has gathered together stories of the Mac's development on the websiteFolklore.organd in the bookRevolution in the Valley. "One of Steve Jobs's roles was to keep drumming into us how important what we were doing was going to be to everyone. We really believed it."It was very exciting, but it was also a lot of pressure. There was a funny tension between having a blast – we liked each other and we loved what we were doing – but at the same time there was enormous pressure to do it quicker than we could. When I started on the project, we were supposed to ship it in 10 months. It ended up taking more like 36 months."Despite the excitement inside the Macintosh division, to the rest of the company it remained an unloved splinter group. The Apple II continued to be phenomenally popular and the basis for all of Apple's success – indeed, it continued production until 1993 – and the $10,000 Lisa was seen as the machine of the future."The Mac was kind of a funny hybrid between the two, and no one thought much of it," he says. "Even after Steve Jobs took it over, a lot of people thought it was the Steve Jobs back-to-the-garage fantasy, that he was trying to pull Apple back to its roots with a small team who were very excited about what they were doing."Attitudes shifted quickly, however, thanks to mistakes elsewhere in the company. When the $10,000 Lisa failed to make an impact on its release in 1983, eyes began turning to Macintosh as a serious prospect."People started investing their hopes in the Macintosh," says Hertzfeld, who now works for Google. "By the time the Mac shipped, it was kind of 'bet the company': it was clearly the most important thing at the company."Dag Spicer, senior curator at theComputer History Museumin Palo Alto, California, says it was a radical departure to have a graphic representation of what was stored on the computer – rather than be forced to use the typewriter-like "command line" to instruct the machine about what to do."[Until then] you had to know what all these incantations and secret words were," he explains. "The big difference with the Mac was that a complete novice – indeed children – 10-year-olds, five-year-olds who had never seen a computer before, seemed to instantly and intuitively lunge for the mouse."Hertzfeld remembers the moment in more graphic terms. "It was like an orgasm," he says. "A release of all that hard work for three years, finally unveiling it to the world. That just felt fantastic… that was the culmination."On the back of its enormous exposure and marketing campaign, the Mac made big splash. Early sales were strong, but after a few months just 50,000 of the machines had been snapped up.Faced with another problematic product launch after the problems with the Lisa, Apple's chief executive  John Sculley – who had been lured away from Pepsi by Jobs, but was finding working alongside him increasingly difficult – decided to pump more resources into keeping the Mac afloat.Over the coming years, the Mac secured itself in the market, thanks to the burgeoning desktop publishing industry. It also spawned competitors: Microsoft launched the first version of Windows in 1985, having licensed some aspects of the interface from Apple. But as Windows became more capable, Apple filed a lawsuit, claiming in 1988 claimed that Windows copied the "look and feel" of the Mac. The suit failed, and graphical interfaces became the norm for modern computers in homes and offices around the world.In fact, says Hertzfeld, the influence of the ideas behind the Macintosh is so strong that it may have even hampered other developments."It's just amazing that a computer I can buy for a lot cheaper than the original Mac is literally 100,000 times more powerful," he says. "[But] the software is where I think there's either a lack of imagination or a difficulty in changing paradigms. It hasn't moved significantly past the paradigms we set 25 years ago."The reasons are many and complex, ranging from the sheer scale – and hence inertia – of the PC industry, to Microsoft's dominance. But without the Macintosh, says Wozniak, things would certainly not have been the same."I don't think we would [be in the same place], but I don't know what place we would be in," he says. "We certainly converted the world over to the mouse. I like to say that every computer in the world is now a Macintosh."Spicer agrees. Even if inventors like Douglas Engelbart, who devised the first computer mouse, and teams like Xerox PARC had made great strides in creating the new ideas for how to use a computer, the Mac deserves a place in history as the machine that popularised such technologies."I think the credit deservedly goes to the person or the entity that brings it to the masses," he says. "Apple is the one that brought it to the world. You really have to give them a lot of credit."In retrospect, Wozniak believes there is an analogy with the car industry – and that while his own Apple II was an integral part of the PC revolution, it will be the Macintosh that goes down as the machine that changed the way we think about computers."I think the first Macintosh was like the Model T Ford – even 25 years later, you can see the resemblance to it," he says."Sure, one is a little bit cruder and simpler… but 20 years from now, we'll look at a Macintosh and pretty much understand the similarities."
The Pope has officially embraced the digital world as the Vatican unveils a new YouTube video channel, featuring clips of the day-to-day activities and messages from the head of the Catholic church.The new channel, unveiled today at the press room of the Holy See, aims to "help establish relationships with Catholics from around the world" by broadcasting short video news clips on the Pope's activities and events at the Vatican.Father Federico Lombardi, director of the press room, television centre and Vatican Radio, said that the YouTube channel was a "real and tangible example of the Church's commitment in the field of new technologies, to reach out to a global audience without regard for nationality or culture".In a press statement, the Catholic church said that despite its "ancient roots" it remained "convinced of its ability to express words that are still important and relevant in today's world, using language and communications technologies of today's world".TheVatican YouTube channelis expected to help establish relationships with Catholics from around the world, who will have easier access to updated information, as well as with people of different beliefs or religions.The channel, which will run audio and text in English, Spanish, German and Italian, launches today with clips of Pope Benedict XVI, such as the Christmas message and blessing and the 1 January celebration of World Peace Day.It will also have a clip of the Pope talking about new technologies in social communication, the theme he has chosen for this year's Catholic Church World Social Communication Day."YouTube is a communications platform open to all, where users, institutions and content producers come together in a global meeting place," said Henrique de Castro, managing director of European sales and media solutions at YouTube."We are honoured that the Vatican has chosen to use the site to communicate with people across the world, and delighted that our community will have access to the words of the Pope on some of the most important issues facing the world today."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Tomorrow marks the 25th anniversary of the Macintosh, which famously launched in humble fashion during Super Bowl XVIII with a $1.5m commercial directed by Ridley Scott.Twenty five years! It's a remarkable achievement, and to mark the occasion we should have a bunch of Mac goodies on the site for you today.Given the nature of the anniversary, today's Friday Afternoon Question is a special one - and as a result, this week's prize isn't just virtual: we've got a copy of Andy Hertzfeld'sRevolution in the Valley: The Insanely Great Story of How The Mac Was Madesigned by the author himself. True!All we want to know is this:What's your best Mac-related story?Funny story about your first Macintosh? Touching family moment enabled by Thinking Different? Or did you endure an embarrassing incident with a SCSI peripheral? Entertain us, enthrall us, make us cry. The choice is yours.
The British computer hacker Gary McKinnon has today won permission to launch a fresh high court challenge against attempts to extradite him to America.The ruling will delay legal moves to remove him from the UK. McKinnon, 42, from Wood Green, north London, faces a lifetime in jail if sent for trial in the US.Prosecutors there have accused him of hacking US military networks and damaging vital defence systems following the September 11 attacks.Supporters say he acted through naivety as a result of his Asperger's Syndrome – a form of autism – and should not be considered a criminal.The high court was told earlier this week that his medical condition was likely to give rise to psychosis or suicide if he was removed to the US, far away from his family.His lawyers urged he be allowed to stand trial in Britain. Edward Fitzgerald QC, appearing for McKinnon, said: "The very fact of extradition will endanger his health."It is no secret that conditions in a federal penitentiary can be a great deal rougher than conditions here, and a particularly tough place to survive if you are accused of this type of crime."He accused the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, of failing to properly consider these risks before deciding in October to permit extradition.McKinnon's passion for computers was inspired by the gift of an Atari 400 console at 14. He soon started writing his own software and programmes.After watching the 1983 film WarGames, in which a nerd played by Matthew Broderick brings the world to the brink of war by hacking into the Pentagon computer network, McKinnon began to search for proof of his other passion, UFOs.From the bedroom of his girlfriend's aunt's house in north London, McKinnon, a former systems administrator, hacked into 97 US military computers at the Pentagon and Nasa.He was caught in 2002 as he tried to download a grainy black-and-white photograph he believed was an alien spacecraft on a Nasa computer housed in the Johnson Space Centre in Houston, Texas. The judges refused a request for an adjournment of the hearing while Keir Starmer QC, the new director of public prosecutions, considered a request for McKinnon to be prosecuted in Britain on a lesser charge. Fitzgerald has told the court that the home secretary had already agreed not to extradite pending the director's decision.McKinnon insists he was only looking for evidence of UFOs when he hacked into the US military networks in 2001 and 2002. He has signed a statement accepting that his hacking constituted an offence under the UK's Computer Misuse Act 1990.However, the US military alleges that he caused $800,000-worth (£550,000) of damage and left 300 computers at a US Navy weapons station unusable immediately after the September 11 attacks.McKinnon has said he believed he would get a fairer trial in the UK than in America. He also admitted to being "extremely stressed", adding: "I am very controlled, which is probably not a good thing, but inside the fires of hell are burning. It's not a good place to be."
It's that time of the month again - time to let you know about the new games events we've added to thegamesblog's google calendar.* Next week, our own Keith will be attending the 6th AnnualMobile Games Forum in 2009.* Industry luminaries will descend on Las Vegas for 'networking golf and poker tournaments' at theD.I.C.E. summit17th-20th Feb* A cast of academic and industry developers will meet at the Game Based Learning conference in London 19-20th March* Will the booth babes be back at this year's E3, held in sunny Los Angeles 2nd - 4th June?*Develop's back in beautiful Brighton 14-16th July, once again bringing together the European gaming community. Expect a have I Got Games News For You pub quiz redux from the gamesblog team* Gaming's a hot topic at theSocial Networking World Forum, held in London on 9-10th March, and there's not a zombie in sight. Head here if you want to rub shoulders with MySpace, Facebook and LinkedIN.Do you have an event on your radar? Let us know and we'll add it to our calendar. Subscribehere!
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
It allegedly cost Microsoft around 50million USD for Xbox 360 exclusivity rights but the upcoming downloadable content for Grand Theft Auto IV sounds promising. Yes the hype has started for theLost and the Damned.Eurogamerargue that the biker-heavy content offers a return to the more anarchic action of old:With a new main character, there's the chance that the more excessive San Andreas side of the GTA that some felt was missing from IV may mesh more naturally with the series' increasing desire to tell stories.CVG, however, felt the story – the game is around a third the size of GTA IV – was the most promising element.But what impressed us the most about The Lost and Damned is the standout cinematic experience it promises to deliver. As with the real Big Apple there are eight million stories to tell in Liberty City, and this is looking like one of the most interesting...The best news comes fromKotaku's preview. Yes finally the series gets rid of its main flaw and allows you to restart failed missions from half way through rather than the beginning.With an expected minimum of ten hours of new gameplay in The Lost And Damned, in addition to the changes, the first downloadable episode looks like a sound investment at just $20. New gameplay styles and thankful concessions — some missions can be restarted at halfway points, not just from the start — make The Lost And Damned feel less like a tacked on expansion and more of an evolution.Sounds good then, although excessive hype has always been a problem for the GTA games. But 360 owners with 1600 points (around 13ukp) to spend can download on February 17th.  Tempted then? And what about PS3 owners – how do you feel about missing out?
Roxanne, are we in Trinidad yet?Microsoft's just-released Songsmith software lets you sing a tune, and then fits music to it. But what happens if you feed it the vocal line from the Police's Roxanne - and sync it to the original video?(Feeding classic vocal lines to Songsmith is already a meme - no doubt it won't be long before we have Hitler's downfall set to it.)Slower than nurses, but smaller"Swarmbots" created by a team at the Ecole Polytechnique Federale in Lausanne, Switzerland, drag a child across a room. A very, very patient child; welcome, robot underlords.Sharper by designHere's how to apply a bit of vorsprung durch technik to the always-pressing problem of sharpening a pencil.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us about it in the comments!
I hadn't noticed that Microsoft's MSN had started selling music to mobile phone owners, and that the tracks were encumbered by DRM (digital rights management) copy protection.Barry Collins at PC Prodid notice, and followed up by interviewingHugh Griffiths, Head of Mobile at Microsoft UK. The result is rather amusing, in a horrible sort of way.Barry points out that people can now buy tracks DRM-free from iTunes for 79p or probably less from Amazon, and play them on their mobiles as well as their PCs. Why the heck would they want to pay Microsoft £1.50 for tracks locked to their phone? The answer:There's a whole bunch of people who are very loyal to MSN on the web and there's now almost a million users of MSN Mobile every month, within the space of 12 months of it being launched.So there's a whole bunch of people who are using MSN on their mobile phone for a whole variety of reasons. And we're saying to them, if you want to download music, it's available here. If you don't, that's fine.It's a consumer's choice and they will decide if they're happy with the MSN Music service or if they want to go somewhere else.That's pretty much the argument for iTunes, until recently, but at least Apple let you move your tracks between devices. It seems that MSN can't even do that.As you might have guessed, thisisn't really a Microsoft serviceat all: it's provided by London-basedVidZone Digital Media. VidZone's website says it works with a bunch of clients including 3, Vodafone, O2, Virgin Mobile, Ministry of Sound and … Microsoft's Xbox Live. Apple iTunes is also listed as a client, though I've no idea what that involves. (VidZone also provides videos and RealTones.)There is, of course, a case for DRM when almost-unlimited music is offered as a subscription service. Today, however, buying DRM'd tracks is surely a mug's game. It always was.
The world's largest software company, Microsoft, is slashing 5,000 jobs in the first radical cutbacks in its 34-year history as the global economic downturn sinks its teeth into the once dynamic, historically resilient technology industry.Microsoft yesterday warned of a "vast" fall-off in demand for personal computers as cash-strapped buyers scale back on expenditure. Its woes were echoed by financial setbacks at the mobile phone maker Nokia, the electronics multinational Sony and in BT's telecoms empire.The severity of the pain felt by hi-tech enterprises took global markets by surprise. The string of warnings followed an unexpected slowdown in China's rate of economic growth, which slipped from 9% in the third quarter to 6.8% in the fourth quarter, sending stocks lower on both sides of the Atlantic.Typically regarded as one of the world's wealthiest companies, Microsoft has frozen staff salaries and is squeezing spending on everything from marketing to vendor inducements, employee travel and capital investment. Its job cuts represent 5% of its total workforce and are likely to include about 60 redundancies in Britain."We're certainly in the midst of a once-in-a-lifetime set of economic conditions," said Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, who said he did not foresee a swift or sudden recovery. "The perspective I'd bring is not one of recession. It's that the economy is resetting to a lower level of business and consumer spending."The Seattle-based company's shares slumped by 10% to their lowest level since 1998 as Wall Street reacted sourly to an 11% fall in quarterly profits to $4.17bn. Microsoft estimated that the market for personal computers fell by between 7% and 10% in the final quarter of 2008. "We're not used to down markets," said Ballmer. "That's vast for something that's always grown a lot."Microsoft's woes came seven months after the firm's billionaire founder, Bill Gates, stepped back from day-to-day management to concentrate on giving away his estimated fortune of $58bn (&pound;40bn). Gates slipped from first to third on Forbes magazine's ranking of the world's richest people in 2008 and Microsoft's waning stock has since shrunk his wealth further.Since the US banking industry came close to collapse in September and the availability of credit evaporated, business conditions have weakened across the board. Finland's Nokia, which is the global leader in mobile phone handsets, revealed a 69% collapse in profits and predicted the worst annual decline in the cellphone industry's brief history. "It seems to be unavoidable that there will be a reduction in our employee base," said Nokia's chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo.In Japan, Sony admitted that it was likely to make its first annual loss in 14 years. It is cutting jobs in its televisions, music, movies and games businesses. Top executives are giving up their bonuses at the company, which is known for its PlayStation consoles and Walkman music players. Sony's chief executive, Howard Stringer, said: "The massive economic upheaval is sparing no one in the consumer electronics world."On the London Stock Exchange, BT shares fell 9% after the company disclosed it would take a charge because of poor performance at its global services arm.Shares slid lower, with the FTSE 100 index closing down 7.65 points at 4052. On Wall Street, a jittery week continued as the Dow Jones Industrial Average slumped 226 to 8,001 by lunchtime in New York.There was little room for comfort in official figures on the US housing market, where a collapse in prices is widely seen as having been the catalyst for the credit crunch. Construction on new homes fell by 15% in December to 550,000 properties - the lowest figure on record.Economists were further spooked by signs that China's rapid development is decelerating. The rate of growth in GDP in the world's third largest economy dropped to its slowest for seven years.The steady flow of bad news has heightened the challenge facing President Obama's administration in Washington as it tries to restore stability and confidence. Obama received a boost yesterday when the key Senate finance committee approved his nominee as treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, in spite of his admission that he had made "careless mistakes" in failing to pay $34,000 in tax.Geithner told lawmakers that the financial system had failed to meet its most basic obligations. "The system was too fragile and unstable and because of this, the system was unfair and unjust. Individuals, families and businesses that were careful and responsible were damaged by the actions of those who were not."
Internet giant Google bucked the economic downturn to outperform Wall Street's expectations, according to its latest financial results.The company  reported revenues of $5.7bn  for the three months ending in December, up 18% year-on-year, but  an increase of just  3%  on the previous quarter's figures.Profit was down significantly to $382m, compared with $1.2bn a year ago – however, this was largely the result of investments in internet rival AOL and wireless broadband provider Clearwire.Google chief executive Eric Schmidt said  the company had performed well given the grim circumstances in the advertising industry. But he said he  could not predict whether things would get easier in the future."Google performed well in the fourth quarter, despite an increasingly difficult economic environment," he said. "It's unclear how long the global downturn will last, but our focus remains on the long term."In recent years Google has become more reliant on money generated by advertising on its own websites, rather than through its advertising networks – and that pattern continues to be the case.Google's own sites generated $3.8bn of the quarter's overall revenues, making up 67% of its income, compared to a far smaller proportion of  45% just a year ago.Although this means the company's famously efficient advertising network  is now less powerful, it may have helped insulate the company from some aspects of the financial crisis.Google has also become more reliant on its international business, with the rest of the world now responsible for 50% of income.  It said revenue would have been $334 million higher had it not been for currency slides – particularly in Britain.The  figures were welcomed by Wall St analysts , who had expected tougher results,  and by investors,who pushed Google shares up by as much as 2%."The quarter was pretty solid in light of the broader economic perspective – earnings were fine, revenues were fine," said Jason Avilio, an analyst with Kaufman Bros. "People didn't have high expectations."Over the past week Google has made a series of moves to demonstrate that it is focused on its central products. Several services have been shut and a number of engineering offices are being closed down. But  despite making 100 recruiters redundant as a result of slowing growth, the company said it would continue hiring new staff through the downturn.Avilio  said that although Wall Street believed  Google had too many employees, it would not benefit shareholders to cut jobs like  Yahoo, which has shed 2,500 in the past year, or Microsoft, which  had earlier announced it was shedding 5,000 positions."There is a lot of fat to trim operationally, but nothing like the thousands of layoffs at other tech companies," he said.
"Sony Corp forecast a record 260 billion yen ($2.9 billion) full-year operating loss, almost four times analysts' estimates, as the global recession cuts sales of televisions and cameras. Weaker demand, the stronger yen and reorganization expenses led to the earnings shortfall," reportsBloomberg.In the third quarter, Sony's net income fell 95% to 10 billion yen as sales dropped by 25% to 2.15 trillion yen. Last year's 236.2 billion yen profit turned into an operating loss of 18 billion yen.One of the major problems was that the yen increased in value against the euro and the dollar, making Sony's foreign earnings worth less.Job cuts have already been scheduled. Bloomberg says:Sony said Dec. 9 it will cut 16,000 people by March 2010 to help save more than 100 billion yen in annual costs, the second major job reduction announced under [chief executive officer Howard] Stringer's tenure.Also, the business has become much more competitive. "Our playing field has changed," Mr. Stringer said. "Sony is no longer competing solely with traditional Japanese electronics companies. Samsung and LG have now broadened their product portfolios," as quoted inThe New York Times. "At the same time," Mr. Stringer said, "Apple, Microsoft and even Cisco are aggressively positioning themselves to anchor the digital home."This is probably not a good time to demand price cuts on the PlayStation 3….However, as The New York Times points out:Sony is hardly alone. Its Japanese rival Panasonic in November revised downward its annual sales forecast by 700 billion yen. LG Electronics, the South Korean cellphone maker, reported a fourth-quarter net loss of nearly $500 million on Thursday. And Samsung Electronics, which reports its earnings Friday, is expected to post its first quarterly net loss ever.Times are hard all over.
Microsoft is cutting 5,000 jobs as it grapples with a sharp downturn in technology spending among companies hit by the global economic slump.Less than seven months after Microsoft's billionaire founderBill Gates stepped aside from day-to-day management, the Seattle-based software multinational disappointed Wall Street with an 11% slump in quarterly profits to $4.17bn (£3bn).Layoffs will be in a wide range of areas including research and development, sales, marketing, finance, human resources and IT over the next 18 months, with 1,400 immediate redundancies.The cuts, intended to save $1.5bn annually, are the first large-scale reductions in staff at Microsoft since the company was founded in 1975.Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, said: "While we are not immune to the effects of the economy, I am confident in the strength of our product portfolio and soundness of our approach."The software company is facing a crucial year as it prepares to launch anew operating system, Windows 7.Microsoft's client revenue dropped 8% because of weakness in the personal computer market and a shift in demand towards cheaper laptops. But its sales of entertainment devices still edged up by 3%, aided by 6m sales of Xbox 360 game consoles in the run-up to Christmas.The company's shares slumped 8% to $17.77 within minutes of the start of trading on New York's Nasdaq exchange, hitting their lowest level since 1998.Chief financial officer Chris Liddell said: "Economic activity and IT spend slowed beyond our expectations in the quarter, and we acted quickly to reduce our cost structure and to mitigate its impact."Liddell said Microsoft was planning for economic uncertainty to continue "through the remainder of the fiscal year".Microsoft has had a difficult year, havingunsuccessfully tried to buy the web-search specialist Yahooto bolster its internet presence, which is widely considered to be weak in comparison with rivals such as Google.Heather Bellini, a technology analyst at UBS in New York, told Bloomberg News that Microsoft would get a poor hearing from investors unless it acted quickly to trim its cost base in response to one of the worst recessions since the second world war."I don't care if they get rid of contractors, full-time employees, facilities, health benefits – just get the costs out," she said.
Microsoft is cutting 5,000 jobs over the next 18 months, nearly 5% of its workforce, following a deterioration in the PC market.The layoffs are thought to include 60&nbsp;jobs from the firm's UK workforce of 2,900 in London, Reading, Manchester, Edinburgh, Cambridge, and Chertsey in Surrey. Around the world, Microsoft employs 95,000 people and today's announcement represents a 5% cut.Announcing the redundancies, Microsoft said it had been hurt by worsening global economic conditions and lower revenue from software for PCs as well as the growing popularity of low-cost netbook computers. The final quarter of 2008 was the worst for the PC market in several years.The company, founded in 1975, announced the cuts as it reported an 11% drop in second-quarter profits, which fell short of Wall Street's expectations. Microsoft shares lost 7% of their value in pre-market trading.The jobs will be lost in research and development, marketing, sales, finance, legal, human resources and information technology over the next 18 months. 1,400 jobs will be cut on Thursday. The company will reduce travel spending by a fifth, eliminate merit salary rises in September, and scale back the expansion of its Puget Sound campus near Seattle, Washington."Economic activity and IT spend slowed beyond our expectations in the quarter, and we acted quickly to reduce our cost structure and mitigate its impact," said Microsoft's chief financial officer, Chris Liddell. "We are planning for economic uncertainty to continue through the remainder of the fiscal year, almost certainly leading to lower revenue and earnings for the second half relative to the previous year."The cuts appear to be a first for Microsoft, aside from relatively limited staff cuts it has made after acquiring other firms.The company said profits slipped to $4.17bn (£3bn), or 47c a share, from earnings of $4.71bn last year, or 50 c a share. Total revenue edged up 2% to $16.63bn, as sales of software for corporate computer servers helped offset an 8% drop in revenue for PC software.The results missed Wall Street's forecast for earnings of 49c a share on sales of $17.08bn.Microsoft said the job cuts would reduce operating costs by $1.5bn as it prepares for lower revenue and earnings in the second half of the year."While we are not immune to the effects of the economy, I am confident in the strength of our product portfolio and soundness of our approach," said Steve Ballmer, the Microsoft CEO, in a statement.
Microsoft increased its revenues by just 2% to $16.63 billion for the second quarter ended Dec. 31, 2008, which "was approximately $900 million below our earlier expectations," according to CEO Steve Ballmer. To reduce expenses, "Microsoft will eliminate up to 5,000 jobs in R&amp;D, marketing, sales, finance, legal, HR, and IT over the next 18 months, including 1,400 jobs today," says theearnings statement.Operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $5.94 billion, $4.17 billion and $0.47, declines of 8%, 11% and 6%, respectively, compared with the prior year.The main problem was the Windows Client software divison, where revenues fell from $4.3bn to $4.0bn and operating income from $3.4bn to $2.9bn. Microsoft said:Client revenue declined 8% as a result of PC market weakness and a continued shift to lower priced netbooks. However, strong annuity licensing drove Server &amp; Tools revenue growth of 15%. Entertainment and Devices revenue grew 3% driven by strong holiday demand for Xbox 360 consoles with a record 6 million units sold in the quarter.In a memo to staff, leaked toAll Things D, Steve Ballmer wrote:During the second quarter we started down the right path. As the economy deteriorated, we acted quickly. As a result, we reduced operating expenses during the quarter by $600 million. I appreciate the agility you have shown in enabling us to achieve this result.Now we need to do more. We must make adjustments to ensure that our investments are tightly aligned with current and future revenue opportunities. The current environment requires that we continue to increase our efficiency.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
According to anMCV survey, women in the UK's games industry earn £2,000 more than men employed in the retail, publishing, services, development, games media and PR. The results come from a pool of 528 games industry professionals, but are not broken down to indicate which areas are dominated by females, who may hold positions in higher-paid sectors like PR and Marketing. Their research suggests that female industry staff are in publishing, marketing, PR,retail and distribution. Only 6.9% of female respondents were in development. Only 11% of the respondents were women.These salary results are in conflict with the results ofa survey conducted by ELSPA in 2004(.pdf), suggesting that there has been a change in attitudes, or the methodologies were different.Full details of thesurvey, including themethodology and detailed analyses, are in this week's MCV.
Next month I'll be meeting the creators of Resident Evil 5, and sending a whole bunch of questions over to the Street Fighter IV team in Japan. As these are two of the most anticipated games of the year, I'm sure you've got some questions. So tap them out in the comments section and I'll include as many as I can in my interrogations!
It won't improve the atmosphere but it may help alleviate manager Arsene Wenger's famously one-sided view of the action. Yes, Arsenal FC areteaming up with Sonyto allow fans at the Emirates Stadium to watch instant replays of goals and contentious incidents on their PSP. Within 18 months fans will be able to use the Sony developed app to watch streaming live video – er, what's wrong with looking at the pitch? – as well as get live data, stats and instant replays.  The streaming video may be handy if you are queuing for a drink or something but the stats and replays are probably more useful. But perhaps more interesting is the future potential for the app. Sony Europe's Eric Siereveld is thinking communities.We think that the next generation of the software that runs it could actually link fans during the game with each otherYes, forget hurling abuse at opposing fans. In the future you can do it via a message on your PSP! Traditionalists should probably look away now.Anyway, so what do you think? Will it catch on? Personally I wish Sony were working with Southampton FC – anything that takes your mind off the action on the pitch has to be good.
I want to buy a laptop, but it seems that not all Vistas are the same. Is there any danger of buying a laptop now that isn't, as Tim Anderson said in last week'sWindows 7 cover story, "more mature and reliable"?Peter PerkinsYou can minimise the risk of getting an underperforming Windows Vista PC in three ways: (1) make sure Vista SP1 is installed; (2) pick a system with no pre-installed trialware; (3) search the web for any problems with the specific make, model and configuration you're thinking of buying. You should certainly skim through messages in the manufacturer's online help forum, paying particular attention to driver issues. In some cases, you may be able to find magazine reviews with benchmark results, or at least a Windows Experience Index rating.However, most or all of the major manufacturers have seen the results of the Vista Velocity programme, where Microsoft tested and tuned the setups of about 300 PCs. This work is continuing with Windows 7 (PDF).Note that some trialware -- often called "crapware" -- is installed as part of the operating system, so it gets reloaded even if you do a clean reinstallation. This is best avoided. However, some trial-ware is simply pre-loaded on the hard drive so that it can easily be installed on demand. This is not usually a problem.
I am going travelling and will not have regular access to the internet. Is there a device that would let me back up the contents of a digital photocard?Duncan RodgerSmall SD cards are cheap, so you can spread the risk by using a number of cards, and perhaps post some home. However, several companies make portable hard drives with memory card slots so you can copy photos across. Examples ofphoto storageinclude the Epson P-7000 Multimedia Storage Viewer, the Canon Media Storage M30 and M80, and products from Vosonic and Jobo. You may also be able to use an MP3 player or portable video player such as theSanDisk Sansa Viewor an iPod with a "camera connector", but beware compatibility problems.Check the specifications to find out which device suits you best, and shop around for prices.Bear in mind that, even if you copy your photos to a portable drive, you will still only have one copy in one place. When you do have internet access, try to zip pictures into 50MB or 100MB archives and upload them to an online drive. Be careful when using online photo-sharing albums, as they don't all store the whole of the original file. If you plan to use an online resource, test it thoroughly before you go.
