In still pictures, DAR–1 (pronounced ‘Darwin’) doesn’t look like the kind of robot that might encourage empathy.The machine’s six spindly legs lend it an uncanny arachnoid appearance, and with no case for modesty’s sake, the exposed circuitry doesn’t hide its electrical heart.But when the power is on, everything changes. The spiky lump of metal and plastic becomes a timid creature, locking eyes with whoever is in front of it, tracking their face and pulling back if they get too close. The obviousness of its machinery doesn’t go away, but shrinks into irrelevance.Pull back the curtain, and the beating heart of DAR–1 is a Raspberry Pi computer, connected to a camera on an articulated head unit and six legs. It runs an open-source computer vision package to scan the area in front of it for faces, and then, when it senses one in its vicinity, locks eyes with it. If the face gets too big, it will pull back, but for the most part, that’s it.Pulling back the curtain isn’t the point, though. DAR–1 is the creation of roboticist Ray Renteria, who introduces himself to the SXSW festival in Austin, Texas, as an amateur magician. And just as the work of a magician is focused around misdirection, and a control of the context in which magic is performed, so too is DAR–1 an exercise in how simple, mechanistic effects can be imbued with life with just the right presentation.The work starts in Renteria’s blurb for DAR–1, a part of the festival’s “Robot Petting Zoo”. The Raspberry Pi and laser-cut legs (both, incidentally, produced in England, leading Renteria to describe the machine as a “British invader”) aren’t mentioned. Instead, visitors are primed to treat the robot as a fellow living being from the off.“Curious about people, he’ll study your eyes and your smile with the intensity of a focused child,” it reads. “He’s shy, though. If you get a little too close to him, he’ll get nervous and try to back away. See how long you get him to keep following your eyes by looking deep into his.” Similarly, if you ask Renteria why the robot has a permanent shiver to its movements, there’s a technical answer – a particular variable hovering between fully-on and fully-off leads to motors being rapidly engaged then disengaged – but also an anthropomorphised one: “he’s nervous”.At the same time, says Renteria, “he’s a robot, he’s proud of being a robot, so you’re not going to talk to him, you’re not going to call to him to try to get his attention.”As well as the petting zoo, DAR–1 made an appearance at another SXSW event with a slightly less cuddly name: a talk run by BBC.com Future reporter Richard Fisher titled “Would You Torture A Robot?” Helpfully, for those planning to put theory into practice, the petting zoo opened just half an hour after the torture panel closed, in the same building.Fisher explained that, despite the fact that we all know robots can’t feel pain, there’s an increasing amount of experimental evidence which shows that people empathise with them anyway, often to the extent of being irrationally opposed to ‘hurting’ the machines.He cites a workshop run by MIT researcher Kate Darling, who asked people to play with Pleo, a robot designed to mimic a baby dinosaur. “Yet after an hour allowing people to tickle and cuddle these loveable dinosaurs, Darling turned executioner,” Fisher writes. “She gave the participants knives, hatchets and other weapons, and ordered them to torture and dismember their toys.“The people refused to hurt their Pleo with the weapons they had been given. So then Darling started playing mind games, telling them they could save their own dinosaur by killing somebody else’s. Even then, they wouldn’t do it.”Robots reveal some uncomfortable truths about the way we feel empathy. Little tricks in the coding of Pleo and DAR–1 tickle just the right part of our brain to make us think that they deserve our protection, while far more advanced robots do nothing. When was the last time someone felt ethical concern about damaging a production line drone?But even the most functional robots can still become something that people feel strongly about.A report by researcher Julie Carpenter in 2013revealed that the attachment soldiers felt to bomb disposal robots was having very real effects.“Soldiers told her that attachment to their robots didn’t affect their performance, yet acknowledged they felt a range of emotions such as frustration, anger and even sadness when their field robot was destroyed.“That makes Carpenter wonder whether outcomes on the battlefield could potentially be compromised by human-robot attachment, or the feeling of self-extension into the robot described by some operators. She hopes the military looks at these issues when designing the next generation of field robots.”Perhaps the answer is to do the opposite, and embrace humanity’s ability to develop an emotional connection with anything. After all, what’s the real difference between loving a robot and feeling sad when your iPhone breaks?
“Women hold up half the sky,” Chairman Mao once said. In the Chinese digital economy the same is true, with a newly empowered middle class of wealthy, well educated women who live and breathe social media and online shopping, spending $3tn annually in China alone.The average Chinese ‘wired woman’, according to research presented by Evelina Lye, SapientNitro’s head of marketing for Asia Pacific told SXSW on Sunday, typically own as many as five devices each. This group of around 115 million women are aged 25-35, half if them are mothers, 75% are college graduates and 87% are in employment.The Chinese tech ecosystem looks very different to the rest of the world, with a domestic market that has become very powerful in the past three years; WeChat is ubiquitous, used for everything from taxi cab fares to messaging friends, but for every household name in western technology there are ten viable Chinese services.Singles day is China’s equivalent to black Friday or cyber Monday, but generates far, far more money. In 2014 Chinese spent $9.34bn in 24 hours; for comparison Americans spent $4.16bn on black Friday and cyber Monday combined. Billionaire Alibaba boss Jack Ma personally thanked China’s women on national TV for their involvement; the biggest selling category was beauty products, many of which were half price. China went straight to mobile, and also went straight to commence rather than building shopping malls.As for censorship, for the more mundane uses of retail and social media most Chinese aren’t concerned, said Jonathan Koh of BBH Shanghai. China has always had censorship, he said, and there’s a language among citizens that acknowledges it; many call the government the Ministry of Truth.China’s most famous memes:Brother Sharpis a homeless man who went viral in 2010 when a very large number of women in China decided he was hot. He ended up on the catwalk for Dior. It could not be moreDerelicte.‘Shai’ is the trend for showing off, so bringing back thousands of dollars worth of luxury clothes, accessories and beauty products and then ‘unboxing’ and sharing them online, sometimes with the receipt.‘Human flesh search’ is the vigilante movement that began in 2006/7 when a woman posted a video of herself killing a cat with a stiletto. Now, requests to help find a husband’s mistress and taken up by groups of real world vigilantes.Armpit selfies.
Will.i.am thinks we will be3D printing human beings in the future, although his comments were met with scepticism from biology experts. Perhaps a better starting point would be teeth.That’s the sole purpose of a new device called theObjet260 Dental Selection, unveiled this month by 3D printing firm Stratasys.However, the realistic teeth, gums and nerves that it prints out aren’t destined for the insides of people’s mouths any time soon: instead, they’re models for dental specialists to poke, prod and show to patients when explaining procedures.Stratasys sees the new printer as “closing the loop in digital dentistry” in the way it takes a digital file produced by an intra-oral scanner used by a dentist and turns it into a “colour, multi-texture dental model”.The printer uses the company’s own PolyJet dental materials, promising “life-like gum textures” and various shades of colour in the resulting models.The creation of teeth, gum and nerve models is just one example of the emerging uses of 3D printing technology in the medical sector. Among the more ambitious aims is the ability to print types of human tissue, andultimately entire organs.In August 2014, research firm IDTechEx claimed that the dental and medical market for 3D printerswill expand to $867m (£523m) by 2025, although it suggested that if “bio-printing” pieces of skin, liver and kidney becomes a commercial reality, the market could be several times that size.Overall, research firm Gartner expects2.3m 3D printers to be sold in 2018, with more than three quarters of the 3D printing market’s revenue coming from industrial use, rather than people buying these devices for their homes.Robox inventor hopes 3D printing will help everybody become a maker
Facebook has updated its community standards guidelines to provide “more detail and clarity” on the content it allows or bans on its service.The social networkstressed in a blog postthat its policies are not changing, but that “we have heard from people that it would be helpful to provide more clarity and examples”.Nudity, hate speech, self-harm, dangerous organisations, bullying and harassment, sexual violence and exploitation, criminal activity, violence and graphic content are among the areas covered by the updated guidelines.Facebook’s definition of hate speech, for example, covers content that directly attacks people based on their race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, sex, gender or gender identity, or serious disabilities or diseases.“Sometimes people share content containing someone else’s hate speech for the purpose of raising awareness or educating others about that hate speech,” explain the revised guidelines.“When this is the case, we expect people to clearly indicate their purpose, which helps us better understand why they shared that content.We allow humour, satire or social commentary related to these topics, but we may ask Page owners to associate their name and Profile with any content that is insensitive, even if that content does not violate our policies.”In its blog post that announced the changes, Facebook’s Monika Bickert and Chris Sonderby admitted that keeping one global policy for hate speech remains “particularly challenging ... we know that our policies won’t perfectly address every piece of content, especially where we have limited context, but we evaluate reported content seriously and do our best to get it right.”When it comes to nudity, Facebook apologises in its guidelines for policies that “can sometimes be more blunt than we would like and restrict content shared for legitimate purposes” due to its desire to maintain uniform policies across the world.“We remove photographs of people displaying genitals or focusing in on fully exposed buttocks. We also restrict some images of female breasts if they include the nipple, but we always allow photos of women actively engaged in breastfeeding or showing breasts with post-mastectomy scarring. We also allow photographs of paintings, sculptures and other art that depicts nude figures.”Breastfeeding has historically been an issue for Facebook, with protests about its censorship of breastfeeding photosin 2008, and thenagain in 2012.At a time when organisations like Isis are making greater use of social media, Facebook’s clarified policy on dangerous organisations lays out what it bans: organisations engaged in terrorist activity, organised criminal activity, or promoting hate against people based on the same factors as its hate speech definition.“We also remove content that expresses support for groups that are involved in the violent, criminal or hateful behaviour mentioned above. Supporting or praising leaders of those same organisations, or condoning their violent activities, is not allowed.”When it comes to public figures, Facebook maintains that it allows “open and critical discussion” of celebrities and people featured in the news, while warning that it will remove “credible threats to public figures, as well as hate speech directed at them – just as we do for private individuals”.Facebook’s changing standards: from beheading to breastfeeding images
Just another manic Monday...
A fresh take on that most hackneyed of genres, the first-person shooter,Evolveis an online cooperative monster-hunt, the action split between controlling one of three hulking colossi or playing as a member a four-person crew intent on bringing one of the beasts down. The eponymous Darwinian element comes in the development of the monsters – they are large, but to begin with are relatively weak and feeble, and if nabbed by their human foes early on, the action doesn’t last long. The challenge, when playing as a monster, lies in creating sufficient distance between yourself and your predators, while consuming local alien life in order to develop into a powerful killing machine – at which point the game’s dynamic shifts dramatically. Each of the monsters has unique skills and is suited to different styles of combat.The Wraith strikes silently from the shadows, using decoys and teleportation to befuddle the enemy, while Goliath has ostentatious fire-breath. Similarly, the hunters have particular skill sets: Assault, Trapper, Medic and Support.The joy of the default hunt mode is so delightful that the progress that you need to make – unlocking all the abilities, monsters and hunters – does not feel too arduous, and other modes such as “rescue” and “nest” offer some variety. More monsters and hunters are being released, but even without shelling out extra cashEvolveoffers a longlasting online challenge with some beautifully satisfying action.
Xbox exclusiveScreamridecombines rollercoaster design, riding and destruction in an eclectic mix of fun that, while lacking the coherence of Frontier’sRollerCoaster Tycoongames, intelligently riffs onMinecraft’spopular build-it-high and blow-it-up mechanics. The game has a variety of modes – Scream Rider offers racing on rails, where turbo boosts and brakes must be balanced to keep the car on track, while Demolition Expert mode furthers the excitement by firing gondola cars at test facilities to trigger explosive destruction in what one can only describe as a gleefulAngry Birds-style. The slightly more cerebral Engineering mode needs more patience but will entertain for longer, with construction of fantastical rollercoasters. Complexity is kept in check with intuitive controls that can auto-complete partial circuits.Screamride’sextreme sports approach may irk rollercoaster sim purists, but for families the combination of design, racing and explosive havoc works perfectly.
Related:Ten data-driven sporting victories - part oneEngland rugby team win World Cup in 2003In the build-up to the 2003 Rugby World Cup, Sir Clive Woodward approached Prozone to build a technology solution that would give him the same insights that football coaches and clubs were using to support their tactical preparation and strategy.Woodward was the first coach to adapt Prozone to rugby, installing it at Twickenham to collect data on how England and its opponents played. Data and performance analysis became an integral part of England’s preparations for the 2003 Rugby World Cup, which they went on to win, defeating Australia 20 points to 17.Woodward explains how the analysis platform removed the preconceived notions they had about how other teams played, and the turning point was in seeing the opposition as data, rather than teams they’d never beaten before.Speaking at the time, Woodward said, “Prozone gives you a birds-eye view of all the players, there is no hiding place. From a coach’s point of view it’s a brilliant system, it actually allows you to coach and I think it makes you a better coach and a better team.”The 1999 treble winning Manchester United team celebrate their last gasp win in the European Cup against Bayern Munich.Photograph: Ben Radford/AllsportManchester United win the treble in 1999In 1999, Manchester United’s manager, Alex Ferguson, headhunted and recruited Steve McClaren, a young coach and the assistant manager at Derby County. McClaren requested Prozone, sports performance analysis technology, which he’d be deploying on a gratis basis at Derby.Manchester United agreed to pay Prozone £50,000 if they won a trophy that year. The club used Prozone to analyse performance and inform team selection and tactical decisions, and that season, United won the treble: the Champions League; the Premier League; and the FA Cup. Prior to the United deal, Prozone had two non-paying customers, but after Manchester United’s victory, Prozone earned its first cheque, and by August 2000, six Premier League clubs were paying customers.Since then, data has been used widely in professional football, notably during penalty shoot-outs. In the League Cup Final of 2009, during the Manchester United Vs Tottenham penalty shoot-out, video analysis took place in real-time on the field. While players had been using data analysis before, this was one of the first times it took place within a game.Later in 2012, Manchester City collaborated with OptaPro to release data into the public domain for the very first time. Manchester City intended to play their role in bringing amateur analysts to the forefront and to clubs’ attention.Kevin Pietersen celebrates his double century against Australia in the second Ashes test during the victorious 2010 tour.Photograph: Hamish Blair/Getty ImagesEngland cricket team Ashes victory 2010/2011The England cricket team has been heavily influenced by the Moneyball success story. Much in the same way that Alderson inspired Beane at Oakland, Peter Moores introduced Andy Flowers to ‘Moneyball’. Flowers oversaw the expansion of the ECB performance analysis unit, particularly the crucial appointment of Nathan ‘Numbers’ Leamon, as match analyst.Their most notable success, according to Bill Gerrard, professor of business and sports analytics at Leeds University, was the Ashes tour Down Under in 2010/11 “when data analysis played a crucial role in identifying the strengths and weaknesses of the Australian team” with effective tactics developed, tested by simulations, to counter the opposition strengths and exploit their weaknesses.Dominant Chris Hoy celebrates winning gold in the mens keirin final at the 2012 Olympics.Photograph: Tom Jenkins/Tom JenkinsBritish cycling team become the most successful British team in any sport at a world and Olympic levelPrior to Athens 2004, British gold medals in cycling had been sporadic. Under the direction of British Cycling performance director, Sir Dave Brailsford, Athens saw the first results of Brailsford’s now famous rigorous marginal gains philosophy, which involves examining every aspect of performance to extract small advantages, which collectively add up to a decisive winning margin.In the 11 years that Brailsford led the Great Britain Cycling Team – he announced his retirement from the role in April 2014 – the squad became the most successful British team in any sport at a world and Olympic level.Jonathan Leeder, physiologist at the English Institute of Sport, explains in cycling: “You’re going from A to B as fast as you possibly can. You’re not too bothered about what other nations are doing – you just need to be the fastest. So we use historical data to predict the winning time for the next Olympics, and then invest resource into what it takes to do that time and train athletes appropriately. It’s you against the clock.”Oakland Athletics general manager Billy Beane has been at the centre of the data revolution in baseball.Photograph: Lance Iversen/The ChronicleOakland A’s baseball team win 20 consecutive games, an American League RecordFor the last 20 years, Oakland Athletics, a small-market team in major league US baseball, has used data analysis as a strategy to become competitive with the big-market giants such as the New York Yankees. Using insights from sabermetrics – the statistical analysis of baseball – to drive their player recruitment strategies, Oakland have made themselves the most efficient team in major league baseball in terms of wins per dollar spent.The approach started under their general manager, Sandy Alderson, but really took off under his successor, Billy Beane. Beane’s achievements – and the team’s iconic success – in the 2001 and 2002 seasons were propagated in the best-selling book, Moneyball, by Michael Lewis published in 2003 and subsequently turned into an Oscar-nominated movie with Brad Pitt.According to Bill Gerrard, who considers Beane “a great friend and mentor,” the impact of Moneyball on sports analytics “cannot be underestimated. It, more than anything else, has put the potential gains of data analysis on the agenda of elite sports around the world.”Eleanor Dallaway is editor ofInfosecurity magazine.TheCreative Data hubis funded byAccenture. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by Accenture’. Find out morehere.
Related:Ten data-driven sporting victories - part twoMichael Johnson’s 200m and 400m gold medals in 1996 OlympicsAt the 1996 Olympic Games, Michael Johnson became the only man in history to win the 200m and the 400m gold medals at a single Olympics, setting a world record time of 19.32 in the 200m and an Olympic record of 43.49 in the 400m. By the time Johnson retired from athletics in 2001, he had amassed a total of thirteen Olympic and World Championship gold medals.Scrupulous planning and rigorous preparation were hallmarks of Johnson’s approach, and since his retirement as a professional athlete, Johnson has founded a business – Michael Johnson Performance – which provides athletes with advanced athletic assessment, using a variety of tools and advanced technological capabilities to assist in evaluating and training any athlete.Team BMW Oracle gliding to victory in the 33rd America’s Cup off the coast of Valencia.Photograph: Kai Foersterling/EPABMW Oracle Racing’s victory in the 33rd America’s CupBMW Oracle Racing’s victory in the 33rd America’s Cup yacht race in February 2010 showcased extraordinary sailing expertise, but also the power of technology. The design of the boat itself was, of course, instrumental, but to sail it to its full potential, the crew reviewed enormous amounts of reliable data every time they took the boat for a test run.The team collected performance data from 250 sensors at the rate of 10 times per second, so in any given hour of sailing, 90 million data points were generated. Using Oracle Data Mining in Oracle Database 11g to extract maximum value from the data, the statistics were reviewed and shared with crew members daily. The data was streamed to a data centre where a dedicated team tackled deeper analysis.Without the data mining, Ian Burns, design coordinator for BMW Oracle Racing, says the boat wouldn’t have run as fast. The technology, he said, allowed the team to compare the incremental improvements in performance from the first day of sailing to the very last day.Bradley Wiggins powered to victory in the 2012 Tour de France.Photograph: Bryn Lennon/Getty ImagesBradley Wiggins wins 2012 Tour De FranceWhen Bradley Wiggins won the Tour de France in 2012, he punched a button on his SRM bike computer to log the ride data before he celebrated by punching the air with pride. Team Sky’s success in the Tour de France – with six stage wins and number one and two on the podium – was soon followed by the success of the British Cycling team the same summer when Bradley Wiggins and Chris Froome took gold and bronze at the Olympics in the men’s time trial.Team Sky and Team GP have relied heavily on technology for their winning advantage, thanks in large part to Head of Performance Support, Tim Kerrison, who is very data-driven in his approach. While the use of data analysis is customary in the Tour de France, Wiggins and Team Sky have dedicated coaching staff assessing every training session and providing real-time feedback.Wiggins had an SRM power meter on his bike, with the data feeding through to TrainingPeaks, an endurance training technology that gives insight into performance, form, and how to mould custom training programs for each rider. Brad Culberson, CTO at TrainingPeaks, wrote: “Riders know that having that data available will not only help them be faster, but will help them to stand out in the technologically-savvy programme.”Saracens captain Wikus van Heerden leads out the team against the Sale Sharks during their 2009 Premiership winning season.Photograph: Christopher Lee/Getty ImagesSaracens win premiership for first time in historyUntil 2009, Saracens had been one of the biggest under-achievers in rugby union particularly in the professional era, despite signing star international players. The appointment of Brendan Venter as director of rugby for the club in 2009, however, was a turning point. Venter was a player in the South African rugby team which won the World Cup in 1995, and also a qualified GP.Bill Gerrard, professor of business and sports analytics at Leeds University, has worked closely with Saracens, and explains how Venter introduced “an in-depth evidence-based approach with the coaching staff which committed to using data to inform their decisions on team selection, game tactics, training priorities and player recruitment.”In May 2011, Saracens won the Premiership for the first time in their history and have become one of the leading teams in European rugby, reaching the finalist of the Heineken Cup last season.Peter Nicol defeated ranking world number one David Palmer in the final of the 2006 Commonwealth Games.Photograph: Phil Cole/Getty ImagesPeter Nicol defeats David Palmer in 2006 Commonwealth Games squash finalIn the 2006 Commonwealth Games, Peter Nicol played in his third consecutive Commonwealth Games final, against ranking world number one at the time, David Palmer. Stafford Murray, Head of Performance Analysis at the EIS, recalls how in the lead-up to the final, David Palmer’s profile was analysed in great depth by team GB:“We looked at data from Palmer’s matches and put together a normative profile – a thumbprint for how someone plays – which showed that the front left corner was where most of Palmer’s opponents were playing winning shots.” Nicol, he explains, “was weak in that area so his coach changed his forehand technique to reduce the likelihood of error”. Nicol went on to defeat Palmer 3-1.The winning formula, according to Murray, was a combination of the input of coach and the athlete’s ability to change technically: “In a moment of glory, Nicol was prepared to trust his coach and change his technique.”Top ten data-driven sporting victories - part twoEleanor Dallaway is editor ofInfosecurity magazine.TheCreative Data hubis funded byAccenture. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by Accenture’. Find out morehere.
As action-puzzle games go,Tipping Starsis a passable little distraction but sadly little else. Stages consist mainly of guiding uncontrollable “mini” toys to a door via movable bridges, pipes and other tools – thinkLemmingsand you’re largely there. The goal is simply to reach the exit, but collecting coins for a high score requires you to find a more challenging route. While the core gameplay and level design are decent, the game is in dire need of a fast-forward button. The “minis” move incredibly slowly, which is particularly noticeable when you’re retrying levels or replaying for a better score. There is, as with many modern games, a focus on sharing self-created levels, backed up by an intuitive level-builder. So it’s competent, but dull in comparison with similar games.
Dyson is investing $15m in a new type of battery that promises to double smartphone battery life and allow electric cars to drive over 600 miles per charge.The British vacuum company was alerted to the University of Michigan spin-off called Sakti3, which has developed next generation solid-state technology that can store twice as much energy as traditional rechargeable batteries.As part of the investment, Dyson has entered into a joint development agreement to commercialise Sakti3’s solid-state battery technology. The new batteries promise to store twice as much energy as today’s liquid-based lithium batteries, that are used in everything from smartphones and tablets to cars, robots, and renewable energy sources such as solar panels and wind turbines.“Sakti3 has achieved leaps in performance, which current battery technology simply can’t,” said company founder James Dyson. “It’s these fundamental technologies – batteries, motors – that allow machines to work properly.”Battery technology is one of the major limiting factors of portable or cordless electronic products today. While surrounding computer technologies have progressed at a staggering rate, batteries haven’t kept up, leading to user frustration and limits on what can be done.The lithium-ion technologies used in today’s best batteries have barely progressed since their introduction in 1991 by Sony. There has been improvement in longevity and charging times, but not a great deal in terms of the amount of energy that batteries store.Mobile electronics have been forced to choose: either be heavier and thicker, or else suffer from poor battery life, which is one of the reasons products like the iPhone rarely last longer than a day on a single charge.Solids not liquidsMost batteries rely on a liquid mixture of reactive compounds, which store energy from the mains and release it when required through chemical reactions within the cell in the form of electricity.Sakti3’s solid-state technology uses solid lithium electrodes instead of a liquid mix of chemicals, which doubles the amount of energy that can be stored within a battery.The eight-year-old company claims its solid-state batteries can store over 1,000 watt hours per litre, which is almost double the best traditional lithium-ion batteries available today with an energy density of up to 620 watts per hour per litre. That increased energy density could effectively double the battery life of mobile electronics, extend the range of electric vehicles and lead to thinner and lighter technology.The batteries also promise to be cheaper to manufacture, longer lasting and be more environmentally friendly than current lithium-ion batteries. Solid-state batteries also remove some of the safety issues around the explosive nature of liquid batteries.Other battery technologies in development, such as sulphur-based batteries, have been held back by safety issues. The chemical reactions used to generate the electricity can be violent and corrosive, meaning that they need to be carefully contained to avoid leaks and the reaction releasing the electricity must be kept stable to avoid overheating and potentially explosive consequences.As most batteries are used in close proximity to the body, such as a smartphone kept in a pocket, tough safety regulations are in place.Ann Marie Sastry, founder and chief executive of Sakti3, said that the agreement with Dyson will allow the company to bring its technology to the mass market.“There is a great deal of knowledge and passion on both sides, and Dyson’s engineering team has the capability and the track record to scale up new ideas and make them a commercial reality,” she said.The investment from Dyson guarantees that the new battery technology will appear first in Dyson products, including new versions of its cordless machines and robotic vacuum cleaners. But the applications for the technology go far beyond cleaning products.Additional investors in Sakti3 include Khosla Ventures, General Motors and others.Tesla Motors’ Model S sedan: the electric car company recently announced the launch of a home battery pack.Photograph: Ringo H.W. Chiu/APOne of the major factors holding back electric cars is so-called “range anxiety”. The best electric cars can only manage around 300 miles on battery power before requiring recharging, which can take over an hour even on the fastest chargers. Batteries with twice the capacity could help alleviate such range issues and make electric vehicles a viable alternative to fossil fuel-powered cars.Electric car company Tesla, which has also been investing heavily in battery technology, recently announced the launch of a home battery pack. The batteries will be used to store energy generated by solar panels and other renewable sources powering homes overnight and helping reduce electrical costs and carbon footprints.What issues can solid-state batteries solve?Smartphones:solid-state batteries could be made thinner, lighter and safer, while storing twice as much energy effectively, and doubling smartphone battery lifeCars:Satki3’s batteries could solve range anxiety in electric cars doubling the current maximum of 300 miles per charge, meaning a car could drive from London to Aberdeen without stoppingRenewable energy in the home:high-density long-life batteries could be charged by solar panels during the day, ready to power a household through the night or when the Sun isn’t shining
There are many things the internet can be blamed for, from revenge porn to Grumpy Cat, but celebrity chef David Chang has added a new item to the list.“Everything tastes the same,” he says, “and it’s the internet’s fault.”Chang, whose culinary empire has grown over a decade from one noodle bar, Momofuku, to a group including more than ten restaurants, a cookbook, and a quarterly magazine, Lucky Peach, argues that the much-vaunted democratisation of information has had a pernicious affect on variation in food.It was in that magazine that he first explored the argument, with particular emphasis on the foodstuff which his own restaurants focus on: ramen. Before the internet, he wrote, “apprentices would learn from a chef, then work their way from taking orders to washing dishes and finally to working in the kitchen. Once they were good enough, the master would tell them to move on to another shop somewhere else.”If you wanted to learn how to cook, “you’d order ramen books from Japan and wait weeks for them to arrive, so you could pore over the photos from across the planet.”Now, he wrote, “ramen is everywhere, and a lot of it is the same. I don’t want to go to every city and taste the same fucking thing. Everyone’s serving tonkotsu ramen, everyone’s serving pork. You could do a blind taste test and not have any idea where the fuck you’re eating.”Speaking at SXSW festival in Austin, Texas, Chang argues that restaurant cuisine is hurt in more ways than one by the frictionless way the internet enables chefs to get information all around the world.“There are probably 10 websites about the best places to find ramen throughout the world… That’s fantastic, but it hurts the important demographic of the cooks. There’s not struggle, and I think it’s very important in any creative process that you endorse some sort of struggle.”At the other end of the scale, he argues, the rapid growth in food blogs and online conversation around eating out means that it’s harder than ever for a young chef to make a mark doing something that’s interestingly different, because the pressure to get it right first time is enormous.“One thing the internet prevents is trial and error. Everybody wants something instantly. That’s fantastic, but what it sacrifices is the process of fucking up. I’m sorry, but nobody is born a chef genius, it’s whoever makes the best mistakes. And right now the internet puts people in the position where they have to get it right immediately.“In Noodle Bar we fucked up for nine months straight. Being told you’re going out of business is great, because it means you don’t care. We thought, ‘if we’re going out of business let’s fucking go out of business’,” he said - and that’s when his business took off.“The only way you fuck up is if you don’t fuck up.”‘The coolest thing ever is the Taco Bell app’Despite being down on the internet, Chang is by no means relentlessly anti-tech – although he expects more than the industry currently provides the restaurant sector. “The existing stuff that’s there, it’s great but it’s not awesome. I don’t think anyone’s like ‘man, I love OpenTable’. You use it by default. We use it. But it’s not something you rave about.“That’s what we’re missing: nothing’s amazing.”The dream platform, he said, would mix the reservation, point of sale and inventory systems to offer something unique. “For instance: We have some really old great wines. If someone orders a really great burgundy, I need to open that six hours before hand.” Currently, of course, that’s not possible: the restaurant can only open wine once a customer’s ordered it.“There should be a way for us and the customer to be like ‘Mr Smith, last time you were here you ordered this, would it be alright if we opened it at five o’clock beforehand?’”But looking into the idea provided an awkward surprise. “I had no idea how expensive it is. We were talking to a data mining company, who were going to charge $6m a year to make a platform for us. I was like, ‘what? That’s more than we make! I should have done better in school. Fuck.’”Instead, Chang’s first real adventure in the tech space takes its influence from a rather more downmarket source: Taco Bell. The fast food chain recently launched an app which allows customers to order their food remotely, and pick up their own custom-made taco as it’s made. “That’s amazing,” he said. “That is pretty rad. And I would love that for Momofuku two years from now. You walk in, no line, sit down and I have what you want, boom, it’s right there.”In the meantime, Chang’s experimenting with the idea in his latest restaurant venture, called Fuku. The restaurant, announced this week, will focus exclusively on spicy fried chicken sandwiches. “It’s going to basically be a regular restaurant where you can get a fried chicken sandwich. Just that right now. And a healthy option. You’re either eating fat person food, or you want a healthy lunch.”Alongside the restaurant,Chang will launch an app, which follows similar lines to the Taco Bell concept. But, he says, the venture is more than just the latest expansion of his chain.“I think that the only way you can effect change in a positive way is by effecting it from big business. If Momofuku can get big, we can really affect how people eat.“Everyone wants to make a David Lynch Blue Velvet movie, but no-one wants to watch that all the time! I really want to watch Star Wars. To make a movie, or food, that everyone wants to enjoy, that’s hard. Right now, to make something that is enjoyable for everyone is intrinsically rewarding.”
Robert Kirkman, the creator of The Walking Dead, makes no secret of his ambition to “fix comics”. Now, as Kirkman’s realm grows to cover TV and films, so too does that ambition.From its roots as a creator-owned comic book series written by Kirkman and drawn by Terry Moore and later Charlie Adlard, the Walking Dead, which follows the lives of a ragtag bunch of survivors of a zombie apocalypse, has ballooned into a fully-fledged franchise. But the hugely successful TV adaptation, as well as board games, video games, an upcoming spin-off TV show and even licensed fabrics, have only been possible because of Kirkman’s rare approach to creator’s rights.The author is vocal about his dislike for a business model which typically involves signing away most creations in exchange for a steady pay check, and has created Skybound Entertainment, a publisher working across comics, TV and gaming, as a way of countering that. In 2008, he argued that the way to “fix comics” would be for “top creators who want to do creator-owned work [to] band together and give it a shot. If you give people the option of Spider-Man or your creator-owned book… they’ll choose Spider-Man.”Today, he’s still fighting that fight. “People come up to me and say ‘what if people want to do stuff at Marvel and DC?’,” he said onstage at SXSW in Austin, Texas, “but after a certain point it’s dumb to do that, because it’s not in your best interests.” If an author or artist creates a hit character for a major comics publisher, they can find it very hard indeed to get a share of that success.In contrast, while creators like Kirkman, who through Skybound publishes his own comics, may struggle initially to find an audience, the payoff can be huge. Kirkman decries the “soulless corporate idea of ‘transmedia’” publishing, but argues that the the prospect for an “organic, almost accidental transmedia” should keep any creator’s eyes open to the possibilities their work can create.He described the early days of the Walking Dead, when he made repeated decisions to turn down offers for the TV rights to the comic because keeping the income from his own lines of merchandise was more important. “They’ll give you $5000 for the rights, but then they’ll take years to decide if they want to do it.” If the show gets made, the payoff can be worth it, but in the meantime ability to license the comic can dry up. “The rights they take are more valuable… it got to a point where i was defending this thing with The Walking Dead that was very important to me, but by defending it it gave me the thing I have now.”Now that Kirkman has experience in the world of Television, he says his ambition has grown. “Expanding what I said about comics to TV and movies, I’m not an expert, but I do think it’s ridiculous that you can create a TV show and not have an ownership stake in it. I think a long term goal is to reach the state where I can self-finance TV shows in the way that I self-finance and own comics.“But even though that’s something that will never happen, I like to give myself something to work towards.”As for whether or not he’s succeeded in his goal of fixing comics, he says that “my goal is to not be homeless, so in that respect I’ve succeeded. Anything after that is gravy.”
“There’s an app for that.” The punchline of our age. We have outsourced our most basic needs to the gleaming oblongs in our pockets. Whatever you need to do, eat, get, fix or have sex with, let your smartphone take the slack. Every desire is on demand.But is it true? To put our brave new world through its paces, I’m spending an entire day living exclusively through on-demand mobile service apps to see what our lives might be like in the near-future. Spoiler: quite weird.At 7am I’m woken by a 60-second phone call from a stranger, Dylan – in America, judging by his accent. This isWakie, a community of people who act as each other’s alarm clocks. “I’m actually Canadian,” Dylan says. “Wake up!”“Sorry,” I reply. “I don’t mean I’m sorry you’re from Canada,” I add groggily. Mild awkwardness is a great wake-up call, and 30 seconds later I’m out of bed.First, let’s get work off the table. I browsePeople Per Hour, a skills shop in which you can commission experienced freelancers, or “hourlies”, at knock-down rates.“Can you write my article for me?” I type. In short, yes. In addition to photographers, graphic designers and coders, there are writers who’ll research and write 600-word articles for between £10 and £20. As a writer, I know this is too cheap; I feel faint stirrings of ethical unease. I commission some background research from Kuru, a PPE graduate and copywriter, and move on.I need a new home for the day. Many startups initially run services from central London before expanding, so that’s where I should be. OnAirbnb’s app I choose a luxurious-looking studio flat in Bloomsbury that will be my base of operations. I request anUber, and I’m away. All too easy.Ah yes, Uber. Where it all started. Marketed as “everyone’s private driver”, it offers a marriage of convenience and elitism at an affordable price. It’s an unbeatable package – it’s a market leader, with a business valued at $40bn. Yet Uber is also a market leader in controversy. Taxi drivers are up in arms about its monopoly, it is dogged by reports of sexual harassment by drivers, and last year a senior executive suggested snooping on users’ private records to conduct smear-retaliations against journalists who publicly criticise it. So that’s not great.‘Could I get a crown, I wonder. I’m drunk on power and possibility’: Rhik Samadder.Photograph:  Ellis Parrinder/ObserverMy driver, Dikembe, is originally from the Republic of Congo, and has lived here 20 years. He’s been an Uber driver for a month, and it works for him. “Uber is good. It’s a platform. I’m my own boss, in partnership with them. I choose my hours; I get more jobs this way. I do have to clean the car every few days – everything is about keeping your ratings high. But it’s good.”What’s less good is my new home for the day. I’d forgotten the closer you get to central London, the smaller acceptable living spaces become. I’m in WC1, so the room feels roughly the same dimensions as my coffin. It’s underground, too. The phone reception is terrible.Time to talk grooming. I’m looking atPriv, a beautician on-demand service. The app is very pink. Bodily intimacies are normalised within external settings, like a salon. What’s it like to have a stranger come to your house and shave you? Or give you a massage, or menicure? “Masseur” and “menicure” are both words that make me feel funny, so I opt for a haircut.An hour later Tania raps at the door and enters, a ball of energy. “I couldn’t find it! I walked in a big circle for 40 minutes. I don’t mind walking. I’m no girly girl, I can squat 100kg – but not for an hour, you know? You want a haircut, right?” Tania is, in her own words, “a crazy Brazilian” – which also sounds like a procedure you can get on the app.Tania lays out her equipment. There’s no chair in the room, so I sit on my suitcase while she snips away talkatively. Priv is a huge operation in the US, she tells me, and growing here. “Having a beauty treatment in your home, it’s more pampering. People like that,” she tells me. Tania also does on-demand fitness classes and make-up sessions – one of her clients isAmy Willerton, a former Miss England. I share a hairdresser with Miss England!Short cut: an hour after ordering a haircut, Tania knocks at Rhik’s door. He sits on his suitcase while she snips away.Photograph: Ellis Parrinder/ObserverI wonder what else is possible with this app stuff. Could I get a crown, I wonder. Can I have a lobster delivered to me? I’m drunk on power and possibility, absolutely corrupted.There’s an app for that.Bizzbyis a wide-ranging personnel service which sends “heroes” to your aid. A hero will fetch or do almost anything you want them to – a Sunday paper, a dreidel, a dog that speaks Aramaic… Maybe not that, but it’s probably a matter of time. Within an hour, a Romanian named Lucia is at my door, asking what I need. The room’s getting quite crowded now.“You want… a crown?” It does feel silly asking this in person rather than typing it.“Just a toy one,” I say, reasonably. This is Lucia’s first hero assignment. Luckily she finds rampant megalomania funny. “Most people need help moving house or arranging a wardrobe,” she says. “You’re silly.”For my dinner, I useJinn. It promises to have anything you want, from any restaurant or store, delivered to your door within an hour. I order a crustacean and chips from the restaurantBurger &amp; Lobster. Lucia is still looking up crowns. Tania knows a place in Camden and tells her how to get there. “Or I have a carnival headdress in my house. Big feathers!”My thoughts turn to domesticity. In all probability the future will be a nightmare world of resource scarcity and climate-change disasters, but also probably less housework. But until we get robot butlers, apps such asHasslelet you book visits from a local cleaner, while door-to-door services likeLaundrappandZipjetcan take care of your washing. I need something quicker. I get back on Bizzby and request someone to do my ironing.Tania leaves; Lucia returns. She has done brilliantly and we have a little coronation ceremony with me still sitting on my suitcase. It’s like the madness of King George. A deliveryman turns up halfway through with my lobster. I really am living the dream.‘Have you been to prison? You’d find it interesting’: Zuhra from Bizzby, chats to Rhik while doing his ironing.Photograph: Ellis Parrinder/ObserverZuhra from Bizzby arrives to what must look like a strip-lit, basement-based breakdown. Like the others, she checks in with her employer so they know where she is. I only have one shirt to iron. She laughs at me, which I’m getting used to.Zuhra is from Uzbekistan – I’ve never met anyone from Uzbekistan – and has a degree in psychology. She was due to open a summer camp in Ukraine, to teach children English, but then the region’s current conflict started. “So we couldn’t do it. Money doesn’t love me, but God loves me.”I feel ashamed, sitting here in a crown, eating lobster, living off my phone. I put them aside and let the food go cold. Zuhra tells me about her life, how she set up a theatre company, but the hard-hitting plays she was interested in did not find an audience. Zuhra enjoys her work, she says. “I like seeing different people every day.” She looks at the room. “Have you been to prison?” she twinkles. “You’d find it interesting. Ha ha!’After she leaves, I sit in my newly pressed shirt. It’s time for the bit of the experiment I’ve been dreading. Is it possible to befriend a total stranger through an app and meet them for a drink? I’m not allowed to have sex with any of these people, which actually makes this harder. “You don’t know me, but how about a friendly drink?” sounds way creepier than: “Wan2bone ?”Still, in I plunge.WhosHere,Omegle,Skoutare all apps designed to help you chat with strangers. They’re colourful, like an e- numbers-induced migraine, with incomprehensible pop-up ads every few seconds. They hurt my eyes and offend my soul. I set up profiles and wait.On Skout I quickly start receiving alerts. “Te pareces a Brus wilis” a woman in Spain writes to me, which I don’t understand on a number of levels. December Ladyboy winks at me from Thailand. I get a message from Exequiel, who seems the best bet. “How are you?” he asks. “I’m fine!” I type back excitably. “Heading out for a quick drink. Are you in town?” “Yes,” he replies. “In the Philippines.”Did you meet online?: Rhik gets to know some fellow drinkers in Holborn Grind.Photograph: Ellis Parrinder/ObserverIt’s evening and I’m running out of time. I decide to hit the bar alone. I look for a venue which supportsBarPass, an app which lets you order drinks in advance.There are only about five options open, but the bar Holborn Grind isn’t too far away. I hop in an Uber and dip a cautious toe into dating apps to see if anyone’s nearby.I get a few matches onTinder, but scattershot requests for an immediate drink, with the caveat that “sex is not on the table”, are not the caramel-dipped charm offensive you might imagine. What aboutGrindr? I’m not gay, but I am voluntarily drinking in a bar called Grind. Maybe that counts? I’m definitely not thinking straight, at any rate. BarPass isn’t working either. I walk up to the counter and ask them how to make it work, which sort of defeats the point. They’ve never heard of it.I stare at corrugated torsos and good hair and single-entendre usernames on Grindr. What the actual hell am I doing trying to pick up gay men to not have sex with? This is ludicrous. I’m quite relieved it’s hard to pick up human strangers. I decide to pack it in.Leaving, I pass a group of friends loudly applauding a cocktail barman. I ask one of them, a 23-year-old photographer named Monwar, if he met any of them online. “People should use their phones less,” he says. “You don’t really meet a person that way, you know?”In the cab home I get chatting to my driver. Anwar is from Bangladesh and has been an Uber driver for three weeks. He’s feeling the pinch of Uber’s rock-bottom prices. He makes £4 an hour. He’d make a few more withAddison Lee, but they only take experienced drivers. “I’m a family man and my daughter is disabled,” he says. “There’s no maximum limit on the hours I can work, as long as I’m not tired. But I don’t want to be on the road all the time.”I feel weirdly tired, though I’ve had everything done for me all day. What has surprised me is how un-anonymous the impact of technology can be, enabling real encounters, putting faces to our service economy – Congo, Brazil, Romania, Ukraine, Bangladesh. But capitalist technology emancipates in one direction: greater convenience for one section of society entails inconvenience in another.My phone vibrates. Kuru’s article has arrived. It’s well researched and readable, and one section jumps out: “On-demand mobile service apps leverage smartphone technology, economies of scale and reduced financial risk to offer extremely competitive pricing. Who wins? ODMs win by standing to make great profits, while customers win by saving time and money. It is the freelance workers who often assume the burden of job insecurity in return for cheap labour.”Being driven home, having ordered a takeaway that will arrive 10 minutes after I do, I realise the costs factored into an on-demand lifestyle aren’t just financial but human. Access to services might be more direct than ever, but we still have to get around our conscience. I’m not sure there is an app for that.Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
There are several moments when Jack Cator is telling me his story that sound like they’ve been written by a slightly lazy Hollywood scriptwriter. Because we’ve all heard about the quiet, ever-so-slightly nerdy teenager who sets up a website from his parents’ sofa and turns it into a multi-million-pound global business. But Jack Cator actually is that person.His particular sofa was in a small village in Norfolk – Breckles – and the website he set up at the age of 16,HideMyAss!, turned over £11m last year. And even our interview conforms to the cliche of the genre: it’s taking place in the corporate boardroom of his groovy offices in Soho (a yellow piano in the reception, a graffiti wall) and though a PR man and his chief operating officer are in attendance as well as me, he is, by quite some margin, the youngest person in the room. He’s now 25, and in the film of his life, this would be the moment that the journalist asks: “So tell me, Jack, what is the secret of your success?” And then the scene would cut to an image of him running his company from a laptop on a beach with a beautiful woman at his side.Which is pretty much spot on. He’s just returned from Goa – his girlfriend is a yoga teacher and wanted to practise there – and while he now has nearly 100 employees, he spent the last month or so running the business literally from his sun lounger. “Is there even Wi-Fi on the beach?” I ask, trying to get my head around this. “3G,” he says. “It just about stretched that far.”His story is a remarkable tale to which his deadpan delivery doesn’t quite do justice. He was still operating from his parents’ sofa, he tells me, when he decided he needed to get a lawyer. “So I posted it as a question onReddit.”“Is that how you solve all of life’s problems?” I ask. “By posting on Reddit?”“Yes,” he says. “I post everything on Reddit.” One lawyer in particular, Danvers Baillieu, “got upvoted a few times, so…” That was that. Baillieu, who’s now the COO of Cator’s parent company, Privax, continues the story for me.“I was doing quite a lot of work with startups, mostly helping them with the legal side of things,” he says. “They all had lots of ideas but no money. And then Jack came to see me and he mentioned his turnover… and I said: ‘And how much is your turnover, out of interest?’ And he said: ‘Oh you know… around 10 to 20 thousand. A day.’ And I was writing this down and pretending, ‘oh yes, this is completely normal’.”Jack Cator found that starting young pays off. ‘I had no mortgage or outgoings or financial dependencies, so I could just experiment and create things without worrying if it’d make money.’Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose/ObserverMaking a profit is not completely normal in the tech world, though. Especially not in the early days. What really distinguishes Cator from other British companies in the same space is that he’s grown his business entirely from scratch without needing a penny of investment. He built his first website aged 11. “It was something to do with BMX bikes or something silly like that. I was just using a drag-and-drop style design editor so I didn’t need to know how to program. I just moved things around on the screen… but I gradually learned how to design and use Photoshop from reading tutorials on the internet. And then every time I learned something new I would write a tutorial about it and a bit of a community grew up around the website.”Did your parents encourage you? Or were they more like, “Get off the computer and go and get some fresh air”?“More like, ‘Get off that computer…’, but yeah, they don’t mention that so much now.”It meant he already had five years of experience under his belt when one afternoon, aged 16, he had the idea for a new website. “I literally created it in a few hours in a single afternoon.” HideMyAss! is a virtual private network or VPN, and it’s a way of accessing the internet, privately and anonymously, via another computer’s IP address. Was there a specific trigger for the idea?“There wasn’t one thing,” he says, “I just thought it was a good idea to help people block censorship. I thought it was a good cause.” Given that he was 16 at the time, when he says “censorship”, he doesn’t mean the Chinese government’sGreat Firewall of China. “At school, you couldn’t access MySpace at the time, or online games. That kind of thing.”He looked online to find some free open-source code, cobbled it into a very plain, minimalist website design, and – in what was perhaps his stroke of marketing genius – gave it a bold, unconventional name, then submitted it toDigg, “which was the Reddit of its day”. He knew his audience, and it hit the front page of Digg almost immediately. “There were other sites,” he says. “But they were very cluttered, had lots of ads, whereas this was just a logo and a text box, and it just went viral.”Related:Wi-Fi security, multiple sim cards and tablet pics – tech questions answeredAnd because he’d already created dozens of other sites, he knew what to do. “I was being linked to from thousands of websites, but I just added more servers pretty quickly because I’d got the experience from my web hosting days and my tutorial-writing days, so I had hundreds of thousands of users in the first month.”What’s more, it wasn’t just school kids. “It was people from all over the globe and they weren’t just accessing online games. They were accessing news websites, for example, in the Middle East, and I realised that actually this is a very useful tool. And a very important tool for some people. So I just put some ads on it and then let it run itself for a few years.”In the meantime, he went to college in Norwich to study “computer something”. Computer something? “I can’t actually remember. It wasn’t important.” And then he decided that this little sideline of his was shaping up to be a rather successful business.I ask when he first started making money from it. “Well, there’s money and there’s money. I mean, I was making a small amount through advertising, but it wasn’t until 2009 when I launched a subscription service that it really took off financially.” But before then it was making enough to run itself? “Yeah. It was running itself and maybe giving me $1-2,000 a month.”Most 16-year-olds would consider that pretty substantial pocket money, I point out. “Yeah. But I was doing other things to make money online – from affiliate marketing and promoting software and getting paid for downloads and so on, so I was making other money as well at that time.” But then, if there’s one thing that Jack Cator’s story demonstrates, it’s that starting young is a brilliant strategy in and of itself. “I had no mortgage or outgoings or financial dependencies, so I could just experiment and create things without worrying if it’d make money. It obviously gets harder when you have bills to pay.”His other great strategic advantage was being located in rural Norfolk. He used freelancers for everything. “I hadn’t met a single one of my employees or even spoken to them on the phone until I set up the office in London.” And while everybody is being told they must know how to code, Cator mostly just commissioned someone else to do what he needed. “I just found people online through websites likeoDesk.comwhere you can hire a freelancer per hour or per project from another country very cheaply.”His system architect was in Ukraine, “so we built up an office around him there” and “my customer service person was in Belgrade so we did the same thing there”. And when he finally made the Norfolk-to-London leap, he offered jobs to the freelancers he’d been using. It’s perhaps why, from my impression at least, the staff looks less startup cool and more diverse than you might expect. But then, as he points out, he’s had no almost contact with London’s startup scene, withSilicon Roundabout, orTech City; he’s simply built up an incredibly successful, profitable business without any of the attendant posing and fanfare.“What really impressed me,” says Danvers Baillieu, “is that I persuaded my company to shell out some tickets for a table at theTechCrunchawards and I invited Jack. When I went around introducing him, there were a lot of people who were already using HideMyAss! but had no clue who Jack was or knew anything about him. That was when I realised, ‘This guy is on to something here.’”Edward Snowden, who Jack Cator credits with raising general awareness about internet privacy, and also a spike in HideMyAss’s business.Photograph: -/AFP/Getty ImagesHe was. And HideMyAss! now has more than 10 million free unique users per month and 200,000 paying subscribers and has recently launched a new service,HideMyPhone.“It’s an app that allows you to get an additional phone number on your phone,” he says. “So if you want…”To stalk someone?“No, actually quite the opposite. If you want to give your number to someone and you don’t want to give them your real number, if you’re online dating, for example, you can just get a virtual number on the app.”Edward Snowden was very good for business, he says. And there have been huge spikes during various bouts of political unrest, particularly the Arab spring. But generally, people are wising up about both security and privacy. “It’s both about protecting yourself online and getting out of the eyes of people who intend to do you harm. And then there’s the whole tracking angle. You’re being constantly monitored, everything you do is being sold to different advertising agencies. Your entire web fingerprint is in the hands of big corporations. It’s quite creepy.That’s all very well and good but can’t HideMyAss be used to hide illegal activities? “I always get asked this but it’s just like with any new technology – of course they can be misused. Google gets misused. BT broadband gets misused. But we’re really clear in our terms and conditions that we don’t support torrenting or illegal downloading. And if you do something bad and we get a request from the police, we will hand over your details.”And do you get many requests? “We get some. It’s quite low compared to an ISP or something.”Lloyd Abbott, Cator’s PR, takes the unusual step of sending me the company’s accounts before the interview, which show that Cator is nearly doubling his revenue year-on-year But then entrepreneurship is in his blood – his father runs his own mechanical engineering firm. “I always saw how hard he worked,” Cator says. Even before he built his first website he was getting into trouble selling Pokémon cards at school.So, what’s planned for the future? Can you see yourself being Virgin-sized in 20 years? He shrugs. “I don’t see why not,” he says in his trademark deadpan delivery. “I think we’ve just scratched the surface.”Online security: five ways to stay safeA VPN service such as HideMyAss! is just one of many actions you can take to secure yourself online1. Secure your passwordsIf you use the same password for everything, it’s time to stop. Not only is this incredibly risky, it’s entirely unnecessary thanks to the plethora of cross-platform password managers on the market, most of which are freely available or very cheap. Once set up, a good password manager can encrypt, generate and remember your passwords for you. We likePasspackandLastPass, but be sure to shop around. Additionally, if any application or website provides you with the option to activate double authentication, use it. This will require you to type in a code (usually sent to your phone via SMS) when you try to log in to your account from a new location. It adds another layer of security and greatly reduces your risk of being compromised.2. Secure your browser“Click here to find hot singles in your area!” Every wondered how online adverts seem to know exactly where you live? Your browser can give away a lot of information about you – with some very basic analytics tools, a website can pinpoint your location, what links you’ve clicked, how many times you’ve visited in the past and even track your cursor movements. These are largely used to make your browsing experience more convenient, but if you’d rather have more control over what you’re revealing about yourself, try installing a few plugins on your browser. We recommend starting out withGhostery, a plugin that tracks the trackers, allowing you to block anything it finds.Related:21 tips, tricks and shortcuts to help you stay anonymous online3. Secure your emailIf like most people you’re using a webmail service such as Gmail, Hotmail or Yahoo then you might want to consider using a more secure alternative. It’s more than likely you’ve been using these for years, so switching to a new email address entirely is probably not a very viable option. However, if you ever need to send a sensitive email, then it’s a good idea to have a secure account for those occasions.Hushmailis a great place to start – it’s a free (but limited, unless you subscribe) Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) encrypted webmail service, with no third-party advertising sneakily harvesting details from your account in an attempt to push more relevant or personalised ads your way.4. Use a proxy or a virtual private networkA proxy can mask your online activity by relaying data (accessed through your browser) via a server in a different location, thus obfuscating the source of your original requests. A Virtual Private Network (VPN) is very similar, except these are intended to mask all data, rather than just the requests sent through your browser. Proxies tend to be free but not very convenient and sometimes quite slow (tryhide.me), whereas a good VPN is more convenient and arguably more secure, but will almost always require a monthly or yearly subscription. Jack Cator’s HideMyAss is a fairly user-friendly VPN and offers a 30-day money-back guarantee.Hotspot Shieldis one of the most popular free VPNs.5. Delve into the deep webIf you’re feeling very adventurous, you can dabble withTor, a network of virtual tunnels that allows individuals to surf the web and communicate anonymously. Occasionally referred to as being part of the “deep” web, the data accessed through Tor is unindexed by search engines, making it, in a sense, invisible. The fundamental idea behind Tor is to allow people to communicate over public networks without having to worry about their own privacy. This is great for whistleblowers, people from countries that block some web content, government or military communications, or individuals who desire a very robust form of online privacy. Sadly, this also opens the service up to some nefarious and illegal activity, so be careful where you tread.Nicholas Tufnell
Price £12,195MPG 39.8Top speed 87mphYears ago my wife and I hired aSuzuki Jimnyfor two weeks’ holiday in southern Spain. We’d opted for a Fiat Panda as that was the cheapest vehicle on the list, but were “upgraded” to the Jimny. As a 4x4 fan, I was delighted, my wife less so. We drove at least 1,500km in a great loop around Andalucia, swerving off road to explore the dirt tracks between the whitewashed towns. After visiting Jerez, she managed to empty a bottle of fino into the footwell and for the rest of trip the car smelled of Tio Pepe.Two decades later and the only thing that seems to have changed about the Jimny is it no longer stinks of sherry. Climbing into it was like doing the time warp. The “updated” model boasts a few superficial changes – the bumper, grille and bonnet have been refreshed and there’s an air intake that looks like it means business – but essentially Suzuki has left its sturdy little workhorse to fend for itself. And that, depending on where you stand, is either a good thing or a very bad thing.Compact, practical and undeniable value for money, the Jimny hails from an era when offroaders were built to go off road. These days most 4x4s have lost that battle-hardened edge and have grown softer and more and more car-like. Not the Jimny. Oh no, it’s still a clunky and chunky no-nonsense customer with a tough, unbreakable feel about it. Uncompromising is the word. And if you’re a farmer or live in splendid rural isolation, I imagine it would soon become your BFF. If you don’t, then you’ll find yourself driving a noisy wee beastie that struggles to cope with flat, fast roads. Its handling is woeful and cornering is a heart-in-your-mouth affair. It leans terribly and seems to have as much contact with the tarmac as a Fathers 4 Justice dad has with his kids.Inside story: the Jimny’s no-nonsense interior.The low-revving 1.3-litre engine may well cope with muddy tracks and boulder fields, but show it the motorway and it gasps and grunts like an asthmatic Shetland pony. The only mercy is that road and wind noise is so loud you can barely hear the coarse engine. You can select 2WD or 4WD, which means you can boost your fuel economy. In normal driving conditions you can expect about 40 miles to the gallon.Testing the Jimny outside its native habitat feels unfair – like asking a fish to ride a bike. It simply has not been designed for the road. Its narrowness (you can lock the passenger’s door without stretching) results in it feeling unsteady on the flat, but it has been designed to allow access to rough, tight areas that larger, more-expensive off-roaders couldn’t get near.The interior is super basic. But it’s supposed to be – hard, hose-down plastics abound. The driving position is brilliant. Despite it being so small, you still climb up and into its cabin. It feels like driving an old Land Rover Defender. The boot is also small, but you can fold down the back seats and create quite a sizeable space.It’s quirky and authentic, distinctive and whimsical. To some die-hards it’s a cult classic. Rent one for a week, enjoy a holiday romance, sherry and all, but when it’s time to go home you’ll be pleased to give it back.New child seat, new wheelsGet in line: Range Rover Evoques await loading at Southampton dock.It’s almost 20 years since Britax co-developed the pioneering Isofix technology in conjunction with Volkswagen, revolutionising child-seat installation for parents across the world. Back then only about a third of seats were installed correctly. I can certainly remember fiddling about with a seat belt while trying to hold the car seat in place with my knee. Isofix uses a simple and sturdy latch system that connects the child seat directly to the vehicle’s chassis, making installation a breeze. It also leaves you reassured that your precious cargo is safe from the offset. To celebrate this, and to draw attention to the importance of child seats being properly installed, Britax has been running a competition. Buy a child seat from them and you could win a Range Rover Evoque. Can’t be bad, can it... The competition runs until 31 March 2015. To enter and see terms and conditions, go toBritaxwinacar.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
Ben Rubin hasn’t had much sleep over the last few days, and his legions of newly acquired fans have noticed.As the Guardianlive-streamed an interviewwith Rubin, the founder and chief executive of hot new Silicon Valley app Meerkat, the most frequent comments from the audience of 51 people were along the lines of:“When was the last time Ben slept?”To be fair to Rubin, others thought he still looked good. “Ben is HOT,”tweetedRon Gura, who works at Meerkat’s biggest investor, the Israeli venture capital firm Aleph.It has been a whirlwind couple of weeks for Rubin, a 27-year-old former architecture student from Israel. He launched Meerkat, which allows Twitter users to stream live video footage from their phones, on 27 February. Within days it was the talk of Silicon Valley, with everyone from famed venture capitalist Saul Klein to actor-turned-investor Ashton Kutcher and skateboard legend Tony Hawk “Meerkating” their lives. There are now more than 120,000 “Meerkaters”.“It’s been 13 days,” Rubin said during the live-streamed interview, which was carried out on Thursday in the basement of Meerkat’s offices in San Francisco’s South of Market (SoMa) neighbourhood.Related:Testing out Meerkat: the app that brings live streaming to Twitter“We’ve had the Miami Dolphins [NFL team], American Idol … everyone using Meerkat. It’s, like, amazing brands are using it, people with access are using it – reporters, schools, churches doing services, real-estate agents doing showings of apartments.”Rubin, whose team created Meerkat in eight weeks – almost accidentally as a side project to his Life On Air streaming service – said its aim was to help people share the most exciting or special moments of their lives with friends, admirers, fans or just about anyone who might want to watch.“We believe that everyone has a story to tell,” Rubin says. “The luckiest person has one thing to tell every day and that’s awesome. If you’re less lucky you have [a story] two times a week.“If I ask you if there’s something in your eyes that you think is wonderful to do in a shared experience in the next 24 hours, you probably will come up with one thing. It could be a wedding or going to a Kanye [West] show, or interviewing this person, or it could be going to the beach. It could be picking up a puppy to adopt – anything you think that is a powerful shared experience.”Rubin said he did not care what users shared on Meerkat, and it is important that it is the user who decides what experiences are “awesome enough” to stream.He says Meerkat is designed to encourage people to share experiences as they happen rather than taking pictures and boasting about them later on Twitter or Facebook.“[It’s about] taking people that care about you with you, not taking a picture and [saying] here, look what I did,” he said. “It’s here, come with me. I want you to come with me to [technology and music festival] South by Southwest, not look how amazing my life was at South by Southwest.“Only a few thousand people get to go to South by Southwest. There are probably a million people who are not going to South by Southwest and are interested in seeing some stuff from there. I think we can bridge that gap very easily.”Rubin says that by using Meerkat, users are telling their followers: “This is something I feel special about … and I want you to come with me to this interview, I want you to come with me to the wedding. I want you to come with me to the apartment showing, or yoga, or class.”The app has not just been used by friends sharing puppy and cat videos: journalists broadcasted President Obama’s speech at the 50th anniversary of the Selma to Montgomery marches last weekend, and Meerkat has been used to interview a senator.“It’s a very honest medium,” Rubin said. “There’s a lot to do and we’re only just scratching the surface. The content will evolve from something that is one-directional to something that is two directional. The watchers – the consumers – will actually influence the content itself.”Rubin said several celebrities have noticed the potential of Meerkat to directly interact with their fans, rather than doing so via TV channels. “A lot of their managers have been in touch. They want to have a relationship [with Meerkat]. They [know that they] can drive their fans crazy in a positive way with [Meerkat].”He said Meerkat will also help bring people into the heart of politics, breaking news events, concerts and other events that can be hard for people to access in person.John Ward, a political reporter at Yahoo News, interviewed South Dakota senator John Thune live on Meerkat from his office in Washington DC.Rubin said Twitter had been very supportive of Meerkat, despite the app appearing to be a direct competitor to Periscope, a live-streaming app recently acquired by Twitter.“We thought they might be agitated,” Rubin says. “But they have been holding our hands and helping us. They know that our intentions are good. They will play fair as long as we play fair.”That relationship changed late on Friday night, when Twitter prevented Meerkat from accessing its social graph. That means Meerkat users will not be automatically connected to their Twitter friends with Meerkat.“We are limiting their access to Twitter’s social graph, consistent with our internal policy,” a Twitter spokesperson said.Rubin tweetedto complain about Twitter’s action. “[It’s] a sad day for the Twitter developer community who build amazing products that help us connect with each other,” he said.Meerkat is likely to be the talk of South by Southwest, as Twitter was in 2007 and Foursquare in 2009, as investors and technology watchers seek out Rubin and watch the company’s curated Meerkat live-stream events.Potential investors have come knocking. Rubin, who was dressed in a bright yellow t-shirt, jeans and plastic sandals, said investors were “all over me”. “I think I’ve archived around $500m [worth of investment offers] in my inbox,” he says.Ben Rubin is interviewed on the Guardian – on his own app.Asked who the potential investors were, he replied: “Everyone you can think of … awesome people. Every email that I send back starts: ‘I cannot believe I’m writing these words to you because you’re my hero. I just can’t believe that I’m writing this email to you, but I’m swamped and we’re focusing on the community and I just can’t talk money right now.’”Rubin said he was not going to sell out to the highest bidder: “It’s not about the money for us. We’re in this business to make an impact, not to be rich. It doesn’t make sense [to sell out] now; we haven’t [made] any impact.”He said he owed it to his 11-person team to ensure Meerkat reaches its potential as an independent company. “Everyone in the team the last two years has been going to sleep and waking up knowing that they are doing something that’s going to be big. We deserve to carry on with our vision as much as we can and show what we believe in. Everyone is focused on creating something awesome and magical.”Another reason for not accepting a takeover bid, Rubin said, is because he “just can’t work for another person”.“I am unemployable,” he says. “I was at Intel. Everything seemed so broken. After six months, a year, you start to develop this hatred: ‘Why do I need to do that? It’s so stupid.’”Realising what he has just said about one of the world’s biggest technology companies, Rubin added: “By the way, they [Intel] give amazing conditions, and perks, and great salary and everything.“I [just] wanted to do so much stuff to make the process better. Big organisations are very slow.”If he’s not a good employee, is he a good boss? “I have no fucking idea.”We asked the Meerkat employees watching the live stream if they thought Rubin was a good boss. No one replied either way.
I had the specs for the newest i20 in the door pocket, and the price kept winking at me. Every time I had to over-rev second gear just to get anything at all out of third, “£13,725 on the road” would flicker into my peripheral vision. It’s a cheap little car, OK? It’s not meant to be a Porsche.It does a lot of things surprisingly well, it’s comfortable and roomy enough for a family of four (provided two have short, under-10 legs), and the acceleration in the middle gears only posed a problem on the bizarre roundabouts of Hemel Hempstead. It is unassuming but quite dainty, and people let you out at junctions. The boot can fit a guitar. I can think of estate cars of which that cannot be said. There’s an iPhone charger/display case at the front, to use as a satnav. This is great, until you’re trying to avoid a roadblock on the M1 and don’t have 3G, whereupon it becomes the most senseless, perilous system ever. An innovation I never saw the point of was a display of what gear it thought you should be in. It was like being told by your hairdryer what temperature to use: you know, all advice is appreciated, but it’s my head.Short-haul motorway driving is very clement – once it’s reached the higher speeds, there’s no whining or kvetching. Top speed is apparently 106mph. I didn’t go anywhere near that. Travelling longer distances to the blustery north, the car was buffeted about and the more cautious driver might reach for words like “dicey” and “insecure” and “holy crap”. Having said that, it has six airbags. It’s like travelling around in bubblewrap. People who worry about crashing into things are so 20th century.Dash-wise, the look is about 15-20% classier than you have any right to demand – it has none of that hollow, slightly Tupperware feel of the Atoz (am I the only person left alive still nursing a grudge against the Atoz?), and very often I expected something to be there that wasn’t (a parking camera) because of the features it did have that you wouldn’t expect at this price point (remote central locking). There’s an economy gauge to tell you how many miles you’ll do to the gallon, especially if you obey its gear instructions. The official combined figure of 55.4mpg was pretty close to what I got on a fantastically long drive to Lytham St Anne’s. The emissions are thrifty but not incredible (they have an incredible version, theBlue Drive, though its fans are hardly lining the streets).Something has gone very right with the cabin design – you can drive for hours without needing a break. That’s the kind of driver I can see it was built for: someone with a long way to go, who has carefully calibrated and balanced all the things they might waste going there (time, petrol, emissions, money). OK, maybe this vision is a little short on romance; but £13,725!Hyundai i20 Premium 1.2 (84PS) Manual: in numbersPriceFrom £13,725 (as tested £14,220)Top speed106mphAcceleration0-60mph in 13.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption55.4mpgCO2emissions119g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating5/10• Follow Zoe onTwitter.
It is standing room only in court 602 of the superior court of San Francisco, the hallways are blocked by television news crews and satellite TV trucks line the sunny streets outside.Of those who have managed to secure a seat in the courtroom, a significant proportion have laptops out, busily transcribing every word of the proceedings straight to live blogs for the many tech websites fighting to provide the most comprehensive coverage.San Francisco – and the rest of Silicon Valley – is gripped by proceedings behind the double doors of court 602, where former venture capitalist Ellen Pao – now interim chief executive of social news site Reddit – is suing storied venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers for $16m in a landmark sexual discrimination case. The courthouse itself is eventweeting updates of the trial.Testimony resumes in#PaoTrialat 9:30 a.m. tomorrow in Department 602, Judge Harold E. Kahn presiding.&mdash; SF Superior Court (@SFSuperiorCourt)March 6, 2015The Silicon Valley technology cluster has long been accused of behaving as a boys’ club, with women occupying just 11% of executive positions, according to a recent diversity report bylaw firm Fenwick &amp; West. But no one in the Valley can remember a senior woman ever taking a tech company or venture capital firm to court over sex discrimination.“Everyone, everyone is talking about it – this case is putting sexism in the Valley on trial and it’s a very big deal,” says Nitasha Tiku, one of thoseblogging the trial for tech news site the Verge. “Sex discrimination has long been talked about, there have been lots of accusations, but any claims have always been settled out of court with NDA [non-disclosure agreements], so no one knows what happens.”Tiku said the Pao trial also has the Valley gripped as it is revealing the inner workings of one of the world’s most secretive industries: venture capital. “It is such a private world, but here we get to see how they talk to each other, read their emails and see how they make investment decisions. It’s unprecedented.”Pao, 45, claims she was passed over for promotion and excluded from important meetings because of her gender after she accused a senior Kleiner Perkins partner of sexual harassment.She claimed in the packed court house that she and other women were barred from work trips on private jets and ski resorts, and not invited to an important Kleiner Perkins dinner with former US vice-president Al Gore.“It was said that if there were women there, the conversation would be tempered and it was because women kill the buzz,” she said.At the time of the dinner, Pao lived in the same building as Gore and said she had to explain she wasn’t going to the dinner because she was a woman. “It was pretty humiliating,” she said.The organiser of the dinner, Chi-Hua Chien, denied saying women would “kill the buzz”, but conceded that the dinner was a male-only affair.Pao, who studied electrical engineering at Princeton University and holds both a law degree and MBA from Harvard, said the male partners preferred to meet without women in part so they could discuss their favourite porn stars – prompting an attorney to awkwardly ask which porn stars, to the amusement of the courtroom.Pao claims the discrimination began after she complained about harassment by married male colleague Ajit Nazre, with whom she claimed she was pressured into having an affair.Details of the affair, including its office-based beginnings, were played out to the six men and six women of the jury and roughly 150 onlookers in court. Lynne Hermle, Kleiner Perkins’ attorney, asked Pao if the couple had kissed in the parking lot of Kleiner’s Silicon Valley headquarters on Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park. “I believe I did that once or twice,” Pao said.On Valentine’s Day in 2007, senior Kleiner Perkins partner Randy Komisar gave Pao a signed copy ofLeonard Cohen’s The Book of Longing, which she took as a sexual advance. “The problem was the book had very erotic poetry in it and Cohen’s many sketches of naked women,” the attorney said. Kosimar has said that the book was a return gift chosen by his wife.Hermle, who, according to Silicon Valley folklore, once made an opposinglawyer vomit in court under her quick-fire questioning, pointed out that Pao had kept hold of the book for years before filing the lawsuit in 2012. “You drove around with the book of poetry in your trunk for years while you were consulting lawyers?” Hermle said. “It was in my car while I was driving, but I didn’t drive it around for years,” Pao replied.Kleiner Perkins, which was an early investor in Google, Amazon and Uber, denies all the allegations and said Pao was fired from her $560,000 a year job at the firm in 2012 because she lacked the leadership and interpersonal skills to succeed.The trial has revealed alleged sexual discrimination not just at Kleiner Perkins but across the tech companies of Silicon Valley, roughly 40 miles south of San Francisco. The chief executive of an unnamed tech company backed by Kleiner Perkins was said to have talked about appointing Yahoo boss Marissa Mayer to its board because she was “really hot”.Liz Gannes, a reporter live-blogging the trial for tech news siteRe/code, said the case was helping to focus minds on the lack of women in technology across the world. “It’s part of a growing crescendo of discussion about the growing lack of women in technology, and the reason that’s such a big issue is because technology is of such importance to so many people’s lives in the world right now that it matters who makes it,” she said.“The people who provide the funding – the venture capitalists – are even more important. Within that group, only a tiny proportion of senior investment professionals are women ... the most optimistic number is 7%. It’s widely agreed it’s a terrible, terrible percentage.”Women hold 11% of executive positions at Silicon Valley companies compared to 16% across the top 100 Standard &amp; Poor’s firms, according to a report bylaw firm Fenwick &amp; West. Silicon Valley firms boards are on average 15.7% female compared with 20.9% in the S&amp;P 100.Venture capital firms are even less diverse than the technology companies in which they invest. Babson College’sDiana Report, a research initiative working to increase the number of female entrepreneurs, found that the number of female partners in VC firms decreased from 10% in 1999 to 6% in 2014.The report found that 97% of VC-funded businesses had male chief executives, and businesses with all-male teams are more than four times more likely to receive VC funding as teams with one or more women.Pao said she was suing her former employer for such a large amount because only an eight-figure settlement would “hit their radar” and force change in the west coast technology scene’s “boys’ club”. “I wanted my payment to be enough so it was a meaningful amount to Kleiner Perkins, so they saw it would be painful to not fix problems.”Pao’s attorney, Alan Exelrod, told the court: “Kleiner Perkins had promoted just one woman to senior investing partner by 2011, despite being in business for about 40 years.“Kleiner Perkins used Ellen Pao’s talents for six years, but when it came time to choose the next generation of leaders at Kleiner Perkins, Kleiner only chose men.”However, Hermle questioned whether Pao had done her bit to help women up Silicon Valley’s ladder. “Did you ever recruit a woman to a Kleiner portfolio company’s board?” Hermle asked. “I don’t believe so,” Pao replied.The trial continues.
There is definitely a niche in games that embrace lapsed gamers.The kind of people who grew up playing PC or console games; who used to be great at them; and who still love games in theory. But who in practice haven’t got the time – or frankly the skills – to play them properly any more.The teenage me easily racked up 10,000 hours of expertise in Championship Manager games, for example. But put me in front of the latest version of Football Manager on a PC, and my face takes on the haunted expression of David Moyes at the nadir of his time in charge of Manchester United.(Specifically:this face.)I’m a lapsed gamer, in many ways, but the games industry is realising there are plenty like me. See the “Classic Mode” in the recent Football Manager games that strip away the complexity again. Or, as I like to call it: #DadMode.Also see the way mobile game Clash of Clans appeals to people who were amazing at Command &amp; Conquer in their youth, but would mouse-flail like idiots if thrown into a League of Legends game now.Related:Sid Meier interview: 'Learning is part of any good video game'Or, indeed, see Starships: a new game from veteran designer Sid Meier that you’ll love if you grew up with his Civilization, but feel a bit lost amid the sheer scale of its modern sequels. The setting may be deep space rather than land and sea, but this game’s genetic link to the original Civ is undeniable – and that’s a great thing.Starships is all about, yes, starships: your fleet of starships which you build and upgrade, while exploring the galaxy and either conquering other factions or keeping the peace with them.It doesn’t look like Civilization, but the comparison is all about the rhythm of the game as you explore, fight battles and build cities, research scientific advancements and improve the planets that join your federation.Games can be done and dusted in a few hours if you choose the small map, or much longer with the “epic” one. And most importantly, the blend of upgrades, combat and exploration is restricted enough not to feel intimidating, but not so shallow that you get bored.The galactic map can be small through to epic.You’ll start with a homeworld and two ships, from which you can travel to nearby planets and complete missions to build influence with their populations, and ultimately to welcome them into your galactic gang. Once in, you can build improvements to strengthen their defences and yield more resources for your cause.The resources include energy, metals, science and food, and balancing them is the key to healthily growing your space empire, while ensuring you don’t leave any weak spots for enemies to attack.The turn-based missions are the core of the game: they take place on hex-based maps incorporating planets, asteroids, warp gates – which zip you to different parts of the map instantly – and enemy starships. Goals vary from destroying pirates and securing facilities to escorting transport ships and simply surviving for a certain number of turns.Beating the missions requires careful fleet management as you spend your acquired energy on upgrades for your ships – engines, shields and armour through to torpedoes and stealth cloaking – and build new ones.As you get to know the different missions, you’ll experiment with building different kinds of starships that best suit them, as well as your own tactics. There’s great satisfaction to be had scooting through warp gates and jumping out from behind asteroids (or whatever the spaceship equivalent of jumping out is) as you get to grips with the gameplay.Related:Civilization Revolution 2 brings classic strategy game back for iPhone and iPadThe main point, though, is that youwillget to grips with the gameplay. Sid Meier’s Starships is accessible and it’s comprehensible even if your strategy gaming muscles are rusty – you can get your head around what you need to do and how to do it.It’s a game you can complete, and when you do, you’ll want to start playing again immediately, perhaps bumping up the difficulty level or increasing the map size. That’s exactly the same kind of replayability spark that Civilization had all those years ago.There are some limitations. The diplomacy aspects are basically “we’re at war” or “we’re at peace”, and there isn’t an overarching story to uncover as you go along: this is a conquer-the-board game rather than a sci-fi space epic. Less a criticism, necessarily, and more about managing expectations.Starships has been released for PC and Mac, and also for iPad. The latter may be the platform where it prospers, not just because it adapts seamlessly to touchscreen controls, but because it’s tailor-made for the common on-sofa, on-train and in-bed tablet gameplay patterns of people who don’t have huge slabs of (non-work) computer time.Being a lapsed gamer isn’t aboutgrowing up– the notion of games as a childhood pursuit that you can and should grow out of is as ridiculous as suggesting you can grow out of other artforms like music or film.Lapsed gaming is about not managing to find time for the thing you still love: kids, work pressures, abject shame at dying seven times on the controls-explaining introduction to Grand Theft Auto V. For example.Tablet and smartphones have engaged a huge new audience in games who didn’t play before, which is exciting, but these devices – and the contexts they’re used in – have also re-engaged old gamers by helping them to find the time they worried they’d lost.As it turns out, Sid Meier’s Starships fits neatly into those gameplay patterns, whether you’re hunkered down for half an hour on the train or taking the odd turn while watching TV – while still working just as well on a PC screen glowing late at night, with a player who can’t stop taking just one more go.• Sid Meier’s Starships costs £12.99 for PC, Mac and iPad
I want my children to love stories. To love reading tales of all kinds, and to enjoy creating their own worlds and characters – or at least their own stories using the worlds and characters that they already love.I’m not particularly biased one way or the other about where the inspiration for this comes from – and particularly whether it’s printed books or digital experiences. Or, more accurately, I think both can play a hugely important role as my two sons learn not just to read and write, but toloveto read and write.It’s why together we’ve ploughed through the increasingly dog-eared back catalogues of Roald Dahl, Dr Seuss and Spike Milligan; why we’ve spent a fair few bedtimes making up our own stories and limericks; and why my seven year-old is working on an entirely-unlicensed series of Horrible Histories spin-offs, held together by staples.And it’s also why we use apps. And if this sounds like a defensive introduction to a subject that often provokes “children should be reading BOOKS not TOUCHING SCREENS” reactions, you’d be right: the apps being made by British publisher Nosy Crow and some of its peers are up there with Dahl in getting children sparkly-eyed about storytelling.The company’s latest isSnow White, following previous app reworkings of Three Little Pigs, Cinderella, Little Red Riding Hood and Jack and the Beanstalk. Released this week for iOS, it tells a familiar story in a beguiling new way that never prioritises digital gimmickry over reading and storytelling.There are two modes: Read and Play for younger children, and Read by Myself for older kids who are developing their reading skills. As always for this company, the voice narration comes from children – a calculated decision based on the belief that what fascinates many kids more than anything else is slightly older kids.The story is told over a succession of animated scenes, with speech bubbles and words highlighted in red as they’re spoken, so that children can follow along. There are simple interactive tasks too, such as dunking washing, picking flowers, tidying up the seven dwarves’ house and mixing a potion for the wicked queen.The app also uses the features of your device: rocking the iPad to send baby Snow White to sleep in one scene, for example, or using the front camera to show children their own faces in the magic mirror. In every scene, once the initial bit of story has been delivered, characters can be tapped on to read and hear more dialogue.The illustrations, by the way, are beautifully-crafted – Nosy Crow’s Ed Bryan is one of my favourite current children’s illustrators in any medium, and it’s no surprise that the company’s traditional publishing arm isturning his previous app work into printed books.The classical soundtrack fits perfectly too, complete with a final flourish where children tap notes to switch the dancing Snow White and her prince into samba and Irish jig – something they and their parents may remember from the Cinderella app.Related:The best iPad apps for kids of 2014Snow White is a very familiar story, but this is a fine reworking of it for devices that – for some children – are an important complement to books as they develop their reading skills.My five year-old son is sometimes hesitant about reading aloud from books, since he’s still building his confidence. Seeing him mouthing along to Snow White, and then seeing how that translates into increased willingness to read books, has made me realise how these different types of reading can work together, not compete.The cloud on the horizon is that it’s quite expensive to make apps like Snow White, and a lot of book publishers – even the biggest ones – are reining in their app ambitions after sales often didn’t match up to the costs involved in well-crafted digital storytelling.I’m glad Nosy Crow is still plugging away, and I hope Snow White finds an audience to make it worthwhile. The battle isn’t about apps versus books, but about reading and loving storytelling versus not reading and not getting the chance to love storytelling. This app sits firmly in the former camp.• Snow White by Nosy Crow costs £3.99 for iOS
Your job is to guide a set of clockwork Mario characters towards gaudily lit exit doors while helping them avoid spiked pits and enemies. To start off with, that means using the stylus to draw girders that create safe pathways for your tiny robotic wards, but soon enough you’ll be adding and removing trampolines, conveyor belts, cannons, teleport pipes and all sorts of other trickery, which is applied simply at first before getting a lot more obtuse. Later levels don’t just require you to know what moves to make and in which order, they also need you to time it all perfectly, although the learning curve is so finely judged you barely notice the complexity being cranked up. It does very little that is new, mostly content to recycle ideas from past Mario vs Donkey Kong outings, but it benefits from Nintendo’s customary degree of refined level design and you receive both formats (Wii U and 3DS) for one price.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKHelldivers, PS3/4/VitaHelldivers is a twin-stick shooter, where one joystick manoeuvres your small soldier around the surface of various alien worlds, and the other aims his gun. What separates Helldivers from the many games that fit this description is its multiplayer mode, where you get together with up to three chums to take on the game’s baddy-infested wastelands. You’ll need to be careful, though, because your gunfire mows down friends as well as enemies, as do “stratagems”, which is Helldiver jargon for satellite drops that plummet down from orbit at supersonic speeds. There’s also an overarching meta-game that sees you vie for control of planetary systems with your three enemies: the bugs, cyborgs and illuminates. Most of Helldiver’s problems come from players manifestly too weak for the level you’re playing joining in and accidentally shooting you in the back, although playing on your own or with friends fixes that.Sony Computer Entertainment, £16.99AdVenture Capitalist, iOSThere are few games that sound more unprepossessing than AdVenture Capitalist. In it you sit and watch a set of businesses make money, first by tapping on them to begin production, but soon enough without even this minimal interaction as you hire managers to tap for you. Starting with a lemonade stand, you soon diversify into a paper round, car washing and pizza delivery, eventually working your way up to ownership of a bank and an oil conglomerate. Buying upgrades for your companies improves their profitability, and you can attract angel investors who act as revenue multipliers. Despite sounding like a staggeringly dull concept for a video game, the reality is strangely compelling; the gradual acceleration of virtual money generation proving inexplicably satisfying, and each restart with a larger base of angel investors changing the trajectory of your trading just enough to sustain interest. It’s utterly pointless and you need no skill whatsoever, but good luck putting it down.Kongregate, free
Steve Jobs rejected an offer of a liver transplant from Tim Cook in 2009, a new biography of the late Apple co-founder reveals.Despite becoming increasingly ill from cancer, Jobs angrily turned down the proposal by the man who would go on to run Apple after he died.“He cut me off at the legs, almost before the words were out of my mouth,” said Cook. “‘No,’ [Jobs] said. ‘I’ll never let you do that. I’ll never do that’.”The revelation is made in Becoming Steve Jobs, by Fast Companyexecutive editor Rick Tetzeli and co-author Brent Schlender, published later this month.The incident, which underlines the closeness of the relationship between the two men, showed how selfless Jobs was, according to Cook.“It was: ‘No, I’m not doing that!’ He kind of popped up in bed and said that. And this was during a time when things were just terrible. Steve only yelled at me four or five times during the 13 years I knew him, and this was one of them,” Cook said.Jobs, who suffered from a rare type of pancreatic cancer, went on to receive a liver transplant in 2009.He took a six-month medical leave of absence that year, and another period in mid-January 2011 before stepping down as chief executive in August.He died in October 2011 aged 56.The book also reveals the close friendship between Jobs and Bob Iger, chairman and chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, in the final yars of his life.His relationship with Iger had become so strong that Steve had wanted Iger to join the Apple board, which Iger couldn’t do for fiduciary reasons. In fact, because of their friendship, Iger also turned down an invitation from Sergey Brin, Larry Page, and Eric Schmidt to be on Google’s board. “He told me he’d get jealous,” says Iger.Jobs served on the board of Disney until his death.Iger went on to become an Apple director after Jobs died.
Jay-Z has won control of a Swedish music streaming company after more than 90% of shareholders accepted the star’s $54m (£36m) offer.A spokesman for Project Panther Bidco, a company controlled by the 45-year-old rapper, said on Friday that all the conditions for completing the acquisition of Aspiro had now been met.In late January, Panther Bidco announced an offer for Aspiro, which runs music streaming services WiMP and Tidal. Majority shareholder Schibsted, the Norwegian media group, backed the deal but some with small stakes held out for a higher offer.However, the offer was declared unconditional on Friday and Aspiro will be delisted from the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange.Related:Tidal takes on Spotify with lossless-quality streaming musicAspiro had posted a net loss of $5m for the last three months of 2014 and admitted that it could run out of money at some point this year.Aspiro had 500,000 paying users for its streaming services at the end of 2014. The figure includes 35,000 subscribers for its “lossless” HiFi-quality music service that is available in the UK under theTidalbrand. It costs £19.99 a month – double the price of Spotify in the UK.The company plans to launch Tidal in 22 countries, mostly in Europe, by the end of March.The figures for Tidal are dwarfed byDeezer Elite, which is being rolled out globally after attracting 200,000 subscribers in the United States.The Aspiro acquisition puts Jay Z into direct competition with Beats Music, the streaming service co-founded by Dr Dre, which wasbought by Apple as part of a $3bn acquisitionof its parent company Beats Electronics in 2014.A lossless service could form part of Apple’s looming relaunch of Beats.Jay-Z, one of the world’s best-selling music artists of all time, adds to a business empire that includes 40/40 Club sports bars and Rocawear clothing.
A “smart” Barbie doll that can have “conversations” with children should not go on sale, privacy advocates have said.Billed as the world’s first “interactive doll”, the toy uses voice recognition technology similar to that employed by Apple’s Siri and Google’s Now digital assistants to understand what a child is saying to Barbie and respond.However, privacy advocates are worried about the use of voice recognition technology that sends recordings of children to third-party companies for processing, potentially revealing his or her intimate thoughts and details.“If I had a young child, I would be very concerned that my child’s intimate conversations with her doll were being recorded and analysed,” said Professor Angela Campbell of Georgetown University law school.“In Mattel’s demo, Barbie asks many questions that would elicit a great deal of information about a child, her interests, and her family. This information could be of great value to advertisers and be used to market unfairly to children.”The Hello Barbie doll being demonstrated at the New York toy fair.The conversation capabilities of the Hello Barbie toy from Mattel are powered by a venture capital-backed San Francisco startup called ToyTalk, which receives and interprets speech recorded by a microphone in the doll before initiating a pre-programmed vocal response. Crucially, the data is stored by ToyTalk for use beyond the immediate response.“ToyTalk and Mattel will only use the conversations recorded through Hello Barbie to operate and improve our products, to develop better speech recognition for children, and to improve the natural language processing of children’s speech,” a ToyTalk spokesperson said.The toy connects to the internet via Wi-Fi and is capable of understanding and responding to complex natural language patterns. The doll can answer questions built on data gleaned from previous conversations with the child, such as “what should I be when I grow up?”.In one demonstration it suggested being a dancer or a politician, or a “dancing politician” after learning that the child likes to be on-stage.“Kids using ‘Hello Barbie’ aren’t only talking to a doll, they are talking directly to a toy conglomerate whose only interest in them is financial,” said Susan Linn, executive director of the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood. The group isattempting to stop the sale of the toy, which is scheduled for the Christmas rush this year. “It’s creepy – and creates a host of dangers for children and families.”Related:Samsung rejects concern over 'Orwellian' privacy policyBefore the toy can be used, parents must set up an account and agree to various privacy policies. The toy only listens to the child after a button on its buckle is pressed prompting it to ask a question. The audio recorded is encrypted before being sent over the internet.According to ToyTalk’s privacy policy, the company shares audio recordings with third parties that “assist us with speech recognition” and that those third parties can keep any data derived from those audio files.The voice recognition technology used by Mattel and ToyTalk operates in a similar manner to almost any other, including commonly used voice search functions. But a lack of user understanding, and the involvement of children, who are potentially incapable of understanding that their actions are being monitored, has raised concerns.Samsung’s voice-recording smart TVs breach privacy law, campaigners claim
My father, Teddie Drew, who has died aged 97, devoted his working life to public health engineering, and sewage purification in particular. “It’s my bread and butter,” he would joke, but this never masked a deep and lifelong commitment to purer drinking water, cleaner rivers and the eradication of water-borne diseases.Teddie was the son of Dick Drew, a stationmaster, and his wife, Mabel (nee Hamlett), whose Cheshire family had a salt-mining business. He went to Farnham grammar school, Surrey, and studied engineering at University College London, graduating at 18 with a first. He joined the civil engineering department of Surrey county council and worked on the Farnham bypass, but was called up within three weeks of the start of the second world war. He joined the Royal Navy and served on cruisers, surviving the sinking of HMS Cornwall in the Indian Ocean.On being demobbed, Teddie made a career in the postwar new towns. In 1947, he joined the engineering staff at Stevenage development corporation, to oversee the construction of the main drainage system. He was soon appointed to a team of specialists to find a way of treating the sewage from the three new towns of Harlow, Stevenage and Welwyn Garden City, all within the river Lee catchment area. The aim was to reverse the growing pollution of the river and make it a primary source of drinking water for London.The result was a new sewage purification works at Rye Meads, near Hoddesdon, Hertfordshire, which Teddie ran from 1953 to 1974. It discharged treated effluent into the river at a quality never before achieved. To prove this success, Teddie installed a pond in which fish swam in treated effluent, outside his office door. Teddie regarded these as the happiest days of his life; typically, on being appointed OBE in 1972, he attributed the honour to the teamwork at Rye Meads.In 1969 he was elected president of the Institution of Public Health Engineers, and in 1974 was invited by the government to serve on the central advisory water committee. Upon the death that year of his first wife, Irene (nee Holliman), whom he had married in 1939, he sought a new challenge, took on consultancy work in the Middle East and far east, and advised the World Health Organisation. In 1980, he married Pat Beeson (nee Pugh-Davies).A friend and constant help to all, Teddie lived out his Christian faith in practical ways, believing that honesty and justice were always the best way forward.Pat died in 2002. Teddie is survived by me and my sister, Jane, the children of his first marriage.
Shoulders shaking and wiping tears from his eyes, the Apple MacBook engineer with a thick moustachescreecheswith laughter. He straightens up and slaps a table. “Wait! It gets better!” he cries. “It was so thin the battery wouldn’t fit inside! That’s all our customers need! I got promoted!”Move overHitler: there’s a new parody video star in town. Of course, the guy in the video currently pushing at 1.8million views and 20,000 likes on YouTube, reduced to a quivering wreck by Apple’s new flagship product having “NO USB PORTS!”,isn’tactually an employee of Tim Cook.Introducing – at least to a non-European audience – Juan Joya Borja, a comedian better known in his native Spain asEl Risitas, or “The Giggles”, for his distinctive chuckle at rambling tales.The El Risitas parody uploaded byArmando Ferreirais heading towards 2m views. Source: YouTubeIt’s typical of the internet that 15 years after a comedian’s peak of fame in his home country, an eight-year-old interview cheekily subtitled could inadvertently transform him into a viral meme, eliciting clicks and shares the world over.And it is much to the amusement of the Spanish people who remember him first time around. I asked my Catalan friend Marta, who is El Risitas?“Hahaha,” she replied. No really? “Oh. He’s a sort of very tacky person who’ll occasionally feature in bad TV programmes. Or very crass movies.”It’s possible he’s the Spanish Bobby Davro. So, if El Risitas isn’t discussing Apple’s new MacBook, unveiled in a San Francisco conference by Cookon Monday,whathastickled him?Qué?The video is in fact a clip from a June 2007interviewfrom the chat showRatones Colorao,hosted by Jesus Quintero. Questioned on a lack of work ethic, Joya begins a tale of how, many years previously, he used to work as a kitchen porter in Andalucía.The comedian explains that, when asked to wash some paella pans overnight, he left them in the sea at low tide. However, when the young Joya came back to collect the pans, the tide was up, and they had been washed out to the sea.Interest in ‘El Risitas’ search term over time from its beginnings in March/April 2014 to its current spike.Photograph: GoogleTrue to form, telling the tale inspires El Risitas’s distinctive and quasi-contagious laugh (think dolphin with a 20-a-day habit), elevating what should be a pretty nondescript anecdote into one that has the audience doubled over.Of course, any form of exaggerated emotion – whether that be elation or rage – lends itself easily to parody, and so it has proved with El Risitas, who has become the light to theDownfallmeme’s shade.The Downfall meme, which has become incredibly popular since the original 2004 film.Photograph: YouTubeFor though El Risitas is currently cracking up over the new $1,299 Apple notebook in the video uploaded byArmando Ferreira, his mirth has previously been directed at many other things.The original interview has been viewed more than1 million timeson YouTube in the eight years since it was uploaded, but it is this year it has really taken off as the subtitled currency of parody.Curiously, it seems to have been mostly embraced by tech and gaming communities.Last month alone videos appeared in which El Risitas mocked the video gamesDestiny,Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare,Grand Theft Auto,Team Fortress 2,The OrderandCounter Strike: Global Offensive. He’s also howled at under-performinggraphics cardsandDSLR cameras.However, El Risitas is branching out into less specialist territory. There are videos in which the targeted subjects range from thewrestlingindustry, football teams to the Ottawabus system.Absurdly, but par for the course on the internet, the origins of the meme can be traced back to theMuslim Brotherhood, who back in March 2014 were way ahead of the pack when using the El Risitas clip to mock Egyptian president El-Sisi. That version has currently been viewed over 800,000 times.The March 2014 video produced by the Muslim Brotherhood to mock the Egyptian president Abdel Fattah El-Sisi. Source: YouTubeDownfall II?So, has the internet gifted us the new Downfall? It’s doubtful whether there’s a person with an internet connection who hasn’t at one point or another enjoyed theHitler Reactsvideo meme.That clip, from the 2004 film dramatisation of the Third Reich,Downfall, and featuring a furious Adolf Hitler played by Bruno Ganz, has provided the foundations for parodies on topics far and wide.We’ve seen Hitler bawl about theComic Sans font,pizzaandsub-prime mortgages. The extraordinary popularity of the Downfall parody resulted inthink piecesaplenty, and was even responsible for a bankerlosing his jobwhen he shared a video in a company newsletter.Given the inexorable rise of El Risitas, it surely won’t be long before Hitler himself has something to say about it in a Downfall-Risitas mashup.Oh.Hitler and El Risitas discuss what it’s like to be internet memes. Source: YouTube
Activision’s online sci-fi shooter Destiny picked up best game at the Bafta video game awards on Thursday night, while The Last of Us: Left Behind triumphed in the Story and Performance categories.However, it was very much an a night for the smaller games studios.Smartphone and tablet puzzler Monument Valley from London-based studio Ustwo won two Baftas: mobile game and best British game.The sport category was won by skateboarding sim OlliOlli, best debut game went to Alaskan adventure Never Alone, and artistic achievement was claimed by experimental mobile game Lumino City.Best game design went to Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor. Game developer Tim Schafer, who presented the award, said: “The game of the year category had, like, Monument Valley and Mordor, just completely different games. I think it just shows that it doesn’t matter how big or small you are. The budget of your game doesn’t really affect its ability to reach people and touch people and be addictive and fun.”There were some other successes for major Triple A titles. Far Cry 4 claimed best music, while Alien: Isolation won in the audio category.Blizzard’s card game title Hearthstone beat the likes of Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare and Grand Theft Auto V to the multiplayer prize. Elite co-developer David Braben was awarded the Bafta fellowship.But this was a night in which the sheer range of video game experiences available today was celebrated. Lumino City by State of Play, a puzzle adventure set in a world that the small team constructed out of cardboard, was the artistic achievement winner, symbolising the aesthetic variety of the modern industry.“I think Bafta pride themselves on awarding an artistic feeling about games,” said State of Play co-founder Katherine Bidwell. “Blood, sweat, and literal tears went into this project, and I think that jumps out on the screen when you see Lumino City, and I just hope that other people see it. This award means so much to us, it’s unbelievable.”Ashley Johnson, the actor who played Ellie in the post-apocalyptic adventure add-on The Last of Us: Left Behind collected the awards for best story and best performance.She gave the acceptance speech of the night, dedicating her success to all the misfits and weirdos in the world and praising Last of Us developers Naughty Dog for creating a female character who was strong yet vulnerable and who wasn’t sexualised.“They definitely took some risks with the story,” said Johnson. “I think a lot of people, if you told them: ‘It’s a story about two teenage girls hanging out, just figuring out who they are in the world,’ maybe they wouldn’t be interested in playing that.“But I think after the full game and connecting with the character of Ellie, they wanted to find out more about who she was. The story is focused on their love and that relationship, and the importance of that, and that excited me a lot.”Actor Rufus Hound, who hosted the evening, also took time to acknowledge the influence that Terry Pratchett and Leonard Nimoy have had on the industry. “Live long and prosper,” said Johnson as she left the stage with her Bafta for best performance.Destiny review: the future of games remains locked in the past
The Fitbit Surge is a top of the range “fitness superwatch”, with constant heart rate tracking and GPS but does it really deserve that self-proclaimed “super” prefix?The premium wrist-worn fitness tracker from Fitbit, one of the first companies to make a smartphone-connected device, the Surge claims to be able to do it all, and with a battery that lasts for days.DesignThe green glow is the always-on heart rate tracker.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe watch is a wedge shape, which is comfortable if a bit sweaty with its rubber strap. It has to be worn relatively tightly for the heart rate monitor to work correctly, which means it left marks on my wrist and a break from it once or twice a day was required. But it didn’t give me a rash, so that’s good.The screen is clear and always on, which makes it good for actually telling the time. A button on the side combines with a touchscreen making controlling it with fairly intuitive. Swiping through the menus users can view their heart rate, set off on a run or do another pre-programmed activity including yoga and static strength training.The black rubber strap picks up dust almost instantaneously from the inside of a shirt cuff and I found it difficult to get clean again, making it look more grey than black most of the time.Wearing it every day the Surge did a solid job of tracking activity. It was less capable of tracking a run as the weight of the watch and sweat build up meant it moved around even when drawn tight, producing variable heart rate readings.The strap is thicker than most watches.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe GPS also took around five minutes to get a fix, which meant a period of standing outside waiting to run, or hitting the button to just start without the GPS and hoping it would pick up at a later.Battery lifeThe Surge lasted seven days on a single charge in my testing, despite several runs with the GPS active during the run, which is two days longer than Fitbit claims and longer than most other heart rate trackers.Charging requires a proprietary USB cable, which is long but doesn’t stay locked into place well enough meaning that it often didn’t charge properly if the watch moved slightly after plugging in the cable.Text and call notifications, music controlThe Surge connects to computer via a Bluetooth USB dongle, but also wirelessly to a smartphone and the Fitbit app available for Android, iPhone and Windows Phone. The watch can also display text and call alerts, as well as basic music controls for the default music player on an iPhone or Android device which work well enough.Data, data, dataWhen connected the Surge syncs within seconds over Bluetooth. Sometimes it had issues connecting to a variety of Android smartphones.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe accelerometer measured steps as accurately as most other fitness trackers, but the Surge can also measure stair climbs and distance travelled using the GPS when out for a run.All of those features work well enough and are easy to view either through the app or via the Fitbit website. The GPS produces a trace of the route with elevation and heart rate figures of the run. The trace was about 50m out of position, however, failing to match up with a road map of the route.The heart rate tracking of the run suffered from a similar problem to the cheaper Fitbit Charge HR. Even at a full sprint the watch recorded my heart beat peaking only briefly at 175 beats per minute, meaning that it determined I was predominantly in the “cardio” or “fat burn” zones and spending only seconds in the “peak” zone.Related:The future of wearable technology is not wearables – it's analysing the dataFor me, when my heart rate is between 95 and 133 beats per minute I’m apparently in the “fat burn” zone. Over 133 I’m in “cardio” and in “peak” when it hits 162 or above. Which is pretty meaningless, since no advice is given on how to get to or maintain “cardio” or “peak”, or how long to maintain it for.Sleep tracking was also poor compared to the competition, simply showing time asleep, restless and awake. Other heart rate-based fitness trackers provide much more meaningful data on sleep quality.The Surge’s biggest problem is the lack of useful analysis of the data it tracks. Unlike competitors such as Jawbone’s Up, it doesn’t provide analysis of exercise and how it affects sleep patterns, tips on how to train better or much beyond simply charting the data.The company offers a “premium” service for greater data analysis costing £40 a year, producing weekly reports on fitness and health stats, but most other fitness trackers provide similar analysis for free.Fitbit will export data to third-party services including MyFitnessPal, which could provide better data analysis.PriceThe Fitbit Surge costs £199 and is available in black, blue and orange. Competitors such as the Basis Peak cost £150, whilehigh-end fitness watchescost upwards of £250.VerdictThe Surge does a good job of clearly showing the information you need for your particular activity on its black and white LCD screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Fitbit Surge is a solid everyday fitness tracker, but gets out of its depth when moving on to active sports. The heart rate tracking when running isn’t consistent, and it’s not waterproof so no swimming or similar.I also had issues syncing it with an Android smartphone. Restarting the phone or the watch didn’t make any difference, although it would always reconnect within a couple of hours.It fairs decently as a watch, but its style is polarising – some love it, others think it’s ugly. The main problem with the Surge isn’t the watch itself, it’s Fitbit’s data analysis, or lack there of. The statistics and charts aren’t especially useful in and of themselves and the service doesn’t link sleep data to exercise data.It’s standard service lacks the intelligence provided by other, less sophisticated and cheaper trackers, which is a shame.Pros:solid battery life, constant heart rate monitoring, altimeter, accurate step tracking, easy to read screenCons:occasional syncing issues, poor data analysis, erratic heart rate during run, chunky, poor sleep trackingThe heart rate sensor is on the back of the watch above the charging port and must be held tight enough against the skin to monitor pulse, but not too tight to restrict blood flow.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviews•Fitbit Charge HR review: a heart-rate tracker that’s skipped a beat•Best fitness trackers to help get fitter in 2015
Between 1994 and 2002, there wasn’t another game studio in the world like Rare. Founded by brothers Tim and Chris Stamper and co-owned by Nintendo, the developer found a way to combine idiosyncratic British wit with the rich design sensibilities of the Super Mario creators. The result was some of the decade’s most beautiful and engrossing games. The Super Nintendo classic Donkey Kong Country, the seminal console shooter Golden Eye, the expansive 3D platformer Banjo Kazooie, the raucous Conker’s Bad Fur Day... these games combined extraordinarily detailed worlds, lush soundtracks and memorable characters. They sold in their millions. Rare was loved unconditionally.Then things changed.Today, barely 20 miles up the road from the Rare HQ, in an anonymous industrial estate, a small studio is looking to recreate that magic. At the moment, it’s just seven people crammed into a narrow office across the corridor from the local Tory MP. But to many many veteran gamers, these people are legends. Here is Chris Sutherland, a software engineer at Rare for 25 years, who worked onDonkey Kong Country, Banjo Kazooie and its sequel Banjo Tooie; here is Steve Mayles, the character artist who created Rare’s memorable version of Donkey Kong, as well as the charming lead protagonists of Banjo-Kazooie; here is Steve Hurst, environment art director, who drew the fantastical worlds that those games took place in.Here too, is artist Mark Stevenson and technical director Jens Restemeier who joined Rare in 1999 to work on a series of excellent Nintendo handheld conversions. And then there is studio head is Gavin Price, who spent the nineties working his way up through Rare’s QA department, finally becoming a designer on later titles like Grabbed by the Ghoulies, Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts &amp; Bolts and Viva Piñata.Barely four months ago, this group got together, formed a studio namedPlaytonic, and started work on a new 3D platform adventure. Their aim was simple: to create a spiritual successor to the original Banjo-Kazooie vision. “It’s not a re-hash, it’s about picking up where we left off,” says Price. “With the technology we have now, we can do things faster, we can put new ideas into the genre, stuff we were dreaming about before but didn’t have the processing power to do. There’s so much more knowledge. We know we have to scale all these ideas up and go nuts with this stuff now.”The Playtonic team: (from left): Steve Hurst, Chris Sutherland, Steve Mayles, Mark Stevenson, Andy Robinson, Jens Restemeier and Gavin PricePhotograph: Keith Stuart/GuardianRare is still going, of course, but since 2002 it has been owned by Microsoft. There have been flashes of the old brilliance, but over the last five years the company has been tasked with finding uses for the controversial Kinect motion control hardware. Ex-employeeshave spoken abouthow the creative atmosphere at the studio has changed; it is much bigger now – more staff, more responsibility. There is less room for the old idiosyncratic wit.“I was working on Kinect Sports and I just felt that the kind of person I am, the kind of creator I am, I was best matched to the games we were making at Rare when I started,” explains Price. “We didn’t know what was going to happen with Kinect Sports, and then Microsoft decided it was going to do a series. I thought, I’d love to find out if there’s a way to go back to making Rare-style games. I had a couple of conversations within the company, trying to find out if there was an appetite for doing anything like that. It became more clear to me that the best way forward was to get out there and make it happen. At this point a few people had already left – Jens and Steve had gone. It was just about getting back in touch with them. We also needed to find out if fans were interested...”On 10 February, Price and his team officially announced the studio and released a piece of teaser art for its forthcoming game: two pairs of eyes hiding in the darkness of a forest setting. There was an explosion of enthusiasm from Rare fansites all over the world. The team’s twitter feed gained 20,000 followers in a matter of days; gamers started forensically studying the coy image for clues. Yes, they realised, there is interest.What is it about Banjo-Kazooie? Released in 1998 on the N64 console, the game featured the eponymous duo – a podgy bear and his bird friend – exploring a series of fantasy worlds, solving puzzles and collecting jigsaw pieces and musical notes to unlock new areas. After the ground-breaking 3D platformer Super Mario 64, Rare’s title expanded the idea of an open, adventure-like platformer, with more detailed texture-mapped worlds and a larger array of special moves. It provided a vital transition point between the classic scrolling platformers of the 8- and 16bit eras and the PlayStation platform epics Ratchet &amp; Clank and Jak &amp; Daxter.The secret that Rare harboured in those years was creative freedom. Famously situated on a farm in Twycross, along a winding path heavily protected by security cameras, the studio was a rarified factory of ideas. “It was just really easy-going,” remembers Steve Mayles. “I guess the company had made money churning out lots of NES games so it never really felt that there was much pressure – even when we did Donkey Kong Country, which was a massive deal for the company.”Chris Sutherland takes up the theme. “On the day I started I was told I’d be working on this new piece of hardware called a Game Boy,” he says. “I was looking through the manual, which was only a few pages long, and on the second day, [Tim Stamper’s wife] Carol Stamper came over and said your first game is going to be Spider-Man. That was the only direction they gave me. Before I started at Rare I thought it would be like a laboratory with people in white coats evaluating and testing things with very detailed plans. But there was a lot of trust, it was sink or swim. It was amazing actually.”The plan is to work in the same way with Playtonic’s first game, currently known as Project Ukulele. The team has an over-arching plan for the title and it has settled on a world concept and on two lead characters. As with Banjo-Kazooie, it’s essentially a single-player adventure, but you’ll be able to swap between the leads to take advantage of their unique skills and abilities. With most elements, though, the group are just creating stuff as they go, exploring ideas, chatting, seeing where things lead.An exclusive piece of concept art from one of the worlds making up the Project Ukulele universe.Photograph: Playtonic“We’ve very purposefully set up the company to feel like old Rare,” says Price. “People are in close proximity to each other, we have conversations not documents going back and forth. We chat stuff through, we bounce ideas off each other. We haven’t got this grand design document that spells out what the end product is going to look like. Nothing like that. It goes back to what Tim and Chris Stamper used to do - they just trusted everyone.“And we don’t have to earn each others’ trust – we’ve been working with each other for so long. I didn’t have to say anything to Chris about how our character should feel – I just turned round after about a day and I looked at Chris’s screen and he’s there controlling the character, running around. Straightaway it just felt amazing.”To facilitate this sense of freedom – this focus on design, rather than technology – Playtonic is using the Unity engine, a game creation system used by independent studios all over the world (“I was blown away by it,” enthuses Sutherland. “Things that it used to take me weeks to do, I can do in minutes”). However, there is definitely a long-term plan here. Project Ukulele is going to include a large cast of non-player characters will be used to create a Marvel-like universe of interlocking stories.“Players won’t know who the star of our next game is, but they’ll already of met them in Project Ukulele,” says Price. “We’re going to have a massive cast and we’re purposely putting characters in there who could have their own games in the future, potentially in any genre that takes out fancy. It’ll be great to have competitive multiplayer games where the whole roster comes together. Then, if we have an idea for maybe a little 2D platformer with one character, we can just go and do it, or a fun shooter with another one. They’re all capable of meeting up in each other’s titles. I always thought we should have done more of that at Rare.”Of course Playtonic has a cuddly Donkey Kong. Below him and just out of sight are a huge industrial sack of Yorkshire tea bags and a massive packet of Werther’s Originals – both gifts from fans.The team is going to be at the PC gaming conference Rezzed, revealing some more details about its project. It’s clear that they’re hoping for a multi-platform release and have been talking to publishers – though they are adamant they will remain independent. Everyone wants to see this game on Wii U of course, the symbolic reunion of old Rare and old Nintendo. We’ll have to see.For now, there’s just a fun buzz about the place. The plan is to grow the company to about 15 or 20 people to finish the game – an N64-sized dev team. Their first hire has been ex-journalist Andy Robinson in a community and marketing role. This is what British game studios used to be like in the 90s; just small groups of friends, firing ideas and jokes at each other, and allowing those things to sneak into their games. It’s just that the people in this small office once turned that approach into an artform. When Tim Stamper kicked off development on Banjo-Kazooie he told his team that he wanted players to be able to come back to this game in 20 years and still find it fresh and beautiful. They pretty much achieved his ambition. Now it’s time to do it again some place else.“I spent 25 years at Rare and I learned a lot,” says Sutherland. “It was kind of like a 25-year boot camp on how to make games. Now I feel like I’ve graduated. I feel like I can do this now.”
After a year of acrimonious wrangling, threats and an unprecedented online campaign, the Federal Communications Commission on Thursday finally released its new rules on regulating the internet.The313-page documentis now being scrutinised by an army of communications lawyers as the cable and telecoms industry considers whether – or more likely when – to sue the regulator in the hopes of overturning the new rules.Last month the FCCvoted to approvenew regulations that will strengthen its powers to oversee broadband internet in the US. The rules followed a call from Barack Obama for the “strongest possible” regulations to protect net neutrality – the principle that all services and information should have equal access to the internet.The new rules ban internet service providers (ISPs) from blocking or “throttling” any legitimate service online. The FCC also outlawed ISPs from creating fast lanes for preferred services – a practice known as “paid prioritization.” The FCC will also have the power to step in if it feels new practices in the industry are not “just and reasonable” and will, for the first time, also oversee mobile broadband.Critics were unconvinced.Republicanopponents of the rules have already called for the orders to be overturned, charging that they give too much power to the FCC and will stifle innovation. They have also launched an inquiry into Obama’s influence on the independent regulator’s decision.Republican FCC commissioner Ajit Pai said he was “sad to witness the FCC’s unprecedented attempt to replace that freedom with government control”. He said the regulator was turning its back on 20-years of light regulation without justification. “We are flip-flopping for one reason and one reason alone: president Obama told us to do so,” he said.The outlines of the rules were already clear, but both supporters and critics had called for an early release of the hefty report in order to scrutinise the details. Net neutrality activists cheered the FCC’s decision last month, giving the regulator’s chairman Tom Wheeler a standing ovation for the decision.FCC officials sought to address charges that they were imposing “utility-style” regulation on the internet. “The order bars the kinds of tariffing, rate regulation, unbundling requirements and administrative burdens that are the hallmarks of traditional utility regulation. No broadband provider will need to get the FCC’s approval before offering any price, product or plan,” the regulator said in a statement.The regulator also said it would not regulate retail broadband rates.The National Cable and Telecommunications Association, which represents the largest cable companies, said the release “only confirms our fear that the commission has gone well beyond creating enforceable open internet rules, and has instead instituted a regulatory regime change for the internet that will lead to years of litigation, serious collateral consequences for consumers, and ongoing market uncertainty that will slow America’s quest to advance broadband deployment and adoption”.The FCC was forced to rewrite its rules after Verizon successfully challenged its authority to regulate broadband last year. The new rules classify high-speed internet as a telecommunications service rather than an information one, allowing the FCC to oversee broadband under Title II of the Communications Act of 1934, the most stringent regulatory regime in its purview.
Google has launched a new premium Chromebook – the Pixel 2. It is faster than its predecessor and has a high resolution screen but it raises the question: does anyone really want to pay £800 for a glorified web browser.Google’s Chromebooks are designed to be a fast, cheap, portal to the internet costing under £250 and providing a browsing experience far better than similarly priced PCs. They are essentially a computer that’s just a web browser, capable of doing anything you can through the browser but not much more.Google’soriginal Chromebook Pixel was launched in 2013and was an oddity. It had a high resolution display rivalling Apple’s “retina” displays and cost £1,000, but was only as capable as any other Chromebook costing a quarter of the price.The new Pixel is cheaper, faster and comes with the new USB type-C port, but essentially offers the same conundrum: who should you buy a £800 Chromebook?Reviews have started pouring in from the US to attempt to answer that very question. Here’s what they said.Chromebook Pixel review (2015): less expensive, still impracticalEngadget’s Dana Wollmanfound the design fantastic, the build great and the screen better than almost any other.In addition to being sharp, the Pixel’s display boasts rich colours and wide viewing angles, even despite the touchscreen’s glossy finish. The visibility is so good, in fact, that when my seatmate on a recent flight asked me to open the window shade, I could make out the contents of the screen, even with sunlight streaming in next to me.Chromebook Pixel (2015) reviewThe Pixel 2 adopts the reversible USB type-C for charging and connecting screens, despite having regular USB ports too. According to Dieter Bohn on the Verge users won’t have to charge it very often, though.About the battery life: it’s out-of-this-world good. The last Pixel was a disappointment in that regard, and most other Chromebooks are serviceable, but not stupendous. Google rates this Pixel as good for 12 hours, and in our own battery test, it clocked in at 14.Google Chromebook Pixel (2015) reviewDavid Piercewriting for Wiredexplained that the Pixel 2 makes compromises on software not on hardware, but that is the point of Google’s Chrome OS.The limitations are the opposite of the new MacBook: there’s plenty of processing power inside the Pixel, but there are some software limitations. Forget video editing or anything resembling heavy-duty gaming, for instance; there just aren’t apps for those things on Chrome OS. For the basic tasks and mundanities we all slog through each day, though, Chrome OS is now more than enough. The biggest downside at this point is the local storage. Google really, really wants you to use Drive, so it gives you 1TB of online storage but only 32GB of hard drive space. You’ll fill that with photos and torrented copies of The Hobbit movies way too quickly.Google’s Chromebook Pixel 2 is ready to be your work laptopMashable’s Pete Pachalsaid that the Pixel 2 is the best Chrome browser experience money can buy, but £800 is a lot of money and that doesn’t even buy the most powerful version.The standard Pixel 2 has lots of muscle, but there’s an even stronger kid on the block. If you really want to be the biggest Chromebook on the block, Google actually makes a Chromebook Pixel 2 LS version. Google says the “LS” stands for “ludicrous speed,” and that version packs an Intel Core i7 processor, 16GB of RAM and 64GB of storage. Why would you ever need that kind of power on a Chromebook, which runs and stores most everything in the cloud? I’m sure a developer somewhere will figure it out.New Chromebook Pixel is lovely hardware with limited appealAndrew Cunninghamfrom Ars Technicacomes to the conclusion that despite being a very nice machine it’s niche is small.The new Chromebook Pixel is an improvement over its predecessor in every important way—it’s the best kind of upgrade, the kind that keeps what worked about the previous model and upgrades everything else.It’s still the same kind of computer the first Pixel was, though. Its quality is excellent, but its operating system combined with its price makes it a nonsensical purchase for most people.The big question is still “who is this for” and the answer is still “die-hard Chrome developers, people who get them for free at Google I/O or whatever, and tinkerers who like the design and buy Chromebooks to put Linux on them.”In the end the new Chromebook Pixel is a weird juxtaposition – a premium machine running a system designed to be cheap but do one thing well. It stands as Google’s idea of what the next step in cloud-powered computing should be and Chrome OS developers are going to love it. The rest of us should probably just stick with the £200 machines or buy a PC or Mac for £800.•Five best laptops to suite any budget
The BBC’s newMicro Bitprogrammable device is designed to complement computers like the Raspberry Pi rather than compete with them, according to people involved with the project.The broadcaster is planning to give one million units of the device away in the autumn as part of its Make It Digital initiative, including one for every child in year seven of the British education system – ie 11-12 year-olds.The BBC hopes that the Micro Bit will get children interested in programming in the same way that its BBC Micro computer did in the 1980s, although the new device is being pitched as a gateway to more complex computers.“It’s an entry-level device that will enable kids to code and program, and if they enjoy that, clearly they’ll move on to devices like the Arduino and the Raspberry Pi,” games industry veteran Ian Livingstone told the Guardian at the BBC’s Make It Digital launch, where the Micro Bit was unveiled.“It will actually be very compatible with Raspberry Pi. That’s a full applications processor-based device that runs Linux, with the next one running Windows 10. The Micro Bit is an embedded software platform, so it doesn’t run a full operating system,” added Gary Atkinson, director of emerging technologies at Arm, which is one of the hardware companies involved in the project.Related:Coding at school: a parent's guide to England's new computing curriculumThat simplicity is a deliberate move, with hopes children will relish the process of writing code – either in a text-based editor or a graphical user interface likeScratchorBlockly– then compiling it and running it on the Micro Bit.“There has been a lot of effort in the industry to abstract away the complexities of how you build something. An SDK from Apple allows you to build an app for an iPhone, but you have no idea: all you’re doing is basically calling APIs within the phone. ‘I want a reading from the GPS’ and so on,” said Atkinson.“In an embedded environment, you literally have to make those calls. Yes, you can simplify it with some object programming, but what’s really exciting about this is that kids will get real-time feedback on what they’re doing.”‘It will fasten to clothing...’For now, exact details of the Micro Bit hardware are being kept under wraps, with the device still officially at “prototype” stage. It will sport a 5x5 LED display that can be used to scroll letters and flash, among other features.“It’s going to be small enough and light enough that it will fasten to clothing. And one of the key capabilities that will be in the final device compared to the prototype is Bluetooth LE,” said Atkinson.“The kids can do their main programming at school – they might have written a piece of code to scroll text and make the lights flash – but then you can imagine them being on the bus on the way home and reprogramming it from their mobile phone over Bluetooth to send messages from the back of the bus.”Isn’t a technology for children to flash messages at one another on the bus ripe for… misuse? “Potentially, but we’re not promoting that,” laughed Atkinson. “There will be a lot of social interaction around it.”Giving a million programmable devices away to 11-12 year-olds is one thing, but ensuring teachers are prepared to help them make the most of it quite another.One of the criticisms of the recently-introduced computing curriculum in England has been that teachers who had no experience in programming (or teaching it) may have needed more time to prepare and train, and more resources to use in the classroom.Related:'Great big poo balls!' What it's like making a Kano computer with your kids“There will be materials to add to the curriculum, teachers will be trained, and there will be all sorts of training materials and tutorials for a choice of development environments depending on your aptitude and interest, whether your journey is teacher-led or for independent study,” said Atkinson.Livingstone, whoseNext Gen reportin 2011 was one of the driving forces towards the new curriculum, agreed. “A lot of ICT teachers do not know how to teach the new curriculum, so I would hope that they would facilitate group learning, activities, set up a code club,” he said.“Learning alongside the children and facilitating a group learning experience. I don’t think we need to maintain that ‘teacher limiting the children by their own knowledge’ any more.”‘Not just another dry science’Livingstone said that another key aim behind the Micro Bit is to ensure children are learning by doing. “We have to move on from getting computing onto the curriculum, which is great, to making sure that it’s not just another dry science,” he said.“The idea of learning by doing has to be enabled in the classroom, so it’s not just another multiple-choice ‘Who invented the world wide web?’. That’s very interesting and we all need to know, but that’s not going to help us get a job.”What about children who aren’t in year seven this year, though? At some point, as yet unspecified, they’ll be able to get their hands on a Micro Bit too.“Every child who gets given one will be able to take it home and use it there. I would imagine their siblings will want one as well, so essentially the follow-on next generation will be able to fulfil those needs,” said Atkinson.“There is going to be an independent launch of the hardware platform, but the timing of that has yet to be confirmed,” added Edmund Gemmell, Arm’s director of PR and brand marketing. “Phase one is every year seven kid, and then there’s obviously ambition beyond that.”There is more information to come, too, on exactly what the Micro Bit will be capable of beyond showing text and flashing lights, and also how it will interact with the Raspberry Pi, Kano, Arduino and other computers. Helping children collaborate on their coding appears to be high on the agenda, though.“The device is equivalent to an Internet of Things-type device. You could have multiples of these Micro Bits talking to a Raspberry Pi-based gateway that’s orchestrating them. There’ll be potential to bring these two worlds together so they’re not in competition at all,” said Atkinson.Related:Kids coding at school: 'When you learn computing, you're thinking about thinking'“And one of the efforts we’re looking into is having a shared coding environment: not only for teacher / student, but for three or four kids together to be coding in real-time in the same development environment – “How about we add this and add that?” – and then getting those devices to interact with each other after the fact.”There are plenty of experts on hand to help make that happen. Arm’s manufacturing and distribution partners on the project include Barclays, Freescale, Microsoft, Nordic Semiconductor, Samsung, element14, ScienceScope and Technology Will Save Us.There’s a whole host of “product champions” on the education side too, from organisations like Code Club, CoderDojo and Teen Tech through to the Open University and Python Software Foundation.“We want to channel the spirit of the BBC Micro for the digital age,” said BBC director-general Tony Hall at the Make It Digital launch. “The BBC, our partners and everyone involved want this to be a defining moment for digital creativity, and a vital one for our country’s digital economy.”In the autumn, we’ll find out whether the finished Micro Bit device can live up to these high expectations, and provide that promised gateway to the other kinds of computers and programming platforms for children.
Facebook has removed the “fat” option from its list of “feelings” available as part of its status feature, apparently in response to a Change.orgpetitionwhich gathered almost 17,000 signatures.PlaywrightCatherine Weingartenand a group campaigning against negative body image,Endangered Bodies, argued that “fat” is not, in fact, a feeling, and that the status option – along with an illustrative emoji face with a double-chin – was derisive to overweight people and damaging to those struggling with body image.Weingarten’s petition statement read:“As someone who has struggled with and overcome disordered eating, I know what it’s like to “feel” fat. I have spent years of my life consumed with negative thoughts about my body, and far too many days starving myself in an effort to lose weight.“But even worse than the skipped meals and the hours spent obsessing in front of the mirror was the fear of what others thought about me and my body.“Fat is not a feeling. Fat is a natural part of our bodies, no matter their weight. And all bodies deserve to be respected and cared for.”Facebookhas since contacted Weingarten to inform her that the status option and accompanying emoji have been removed, and replaced with the more neutral “feeling stuffed”.The new option is described as ‘feeling stuffed’.Photograph: FacebookThe statement Facebook released is as follows:“We’ve heard from our community that listing “feeling fat” as an option for status updates could reinforce negative body image, particularly for people struggling with eating disorders. So we’re going to remove “feeling fat” from the list of options.”In response to the decision, Weingartenpostedon the petition: “I’m thrilled that Facebook decided to remove the “feeling fat” emoji. This success shows us that people together can challenge the cultural messages that are so damaging to our ability to love ourselves and live comfortably in our bodies.”Users of the social network are also given options to elaborate on their statuses with other drop-down menus, apart from to state how they are feeling. Options include: what people are listening to, reading, watching, looking for, eating drinking and where they are travelling to.Rather worryingly, users are able to choose “a rifle” for something they are looking for. Or “feeling crazy” – with an exaggerated emoji featuring popping eyes. Users can also choose from Coca-Cola, McDonald’s and Vodka Redbull in the eating or drinking categories.Users can choose to ‘look for’ a rifle.Photograph: Facebook• Facebook faces parents’ lawsuit to refund children’s online shopping sprees
Twitter has taken steps to stop the posting of “revenge porn” on the site and to prevent the spread of stolen nude photos, such as those of Jennifer Lawrence.The social network has updated its rules governing the content that users can share, so consent is now required from the subject of the pictures.The new private information clause added to itsrulesstates: “You may not post intimate photos or videos that were taken or distributed without the subject’s consent.” It has added the same clause under its “threats and abuse” guidelines. Twitter’s rules already ban the publishing of credit card, address or national identity information.Users reporting content shared without their consent will be required to verify their identity and prove their lack of consent.Those who breach the site’s rules will have their accounts suspended.Posting “revenge porn” images and video was made acriminal offencein England and Wales with prison sentences up to two years for those found guilty of posting content without the subjects consent.The move by Twitter forms part of chief executive Dick Costolo’s push to try and make abusing people on the company’s platform more difficult and costly for those perpetrating the abuse while balancing freedom of speech.Twittertripled the size of its abuse report teamand vowed to crackdown on trolls that were causing outspoken members of the public and those in the public spotlight leave the service, hounded by organised campaigns of abuse aimed at silencing the minority or dissenting voice.•Isis threatens Twitter employees over blocked accounts
Alibaba is investing $200m in Snapchat, propelling the notional value of the photo-messaging app to a stellar $15bn (£10bn).The funding from the Chinese ecommerce company, first reported by Bloomberg, means that Snapchat’s worth has increased by $5bn in a matter of months. It dwarfs the $3bn offered by Facebook for the company in late 2013.It puts the four-year-old company into the top ranks of privately held startups.Evan Spiegel, Snapchat chief executive,declined to comment, but said: “We are famous for not talking about the future.”Related:Snapchat adds entertainment and news with DiscoverWith Snapchat blocked in China it is unclear what immediate value the startup would bring to Alibaba, which handles more online commerce than Amazon and eBay combined.Alibaba, which has seen a steady increase in shopping on smartphones and tablets, has made it a priority to develop mobile services. However, its attempt to create a popular messaging app has had little success, coming up against arch-rival Tencent’s widely used WeChat service.Tencent, China’s biggest social networking and entertainment company, also invested in Snapchat in 2013, TechCrunch reported at the time.Duncan Clark, managing director of Beijing-based tech consultancy BDA, said: “We know that Tencent powered ahead of Alibaba in mobile with WeChat, so Snapchat as the ‘it’ company for youth social networks in the West has an obvious appeal.”‘Small bets’China’s large internet firms are making these investments partly as a defensive move against each other, with potential for financial returns and partnering in China if regulations permit, he added.“It’s better from their perspective from earning virtually nothing on their cash in the bank. These are small bets for them,” said Clark.Snapchat, which allows its 100m users to send messages that disappear in seconds, had sought capital to extend its core service.In January, it began carrying videos and articles from mainstream media outlets including CNN and ESPN, bringing Snapchat into closer competition with Facebook and Twitter Inc.Alibaba founder Jack Ma on the company’s first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange in September 2014.Photograph: Mark Lennihan/APA potential allure for Alibaba could be Snapchat’s use as a payment service, as the Chinese company looks to connect consumers and merchants in China and the United States. This includes smoothing the way for cross-border payments.In November, Snapchat launched a service to let users send money to each other, in a partnership with online payments company Square.Alibaba, founded by entrepreneur Jack Ma in 1999, listed on the New York Stock Exchange last September in the world’s largest public offering. Its shares have slipped 12% since then and closed on Wednesday at $81.99, valuing the company at $206bn.Alibaba declined to comment.Meanwhile, ride-sharing service Lyft said it raised an additional $530m in a funding round led by Japanese online retailer Rakuten, giving the Uber rival a valuation of $2.5bn and adding momentum to its expansion plans.The valuation, however, pales by comparison to the $40bn that Uber is said to be worth.
Enough of Apple Watches. Tucked into Tim Cook’s keynote on Monday was a nod to something much more significant. “Every major car brand,”he declared, “has committed to delivering CarPlay, with more than 40 new models of cars shipping with CarPlay, only a year after launch.”CarPlay– Cupertino’s proprietary twin toGoogle’s Android Auto– is Apple’s recipe for integrating its devices with every vehicle in the world. And while you may never have heard of either, they offer a window into the most intriguing environment around for debating our future relationships with technology.Why do I think that a field I sincerely hope won’t become known as “drivables” matters more than wearables? Because, despite the hype, technologists have yet to demonstrate that most people either need or want to connect their smartphones to their wrists and faces. When it comes to driving and being driven, however – or simply sharing a public space with vehicles of any kind – we’re already knee-deep in unrealised needs, anxieties and desires.For those of us who do drive, the moment we get behind the wheel we are embarking upon the most skilled, perilous and logistically fraught act of our daily lives. We’re sitting inside the most expensive hunk of consumer technology we own. We’re expected to operate this pricey and potentially lethal device safely, in public, alongside tens of thousands of other people. And we have also brought with us a world of information that we wish seamlessly to connect to our vehicle’s systems – which in turn demands intuitive, hands-free interactions like voice control and context-sensitive response. Little wonder tech companies are salivating over the prospects.Much has been made of self-driving cars over the last few years – and rightly so, given how radical a demonstration they offer of the cutting edge of artificial intelligence. When it comes to the practicalities of vehicles and roads, though, the real story is machine assistance. We’re already getting used to cars that canpark themselves, maintaina safe distancefrom other vehicles, anddetect when we’re starting to nod off. What’s next? The key question is not whether autonomous systems will take over, but rather how they might help us to improve our own performance. And this in turn means asking what we mean by human performance.So much current technology is designed to distract – to capture brief attention, to place adverts for a few seconds in front of eyeballs – that it’s easy to imagine the future as more of the same. We strap a tiny second screen to our wrist; we lodge an even tinier one in front of an eye; we seek more effortless status updates, more variables tracked, more abstraction of everyday experience into metrics. This is the model. It’s hardly a set of principles designed to assist our performance in tasks requiring both excellence and consistency – or where the price of failure is as high as it can get.Let’s be clear: I’m not arguing that cars are going to save the world, or even that making and buying more of the things is a good idea. It’s just that, seen in the right light, they can help us think differently and more richly about human-machine interactions. For if vehicles are where an “everything, anywhere, anytime” culture meets the limitations of the human animal, they’re also a place that urgently begs us to explore the full nature of our attention, focus and capabilities; and to do so collectively, in terms of physical as well as virtual space.After all, roads aren’t a free-for all: they’re a test bed for governments, public servants and legislators as well as private companies and citizens. They self-evidently demand legislation balancing safety and responsibility, not to mention massive public investment and oversight. Inscrutable algorithms and blanket claims cut little ice in this arena: testing, transparency and accountability are the order of the day (privacy and security concerns are quiteanother story). Both digital libertarians and secrecy-loving corporations could learn a lot.Through all of this, there is also a need for developing interfaces that present information to people in the form of a rich experience that people are good at processing: things like head-up displays projected across the windscreen so you don’t need to look down at dials; visually intuitive real-time representations of fuel consumption and power allocation; a smart navigation system suitably and safely mapped onto the vehicle’s own systems, with due consideration of what “smart” and “safely” ought to mean.There’s something far more interesting going on here than in Apple’s story of space-age bling. Visions of a digital future shouldn’t be defined by solid gold status symbols and constant interruptions. We must ask more of our tools – by allowing them to ask more of us.
I have a Samsung N130 netbook running Windows XP. Recently, it started locking up while editing Word documents (Office 2003), though I’ve narrowed this down to a dodgy Word document that I had previously edited on my Google Nexus tablet. Android tablets are great for emails and internet access (games, social media etc) but not for any serious work applications. I am beginning to think that a Windows tablet might have been a better purchase, as I am past the age where I want to spend time on social media, and I make a lot more use of Word, Excel and Access than anything else.PeterNetbooks were a boon when they appeared in 2007-08, because the best ones – such as your Samsung N130 – provided users with cheap, very portable mini-laptops with decent battery life. However, their day has gone. You can now get more capable “netbooks” such as the HP Stream models, and more versatile 2-in-1 laptops such as the Asus Transformer T100 and the Acer Switch range, for around the same price or less.The best way to refresh an old, slow Windows PC is to back up all your data and applications and reinstall the operating system. Often you can do this by using the “restore to factory condition” option on Windows PCs that have a hidden recovery partition; this now seems to be standard on all new Windows laptops.Unfortunately, both Windows XP and Word 2003 are more than a decade old and Microsoft has stopped supporting them. This means that, although they still work well offline, there are no more security updates, leaving online users vulnerable to malware.In theory, you could upgrade your Samsung N130 by installing Windows 7 or 7 Pro (which is still a current Microsoft product) and Microsoft Office 2010 or 2013. This might be worthwhile if you had a high-end laptop with lots of memory, but frankly, the N130 isn’t worth the cost. The major limitations are the Samsung’s 1024 x 600-pixel screen resolution and meagre 1GB of memory. For the price of Windows 7 Pro and Office, you could almost buy a whole new PC.There is, of course, a free alternative. You could replace Windows XP and Office with a version of Linux and the Office Libre suite. This could be a good solution for home users, and might be viable for people who only work online. However, I don’t recommend this route to business users of Microsoft Office, because neither Office Libre nor Google Docs is sufficiently Office-compatible to rely on, and they’re not worth the cost of the time they will inevitably waste. If your business really can’t affordOffice 365 Business– roughly 25p a day – then perhaps you should be in a different business.The good news is that Office 365 Business allows you to use Microsoft Office on five PCs or Macs, five tablets (Windows, iPad, and Android), and five smartphones, so you could also use the Office apps. The bad news is that it doesn’t include Microsoft Access. You might need to buy a separate copy ofAccess 2013.Netbook replacementsNetbooks were cheap because they had very limited specifications, imposed by Intel and Microsoft, and because Microsoft offered manufacturers cheap copies ($11 to $15) of an ultra-low-cost personal computer (ULCPC) version of Windows XP. Today’s netbook-equivalents have much better specifications at the same sorts of prices – usually between £200 and £250, but sometimes climbing towards £300The main advantages come from the extra power of newer Intel Atom-based chips and from Windows 8.1, which provides fast booting and almost instant start-up from sleep. Processors such as the Pentium N3520, Celeron N2940 and Atom Z3775 are roughly as fast as a second-generation Core-i3, which is far superior to the Atom N270 in your Samsung 310 and similar netbooks. Also, instead of 1GB of memory, they have at least 2GB and sometimes 4GB, plus a standard screen resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels.The HP Stream 11 is one of the cheapest and most colourful netbooks at£179.99with 2GB of memory and 32GB of Flash memory for a hard drive. Alternatives include the Asus X205TA (£171.29), Acer Aspire ES1-111M (£179), and the Asus X200MA with 500GB hard drive (£199.99). But I’d suggest going for a Lenovo Flex 10 with 4GB of memory and 320GB hard drive for£229.99, which is probably what you paid for your Samsung.The main weakness of these machines is battery life, so check the numbers if you need more than “up to four hours”.However, you can get the benefits of tablet operation without buying a separate Windows tablet by choosing a 2-in-1 laptop where the keyboard detaches from the screen. TheAsus Transformer Book T100TA(from £249.99) is the best known example, and still buyable even though it came out in 2013. (Asus is bringing out new models this year in aTransformer Book Chirange.) The Acer Switch 10 (£269.99or£279.99) is a robust alternative, with the Switch 11 providing a larger 11.6in screen.A cheaper option is the HP Stream x360 11-p010na (£229.95), where the screen rotates instead of detaching, much like Lenovo’s pricier Yoga 2 and Yoga 3 convertibles. In fact, if you fancy splashing out, the Yoga 2 with 11.6in screen has the advantage of a faster Pentium N3540 processor, and is an attractive machine for£349.95.As usual in the Windows laptop world, there are many variations at different prices. I’ve mostly quoted PC World and John Lewis for convenience, but shop around for your preferred spec. Notebookcheck’s table,Comparison of Mobile Processors, provides a simple way to compare the speeds of the various chips.What about a tablet?If they’d been available at the time, a cheap Windows tablet would have been better for your Office-using purposes than a Google Nexus tablet. However, cheap tablets – whether running Windows or Android – generally do not deliver quite enough performance for more serious applications. And while you could go for a more powerful tablet with 2GB or more memory, by the time you’ve added a decent mobile or Bluetooth keyboard, you won’t have saved much compared with buying a 10in laptop or 2-in-1 convertible.If you only plan to use it around the house, then a Windows tablet will work with any USB keyboards and mice you already own, though you will need to buy an adaptor or an external hub to plug them in.Either way, I think an 8in Windows tablet is a useful companion to a 13.3in or 15.6in laptop, but not a very useful companion to a 10in or 11.6in device. Rather than buying both, I’d put any extra cash into a better 2-in-1 or convertible.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
It’s Thursday. If you’re at Rezzed today, come and say hello!
When Ellen Pao became chief executive of the social news site Reddit in November 2014, few thought her tenure would change the make-up of the site that bills itself the “front page of the internet”. Thrust into the limelight by the surprise resignation of the company’s previous CEO Yishan Wong, Pao had only joined Reddit the previous year, working on building “strategic partnerships that benefit the community”.And yet just four months after starting, she has led the site through one of its biggest steps towards being the mainstream hub that that “front page” billing has always implied was its aim. In the wake of the vast cache of nude celebrity photos, leaked on 4chan but rapidly centered on “The Fappening”, a Reddit subforum (or “subreddit”) which swelled to millions of members before being shut down by the site’s administrators, Reddit has banned “involuntary pornography” entirely.“Last year, we missed a chance to be a leader in social media when it comes to protecting your privacy – something we’ve cared deeply about since Reddit’s inception,”the site’s admins wrote in a message to users. “At our recent all hands company meeting, this was something that we all, as a company, decided we needed to address.”The new privacy policy came into effect on Tuesday 10 March. But the company has an uphill struggle if the intention is to clean up Reddit, even to the smallest extent.Two RedditsPart of the problem is that it’s unclear what cleaning up Reddit would even mean. Sometimes it seems like there are two Reddits. Unless you are an avid user of the site, it can sometimes be hard to believe that the vastly different contexts in which the site intrudes into your consciousness are related.Most of the time, the Reddit you hear about is a fun site, full of people sharing and creating memes, gifs and communities. Almost every viral trend will have passed through Reddit on its way to going mainstream, assuming it didn’t originate on the site in the first place.But every now and again, the dark side of the site shows its face. Most recently, that happened with “The Fappening”. The collection, built up over years by multiple hackers, was initially made available on 4Chan, as well as an offshoot called AnonIB, but Reddit rapidly became the hub of discussion and trading of the images.In a way, these are two sides of the same coin. What Reddit does best is aggregate huge amounts of material, sort through it for the most interesting examples, and present them to an audience of millions, inevitably leading to further dissemination off site.Reddit’s structure lies at the heart of that ability. The site is built out of “subreddits”, subject-specific mini-communities which users, or “Redditors”, can create and join at will. They span the gamut of topics, from general-interest ones such as “politics” and “technology” all the way to hyper-specific subreddits like /r/Fireteams (for finding teammates to play the videogame Destiny with) and /r/earthporn, for sharing beautiful landscape photography. As a rule, if the word “porn” is in a subreddit name, it’s usually not actually porn.The front page of /r/EarthPorn.Photograph: RedditOn the other hand, a lot of Reddit actually is porn. That’s the flip side of letting anyone make a subreddit: not everyone will decide to keep it clean. And porn is just the tip of the iceberg. The subreddit at the heart of the celebrity photo leak, /r/TheFappening, was eventually banned by the site’s admins for breaching privacy rules, but not before it amassed 150,000 subscribers. A year previously, another subreddit, /r/Creepshots, was banned for the same reason - it encouraged users to post “candid photos” of women.Travel deeper still into Reddit’s underbelly, and you find subreddits designed primarily to shock. Some have names, such as /r/cutefemalecorpses or /r/picsofdeadkids, that should clue you in to what goes on behind their doors, while others like /r/spacedicks deliberately obfuscate their contents as part of the joke.But what’s harder to tell is how much this underbelly affects the surface. On one level, Reddit is a mishmash of literally thousands of different communities, all overlapping slightly. But there is continuity amongst those communities, and most Redditors agree that there is, to some extent, something that can be called “the Reddit community”.Dual Personality“I think Reddit has a dual personality,” says a Redditor who goes by Dworkin. She’s a moderator of the ShitRedditSays subreddit, known as SRS, which began as a collection of all the worst quotes of Reddit and has evolved into a sort of enclave within the site for people who have deep concerns about the main community. “On one hand, it really wants to be a tight-knit community. That’s why it has default subreddits that you’re automatically subscribed to when you sign up and the vast majority of the traffic goes to them. Redditors will also call themselves a collected community whenever something goes well for them.“Whenever something goes wrong, however, the admins and users will retreat into the excuse that it’s a platform like Twitter or Facebook, and they aren’t responsible for individual users even if those responsible are the majority.”For its part, Reddit itself – the company that runs the site – downplays the notion. “There are over 150 million people using Reddit every month, across thousands of communities on the platform,” a spokeswoman for Reddit told the Guardian. “That’s more than double the population of the entire UK, so it makes about as much sense as generalising every single person in the UK, if the UK had twice as many people.”The Guardian looked at just how tight-knit the Reddit community was the week before the latest privacy policy came into effect, by taking data from the 500 most-subscribed subreddits and examining the links between them. While the list of subscribers isn’t public data (and frequently numbers in the millions), the list of moderators is. Any subreddit can have any number of moderators, and any moderator can moderate any number of subbedits.As a result, it’s possible to use the networks of moderators to draw links between the subreddits. For instance, a moderator of Advice Animals (a default subreddit until May 2014, meaning that new users were automatically subscribed to it) and the StarWars subreddit also moderates the soft-porn subreddits gentlemanboners and rule34; a moderator of the default subreddits internetisbeautiful and tifu (today I fucked up, a forum for sharing stories of terrible mistakes) also moderates porn forum PerfectPussies and Gore, for sharing gory images.A network of some of the subreddits that share moderators.By tracing connections like this, it’s possible to draw up a network of how the subreddits of the darker side of reddit are linked to those which the community is happier to present to the outside world. In the top 500 subreddits, there are 80 subreddits which we’ve classified as belonging to “dark reddit”, 49 of which are straight-up porn. Those 500 subs are moderated by 4444 people, the vast majority of whom only run one subreddit. But 662 of them are in charge of two or more, and of those, 22% of them run at least one “dark” subreddit.The crossover is small but pervasive. When the subreddits are divided up into topic areas, that becomes clear. Of the 38 moderators who work on news-themed subreddits, 11 of them also moderate something less savoury. The cluster of subreddits focused on cute and funny content, like r/aww and r/AdviceAnimals, share 32% of their moderators with dark Reddit.In fact, two of the cleanest sets of subreddits, sharing just a single moderator each with the dark subs, are those focused around drugs and music. Part of the reason for the wide influence is that, by and large, the moderators making these subreddits are some of the most active users of the site.Cute Female CorpsesGoatsac is a moderator of 96 subreddits, including “StruggleFucking” and “CuteFemaleCorpses”. He says that the subforums he creates come about for a number of reasons, but few of them are as simple as bringing together people with a shared interest. For some, he says, his aim is to point out things that annoy him. He claims that one of his creations, “a subreddit dedicated to the nonconsensual mutilation of female genitals”, proves a point about male circumcision.Goatsac’s apparent explanation is: “Young males, especially in ’Murica, have their penes[sic]mutilated without their consent in an act that does nothing more than deaden sexual feeling… But you happen to moderate a sub dedicated to mutilating vaginae, and you’re a monster.”Others subreddits, he admits, “exist to provoke outrage”. And then others still exist for reasons opaque to those not deeply involved in what he calls “metareddit”, the community which uses Reddit to talk about Reddit itself. “Our primary hangouts are hidden behind pornography.”Some of the posts on the Cute Female Corpses subreddit.Photograph: RedditThe problem is, the more out-there the subreddits get, the less chance they have of flying below the radar forever. And while Reddit is happy to let unknown subreddits push the boundaries of what’s acceptable, it has been forced to take action when the heat gets too intense.TheFappening may have been the biggest subreddit which died after an intervention from the site administrators, but it wasn’t the first. The previous year, Reddit had been pressured into taking action over a subreddit dedicated to sexualised photos of children, after initially insisting it was powerless to act because the forum did not technically break any rules.There is a cycle, of sorts, at play. Users push the limits of what they can get away with under the laissez fair management, until it eventually becomes impossible to turn a blind eye to what’s happening. Inevitably, some rule is found to have been broken, bans are put in place, and the whole thing starts again with another bad-taste subreddit.But some users are questioning how long this can go on, because of the damage it does to both groups that call themselves “Reddit”: the community, and the company on whose website it meets.The former prominence of subreddits like Jailbait and TheFappening “absolutely affects the discussion on the general interest ones,” says Dworkin. “If there’s a photo that has a woman in the frame, redditors will most likely be discussing how much or little they’d like to fuck her. Right as I’m typing this, there’s a front page post of a woman’s face in r/Pics, and posters are demanding nude photos of her in the comment section.“If a poster writes a comment on a general interest sub and you could infer that she’s a woman, there arededicated accountsthat will scour her history for pictures to r/GoneWild. They’ll post all the photos in reply to her comments orreport a ‘failure’if there aren’t any photos so no one else will waste time looking.”Goatsac disagrees, arguing that “the decision by the (awesome) admin team, even when it involves things against their personal moral/political views, to exercise the lightest of touches, I believe whole-heartedly, contributed to the success of this site. I cannot vouch or ‘shill’ enough when it comes to the true freedom of expression Reddit offers.”But there’s a chance that the admin team may, in the words of Strudelle, another SRS moderator, “show some leadership” – especially since Reddit, unlike many hot tech firms, is not fully independent. Its largest shareholder is US media conglomerate Advance Publications, a family-owned company best known for owning magazine firm Condé Nast, not for hosting hardcore pornography. Reddit was formerly owned outright by Condé, but the company transferred ownership sideways in 2011 within its corporate family, while diluting selling a portion of the company back to Reddit itself.As for where that “leadership” comes from, Strudelle says “I don’t care if it’s Advance Publications or if it’s [Reddit co-founder and chairman] Alexis Ohanian or Ellen Pao, but there are hate movements that use Reddit as a propaganda organ… and someone needs to step up and get rid of them.”For now, Reddit simply isn’t interested in taking that role. The company has just five rules for what you can do on the site: “Don’t spam; Don’t ask for votes or engage in vote manipulation; Don’t post personal information; No child pornography or sexually suggestive content featuring minors; Don’t break the site or do anything that interferes with normal use of the site.”A Reddit spokeswoman says that “since the ability to create subreddits was opened up to the communityback in 2008, we’ve seen an average of 500 or so subreddits created per day - currently there are more than8,193 active communities. We’ve keptsite rules to a minimumand have allowed the community to have access to moderation tools per each subreddit to keep the conversation on-topic as they see fit.“Our basic sitewide rules are meant to keep users safe and then these additional subreddit-by-subreddit moderation policies add additional layers of complexity.”But maybe focusing on Reddit is the wrong idea. “The easiest mistake to make here is thinking this is just a ‘Reddit’ thing, or even just an online thing,” says Michaelle, another SRS moderator.“I’m sure a lot of Redditors see the site as a haven from a culture that’s gone ‘too far in the opposite direction’ – where people can say or do these toxic things without being held accountable.“I just wish the world was more like they thought it was.”In other words, cleaning up Reddit may only be possible as a side effect of cleaning up the world itself. So perhaps its hopeful that Pao takes that goal just as seriously. Reddit’s CEO is currently engaged in a long-running lawsuit with a former employer over gender discrimination, which has sprawled into an examination of gender politics in Silicon Valley at large, and the venture capital firms which hold the purse strings in particular. A victory there may not lead directly to a victory in Reddit, but it could be another step on the road.
We can’t work out how to make the witch smaller. That is an actual problem in my life right now.I’m making a game with my nine-year-old son, Zac. We’re using the simple programming toolScratch, developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It’s designed to extrapolate all the basics of coding into one comparatively straightforward “drag and drop” interface, and it’s used in schools all over the world. The idea is that you gradually build lines of code by interlocking the various different commands together like jigsaw pieces, selecting them from themed menus and pulling them onto a workspace. The package, which is available for free online and runs in practically any browser screen, provides all sorts of tutorials and sample routines, as well as a library of sprites and backgrounds to use. You just have to fit it all together, using basic logic.We started a couple of weeks ago. I’ve probably mentioned this, but Zac is on the autism scale and I thought learning to code would be good for him – he’s got a sharp, logical mind and he loves games. He and his brother have some pretty cool ideas for them sometimes. Also, he says that when he grows up he wants to be a spy, so I figured that being able to code may come in handy for when he’s monitoring the North Koreans.Anyway, I’m getting ahead of myself. At first, we simply adapted a basic pre-built maze game. Zac changed the player character into a mouse, and then wanted the end point – the prize – to be a tasty bowl of cheesy puffs. Luckily, there was a cheesy puffs graphic in the library, and while he was looking for that, he found a ghost that he liked, so we added it to the maze too. “The ghost should do a scary noise,” he said accurately. So we went into the sound files and set up a command ensuring that when the mouse touched the ghost it went “wooooooo”. We were unsatisfied with the supplied mouse squeak, so we recorded our own using the very simple sound editor. Zac mademedo it. It sounds like a grown-man who does not really want to do a mouse impression. Zac approved it for use in the game anyway.Here is our first project, Cheesy Mouse. The game window is on the top left, while in the right-hand, there’s the actual programme.Photograph: ScratchThe best part is that I don’t know what I’m doing, so we’re coming at this as equals. We figure things out together, usually through trial and error. Mostly error. For example, we originally got the collision detections between the mouse and the walls so wrong that when our our squeaky rodent touched a surface, he flew off the screen like a misfiring rocket. The next time we tried, he would walk into the wall but then furiously vibrate, trapped there forever. “Is that supposed to happen?” asked Zac. “Yes, I... no,” I replied solemnly.Adriel Wallick is an actual games programmer. After graduating from Boston university, she became a software engineer, specialising in developing computer systems for satellites. However, she’d always loved games and wanted to make them, and last year she set herself the task of making and releasinga new game every week. Somehow, in the midst of that, she attended the GameCity festival in Nottingham and held Scratch programming classes.“There’s been a significant increase, over the last few years, of people expressing interest in learning how games are made,” she says. “This is especially true for the younger generation, as games have become incredibly commonplace and important in their lives. I’ve always been a big believer in the idea that anyone can make a game if they want to, so I figured I would try my hand at showing young children just how games are made.”So why is Scratch a good place to start? “It lets you do all of the parts of game development,” says Wallick. “There’s a programming language, audio editor, a sprite editor, and a ton of pre-made assets that make it easy to pick up via example. This means that no matter what a user’s preference is, they have the means to play around in Scratch to make a game. As a programmer, I love how Scratch makes coding accessible – via the puzzle piece interface – yet doesn’t dumb it down. It’s a powerful and simple tool that allows you the freedom to just try things out and see what happens.”When you start out with Scratch, and with programming in general it seems, a lot of what happens is either chaos or just nothing at all. You need all the commands to work with one another, you need the main game loops to make sense and keep checking the player state, you need to be able to call outside functions. When I called, they rarely answered. But that’s all part of the process. “Even though it’s not a programming language that you would use to make a large game, the concepts are all there,” says Wallick.Zac and I are now working on a new project, this time using no templates. It’s a space shooting game, but Zac liked the witch sprite from the graphics library, so basically, it’s a space witch shooting game. We’ve set up a cool background and have got a rocket as the player sprite, which moves left and right and fires “bullets” (actually tennis balls – blame Zac for that too).However, the witch has been a nightmare. The default size was too big and I couldn’t figure out how to change it. Zac suggested going into the “costume” menu, which I immediately dismissed because I told him that would just be for cosmetic changes. 30 minutes of useless experimentation later, I sighed deeply and went into the costume menu... and found that it included a little grid where you could easily reduce the sprite size, as well as flip it and customise it. But then I couldn’t get the witch to move back and forth across the screen. “We’re just way too ambitious,” I told Zac.“I find that when learning a new program or language, you should simply start with whatever excites you, but also something that’s simple,” stresses Wallick. “So, for something like Scratch, a single-screen 2D game would be the best.” At least we got that part right.“When teaching the workshop, I started the kids with a super simple game idea: fish falling from the sky that a cat would have to catch by moving left and right. It was a nice place to start because every kid would come in expecting to be able to make Minecraft. After spending about 30 minutes showing them just how to make the fish and the cat collide and behave properly, they would all gain a new appreciation of just what went into making a game work. After that, every kid would have all sorts of ideas of what to do to make the game their own.”Zac and I have all sorts of ideas, but right now, having solved the whole witch size problem, our difficulty is getting her to be an actual moving target. I worked out how to get her to zoom once along the screen, but couldn’t get her to come back. I tried reversing the loop, but she flew off the screen. Then I did what any sensible games journalist would do: I went on Twitter and begged developers for help. Within minutes, I had Sean Oxspring from Hitpoint Games providing me with one solution:@keefstuartTry this out:pic.twitter.com/vdKwpBM3Vi&mdash; Sean &#39;Oxy&#39; Oxspring (@OxyOxspring)March 9, 2015While the brilliant game developer Rob Fearon gave me with another:@keefstuartIt&#39;s still colliding with the edge so you&#39;ll probably need to move it away from there.pic.twitter.com/usB9QQxox9&mdash; Rob (@retroremakes)March 9, 2015And here’s another one from one from computer science lecturer John Conaghan, who says he was taught Scratch by his 12-year-old daughter, Isabel:@keefstuartYou&#39;re welcome. Check out the Costumes tab. Create a flipped image of the witch there.pic.twitter.com/0IL1oPlEFC&mdash; John C (@worlds_worst)March 9, 2015All work perfectly, but they’re very different. Conaghan’s sets a specific pixel distance for the witch to travel and then reverses it by the same amount. Meanwhile, Rob’s tells the witch to get to the end of the screen and then turn back. I selected one and was then able to add a command into the loop so that the sprite continually checked for contact with the tennis ball. I felt like a genius. Zac was impressed. I think we may have high-fived, it’s all a bit of a blur.https://t.co/QMXusoPa0C&mdash; Keith Stuart (@keefstuart)March 10, 2015This array of different but effective solutions confirmed to me something that one of my housemates at university – a talented computer scientist – once told me. Programming is an art, just like writing, and everyone has a different approach to the same task. As an English and Drama student I figured that, because code looks sort of like maths, there would be one right answer to everything, but my friend told me that I could show him a few lines of code written by any of his fellow students and he’d be able to tell me who wrote it. Through Scratch, I am beginning to appreciate that.Related:Minecraft's creator will always be a hero to me, he gave my autistic son a voiceI’m also getting the sense that Zac will be a good coder. He remembers all the commands and knows where to find them, and he spots the little errors I make. My code is sloppy and ham-fisted, I’m guessing his will be elegant and coldly refined.Right now, though, we’re just having fun and experimenting, and Scratch is a perfect tool for that. On Friday 13 March, Oxspring is helping to run the second annualScratch Your Noseday in aid of Comic Relief, with schools around the country holding Scratch coding competitions. You canwatch a livestreamof the day’s main event in Birmingham.And if one day your child comes home from a school Scratch session talking about sub-routines, commands and re-sizing sprites, don’t just call them a geek and change the subject; load up the program and give it a go. I can’t promise you’ll produce a masterpiece like Space Witch (release date to be confirmed), but you’ll learn a lot about the games you play – and why they’re so complex and amazing.
Dyson has launched a “Fluffly” cordless vacuum cleaner which it claims to be the next step in cleaners with a soft paint-roller-like brush.The new brush head is covered in a soft, padded nylon, interspersed between traditional bristles and is designed to be much more effective at picking up fine dust. To the touch, it’s weirdly stroke-able - not something usually associated with a vacuum cleaner.The Fluffy head is part of a revamp of the British manufacturer’s cordless vacuum line, which all now use its V6 motor. The front edge of the brush is raised to avoid simply pushing debris around, while the soft nylon grips the solid bits and flings it into the suction tube, while the brush is removable and washable.The raised front stops debris simply being pushed around a hard floor.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian“We’ve invested more than £250m in developing our own patented motor which spins at up to 110,000 rpm,” said founder James Dyson. “The power-density that this provides means our machines remain nimble while providing more power than any other.”Battery life is around 20 minutes, though Dyson claims that due to its easy to use gun-like trigger mechanism, 20 minutes of operation is enough to do the whole house. A charge takes three hours, but doubts still remain over the handheld’s battery life beyond a year – a replacement battery might be needed, much like smartphones over two-years old.Dyson has also launched a new top of the range cordless cleaner called Absolute, which claims to boost power over older models by 150% and drive trampled in dirt from carpets with a new motorised head.The Dyson cordless design puts all the weight of the motor and battery in the hand rather than down by the brush, making it easier to handle.Photograph: DysonThe new cordless V6 range starts at £299, with the V6 Fluffy costing £399 and the V6 Absolute costing £450, which is significantly more than competitors from Vax and Bosch costing approximately £250.•Dyson vacuums enter robotic age with 360 Eye – and a smartphone app•iRobot Roomba 880 review: a robotic vacuum cleaner that’s almost a pet•EU ban on powerful vacuum cleaners prompts anger and legal challenge•Dyson removes the filter issue as it tries to reinvent vacuum cleaner - again
Like shoulder pads or frosted hair, virtual reality is often viewed as an relic of the 1980s, but not by former Newsweek reporter Nonny de la Peña.The Los Angeles-based “Godmother of VR” is at the forefront of an endeavour to use the technology to usher in a form of immersive journalism in which viewers are placed within news stories and experience them viscerally.Next week, De la Peña will unveil the latest in a series of graphic 3D reconstructions: the story of Trayvon Martin, the unarmed 17-year-old African American fatally shot by neighbourhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman in February 2012.De la Peña believes the wide availability of VR headsets and the technology to reconstruct events using new computer and film-making techniques could one day transform the world of journalism.“It creates a real sense of being present on the scene,” she says. “It puts the audience in a place where they can experience the sights, sounds and even emotions as events unfold. This is unlike any other medium.”Earlier this year, De la Peña’s company, Emblematic, unveiled “Project Syria” at the Sundance festival in Utah. Using a mix of real footage and computer graphics, viewers were placed in a calm Aleppo street scene, a sudden mortar attack, and a camp for refugee children.The project was not alone in taking virtual reality into real-world stories; others at Sundance recreated Chile’s Caravan of Death in the aftermath of the 1973 coup and the scenes from Iran’s 1979 revolution.As the technology develops, De la Peña believes, news events will be filmed with 3D, 360-degree cameras. “The audience will not only be in the middle of the story but they’ll be able to move around within it. All of this will be a common part of how journalists make stories in the future.”Investment in virtual reality devices appears to be accelerating as more VR headsets become available and prices become more affordable. Newly announced models include Sony’s Project Morpheus, high-end phone manufacturer HTC, and Samsung with its smartphone-powered set, Gear VR.De la Peña’s start in immersive journalism began in 2012 with Hunger, the true story of a diabetic’s collapse due to starvation while waiting in line at a food bank in Los Angeles. Last year, Palmer Luckey, a former Emblematic intern on the Hunger project, sold his prototype VR headset, Oculus Rift, to Facebook for $2bn (£1.34m).Google is also investing in the field with Cardboard VR goggles; with Magic Leap, developers of technology that imposes images directly into light entering the eye; and with research programmes like Project Tango, which looks at creating a 3D model of the environment around a mobile device.The technology is likely to go through a period of consolidation in which rival platforms and standards are teased out. But consumers may be justly wary of investing in the hardware if there is little content to enjoy and formats are fragmented.“There’s huge investment going into merging 3D and CGI technology so I’m not worried about the technology aspect,” De la Peña says. Rather, she believes, it’s going to take new skills to master the form. Immersive journalism, like journalism in general, can be highly subjective and subject to manipulation.For the Trayvon Martin story, the film-makers did not re-enact the moment the teen was shot since that would rely solely on the witness account of Zimmerman. “We don’t know what happened but we do have tapes of 911 calls and that gives us an opportunity to fact-check source material.”But will virtual reality be able to overcome the consumer scepticism that was established in 1980s when the technology was in its infancy? Consumer research firm Gartner predicts that 25 million head-mounted VR headsets will be sold worldwide by the end of 2018 and De la Peña believes that emerging consumer generation is as comfortable living on a computer server as it is in reality.Her own children, she says, are digital natives, and VR technology is already mature enough to be used for non-entertainment purposes. “People thought I was nuts when I started out with this but now it is being recognised as a genuine, serious-issue format.”
Here’s one way to get people on Google Plus: announce your midlife crisis on the ailing social media platform.That’s what Google’s CFO Patrick Pichette did on Tuesday, using Google Plus to announce his surprise retirement, age 52, so he can spend more time with his family and backpack across the world.Inan intimate blogpostPichette wrote: “I know you’ve heard that line before. We give a lot to our jobs. I certainly did.”Pichette, whojoined Google in 2008, said he began thinking of retirement last September after a trip to Mount Kilimanjaro in Africa with his wife, Tamar. She asked him to keep exploring and to go backpacking with her through Africa and India.“I remember telling Tamar a typical prudent CFO-type response – I would love to keep going, but we have to go back. It’s not time yet. There is still so much to do at Google, with my career, so many people counting on me,” wrote Pichette. “But then she asked the killer question: so when is it going to be time? Our time? My time? The questions just hung there in the cold morning African air.”Pichette couldn’t find a good argument for why they should wait any longer to grab their backpacks, hit the road “and enjoy a perfectly fine midlife crisis full of bliss and beauty”. And so, he’s retiring.Most recently his responsibilities at Google have included defending the company’s spending onaudacious projects such as Google Glass and driverless cars. During a conference call in January, Pichette described company investments as “disciplined”.Prior to joining Google, Pichette served as president of operations at Bell Canada.“A most unconventional leaving notice from a most unconventional CFO,” wrote Larry Page, Google’s CEO, whoreposted Pichete’s memo on his own Google Plus page. “Well worth reading – it will warm your heart. Patrick has been a joy to work with and I wish him all the best on his new adventures!”If Pichette retires before the next year, he might be leaving money on the table,according to CNN Money.“He has more than 60,000 stock options that will not vest until next year, worth about $14m if he could cash them today. He also may lose stock awards worth about $16.8m at current prices. His base salary and cash bonus in 2013 and 2012 were about $3.5m a year,” CNN reports.Pichette, who described himself as a member of the “fraternity of worldwide insecure over-achievers”, is not leaving the company immediately. According to his post, he will stay on through the transition and will officially retire after a new CFO has been found.“Working at Google is a privilege, nothing less. I have worked with the best of the best, and know that I am leaving Google in great hands,” he wrote.
There is something profoundly unsettling and unedifying at the heart of the contemporary information economy. Captivated by shiny devices, services and apps, manipulated by information merchants, and unprotected by barnacle-encrusted law and institutions, we are losing - or have lost - control.This is the message of American legal scholar, Julie E Cohen, a prominent thinker on networked information technologies, visiting London to give the annual Law and Media and Communicationslectureat the LSE on Wednesday evening.Cohen, alaw professor at Georgetown Universityand  expert on privacy, data protection and intellectual property, sees striking parallels between our current situation and the upheavals that followed the emergence of industrialisation and consumer capitalism.In those eras, rapid economic and technological change ran roughshod over the lives of ordinary people, requiring legal institutions and frameworks to account, slowly and with embedded compromise, for novel harms, losses and systemic concerns – from abusive working conditions and vast population displacement, to the damage wrought by defective mass-market goods and toxic waste.Today’s problems are different, but no less significant, argues Cohen. While regulators chisel inconsequentially at the beguiling monoliths of private power that configure today’s information flows and dams, we the citizens have been reduced to raw material – sourced, bartered and mined in a curiously fabricated “privatised commons” of data and surveillance. This oxymoronic terrain is what Cohen calls “the biopolitical economy of informational capitalism”.In her lecture Cohen outlines the deal we have struck with the “surveillance-innovation complex”, involving a deeply worrying complicity between state and private actors - “a mutually satisfactory game of regulatory arbitrage”.Cohen describes how today’s information merchants have exploited a narrative valorising “openness” and “participation”, through the particular form of voluntary, public and perpetual sharing of personal information with platforms. This has been the driving factor, she argues, in normalising “a distinctly Western, democratic type of surveillance society, in which surveillance is conceptualised first and foremost as a matter of efficiency and convenience”.Cohen is unapologetic in countering the standard internet preoccupation with totalitarian states and their censorial ambitions, with the experience of Hollywood moguls, who have, over the past two decades, achieved a deep and seemingly permanent rearrangement of information flows, subject to loosely-overseen (and often overreaching) copyright law.Similarly, she is to the point about the symbiosis between state and private actors on surveillance, or about the way that intermediaries structurally enable harassment that reflects and reproduces traditional hierarchies of power. With reference to scandals such asGamergateand other instances of hate speech and discrimination online, she argues that those who adopt a position of neutrality fail to protect the vulnerable.Cohen is one of an increasing number of scholars (others include Manuel Castells, John Naughton, Karine Nahon and Giorgio Agamben) and commentators preoccupied with the magnitude of the challenges we face when citizens, lured by Mickey Mouse-faced smartwatches or the reassuring primary colours of a search engine, fall prey to a parasitic system that magnifies inequality and disenfranchises individuals.It is clear that we need to rethink law, entitlements and institutions around how we regulate information, without consenting to untold pages of unread, non-negotiable, we’ll-take-everything-but-your-firstborn-child terms and conditions.Her major insight is that existing hierarchies of power are magnified in and through our legacy institutions, law and code, as well as in transnational trade, standards and protocols.Power is ubiquitous - it routes around blockage and regulation, from tax to human rights. But the future of our networked information society depends on ensuring that the system we create counters, and does not reinforce, power asymmetries, allowing all of us to be treated as citizens, not as raw material.• Julie E Cohen’s lecture is at the Old Theatre, Old Building, of the LSE, at 18.30 GMT tonight. The lecture will be recorded andavailableonline.
Apple’s online services are experiencing sporadic outages, affecting users of software as diverse as iTunes, Game Centre and iCloud.The company’s iCloud system status page initiallyshowed no reported issues, even as users were unable to log in to iCloud, download new apps, or play multiplayer games.However, around 3pm GMT, the company updated the support page, to acknowledge that iCloud had been down for four hours and that its online stores, including all its app stores, its ebook store and its music store, are still down over six hours after the outages began.The sporadic nature of the outages means that an initial failure to connect may be resolved minutes later, only to fail again after that.The App Store not working on an iPad.Photograph: AppleAlthough a mere annoyance for most users, those whose working days focus on Apple’s iCloud suite of productivity software are rather more hamstrung.I see the downside of storing important files on#icloudwhen the system goes down and you cannot log in. Fortunately I don&#39;t do that!!&mdash; Markos Martong (@mmartong)March 11, 2015All my iCloud documents are not accessible from my iPad now after a restore. Seems like iCloud is down to some extent.&mdash; david toub (@dbtoub)March 11, 2015An Apple spokesperson told the Guardian: “We apologise to our customers experiencing problems with iTunes and other services this morning. The cause was an internal DNS error at Apple. We’re working to make all of the services available to customers as soon as possible, and we thank everyone for their patience.”
Retailers will be hit by an ”asteroid strike” of technological change that will kill off those that fail to adapt, according to Dixons Carphone boss Seb James.The arrival of household technology that communicates through the internet - the so-called internet of things - would bring a shift in consumer behaviour and the retail landscape as dramatic as that caused by the advent of the internet itself, which led to the closure of thousands of high street stores.“We are coming to the era of the connected customer, the latest in a series of shifts created by technology,” he told the Retail Week Live conference in London. “This shift is going to bump off as many retailers as the last. It will be a total asteroid strike at the heart of retail.”The new technology, from health monitoring smartwatches to washing machines that can tell engineers when they need repairing – will mean retailers need to offer services to help consumers with the new products and keep them operating correctly.Today the average home has about 12 connected devices, mostly phones, laptops and TVs, but this could rise to as many as 70 within two or three years, said James.Tech group Cisco Systems thinks the“internet of things” could be worth $14.4tn (£8.5tn) by 2020when 50bn objects will be connected online.That changing landscape fuelled the merger between electrical goods retailer Dixons and mobile technology business Carphone Warehouse last year.Retailers will need to find ways of handling thestream of data about their customers so that they can serve people effectively.“Your connected home will know when you’re in, what mood you’re in, your temperature preferences and family members. They’ll know the state of health of your dog, how far you jogged this morning and what brand of toothpaste you like and how much you have left.“It’s a little bit creepy but we’re all going to have to get used to it as information which used to be so hard to get is now going to be so easy to find new skills and tools [to deal with it].”
Apple’s new super-thin MacBook comes with a new trackpad technology that detects the force of a tap or press and is expected to be added to the iPhone next year. But what is “force touch”, how does it work and what on earth is a “taptic engine”?Beyond the hype and buzz around theApple Watch launchon Monday evening, a piece of technology that could change the way we interact with our computers and smartphones was unveiled. But it wasn’t a wearable device, nor a new phone. It was anew laptop fittedwith a new type of trackpad.Trackpads are not usually an exciting part of a computer. They are just a touch mouse with a couple of buttons and while some work better than others, they are pretty mundane. But Apple’s new trackpad on the 13.1mm thick MacBook does something different.Instead of having either physical buttons or the whole trackpad acting as one giant button as in previous Apple laptops, the force touch trackpad does not move. Underneath the four corners of the pad are force sensors, which detect clicks as well as force and mean a click can be made anywhere on the trackpad - not just at the bottom.Press harderThe guts of the new touchpad on the MacBook.Photograph: AppleThe new sensors can detect more than one type of click. A light click can perform one action, a harder click another and the threshold of how hard is a “hard” press can be customised.Press harder to speed up the fast forward of video, for instance, or “force click” to pull up a definition of selected word.The force gestures are in addition to the standard multitouch trackpad swipes and taps and are intuitive, which bodes well. Apple is expected to integrate force sensing into its iPhone and iPad next year, after introducing the technology in the company’s smartwatch, according tothe Wall Street Journal.The trackpad taps backThe trackpad feels like it is being depressed despite not moving when clicked on.Photograph: AppleThe new trackpad also incorporates a new type of haptic feedback – a physical response to a virtual action typically on a touchscreen. In this case Apple has replaced the physical depression of a trackpad click with what it calls a “taptic engine”.A small device attached to the back of the trackpad essentially taps back in the opposite direction to the user’s click. It simulates physical movement, tricking the brain into thinking the trackpad is moving down and clicking as a button would. But the feedback is not just one stage, and with each threshold of force applied to the trackpad another click is felt.The whole experience is much like using a two-stage camera shutter button that clicks once to focus and depresses further to capture the shot.Most haptic feedback until now, as felt on Android and Windows Phones among others, is created by small vibration motors. When a virtual key is pressed the smartphone buzzes.The new tapping feedback, which is also used by the Apple Watch, is a more intuitive and natural response to virtual taps and potentially represents a big step forward in haptic feedback.Integrated into smartphones and tablets a force-sensing touchscreen that taps back on the user could provide virtual keyboards with feedback that is intuitive enough to level the playing field with physical keyboards, which would be good news for tablets and the “post-PC” era.•Half the UK population will use a tablet in 2015 – but future growth will be slow
Nokia is relaunching its HERE maps and navigation application for iOS, after notching up 4m downloads of the Android version, which launched in October 2014.As on Android,the iOS appwill be free to download and use when it launches later today (11 March), with its key selling point its ability to store maps for 118 countries on the device for offline use, saving on mobile network data charges.Positioned as a rival to Google Maps – and on iOS, the preloaded Apple Maps application – HERE also includes offline turn-by-turn navigation features for drivers, public transport directions for pedestrians, and the ability to pull in live traffic data when online.HERE was originally unveiled in 2012, initially as an exclusive app to Nokia’s own Windows Phone smartphones, although the plans to expand to Android and iOS was talked about from the start.Related:Cracks in the digital map: what the 'geoweb' gets wrong about real streetsIndeed, HERE wasreleased as a native iOS app in November 2012, before being removed from Apple’s App Store in December 2013 due to the company’s belief that –in a spokesperson’s words– “recent changes to iOS 7 harm the user experience”.The app has sincelaunched for Samsung Galaxy-branded Android smartphonesin August 2014, before a beta versionwent live in the main Google Play Android app storethat December.The appcame out of beta in February 2015, at which point it had been downloaded more than 3m times, although Nokia told the Guardian that it has added another 1m Android downloads in the month since then.iOS is likely to provide a significant boost to that total, even if Nokia is unlikely to reach the10m downloads in two days achieved by the standalone Google Maps appafter its release for iOS in December 2012, shortly after Apple had removed the version preloaded on its devices.In April 2014, Microsoft bought Nokia’s devices and services business, with HERE remaining part of the company left behind in Finland as an independent entity.While the consumer app is free to download and use, Nokia makes money from HERE through licensing deals for its data – for example for satellite navigation systems installed in cars, as well as to Microsoft.
Hotline Miami 2 is a game about killing people as stylishly, efficiently, and brutally as possible. There’s no attempt to rationalise or apologise for its extreme violence. In fact, the game revels in it. Drenched in gaudy neon and soundtracked by a playlist of aggressive, pounding techno, it’s an intoxicating assault on the senses. Playing with a good set of headphones, beating Russian gangsters with baseball bats to the throbbing beat, you can’t help but be hypnotised by its decadent, exhilarating cocktail of masochistic, rapid-fire action.Of course, the same could be said for the first game. Released in 2012 by two-man team Dennaton Games, Hotline Miami turned the thin narrative of a hallucinating hitman carrying out assassination missions for a weird coterie of gang bosses, into an aggressively trippy indie classic. Hotline Miami 2 is a sequel that, largely (and ironically considering its subject matter), plays it safe. It is, as before, a puzzle game disguised as a breathlessly fast top-down shooter. You clear a level by killing everyone in it, but the journey there is hard-earned. You’ll die constantly as you learn the layout of the level and the positions of its enemies. Hitting the R key to restart is a fundamental part of the game’s savage, staccato rhythm.But then you nail it, and it feels amazing. You burst through a door, knocking a goon on his back, then finish him off with a volley of punches. You grab the knife he dropped and throw it at his friend who’s just rushed into the room with a shotgun, killing him instantly. Then you grab the gun, pirouette around a corner, and take out another two guys with one shot. This all happens in a wild, bloody flash of brutality. You might have carefully planned it this way, or it could have just been dumb luck. More often than not, it’s the latter.Disappointingly, however, there aren’t as many of these opportunities for improvisation as there are in the first game. Hotline Miami 2 is, compared to its predecessor, a much more linear experience, regularly pressuring you into a specific play style. As the game jumps between time periods, filling out the original’s backstory, you’re forced to play as characters with very specific strengths and weaknesses. One can kill an enemy with a single punch, but can’t pick up dropped weapons. Another starts with a gun, but is stuck with it for the entire level.This takes you out of your comfort zone, encouraging you to adopt new tactics and play in different ways. But it also diminishes the freeform structure that made the first game such a compelling score attack sandbox. All too often you feel like you’re playing it the way the developers want you to, rather than coming up with your own strategy. It’s an impressively varied game, with frequent shifts in tone and multiple playable characters, but this has watered down the elegant precision that was central to the original.Level design is also an issue, with maps that are way too big. In these large spaces you spend more time holding the shift key to look ahead, taking pot shots around corners at off-screen enemies, than rushing in and taking risks. This breaks your combo, and doesn’t feel very Hotline Miami – the original game seemed designed to encourage reckless endeavour, it told you that it’s okay to die. But now, carefully clearing a floor, only to be instantly killed by an unseen sniper a screen away, is maddening. Inconsistent AI, bugs, and a steep difficulty curve only add to the frustration. The original’s levels were the perfect size for score-improving replays, but I felt no urge to master these oversized, meandering maps. I was just glad they were over.It’s a shame, because when it works, Hotline Miami 2 can be magnificent. The soundtrack is incredible, mixing thumping ’80s electro with dreamy shoegaze and lazy hip-hop beats. The pulsing tempo of the music almost makes it feel like a rhythm-action game as you unconsciously match your attacks to the BPM. The Miami underworld is brought brilliantly to life with intricate pixel art, vivid colours, and a woozy, dreamlike atmosphere that’s like a David Lynch film crossed with a video nasty. It’s an effortlessly cool, stylish game with anarchic punk sensibilities, but it does at times feel like the developers were more interested in the aesthetic and the story than the game itself.Hotline Miami 2 is a messy, aimless sequel and a step back from the original. Many of its levels feel like crafted set-pieces rather than playgrounds for violent expression, and your scope for creativity is stifled as a result. When you’re deep in the moment, chaining kills as that remarkable soundtrack vibrates through your headphones, it feels fantastic. But it struggles to hold onto that feeling as firmly as the first game, diluting the purity of its compelling core loop with an endless parade of under-developed ideas.Devolver Digital / PS3, PS4, PS Vita, Mac, Linux, Windows (version tested) / £12 / PEGI rating: 18+
