House oversight committee chairman and firebrand Obama administration critic Darrell Issa is touting his first draft of a Digital Bill of Rights for internet denizens, and he's asking for the public's input.Just posted my draft of a digital citizen's Bill of Rights on @reddit:bit.ly/MLUzPbcc @RonWyden@Kn0thing@hueypriest@Rasiej&mdash; Darrell Issa (@DarrellIssa)June 13, 2012Issa, who spent the better part of the winter rallying opposition against theStop Online Piracy Act, is also fresh off launching his latest legislative crowdsourcing project, theOpenGov Foundationearlier this week at the Personal Democracy Forum.Now, he's inviting citizens "to help get this right" by inviting edits to the Digital Citizen's Bill of Rights."... Where can a digital citizen turn for protection against the powerful?" Issa writes atKeepthewebopen.com. "This question lay at the heart of the fight to stop Sopa and Pipa [Protect IP Act] and keep the web open."Below is Issa's first draft. What's great about this list? What's missing? Tell us in the comments below.The Digital Bill of Rights1. Freedom – digital citizens have a right to a free, uncensored internet2. Openness – digital citizens have a right to an open, unobstructed internet3. Equality – all digital citizens are created equal on the internet4. Participation – digital citizens have a right to peaceably participate where and how they choose on the internet5. Creativity – digital citizens have a right to create, grow and collaborate on the internet, and be held accountable for what they create6. Sharing – digital citizens have a right to freely share their ideas, lawful discoveries and opinions on the internet7. Accessibility – digital citizens have a right to access the internet equally, regardless of who they are or where they are8. Association – digital citizens have a right to freely associate on the internet9. Privacy – digital citizens have a right to privacy on the internet10. Property – digital citizens have a right to benefit from what they create, and be secure in their intellectual property on the internet
Googlehas published sworn declarations from nine engineers, as the company tries to answer claims it orchestrated a cover-up of its collection of personal data from millions of internet users.Nine engineers involved in the controversial Street View project said they were unaware it had been designed to capture private data, including full emails, medical listings and passwords.Google published the written testimony late on Tuesday, hours after theUK information commissioner launched a fresh investigation into the data collection.It is understood that Google publicly released the documents in response to a Freedom of Information request, not in response to the ICO investigation.Eight of the nine Google engineers whose evidence has been published said they only became aware of the huge data capture in May 2010, when the search engine firm admitted it for the first time.Google has been under pressure to explain the saga since April this year, when the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) said that the technology was designed specifically to retrieve information from public Wi-Fi signals as Street View cars photographed peoples' homes.The FCC said the collection did not breach US privacy laws, but that other Google engineers – including a senior manager – knew of its data-capture technology. Google has maintained that the data was mistakenly harvested and was never intended to be used.A Google spokeswoman in the US admitted to the New York Times on Tuesday that there was a process breakdown in the project. She said the failure of multiple engineers to review the project was a mistake.Google had not responded to the Guardian's request for comment at the time of publication.The nine Google engineers produced their testimony in August last year as part of the FCC investigation into the company. But, crucially, the engineer who designed the software invoked US legal protection against self-incrimination and refused to talk to the FCC.According to the sworn declarations published by Google, one of the unnamed engineers said he had no recollection of reviewing the Wi-Fi project design document and that it was not part of his duties to do so.Another engineer said: "I only became aware that payload data had in fact been collected when various news outlets reported that the Street View vehicles were collecting Wi-Fi communications sent over unencrypted networks, and I frankly thought the reports were wrong."The testimony will now be reviewed by the information commissioner's office (ICO) in the UK. The ICO sent Google a list of seven detailed questions on Monday as it seeks to get to the bottom of who knew what and when.Google told the ICO in April 2010 that the data capture was a mistake. However, the ICO said in its letter to the internet firm this week: "During the course of our investigation we were specifically told by Google that it was a simple mistake and if the data was collected deliberately then it is clear that this is a different situation than was reported to us in April 2010."The UK data watchdog said it appeared likely that some private information – including visits to dating or pornographic websites, medical listings and "legal infractions" – was scooped up by Google as it photographed homes across the UK.Google has been cleared of breaching privacy laws with the Street View project in each of the countries that have concluded investigations into the affair.The privacy regulator in Germany, which generally takes a strict view on such matters, has yet to report its findings.
A selection of 15 new and notable apps for you today:Songkick ConcertsBritish startup Songkick's iPhone live-music app has been very popular, but now it's on Android too. It scans the music on your phone, as well as (optionally) your Google Music account and Last.fm / Facebook / Pandora profiles, then generates a list of upcoming gigs by bands you like near you, or in any specified city.AndroidFinal FantasySquare Enix has brought the original Final Fantasy to Windows Phone, offering retro RPG thrills to anyone who remembers the game from 1987 (and perhaps a few new players too). Xbox Live features are included.Windows PhoneKytephone Beta"Turn any Android phone into a kid's phone," promises the beta version of Kytephone, with its "friendly, playful UI from which kids cannot exit without a password". That means parental control of who they can call and receive calls from, as well as a separate browser-based dashboard to track the child's location, see the photos they've taken and summarise their activity on the phone.AndroidSlash 360 - The Apocalyptic Love SessionsFormer Guns'n'Roses star Slash has a new iPhone and iPad app focusing on his new album with Myles Kennedy and the Conspirators. It's a live performance of the album in its entirety, filmed through "six 360-degree spherical cameras" which can be rotated at will as you watch using the gyroscope.iPhone / iPadDisney's GnomeTownDisney has ported its GnomeTown social game to iOS, providing a freemium world-building game with virtual gnomes who "grow magical crops, raise beautiful butterflies, and gather a crew of adorable animal critters". It's a standalone game though – not a mobile client for the existing Facebook version.iPhone / iPadCNNNews network CNN has launched its app on another platform: Windows Phone. It includes headlines, videos, news alerts, streaming CNN Radio and the ability to submit your own footage and photos using its iReports citizen journalism feature.Windows PhoneSoho StoriesThe National Trust has launched this iPhone app, which offers an audio tour of London's Soho district, narrated by comedian and writer Barry Cryer. It "knows where you are, what street you're on, and whispers its hedonistic history in your ear", with contributions from Janet Street Porter, Felix Dennis, Molly Parkin, Frankie Fraser and others, as well as music from Brian Eno and the Correspondents.iPhoneStiktuStiktu is a standalone app from augmented reality startup Layar: a "social AR app" that "allows users to remix the real world". The idea being that normal people, rather than just developers, can create content to tag real-world locations.Android / iPhoneFrisbee Rush"It's Time Crisis, with a Frisbee," claims the promotional blurb for this game. It sees you flinging frisbees to knock out aliens. However, the interesting point is that the app is just a controller for the game, which is designed to be played in the browser on a bigger screen – a desktop monitor or TV.Android / iPhoneVoddlerNokia's latest exclusive app for its Lumia Windows Phones is Voddler, which streams films on demand while wrapping social features around them. Users pay €7.90 a month – once the initial four-month free trial runs out – although for now it's only available in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland and Spain.Windows PhoneHappy SnapperBritish studio ustwo has ported its Happy Snapper photo-manipulation app from iPhone to Android. It involves taking a photo of a friend, slapping on some virtual stickers and slogans, then sharing the results.AndroidArtrockerMusic and style magazine Artrocker has launched its own iPad app, selling single issues and six/12-month subscriptions via Apple's Newsstand.iPadFisher-Price Giggle Gang App for BabyFisher-Price's latest app for kids focuses on babies aged six months and upwards, claiming it "encourages baby to interact with engaging animation and sound effects". Songs are included too, as well as the ability for a parent to record their own giggle for one of the game's characters.iPhone / iPadJust a Mess - Little CritterA new book-app from Oceanhouse Media, here, focusing on the Little Critter character from Mercer Mayer's popular book series. As with previous apps by the publisher, voice narration and word-highlighting features are to the fore, to help children with their reading.iPhone / iPadMr Motivator – In Da HouseAn app that answers two burning questions: what is former TV fitness guru Mr Motivator up to these days (he's releasing a new music single) and does he have an official app (Yes. Yes he does.)iPhone
The PlayStation Vita is only a few months into its life-cycle but thus far, it has failed to capture the public imagination. A state of affairs which is nothing short of scandalous, since it is, by some considerable distance, the finest handheld console ever made.You can attribute its lack of success to a number of factors – a highish price in a recessionary time (although it's still less than half the price of an iPad); the demise of GAME lessening hands-on opportunities; too close a resemblance to the vastly inferior PSP; uncharacteristically ineffective marketing by Sony; or the lack of truly compelling games. Sony, at least, is taking steps to address the latter deficiency, with Gravity Rush at the forefront.Gravity Rush is the perfect riposte to those (non-gamers) who insist on maintaining that the latest generation of mobile phones have rendered specialist portable consoles redundant. Originally earmarked for the PS3, its sheer ambitiousness and lavish execution make any games seen on iOS or Android seem laughably basic.Gravity Rush's creator, Keiichiro Toyama, worked on the original Silent Hill, and while his latest game is nowhere near as dark as that cult-classic, it's every bit as weird – in a similarly endearing Japanese manner. An homage to the comics of Frenchman Moebius, it melds an anime visual style with some truly innovative and original gameplay, which would be a triumph on the PS3, let alone the PS Vita.You play a young, amnesiac woman, soon dubbed Kat, who wakes up in a town in which disturbing happenings have become commonplace. Gravity shifts, plus an infestation of alien creatures called Nevi, are causing havoc. Kat hooks up with a black cat and discovers that, thanks to her new-found familiar, she can set gravity to operate in any direction. Which enables her to reach previously inaccessible areas and, in the game's early stages, rescue inhabitants of chunks of the town which are being sucked away to oblivion. As well as being a hot blonde, Kat kicks ass with an array of kung-fu-style moves, the most potent of which are launched from mid-air.Initially, Kat's missions are fairly trivial, designed to familiarise you with her various moves (she can, for example, carry objects with her as she flies around, and slide on appropriate objects). She finds somewhere to live, falls in with some odd characters, engages in a spot of detective work and helps the police eradicate Nevi outbreaks and foil the evil plans of a criminal called Alias.There are several RPG mechanics – including a map showing missions, side missions and people you can talk to for information, and you spend the crystals you collect on upgrading Kat's powers. As you progress, she acquires ever more powerful and impressive-looking new attacks.Gravity Rush builds judiciously. The story missions generally conclude with boss-battles, each harder than the last, and the three most epic – and downright psychedelic – missions see Kat spirited away to an alternate reality, where she battles increasingly large and nasty Nevi in order to retrieve lost chunks of the city.It's all endearingly bonkers, as any Japanese game should be, and with its distinctive art style (and cut-scenes arranged like comic-strips), it's a visual feast.There are a few quibbles, though. You have to adjust the sensitivity of the targeting system slightly, and the sliding mechanism, which uses the motion-sensor, can be fiddly. At times, you can become confused about which way is up, and some of the music should have been confined to an elevator.But none of those minor gripes seriously detract from Gravity Rush's truly fresh and original gameplay, or the enticing, cleverly populated world in which it is set. It's a triumph that such a characterful and impressive-looking game can be played on a handheld console.It's doubtful whether it, alone, can kick-start sales of the PS Vita, and that's a shame, because it deserves more than mere cult status. Real gaming aficionados will derive much delight from it, though.• Game reviewed on the PS Vita
When Capcom produced its first Marvel-themed fighting game – X-Men: Children of the Atom – back in 1994, the company knew it would have to take the rule book, tear it up, throw it out of the window and then order a thermo-nuclear strike on it.Although the Street Fighter titles have always offered outlandish special moves, a fighting game based around super heroes would have to take that to a whole new level of pixellated insanity. They aresuper heroes, dammit. Hence, screen-filling super combos, bizarre environments and lusciously extravagant animation. The recipe was a success, ensuring an ongoing partnership between Marvel and Capcom that has produced some of the wildest fight-'em-ups ever devised.Now, Mortal Kombat creator NetherRealm Studios is taking the same approach with Injustice: Gods Among Us, a traditional 3D fighting game, based around the DC universe. Except traditional isn't quite the right word, because Injustice is, well, insane.Naturally, players can select from a huge range of DC goodies and baddies, each with their own characteristic animations and special moves. Superman hovers above the ground using his raw strength to pound enemies, backing up his melee might with laser vision. Flash on the other hand is weaker but super agile, able to get in dozens of killer blows before the other guy has swung his fist. Elsewhere, Batman has a vast range of gadgets to call upon, slinging batarangs across the fighting stage and using his cape as a shield; the horrendous Solomon Grundy is a pounding wall of fists and power, who'll occasionally reach for one of the knives or cleavers embedded in his back to attack his foe with it.Every fighter is rendered in rather lovely detail. Faces screw up with effort or rage, while clothing wrinkles and capes flutter amid the carnage. They all have their own entry and winning animations too, and these are entertainingly histrionic, capturing the divergent personalities of the roster.The madness of the game, howeve,r lies in its brilliantly interactive environments. Every zone from Batman's cave to Superman's Fortress of Solitude is cluttered with stuff you can grab, press and throw people through. In Batman's home, you can smash display cabinets to grab grenades, or jab a big red button on a control panel to fire up the Batmobile's jet thrusters just as your opponent is standing in their blast radius (the button, by the way, is in the corner of the screen, usually the worst place for a fighter to end up – NetherRealm is actively subverting the conventions of the genre).In the Future City arena, Batman is able to smash Grundy's head into a car – a move that the giant later counters by simply picking up the car and swatting the Dark Knight across the screen with it. It's knockabout stuff, but the implementation is smooth and looks to integrate well into the combat mechanic. Each environment also has around three different areas that players can chuck each other into, the combat continuing seamlessly. My favourite section is in the Batcave where you can shove a foe into an elevator and follow him in, prompting the door to close behind them – we then get an animation of the lift rising, the walls and ceiling being punched out from within as the fight continues unseen – a nice little cartoon touch.Better yet are the game's astonishingly extravagant super moves, charged up throughout a bout. Flash has a mega-punch which he powers up by running around the entire world; Superman can punch an opponent into space, fly up after him and punch him back down to Earth. In our E3 demo, the fight between Batman and Grundy features several exchanges where the characters are punched through the walls and floors of a skyscraper.It's not, as you may have gathered, a subtle game – and the amount of pleasure derived from these chaotic, highly destructive special moves will depend on how solid the underlying fighting engine. X-Men Children of the Atom and Capcom's subsequent Marvel titles have all worked because the outlandishness is pegged to a robust fighting system with lots of hidden intricacies – Injustice will need to do the same.But this was one of the most entertaining demos I attended at E3, helped by the fact that  I was in a session with notoriously enthusiastic US bloggerHip-Hop Gamer, who whooped and cheered so extravagantly through the entire demo I feared he might have some sort of breakdown. Luckily, we all got out alive, most of us wondering what it will feel like to piledrive Superman through 12 floors of an office block. We'll have to wait until next year to find out.•Injustice: Gods Among Us is released on Xbox 360, PS3 and Wii U in 2013
A (delayed; apologies) quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamShould your child play in Habbo Hotel? &gt;&gt; Channel 4 NewsExclusive: a Channel 4 News investigation uncovers shocking lapses in the moderation of a hugely popular online game used by young teenagers, including interactions of an explicit sexual nature.Google Street View case brought employee denials &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comGoogle releases nine sworn declarations by employees that they were not aware of the data collection.Apple Will Discontinue Ping in Next iTunes Update &gt;&gt; AllThingsDJohn Paczkowski:Sources close to the company say that Ping, which still exists today in iTunes 10.6.3 and the iOS 6 beta -- where it doesn't work, will be gone with the software's next major release, likely scheduled for this fall. And at that point Apple's social networking offerings will shift to Twitter and new partner Facebook entirely.It was as late to the game as late can be.ICO letter to Google over Street View &gt;&gt; ICO [PDF]Read the full ICO letter to Google, including its seven detailed questions.Google to be investigated over data cover-up claims &gt;&gt; The GuardianThe UK data watchdog has written to Google demanding answers after it emerged that the search engine firm knew its Street View cars could harvest personal information as they photographed homes across the globe.The story behind that nasty Microsoft dance routine &gt;&gt; GeekWireAs he explains in the post, Balkan is particularly attuned to issues of sexism in the tech industry. When he was given a preview of the song during preparations for the conference, he wasn't listening closely to the lyrics, but vaguely heard a reference to "blah blah my penis." He pointed out that the reference was sexist, something that the representative from Microsoft Norway apparently hadn't thought about.Not grasping the context, Balkan suggested they at least add the words "or vagina" to make it more inclusive.Oh man. Or woman, obviously.Verizon declares war on moderate data and text users &gt;&gt; ForbesBoth Verizon and AT+T have been mulling over radically new pricing plans - and today Verizon took a bold plunge. The $70 minimum monthly smartphone plan will cease to exist. The minimum price will soar to $90 in one giddy leap. The chance to buy relatively modest texting and voice plans goes up in smoke. You have to opt into an expensive smorgasbord that offers unlimited voice minutes and texting - whether you want that or not.Of course, the new plan is better value for heavy users. But it's a slap in the face for consumers who count their minutes and texts and try to keep their monthly bill as low as possible.Suddenly, UK carriers look a lot more reasonable. Also: most people are moderate users. It's only a tiny percentage who are immoderate enough to get value out of this. ($90 = £58 at present rates.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
On the show this week,Aleks Krotoskiis joined in the studio by two members of the Guardian Games team with all the news from this year'sE3 conferencein Los Angeles.Greg Goodrich, executive producer of the shoot 'em up series Medal of Honour, tells us about the new instalment,Warfighter; and Sony Computer Entertainment presidentAndrew Housespills the beans on collaborating with JK Rowling for Sony's upcomingWonderbook.Plus we hear what games and gadgets have gotJonathan Rossexcited atthis year's E3.•Keith Stuart travelled to E3 with EA; Simon Parkin travelled to E3 with Microsoft; Stuart O'Connor travelled to E3 with Sony; Steve Boxer travelled to E3 with Activision; Jonathan Ross travelled to E3 with NintendoDon't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Proposed new top-level domains for internet addresses to rival .com and .uk will be revealed in London on Wednesday.The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann) received 1,930 proposals for 1,410 different internet suffixes by the 30 May deadline. There are already about 300 suffixes in use. The expansion will allow suffixes that represent hobbies, ethnic groups, corporate brand names and more. Icann has only revealed general trends so far and not specific details but some bidders have disclosed their ideas, including .lol, .bank, .baby, .music, .doctor, .YouTube and .Google.The new suffixes could allow businesses that joined the internet late and found desirable .com names taken to find alternatives, while others may wish to expand into multiple sites.More than a third of the proposals, 675, came from Europe, with nearly half, 911, from North America.The origins of the 1,930 suggestions in many ways mirror where the internet is most used. Only 17 proposals came from Africa and 24 came from Latin America and the Caribbean – areas where internet use is relatively low. But the 303 proposals from the Asia Pacific region were fewer than  expected, especially given that the expansion will lift current restrictions on non-English characters and permit suffixes in Chinese, Japanese and Korean. China has the world's largest internet population, and there was talk of creating the Chinese equivalent of .com and other popular suffixes. There were 116 proposals for suffixes using characters beyond the 26 letters used in English, Icann revealed.Many of the 1,930 proposals were duplicates – 749 were for 229 different suffixes – while the remaining 1,181 were unique. Icann is encouraging competing bidders to work out an agreement but the organisation will hold an auction if the parties fail to reach a compromise.After the list is published, the public will have 60 days to comment on the proposals. Someone can claim a trademark violation or argue that a proposed suffix is offensive.It will take at least a year or two for Icann to approve the first of the new suffixes. It will review each proposal to make sure its financial plan is sound and that contingencies exist in case a company goes out of business. Bidders must also pass criminal background checks.Companies and groups had to pay $185,000 (£119,000) per proposal. Suffixes could potentially generate millions of dollars a year for winning bidders as they sell names ending in some of the approved names. Critics of the expansion include a coalition of business groups worried about protecting their brands in newly created names.
Middle of the week! Any Wednesday night gaming planned?
Google is facing increasing pressure after the information commissioner launched an investigation into claims that it orchestrated a cover-up of its capture of emails, passwords and medical records of people in the UK.The UK data watchdog has written to Google demanding answers after it emerged that the search engine firm knew its Street View cars could harvest personal information as they photographed homes across the globe.The information commissioner's office said it was likely that highly private data – including email messages and browsing history – was secretly and deliberately captured from internet users in the UK. Google will now have to explain whether it misled regulators over the saga, which has hounded the company for more than two years.The US technology giant told the ICO in April 2010 that the huge data capture was a mistake. However,a detailed investigation by a US regulator revealed earlier this year that a Google engineer told colleagues he had specifically designed the technology to capture the personal information.On Tuesday the ICO formally opened a fresh investigation into the company. In a letter to Google, the ICO said: "During the course of our investigation we were specifically told by Google that it was a simple mistake and if the data was collected deliberately then it is clear that this is a different situation than was reported to us in April 2010."Steve Eckersley, the ICO's head of enforcement, sent Google's senior vice president, Alan Eustace, a list of seven questions asking when it knew that the so-called "payload data" could be harvested from UK internet users. The letter also demands a "substantial explanation" of why Google did not indicate that this private data was collected in the UK when officials audited the company in July 2010.A spokeswoman for Google said: "We're happy to answer the ICO's questions. We have always said that the project leaders did not want and did not use this payload data. Indeed, they never even looked at it."Google faces a £500,000 fine if the ICO believes that its Street View cars breached data protection laws. The company could also face a police investigation if it is proved that it intentionally orchestrated unauthorised electronic eavesdropping.The company sent its fleet of Street View cars to photograph homes in the UK in March 2009, three years after the engineer developed the technology that could capture private data.It emerged only in April this year that the Google engineer behind the technology advised colleagues that internal privacy lawyers should specifically authorise its use. A report by the US Federal Communications Commission, which fined Google £15,000 over the affair, said that legal advice was never taken. The FCC said the collection did not breach US privacy laws.The ICO launched its inquiry into Street View in 2010 after it admitted that it mistakenly collected some information. The watchdog concluded no personal data was collected, before later admitting it had.
I'm sitting waiting for the House of Commons to start debating a Law Against Trolls or, as they would call it,an amendment to the Defamation Act. It would basically let internet providers off the hook for the publication of their content, so long as they signed up to divulge the identity of any of their users. To warrant such a disclosure, the injured party would have to show that their reputation had been significantly damaged; then they would be given the offender's identity, and would be free to pursue a civil case. Online abuse still won't be a criminal offence, even if the bill is passed. It has wide support in parliament, so is not intended to be a very heated debate: I want to watch it to see how many MPs actually know what a troll is.The term is widely misused:Frank Zimmerman, who received a suspended sentence for asking Louise Mensch which of her children she wished to remain alive, is not a troll, he is a hater (the death threats take him beyond the realm of ordinary hater into criminal hater; but that's his category nonetheless). You can hear hatersdescribed in song by Isabel Fay, but they're not the same as trolls, even while many people (Fay included) use the terms interchangeably (I'm not being a hater when I say that, by the way; I'm being a pedant). Trolls aren't necessarily any more pleasant than haters, but their agenda is different – they don't just want to insult a particular person, they want to start a fight – hopefully one that has a broader application, and brings in more people than just the object of their original trolling. The term derives from a fishing technique – say your stupid thing, watch the world bite.Now, the effects of this can be devastating, especially for people who are being attacked precisely because they admitted to a vulnerability in the first place.  Olivia Penpraze, from Melbourne, Australia, started blogging about her depression in 2010. Over a period of time, amid many messages of support,some trolls told her that she ought to kill herselfbecause she was so ugly she was better off dead. She took her own life two months ago, at the age of 19. Last year, in Worcester, 15-year-old Natasha MacBryde killed herself under similar pressures. Following MacBryde's death, Sean Duffy posted a message opining that she wasn't bullied, she was just a whore,for which he received an 18-week prison sentence and was banned from using social networking sites for five years. This is the dead centre of troll territory; what they're looking for is that sharp intake of breath; the collective, "How can you say that?" outrage.Richard Wiseman, a professor of psychology at the University of Hertfordshire, who also makescool videosfor the web, has had his share of haters, and greets that with equanimity. He thinks it is the consequence of this type of communication ("You remove a social barrier on the internet, and suddenly people feel a bit more freed up to say things"), and also a consequence of the fact that you move in broader circles online than you ever would in life. But while hating bounces off him, trolling does not: "There were a couple  of comments that came in that were horribly  racist. You do shudder. You think: really, you felt the need to write that?"Racist trolling probably has the highest profile cases – most recently,Liam Stacey was jailed for 56 daysafter tweeting offensive messages including, "LOL" and, "Muamba, he's dead, hahahaha," when the footballer Fabrice Muamba collapsed on the pitch during a match in April. It's generally very unusual for trolling to result in custody –and race is generally at the crux of it when it does. There is an astonishing seam of trolling that concerns violence against women (I was particularly struck recently by the person who said they wanted to fuck Josie Long in the eyes) but such abuse is generally without consequence.Of course it's possible to troll at a much less violent level, simply by stalking through internet communities where people might be expected to think in a particular way, and saying things that will wind them up. If you would like to try this sort of trolling to see what the appeal is, I suggest you go on to theComment is Freesection of the Guardian's website and post something like, "People shouldn't have kids if they can't afford to pay for them. End of." Or: "men like skinny women, which is why you won't be able to find me a banker with a fat wife. WILL YOU?" Or: "Men like sex. Women like cuddles. GET OVER IT." Or: "Nobody even knows what's in a greenhouse gas. How can I take 'climate change' seriously when nobody knows anything about it?" Amusingly, I am getting quite wound up by these remarks, even though it was me who made them.Wiseman explains this as straightforward pranking. "That's a control thing, isn't it? It's baiting. Other people think you're being genuine, and actually all you're doing is trying to get a reaction out of them. Borat is that gag, written big. 'I'm  going to pretend to be one thing, in order to get you to respond in a particular way.' It just happens that previously we often saw it played out with liberal values, and often now it's played out with very illiberal values."I think there is something more nefarious than a prank going on, however – since these remarks often do either skew or hold up or derail the conversation, I divine anti-intellectualism, a complete rejection of and/or fear of the idea that people whose views are in the same mould might do something really fruitful with a discussion. They might work on their differences to make an argument that is more robust or far-reaching. Sticking your oar in and distracting everybody by dragging them back to first principles is a good way to  ensure that nothing constructive ever happens.Hence the mantra, "Do not feed the trolls." But that's destructive as well, because it makes you look afraid, which empowers trolls, or there's a chance that you might have mistaken a troll for someone who has a good point but bad manners.Trolls often, when you talk to them, turn out to be quite nice. One minute it's all "when will you WAKE UP to the fact that your STINKING LIBERAL MANURE has DESTROYED THIS COUNTRY" and the next thing you know, you'll get a message saying, "Sorry I was testy, I just got stuck in traffic on my way back from the garden centre." It's all about humanisation, which is the big conundrum facing this amendment – people behave badly online because they feel liberated, and they feel liberated because it's virtual. Our standards of courtesy are bound to our corporeal selves; freed from one we're freed from the other. Calling trolls "trolls" probably doesn't help. We should call them rude people.Additional research by Edna Mohamed.
HBO is still resisting anonline campaignaiming to get it to offer standalone subscriptions to its content, but other broadcasters and producers are less shy of the idea. Emmy-winning show The Kennedys has been made available in an innovative iOS app.Released by mobile company Mobovivo, theKennedys appis free to download and enables fans to watch all eight episodes of the mini-series – starring Greg Kinnear and Katie Holmes – streamed to their iPhone or iPads.The first episode is free, but the other seven cost £1.99. each via in-app purchase, or £8.99 for the whole thing. That undercuts the price on Apple's iTunes Store, where The Kennedys costs £13.99, or £18.99 for the HD version.Alongside the streaming, there's an option to "download any episode into your digital locker to watch when you do not have an internet connection". The app also supports Apple's AirPlay technology, and is thus able to wirelessly push the show onto a nearby television using an Apple TV set-top box – but also a Boxee box.There are some innovative social features too, allowing users to "create clips of your favorite moments from any episode and share them on Facebook, Twitter and via email". A feature that would have had TV execs hooting in fright a couple of years ago, but now seems like a sensible addition.The show was originally broadcast on ReelzChannel in the US and History Television in Canada, with a reported $25m production budget. It was the subject of controversy before airing, with several networks passing on it in the US amid a heated debate about its historical accuracy.Interestingly, this isn't the first official app for the show: in 2011 ReelzChannel released an iPad app calledThe Kennedyswhich it described as an "Enhanced Viewing" app, with second-screen features for discussing episodes on Twitter and Facebook while watching them, as well as viewing additional content around the characters.The new app fits into a wider trend of broadcasters and producers exploring apps as a direct distribution channel for their shows.Earlier in June, Oscar-winning cinematographer Russell Boyd made waves in Australia with the announcement that his next project, TV mini-series Watch with Mother, will bereleased first on the App Store."Apps to date have been a subsidiary element of shows, where you can access more information or a game or other assets of a show, but in our case we're making it front and centre," the show's executive producer Michael Ritchie told the Sydney Morning Herald. "And frankly, I think there isn't a better platform for it."
Smartphones have been slowly killing the satnav but they could now revive TomTom, Europe's largest navigation device company.TomTom's shares soared as high as 16.5% on the Amsterdam stock exchange on Tuesday, after the company said its technology was being used in Apple's latest phone software.With drivers who do not already own satnavs increasingly turning to their mobile phones for digital route planning, TomTom's share price had declined 40% over the last 12 months, and its March results saw overall sales revenue fall 35% on the previous quarter.Apple will oust Google Maps as the default navigation app on its iOS 6 software, to be released this autumn. In its place will be a new mapping service designed by Apple, which with TomTom's help will be able to offer turn-by-turn navigation and live traffic information for the first time."TomTom has signed a global agreement with Apple for maps and related information," the Dutch company said, while declining to give further information on its deal with the notoriously secretive Californian group.However, the arrangement is likely to be similar to the deal TomTom struck with Blackberry last month. The live traffic information TomTom collects from highways agencies and its own network of internet connected satnavs, which allows satnavs to suggest alternative routes to bypass jams, is being used in the Blackberry navigation app, as are TomTom maps and location content."The deal is a boost for TomTom because of the huge installed base of Apple product users and because of the brand and all that it stands for itself: innovation, ease of use and quality," wrote analyst Martijn den Drijver at Amsterdam's SNS Securities in a note to investors.The deal could have a sting in the tail for TomTom. Sales of its own-brand navigation app from the iTunes store will be dented, as billions of iPhone owners will receive the company's technology for free once they download iOS 6.Den Drijver said TomTom's fees from Apple would "largely depend on advertising revenue and a small nominal fee per map if turn-by-turn navigation is used".TomTom shares rose to a high of €3.81 (£3.07) on Tuesday morning, a 16.5% increase on Monday's closing price, before investor appetite subsided. By lunchtime they were trading 12.35% up at €3.67.Apple has used Google Maps as the default app for iPhones since 2007, but Apple customers have been getting an increasingly second-class service. This is because Google has introduced innovations such as turn-by-turn navigation and enhanced graphics for phones running its own Android software only.Google brought guided navigation to its Android mapping app in 2009, and introduced vector graphics, which render images faster because they are drawn by the device rather than downloaded from a server, in 2010. These enhancements are still not available on the default Apple version of its software.
The era of online anonymity may be moving to a close if the government's proposals to unmask 'internet trolls' are passed by parliament, a leading website operator has warned.Justine Roberts, the co-founder of Mumsnet, has cautioned that measures in the defamation bill may financially benefit website operators but could undermine the culture of the web.Internet service providers have welcomed legal changes that will protect them from libel action in return for disclosing the identity and contact details of people who post defamatory comments online.The changes are contained in clause five of the defamation bill, which was published several weeks ago. The issue has gained prominence in the wake of several cases of online harassment, involving insults on Facebook andthreats against the Conservative MP Louise Mensch.The bill says website operators will have a defence against libel claims as long as they co-operate with a formal notice of complaint served on them. Such notices may require operators to disclose the "identity or contact details" of whoever made an allegedly defamatory statement.Precisely how the complaints procedure will work is due to be set out in regulations that the Ministry of Justice will publish in coming weeks. The bill's second reading takes place in the Commons on Tuesday afternoon.Roberts cautioned against blanket laws that might outlaw anonymity online. "No one wants to protect the identity of nasty internet trolls and there is much to be welcomed in the defamation bill around reducing complexity and recognising that many websites are not publishers in the traditional sense, but it's important that we don't completely devalue and disallow anonymity online," she said."The ability to both ask and advise anonymously is at the very core of the support Mumsnet provides. Take a scenario of someone dealing with an abusive relationship, they are often concerned about sharing their experiences for fear of being identified in real life and the potential repercussions for family and safety. It would not be in the public, or personal, interest if a woman being abused by her husband felt she could not seek help confidentially."There are cases where online users are very abusive or libellous and as the host of an online community I would have no qualms in passing on information about those posters' identity but there are powerful forces pushing towards a less anonymous web&nbsp;… In efforts to out the internet trolls the law must be careful to protect anonymous posts that let people access often life-saving support and advice."The changes might improve the business models of websites, she added, but "by moving away from an anonymous web you lose a lot of its potential".The Internet Service Providers Association (ISPA), which represents more than 200 online operators in the UK including Google, Virgin, BT and AOL, said it welcomed "publication of the defamation bill and the underlying recognition that ISPs are not best placed to decide if content is defamatory or not"."The &nbsp;… ISPA will ensure that ISPs will only be required to identify customers with prior authorisation or through the agreed legal process."The free speech group Index on Censorship said it hoped the regulations would be voluntary. "The bill focuses liability on the individual person [who posts libellous remarks]," a spokesman said. "It is a move towards pulling liability away from internet service providers and social networks. It should not be represented as a mandatory or compulsory process."The government's proposals on internet trolls are deeply concerning. There must be a court-based process to pull down content or remove anonymity. Anything that removes protections for whistleblowers will undermine free speech."Explaining the purpose of the website clause in the defamation bill, the justice secretary, Kenneth Clarke, said: "As the law stands, individuals can be the subject of scurrilous rumour and allegation on the web with little meaningful remedy against the person responsible."Website operators are, in principle, liable as publishers for everything that appears on their sites, even though the content is often determined by users. But most operators are not in a position to know whether the material posted is defamatory or not and very often – faced with a complaint – they will immediately remove material."Our proposed approach will mean that website operators have a defence against libel as long as they comply with a procedure to help identify the authors of allegedly defamatory material."&nbsp;… It will be very important to ensure that these measures do not inadvertently expose genuine whistleblowers, and we are committed to getting the detail right to minimise this risk."The case involving Mensch, who received threatening emails, has been linked to the bill but it was, in fact, a straightforward crime of someone sending offensive communications.In a more closely related case last week, a Brighton woman, Nicola Brookes, obtained alandmark judgment against Facebook, forcing it to reveal the identities of those who had posted "vicious and depraved" abuse of her online.Brookes said she had spent six months working on the case after the police declined to take action and she failed to persuade the social website to take down the comments.David Engel, head of the reputation protection and media litigation team at the City law firm Addleshaw Goddard, said the new measures represented a clarificiation of the law rather than a major change."Where a website operator refuses voluntarily to disclose the identity of a third party who has posted a defamatory statement on its website, it has always been possible to obtain an order from the court compelling it to identify the author of the posting," he said. "We have seen this in recent examples with Facebook. Contrary to the apparent belief of some, the internet has never been a law-free zone"What it will do is to limit the ability of people to hide behind anonymity to engage in unlawful conduct, such as the defamation of others. People may be less willing to libel others if their identity is known, or at least can be discovered, though whether this is likely in practice to raise the general tone of online debate is another matter."
Google is under increasing pressure to change the way it ranks search results. Earlier in June, Recording Industry Association of America chief executive Cary Sherman told the US Congress that Google should be required to place "legitimate" sites at the top of the list when its users search for musicians and music.Presumably, Sherman would prefer that the "illegitimate" sites – whether that's the Pirate Bay or some other site – not be returned at all in the rankings, or at the very least, that they should be relegated to page 10,000,000 in the rankings, deep into the "oooo" in "Gooooooooogle."Meanwhile, in the EU, competition regulators are threatening action to force Google into "search neutrality," requiring it to end the practice of giving preferential placement to results from its own services (especially Google+) in search responses.The argument, presumably, is that Google should put the "most relevant" listings at the top of the screen, not the ones that make it the most money, lest it strangle competing services.In response, Google has advanced an argument based on editorial integrity. The company implies that a page of search results is effectively the table of contents for a custom-made magazine that is assembled on the fly in response to a user's query. This is a major shift for Google.In the past, arguments about Google's search results have usually come from website operators who were upset that their sites weren't highly ranked in results: if you had a jewellery store in East London, you wanted it to be at the top of the listings returned on a search for "east london jewellers."Google's response to website owners who found their pages ranked well down in the "ooooo"s was to tell them that Google's ranking algorithm had been designed to analyse every page on the web to determine its relevance, and if you want higher rankings, you should "make great, relevant content". Google's algorithm will detect your content's newfound greatness and adjust your ranking accordingly.The search engine optimisation (SEO) industry exists to help website operators attain higher rankings, sometimes by unsavoury means such as using link farms that make web pages appear to be more highly and widely regarded than they actually are; sometimes by working with site operators to teach them about how Google detects and judges relevance, and to tweak their sites in keeping with this doctrine.Even at its most legitimate, SEO always has a whiff of Kremlinology about it, since Google regards its ranking algorithm as a competitive secret, which means that each SEO's theory on rank-improvement is based on treating Google as a black box. SEOs look at a site's ranking in Google, make some changes, watch the server logs to see when Google has visited and re-indexed the site, and see if the ranking has changed.The complexity of the ranking process (which increasingly gives different rankings depending on who is asking and what Google knows about them) means that this sort of experimentation will always produce an incomplete account of Google's judging criteria.Google's official communiques tell the world that SEO isn't necessary – so long as you "make great content", you'll get higher rankings. The implication is that Google has discovered a mathematical model of relevance, a way of measuring some objective criteria that allows a computer to score and compare the relevance of different web-pages.But there is no such mathematics. Relevance is a subjective attribute. The satisfaction you experience in regards to a search-results page is generated by your mind, and it reflects the internal state of your neurons just as much as it reflects the external reality of the results.A magazine's editor-in-chief looks at her table of contents as it is being formed through the month, moving things around, commissioning new items, deleting things and shifting others to greater prominence.The judgments she makes are aesthetic ones. They reflect her distinctive expertise and vision for the publication, a vision and expertise that is honed from month to month by feedback from readers and colleagues, sales figures, public review, and pageviews in the online edition. Magazines rise and fall based on their e-i-cs, and a change in leadership can utterly transform the experience of reading the magazine.Google has, to date, always refused to frame itself in those terms. The pagerank algorithm isn't like an editor arguing aesthetics around a boardroom table as the issue is put to bed. The pagerank algorithm is a window on the wall of Plato's cave, whence the objective, empirical world of Relevance may be seen and retrieved.That argument is a convenient one when the most contentious elements of your rankings are from people who want higher ranking. "We have done the maths, and your page is empirically less relevant than the pages above it. Your quarrel is with the cold, hard reality of numbers, not with our judgement."The problem with that argument is that maths is inherently more regulatable than speech. If the numbers say that item X must be ranked over item Y, a regulator may decide that a social problem can be solved by "hard-coding" page Y to have a higher ranking than X, regardless of its relevance. This isn't censorship – it's more like progressive taxation.On the other hand, it is extraordinary – beyond the pale – for a record industry executive or a Eurocrat to instruct a magazine editor about what must (and must not) be in her table of contents, and how that table must be ordered. Governmental or legislative control over journalism is traditionally limited to the most narrow of circumstances, such as prohibitions on publishing obscenity or official secrets (and even this is enormously controversial).The RIAA's argument is that Google's search results are tantamount to a copyright infringement, like a magazine running a pirated short story within its pages. But of course, Google isn't publishing the infringing material, it is reporting on the fact of its existence – like the Economist  reporting on the existence of a pirated DVD stall at the Temple Street night market in Hong Kong. Even at its most ambitious, the RIAA wouldn't dare to presume to demand that such a report be expunged from the Economist's pages.I think that Google's best chance of maintaining its independence from regulatory interference in search results hinges on making this argument about editorial integrity. However, I wonder if Google is prepared to start telling low-ranked website owners that their rankings reflect its subjective judgments and not cold equations.It's one thing to be told that you've been banished to "ooooo"space by the numbers, another thing altogether to learn that you've been buried on page 10,000 because Google's engineers just don't think you do very good work.
A selection of 11 new and notable apps for you today:KennedysHere's an interesting move: Emmy-winning US TV show The Kennedys has its own iOS app, enabling people to stream the full eight-hour miniseries to their devices. Individual episodes appear to be being sold via in-app purchase, although the first episode is free. It can also download episodes into the app for offline viewing. For more on this app, read ourseparate news story.iPhone / iPadSpotifyWhat, Spotify on Android as a new app? Hasn't it been out for a while? Well, yes, but this is news: the version available on Google's Play store is now out of beta and an official release. Key features are support for the Ice Cream Sandwich OS, revamped navigation and social features, and a "related artist" view that's exclusive to the Android app for now.AndroidSwipe MagazineBritish firm Steel Media – publisher of the Pocket Gamer websites – has launched an iPad magazine app covering iOS games, apps and accessories, drawing in content from several sites apart from its own.iPadMireo Don't Panic UK &amp; IrelandAn interesting week for satnav companies, as Apple confirmed plans for free turn-by-turn navigation in iOS 6, finally competing with Android's Google Maps Navigation. There are still independent companies targeting the space though: Mireo's Don't Panic costs £26.99, with smart routing to save on fuel, voice-guided navigation, and in-app purchases used to buy European maps.AndroidAmazon Cloud PlayerThis one's US-only, but will cause a stir. Amazon has launched an official iPhone app for its cloud music locker service. It enables people to stream their music libraries from Amazon's cloud, while also downloading songs for offline listening. A straight rival for Apple's iTunes Match element of iCloud.iPhoneU.S. Open Golf ChampionshipAs the world's top golfers prepare to tee off at the US Open, there's an official app on Android and iPhone. It includes news, live scores, photos and ESPN's radio coverage, and for US users, live video streams too. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneThe Good Food Guide 2012British restaurant guide The Good Food Guide has a new BlackBerry app for 2012, with more than 1,300 reviews, table-booking features and the ability to chat about favoured food-venues with BBM contacts.BlackBerryEvanescence: Mobile BackstageRock band Evanescence have joined the apps world, courtesy of an app released by label EMI and startup Mobile Backstage. It's pitched as an "official digital fan club", with community and content-sharing features, plus "Foursquare-like capabilities". The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneHey! On Fark.com"Real news. Real funny" is Fark.com's slogan: the site has been offering aggregated headlines across a range of categories for years. Now it has an official app, including the ability to set triggers by tags and topics to get notified whenever there's news on them.iPhoneVirusTotalVirusTotal is the latest security app hoping to spook Android users into worrying about malware. It scans the device and checks any malware found against its database, flagging dodgy content. It won't actually remove them, mind.AndroidDog ClickAnd finally, for some light relief... Dog Click is an app from South Korea that's essentially Instagram for dog owners – an app for sharing photos of your pet pooch, with the added feature that it can make "sounds that may get your dog's attention and make them look at the camera."iPhone
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 8 June 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (34)32 (2)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (41)PC (7)43 (3)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (34)Wii (5)PSP (4)374 (8)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (33)PC (8)335 (6)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)PC (4)66 (–)Game Of Thrones(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (38)PC (6)17 (5)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (40)PC (4)Wii (2)318 (9)Fifa Street(3+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (49)139 (11)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (62)3DS (37)2810 (7)Dirt Showdown(7+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (41)PC (1)311 (16)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (43)2812 (4)Dragon's Dogma(12+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)313 (13)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (32)PC (7)1414 (14)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (36)PC (6)Wii (2)4815 (10)Prototype 2(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)716 (–)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (48)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (16)3DS (7)2217 (–)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (43)918 (–)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (39)PC (0)2819 (–)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (61)Xbox 360 (26)PS3 (13)2820 (–)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)16UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's Stash of Credit Card Numbers Is Its Secret Weapon &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comNick Bilton:While companies like Google have been trying to shift consumers to use mobile phones to pay for products, rather than cash or cards, one of the biggest hurdles stopping consumers has been the laborious task of linking a smartphone to a plastic credit card. People who have tried to use services like Google Wallet initially have to type in long lists of numbers, addresses and more. A barrier, to say the least. Yet if Apple decides to get into the payments business -- and it is very likely the company will, based on patents it has filed in the past -- it will have a much easier time converting customers.Apple Announces iOS 6 Will Allow FaceTime Calls Over Cellular Networks &gt;&gt; The Next WebPresumable the UK is on hold for this...At Apple's WWDC 2012, Phil Schiller announced that as part of Apple's new iOS 6 mobile operating system, FaceTime calls will now be available over cellular networks for the first time.Internet trolls targeted in new bill to tackle defamation online &gt;&gt; GuardianCannot see Facebook welcoming the removal of court authorities."Major reforms of the libel laws will see a duty placed on internet service providers to try to identify internet trolls without victims needing to resort to costly legal action. Websites will also be given greater protection from being sued if they help to identify those posting defamatory messages, under government plans.Apple likes Facebook on new iOS 6, but dumps Google from maps &gt;&gt; GuardianOur story from last night:"Apple is forging new ties with Facebook but will dump Google from its maps on the iPhone and iPad this autumn, in the latest realignment of forces in Silicon Valley."How Google and Microsoft taught search to "understand" the Web &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaMicrosoft's Satori and Google's Knowledge Graph both extract data from the unstructured information on webpages to create a structured database of the "nouns" of the Internet: people, places, things, and the relationships between them all. The changes aren't cosmetic; for Google, for example, this was the company's biggest retooling to search since rolling out "universal search" in 2007.The efforts are in part a fruition of ideas put forward by a team from Yahoo Research in a 2009 paper called "A Web of Concepts," in which the researchers outlined an approach to extracting conceptual information from the wider Web to create a more knowledge-driven approach to search.Great article. Yahoo - remember them? (Thanks @tehgreatgonzo for the link.)Apple iPad sales drop by DOUBLE DIGITS in Europe &gt;&gt; The Register"iPad sales in March grew 134% compared to February and that was down to the launch of iPad 3," Context Analysis told The Register.Apple exited April owning more than half (52%) of the tablet market but Samsung is steadily building its power base - it held a 28% share in the month compared to ten per cent in April 2011.Another two-horse race?Don't hold the Samsung Galaxy S III wrong &gt;&gt; Don't Hold It WrongThis is reminiscent of something.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Corridors, darkness, solitude: the horror engine powering Dead Space is a familiar and effective one; these are, after all, the same components that push the pistons of the Alien series. This engine works, because it operates on all sorts of Freudian and Lacanian fears – of the night, of confinement, of sex and death. Corridors, darkness and solitude are primal triggers.Consequently, many members of the gaming press were astonished to discover that Dead Space 3 will be set on an ice planet, much of it during the day, and with drop-in/drop-out co-op. Bang go the three tenets of the space horror experience.Or do they? During a demo of the game at E3, senior producer Dave Woldman was quick to leap on any pre-conceptions. "You know what to expect," he promised. "Corridor gameplay, tight atmosphere, tension, thrills … all that is coming back in Dead Space 3, but we're adding a whole bunch of new elements to keep the franchise fresh." Ah, that's okay then.The story kicks off with Isaac and crew crash-landing on what could be a home world of the mysterious Markers – the source of the Necromorph infection. It's an arctic wasteland with sub-zero temperatures and limited vision, and naturally it is teeming with monsters.In the demo level we saw, Isaac goes off to explore, wandering into a cavern where Necromorphs suddenly leap up from beneath the snowy surface causing a few journalists to jump: the element of shock is still intact, that's clear. From here, he reaches some kind of industrial research complex, where he's knocked from an external elevator by a giant arachnid alien with razor-sharp swooping legs (booo!) and glowing orb-like weak spots (phew!).A bigger surprise, however, comes in the arrival of human inhabitants, just after Isaac locates a recording made by the unitologists, the franchise's Necromorph-worshipping religion. It appears the psychotic cult has turned up to give praise at the very font of the Marker universe, and they're not keen on non-believers.The result is the first conventional human-on-human combat in the series – but with a recognisable Dead Space slant. For example, if enemies lob grenades, you can use kinesis to catch them and throw them back. This power can also be used to move objects like crates around, creating a tactically dynamic cover environment. On the subject of cover, there's no "stick-to-the-scenery" function – it's all contextual: crouch behind something and hit left trigger to aim, and the game senses you're in cover, firing around the object automatically.Interestingly, there are set-pieces where the player stumbles in on firefights between human soldiers and Necromorphs. These are hugely reminiscent of the scenes in Half-Life where Gordon would watch in horror as Xen creatures attacked the US Marines. So can we expect a three-way conflict throughout the game?"I'm really glad you picked up on that, it's something we worked hard on," says producer Shereif Fattouh, right after the demo. "We'll definitely have a lot more of that. The Necromorphs don't discriminate – they're not after Isaac, they're after humans. You'll walk into these huge battles between the two factions, and of course, when a human dies, the corpse can be infected and re-animated, so that adds a further threat."The big new addition, of course, is the co-op mode. This can be triggered at any point in the game, and will usually return the action to the last check point. The option brings in new character, John Carver, who has his own backstory and attendant cut-scenes. And it's clear from this single level demo that the game becomes a very different beast when he's around.Suddenly, it's a buddy action flick, complete with verbal sparring, off-the-cuff jokes and oodles of swearing. In a section where the duo have to decommission a gigantic dangerously spinning drilling bit, Carver shouts: "You're the rocket scientist, you figure it out!" in the semi-aggressive, semi-affectionate way of the Hollywood bromance. In short, it's not Dead Space it's Space Cops.The thing is, that doesn't matter. The way the game is designed, it seems we're all going to get what we want – to some extent. In single-player, there's no AI version of Carver to follow you around making dumb comments – he just doesn't figure in the action, so horror heads can chose the lone shock-n-gore horror ride we've always had. Meanwhile, those action fans once put off by the psychological horror of the other titles, get to blast at space monsters with their pals. The two sets need never meet.However, a question mark does hang portentously over the whole experience – can it really be as scary, as joltingly shocking, as the other titles? Well, snowscapes have some of the familiar traits of darkness – they are disorientating, lonely and during a swirling blizzard, they can obscure incoming enemies until the last possible second.I wonder, perhaps, if the team at Visceral has been watching The Thing, and is now trying to capture a similar feel for isolation and environmental adversity. Certainly, there's a new snow suit in the game, offering advanced thermal protection – maybe without it, Isaac starts to deteriorate. "It's a hostile environment," reiterates Fattouh. "It's not all rolling fields and sunshine!" Point taken.But then, in the first two Dead Space titles, the soulless, brutally confined metallic interiors amplified both Isaac's fraught mental condition and the ever-present threat of the Necromorphs. It was like exploring some demented far-future haunted house, with a new trick ready to pop out around every blind corner. Out in the open, however windswept and barren, there's a sense of space, of choice, that the series always knowingly withheld in the past.Visceral Games is also telling us that it's all our fault, really. "We wanted to dig deep into the Marker lore," says Fattouh. "The fans have been asking for that. I felt that we raised a lot of questions in Dead Space 1 and 2 and we wanted to get some real answers; to do that, we had to get to the heart of the story, to find out where'll this is coming from – to discover the history of the Markers, the Necromorphs, the threat to humanity. That's what led us to this planet."He does, however, point out that notallthe game will be on this rock – there will be conventional sections aboard spaceships. We will getsomedarkness at least. Clearly, there are elements of this game we've seen nothing of; there is a lot of trauma to look forward to.One thing Dead Space 3 certainly recaptures is the lingering body horror of the series – the obsession with mutation, viscera and bodily function. At the close of the E3 demo, Isaac has to battle a skyscraper-sized Necromorph mega-monster, which intermittently attempts to suck him into its gaping maw.At last it succeeds and we see our hero tumbling through its slime-lined digestive tract and into its putrid pulsating stomach. How the hell did Visceral come up withthat? "I don't know. We have some mad geniuses at the studio," shrugs Fattouh, "I know this, though: there are only two ways out of there…"
Here be Tuesday. England didn't disgrace themselves last night, but did you? Tell us all about it.
Andy Rubin, the founder of Android (the company) and head of Android (the mobile software division at Google) is not leaving Google.And, simultaneously but unrelated, Android device activations are now running at more than 900,000 per day, according to the latest tweet from Rubin.	Based on previously given figures (850,000 activations per day, and 300m devices activated, from the Google Mobile blog in February) that suggests that there have been a total of 390m Android devices activated in total. (It's impossible to know how many of those are in use, but as the majority have been activated in the past two years, it's a good guess that it's a very high percentage of that total.)No plans to leave Google.Oh, and just for meme completeness -- there are over 900,000 android devices activated each day :-)@Scobleizer&mdash; Andy Rubin (@Arubin)June 10, 2012The idea that Rubin might leave Google? Oh, we'll come to that.Among the questions asked by people who saw his tweet were "how many of those 900k are on ICS [Ice Cream Sandwich, the 4.0 version of Android released last October]?" and "what % of that 900,000 are 'smartphones' vs 'feature phone+' in one of the BRIC [Brazil, Russia, India, China] countries? What percentage are not phones at all?"Sadly, Rubin didn't give any clarification on either point.So what's with the "leaving Google" rumour? For that you have to head over to the fabulous Rumour Central, aka Robert Scoble, who posted on Google+ about how he'd heard that Rubin was heading out.Here's how Scoblepresented iton Sunday morning (apparently at 0305, but it's not clear if that's BST, EST or PST):"By the time I hear a rumor, usually sent to me in email or on some chat system I have open (like Google's or Facebook's) or on my phone it probably has already been around to a few dozens of people.Today I heard that the head of Android, +Andy Rubin, will soon leave Google and head to a new startup called http://www.cloudcar.com/For which the only logical response (if you actually bothered to read Scoble's stuff) would be "Wowsers! Best get Rubin on the phone and check that."Nobody did, but Rubin did respond with that tweet, and a longer response on Google+, some hours after Scoble posted:"How a rumor gets factualized: Cloudcar are a group of friends who I give free office space to in my incubator in Los Altos. Revel Touch (Mar Hershenson's company: www.reveltouch.com) is another cool company that shares this space. I'm not joining either one and I don't have any plans to leave Google. See you on the 27th!"(June 27th being the date of Google I/O.)Actually, the idea of Rubin leaving Google is pretty preposterous: Android has barely begun to change the world (smartphones have a long way to go), it hasn't yet become a major income source for Google, and there is still enormous potential to improve the smartphone/tablet experience for everyone. Rubin joined Google in 2005, and we'd wager on him staying there a long time.Whether he'll think it worth his time to give Robert Scoble his phone number so he can check rumours rather than posting them is another question.
Apple is forging new ties with Facebook but will dump Google from its maps on the iPhone and iPad this autumn, in the latest realignment of forces in Silicon Valley.Scott Forstall, Apple's senior vice president of iOS software, showed off the new version of the Maps app on the still-unreleased iOS 6 mobile operating system at the company's Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco."We're doing all the cartography ourselves," said Forstall. "This is a worldwide effort, we're covering the world." The software, to be released later this year, includes turn-by-turn navigation and voice direction - finally putting it on a par with Google's Maps app on Android phones - and adds crowdsourced traffic conditions from other iOS users, putting it marginally ahead of Google's product.Earlier versions of iOS will possibly continue to use Google's map data, because the new app uses different software interfaces, or APIs. It's also unclear whether Google will be allowed to submit its own Maps app to Apple's App Store, where it might be deemed to "duplicate existing functionality" of inbuilt iPhone software. Neither company had responded to a request for clarification by the time of publication.The source of the mapping data appears to be TomTom, which in turn owns the world mapping service TeleAtlas, purchased in 2008.Forstall pointed out that iPhone and iPad users update the software on their devices much more quickly than Android users, pointing to statistics saying that over 80% of iOS devices now run iOS 5, released in October,compared to just 7% for Android 4.0, aka "Ice Cream Sandwich".He also demonstrated new tieups that will build Facebook deeply into the iPhone's software, letting users update their walls with pictures, posts, "Likes" and calendar entries from almost any application.Do Not Track SafariIn a further cut at Google, the next version of the MobileSafari browser will also incorporate "Do Not Track" functionality, which makes it harder for advertisers such as Google's DoubleClick network to aim higher-paying targeted ads at users based on their browsing history. MobileSafari dominates mobile web browsing, used for64% of all such surfing according to NetMarketShare. Without the ability to serve targeted ads, DoubleClick - and so Google - will see lower payments per ad served on iPhones, a trend that is already evident in its pay-per-click revenues.Microsoft, which has made no secret of its antipathy to Google, is also promoting Do Not Track for the next version of Internet Explorer on the desktop.Other changes highlighted during the keynote were improved privacy controls to match those in Google's Android, with users able to control what personal data apps are able to access.Siri expansionSiri, the "voice assistant" technology which Apple quietly purchased in 2010 and subsequently limited to the iPhone 4S, will be extended to the third-generation iPad launched in March. It will also expand "local search" facilities to more countriesthrough new partnerships with third-party services such as Yelp and Opentable for local restaurant recommendations and bookings. It is also expanding to the iPad.Siri will also now respond to sports-related enquiries with match results, league tables and player profiles for sports including baseball, basketball, American football and football – including the Premier League in England – while also pulling in reviews and trailers for film queries, and launching apps when told by the user.Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones and tablets analyst at the research company IDC, commented: "Apple will try to close the gap with Android in terms of market share, but it will continue to lead the user experience and usability race. Among the most relevant features presented today are the Facebook integration, the improvements on Siri and availability on the new iPad, and the new Maps. The reason is simple: they create value!"Carolina Milanesi, smartphones analyst at Gartner, said that the focus was clearly on adding value for the user - and that even where Apple had lagged in adding software features compared to Android, it had implemented them in more effective ways for the user.The abandonment of Google for map data, which had been supplying Apple since the iPhone's launch in 2007, marks a significant step. Apple has repeatedly showed that it dislikes being dependent on outside companies for essential elements of its devices - and will change them even at some cost to itself. Its decision not to allow Adobe's Flash on the iPhone and iPad became a source of contention with both users and developers, but eventually Adobe gave in.Now Google has been ousted from the maps app, where it would have been able to acquire a significant amount of user location data and serve location-based ads.Separately, in an echo of the way that iPods docks began to become part of US cars in the mid-2000s, Forstall said Apple is also working with carmakers including BMW, General Motors and Land Rover to embed physical buttons on steering wheels to trigger Siri in a docked iPhone without illuminating the screen. That will enable drivers to control Siri without being tempted to look at the screen.Facebook: Apple Likes thisThe deeper inclusion of Facebook, which will be baked into the iOS operating system rather as Twitter was into iOS 5, means users will log in once with their Facebook details, and will then be able to easily post to Facebook from within their apps, to 'Like' apps, and see which apps their Facebook friends are 'Liking', and see Facebook events, contacts and birthdays within the iOS calendar and contacts apps.Apple and Facebook had a complicated relationship in the past: adeal to include Facebook integration in Apple's Pingmusic social network foundered just before it launched in September 2010 due to what then-chief executive Steve Jobs described publicly as "onerous terms".But on stage at WWDC on Monday, Forstall, described the new integration as "the best Facebook experience ever on a mobile device". It may not scotch ongoing talk of a fully-fledgedFacebook phone rumoured to be in development, but the partnership looks like a win for Apple, Facebook and iOS users.Aspredicted, Apple's new Maps app dispenses with Google for data. One hundred million local business listings have already been incorporated into the maps, as well as Yelp listings, Forstall said. The app also includes a 3D vector graphics view of cities and landmarks, and a feature called Flyover, with 3D photographic models of cities and landmarks – similar to new features shown off earlier in the month by Google for its Google Earth apps.Apple will also run its own crowdsourced traffic service, alerting iOS users to congestion when travelling. "We're using anonymous, real-time crowdsourced data right from our iOS users," said Forstall – a feature seen already in third-party apps like Waze and Research In Motion's BlackBerry Traffic, but leveraging the large installed base of iPhone users in the US.No TV SDKDespite rumours leading up to the show, there was no software development kit that would let iOS developers write apps for the Apple TV set-top box.Instead a demonstration of a game called CSR Racing, developed by NaturalMotion, hinted at a different strategy: the app will be released simultaneously for iOS devices and Macs, with both able to play it on Apple TV-connected televisions using the AirPlay Mirroring feature. In effect, Apple is encouraging its developers to put their apps on televisions, but using an existing feature rather than a new SDK.iOS 6 will have some other new apps too. Passbook collects QR codes downloaded within other iOS apps, such as movie tickets and airline boarding passes. Guided Access is an accessibility app with features enabling parents and teachers to block children from triggering specific buttons within apps, and a "single app mode" to stop them from exiting an app.Improvements to existing iOS apps included better sharing features in Apple's Photo Streams app, making it easier for people to choose a set of photos and share them with specific friends: a sign that despite the company's partnerships with Facebook and Twitter, it retains its own social ambitions.New laptops - and retina displayThe company also announced new MacBook Air and MacBook Pro laptops, including a pro product which includes a "retina display", with a total of 5.18m pixels in a 2880 x 1800 display, doubling the number of pixels per side from a standard 1440 x 900 display, and giving resolution of 220 pixels per inch.The next version of the desktop Mac OSX software will be released in July as a download, costing $19.99 in the US; UK prices have not yet been set. Craig Federighi, head of Mac OSX development, said that the number of Mac users has tripled in the past five years to 66m, of whom 50% had upgraded to the existing "Lion" version after nine months - compared to 27 months, he said, for Windows 7iOS and Mac OSX developers will now be getting their teeth into hundreds of new APIs and consumer features in the new software during the rest of the week at WWDC.Those developers can download the iOS 6 beta and latest build of Mac OS X now; the former is expected to see a consumer release in the autumn - which will heighten expectation of a new iteration of the iPhone to accompany it.iOS momentumThere was the customary blizzard of iOS momentum stats and digs at Android during the keynote session, too.Apple's App Store has now reached 30bn downloads, with developers earning $5bn from paid sales and in-app purchases in their iOS apps. There are more than 650k iOS apps available, with 225k of them native iPad apps. Apple has sold more than 365m iOS devices, has more than 400m registered iTunes user accounts, and 125m registered users for its iCloud services.Forstall also said that there are 140m iOS users of the iOS 5 "iMessage" service, which bypasses SMS systems, who are sending more than 1bn messages a day. He noted that Twitter has done well from its partnership with Apple in iOS 5, tripling its number of registered iOS users. He also claimed that 47% of photos being shared on Twitter come from iOS devices.In a video to warm up the crowd featuring Siri telling a number of jokes ("welcome to Silicon Valley, the ATM for America"), Apple also took a dig at its biggest smartphone rival, Korea's Samsung. "I'm really looking forward to the new Samsung," said the computerised voice, and then paused. "Not the phone. The refrigerator."
Block 16.11pm:Hello, slightly late from WWDC - we've been having connectivity issues. You haven't missed much - it opened with a rather good comedy routine from Siri ("I'm really looking forward to the new Samsung. [beat] Not the phone, the refrigerator. Welcome to Silicon Valley, the ATM for the US. Hey, if you're a developer looking for funding, I found 356 venture capital companies fairly near you.")Now we're getting a video showing how iOS devices are used.Also stats: $5bn paid to developers, 650,000 apps, 225,000 for the iPad - "compared to a few hundred for our competitors". Susurrus of pleasure from the developers.Block 26.11pm:Hello, slightly late from WWDC - we've been having connectivity issues. You haven't missed much - it opened with a rather good comedy routine from Siri ("I'm really looking forward to the new Samsung. [beat] Not the phone, the refrigerator. Welcome to Silicon Valley, the ATM for the US. Hey, if you're a developer looking for funding, I found 356 venture capital companies fairly near you.")Now we're getting a video showing how iOS devices are used.Also stats: $5bn paid to developers, 650,000 apps, 225,000 for the iPad - "compared to a few hundred for our competitors". Susurrus of pleasure from the developers.Block 36.16pm:"Exciting new changes in our notebook lineup". And iOS and Mac OSX. And here comes Phil Schiller.Block 46.17pm:(So we've been expecting updates to the laptop line for a long time, because they're in effect overdue.)MacBook Air: going to update with Ivy Bridge, up to 2GHz i7, up to 8GB memory running at 1600MHz (which devs had been praying for). And you can get 512GB of Flash (don't ask how much that will cost. You don't want to know.)Also faster Flash read (that will be the result of thepurchase of Anobit, an Israeli company, in December.)Adding USB3 - catching up to the PC companies. He's showing how others do it, colour coded. "That's not how we do it." USB 3 and USB 2 will be the same port.$1099 for the 128GB model. Starts shipping today. You'll know the developers will be on that.Next: MacBook Pro updates.Block 56.22pm:MacBook Pro - 13in....15in.. wait, weren't we all expecting "retina displays" for these? Hasn't been a word about that."So what's next?"There seems to be something new at the high end.. "with the MacBook Air they did something really bold. Aggressive in embracing new technologies, discarding legacy technologies" [optical drives, wired networking]. "So we've been asking the team to think about what would be a next-generation MacBook Pro?""You want a killer new display." Oh, wait, this will be the retina stuff then. "You want it radically thin and light." (This is hitting the developers' G-spot - they just love a great laptop with an amazing display.)"First thing you're going to notice is it's dominated by an amazing new display.." Rotates it. Looks like a computer to me. "It's thinner than my finger!" OK, that's ..nice.It's much thinner than the existing MacBook Pros. In fact about as thin as the MacBook Air. Weighs 4.46lb. But with 15in display."Breakthrough in display. Yes, it is a retina display." Developers explode in delight.Block 66.28pm:15.4in, pixel density - "are you all sitting down?" - 2880x1800, which is 220 pixels per inch. 5.18 million pixels. "The world's highest resolution display."Less glare and reflection - "by 75%". That's a blessing - glossy screens really aren't much fun.Ships with Lion, but updated to take advantage of the extra pixels.Block 76.33pm:He's dissecting the machine - giant battery. Up to 768GB of Flash storage (better get the mortgage application in there), claimed 7hr of battery life.I suspect Apple has just sold about 5,000 of these to all the people in the room - if developers like these things, they absolutely love these.A new version of the MagSafe power connector (ah, so the old ones won't work - drat). Not included: Blu-ray. Or in fact any optical drive. Burning DVDs is sooo 2000s.Adaptors from Thunderbolt (the high-speed Intel technology that hardly any PC makers have adopted) for Firewire 800 and for Gigabit Ethernet.And now a video. This might not work very well in the liveblog, so we'll pause briefly.Block 86.38pm:Yeah, so, anyway, that's the video. Um, but he hasn't mentioned the price yet. This suggests that it's going to be pricey. Will Schiller do the classic "we could have priced it at $5,000... we could have priced it at $4,000..." which is the classic "anchoring" method - set a high price and any lower price sounds like a bargain.Wait, the developers are clapping the fact (in the video) that the fans contra-rotate at different frequencies so it's quieter. That's clever, actually, isn't it?Block 9Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference gets underway Photograph: Charles Arthur for the Guardian6.42pm:So here comes the configuration and pricing... quad-core i7, 8GB RAM, 256GB Flash.... $2199.How do you compare that to Windows PCs? You can find the Flash drives built in if you try, but the "retina display"? That's still a standout. "And it's going to start shipping.. today." All the devs are going to be on the Apple Store BUYING. This is basically Apple herding its best customers into a big room and making them hand over their money and feel happy for it.OK, now on to Mac OS X. Craig Frederici. 66m Mac users, triple what there was five years ago.Block 106.45pm:50% of Mac OSX users using Lion after nine months; took Windows 7 27 months to achieve that. (Really? That many people are using Windows 7?)iCloud... Messages, Reminders, Notes. And coming up.. "documents in the cloud". So that your documents get saved in the cloud too?Looking at this more broadly, Apple seems to be suggesting that it will start pushing documents to the cloud... which carries a hint that this is where it's all going.Block 116.49pm:..Messages....send them a message... to their phone or "the other legacy messaging applications" (ie AIM etc). Devs laugh, Federici shrugs - "come on, it's all about iMessage." There's a sort of dialogue between the audience, who are really knowledgeable developers, rather than the people who used to come to MacWorld keynotes, who were far less sophisticated in their knowledge of the industry wrinkles, and the implications of what things meant.Notificaiton Center/re is coming to the Mac - from iOS. "Used to be that each application had its own way of telling you something was happening.. which could be disruptive". Instead going to have banners which will come in from the right hand side. (Sounds a bit like Windows 8 and Charms.) Also "alerts", which don't go away until you react to them. Neatly: connect a projector and it turns off the alerts.Bringing dictation to the Mac.This is Siri coming into Mac OSX, except just in the natural language element, not the interpretation element.Sharing: ability in Safari or Preview or other apps - you can share to Flickr or Twitter... "support for sharing services is built right into the OS." It's notquitethe Intents model of Android. Much more explicit.Safari gets an omnibox- like Google Chrome has had for a while - start typing and you can get search results.Safari does iCloud tabs- so that tabs you have open on other devices will be shared. Again, that's catching up to Google Chrome, except that Safari in iOS 6 will (probably? Certainly?) be the default browser, while Chrome isn't (yet?) the default browser on Android. (Is that coming at Google I/O? Seems sensible.)Block 126.59pm:Oh, a quick thought about Schiller's unveilings: things that weren't updated: iMacs and Mac Pros. Is the desktop dead? Discuss.Federici just used dictation to dictate and send a tweet. Couldn't promise that it got it accurate, but that's the definition of condident."Power nap" in Mac OSX - it connects while it's asleep. Download app store updates, software updates, refreshes data. Works on MacBook Air (2nd generation) and latest Macbooks.Airplay Mirroring - "the easiest way to get whatever's on your Mac up to a projector". People are quite excited about this - essentially, it's wireless video projection, which seems like such an obvious thing, but hasn't been done by anyone in any satisfactory way.Game Center/re - can now work across Mac OS X and iOS. (Thinks: ok, there are lots of games for iOS, but are the equivalents available on Mac OSX?)Block 137.08pm:Ha - THE STIG (or impersonator - wait, can you do that?) appears to do a race in Game Center. And wins.Notes new features for China - Baidu as a search option, support for various Chinese video and email services. "Get your apps ready for China," he says, which sounds like wise advice.Mac OS X Mountain Lion: $19.99 next month via Mac App Store, free for those who buy Macs after today.Block 147.09pm:It's now iOS time, and wunderkind Scott Forstall (tipped as the next CEO).Total iOS devices sold to end of March: 365m. (He can't do a more recent number because they're still in their financial quarter until the end of the montn.)"We have about 80% on iOS 5. Now if you compare us to the competition..." Laughs from the developers. They know what's coming. Forstall quotes those Google stats - that Ice Cream Sandwich has 7% despite being launched about the same time as iOS 5.1.5 trillion push notifications already via Notification Centre.iMessage: 150bn messages from 140m users, more than 1bn messages per day. OK, that's big.Twitter: integrated directly, they have seen 3x increase in number of people on iOS using Twitter. 10bn tweets from iOS 5, 47% of photos coming from iOS 5.Game Center...130m accounts."Very satisfied customers" - very highBlock 157.13pm:Forstall is living on the edge by using Siri in a live demo. Brave, brave man. Or does it work better in the US? It's really fast, unlike the UK where you ask it a question and it takes forever to answer. He's asking questions and it's coming back within a second or two.Block 167.15pm:So there are various other services that Siri seems to be integrated into - it knows about US football and baseball data. "Siri knows about sports."Next: "Siri's learnt a lot about restaurants." Asks for restaurants, gets lot of data - and I can't emphasise how quick this is. It's what Sirioughtto be like, but never is in the UK, where it's like talking to someone who is having to translate through two languages. If Siri worked as fast as it's working for Forstall here, then everyone would use it all the time.Block 177.18pm:Siri will be able to launch apps. "Play Temple Run". And it launches it. We had expected something like this. "Those are just a few of the things that Siri has learned in iOS 6."Launching apps is big, but can it do things like changing settings?Also: "Eyes Free": "We want to integrate Siri even better with a car... use a button in the steering wheel to activate Siri. Keep your hands on the wheel and eyes on the road to operate Siri." Coming in the next 12 months for some cars. BMW, GM, plenty of others."Making Siri much more international." Adding in iO6 to Canada - "eh" - Spanish, Mexico, Italian, Switzerland (Italian, French, German), Korean (big whoop!), Mandarin for Taiwan, Cantonese for Hong Kong, and both Mandarin and Cantonese for mainland China. That's going to be huge.Plustaking local search which was previously US-only around the world.And:Siri comes to the new iPad(in iOS 6).Block 187.22pm:"Next. Facebook integration. We're integrating Facebook right in to iOS 6" - you'll put it into Settings. Post photos, websites, locations, app store, iTunes, Game Center/re.(Does this mean our hopes of Friends Reunited integration are dashed?)Can tweet and Facebook post directly from Notification centre. Cool, though incremental. Notificaiton Centre is becoming a one-stop shop for all sorts of stuff.Ah, and App Srore shows what people like too - that will be some of the integration of the rethinking of App Store recommendation.Facebook events will now appear in Calendars.Block 197.25pm:Missed or refused calls: you can reply with a message, or ask to get a reminder later. And the messages come from a selected list. Or the reminders can have "remind me when I leave" which uses a geofence - so when you leave your current location it reminds you.And now: "Do Not Disturb". Lots of applause for that. People are really liking this: it's all feeling like the phone element - how you use the device for phone calls - is getting more and more refined.DND lets you set times when you don't want calls, or you can accept from "Favourites" - or if people keep phoning you in short periods, they will be allowed through.Have a feeling that there's something like that in some of the high-end Android phones - certainly Samsung (and HTC?) let you send automessages.And:Facetime over mobile networks,not just Wi-Fi. No doubt you're not going to get it on Edge connections though.Block 207.28pm:"Safari: around two-thirds of mobile web browser usage worldwide comes from MobileSafari". Hunt down the source of that if you can.Safari tabs - saves your tabs to iCloud (that's the Chrome thing, but will have been in development for at least as long - you don't add that functionality overnight).Smart app banners - can show a banner if you go to a website linking to App Store. Devs are lapping this up.OK, we're about 90 minutes in so far: question: is Apple TV app store coming? Feels like there's about half an hour to go.iO6: Shared Photo Streams, so that you can share pics with your friends. (It's more iCloud shenanigans.) Essentially, they get pushed to the friends.Next up is Mail, with "VIPs" - lets you be notified about messages from particular people. Oooh.... and it gets the Twitter "pull to refresh".Block 217.33pm:"Passbook". All those boarding passes and store card apps that are barcodes of various shapes and sizes. "The problem is when you get to the movie theatre or airport you have to fumble around for them."Templates for developers. And can be geofenced so that when you get to the movie/airport it pops up in the lock screen so you can just continue.VEry fun animation when you've done with a card - the animation shows it getting shredded. Har.Plus the cards are live (if there's a gate change then the pass will notify you). That's really very spiffy. Personally, I'd say that looks pretty helpful. Those cards are murder if you have more than about two of them - they get buried in email.On to accessibility."We've been surprised by the number of children with autism who have been flocking to the iPad. Guided Access effectively limits the device into a single-app mode so hitting the home button doesn't exit the app." Also you can set which buttons aren't active.Block 227.38pm:Single-app mode (kiosky mode, as it's more commonly known) looks clever."Next.... is Maps." Ah, there's huge interest. "An entire new mapping solution from the ground up.And it is beautiul. We're doing all the cartography ourselve.s New York. San Francisco. Italy. New Zealand. Singapore. Norway. This is a world effort.""Now part of maps is local search. We have ingested more than 100m business listings for local search. Integrated with Yelp" (remind us, did Yelp have a dispute with Google? Think it did) "and traffic forecasts."We're using anonymous real-time crowdsourced data from our iOS users to keep this up to date.Andturn-by-turn navigation.OK, this is going to be very big. Maps is a significant loss for Google. "Works from the lock screen if you have it plugged in your car..."And integrated with Siri "ask Siri to take you somewhere". "You can ask questions - where cna I get gas - and the kids can ask the age-old question." (Yes, the "are we there yet" question.)Block 237.42pm:Now demoing Flyover, which is the 3D overflight stuff.The maps stuff actually needs a little more.Ah, vector-based maps, and you can rotate them to your orientation (yes, Google Maps on Android has had that). Rather cool 3D rendering.Flyover looks fun, but equally it looks like one of those things you'll try once or twice and show off at a party and then be stuck for uses."Turn-by-turn directions... gives three options, you choose one."Siri reads it out. Notably, you could use this for walking directions - just listen on headphones. That's Siri coming to some usefulness."And that is turn-by-turn directions."Block 2411.51am:A beta of iOS 6 will be released for developers today, with the consumer release coming in the Autumn.Block 2511.52am:Cook comes on to wrap up, but will there be a "one more thing" moment for TV apps, as has been predicted? He makes the audience wait if so."The products we make, combined with the apps that you create can fundamentally change the world," he says. "And really, I can't think of a better reason of getting up in the morning."That's a no then.Block 2612.06pm:This is Stuart Dredge (Charles is off to find a power socket for his laptop) – one last thought. Disappointed at the lack of a TV apps SDK? My takeaway from today – particularly the CSR Racing demo – is that for now, Apple sees iPhone and iPad AirPlay Mirroring, via an Apple TV set-top box, as the key conduit for apps on television screens.So, no SDK to put apps in an Apple TV box, but instead encouragement for developers to use AirPlay Mirroring in their apps.
A selection of 14 new and notable apps for you today:LekioskApple's iOS Newsstand has some competition from Lekiosk, a digital magazine store-app which started off in France, and has just crossed the Channel. It offers around 90 UK mags from publishers including Dennis, Conde Nast and the BBC, with the key selling point being a £9.99 monthly subscription to download any 10 titles. Android will follow in September.iPhone / iPadMadagascar Movie Collection StorybookDreamWorks has launched a storybook-app for iOS based on its Madagascar films, with three stories currently available – two included and one for in-app purchase. It's the work of developer iStoryTime.iPhone / iPadCall of Cthulhu: Wasted LandRed Wasp Design's engrossing strategy game has been a critical hit on iOS, but now it's available on Android too. The turn-based game is based on the Call of Cthulhu RPG, which in turn is based on the books of H.P. Lovecraft.AndroidWho's in the Loo?If your children are still unaware of the joys of whales doing the world's biggest wees and post-hot-curry rhinos, now is the time to introduce them to Who's In The Loo? Based on the children's book of the same name, it adds digital colouring and a missing words game.iPhone / iPadAlive WallpaperAndroid users are used to live wallpapers, but how about video live wallpapers? That's what this app provides, from British developer Jack Hunter, who claims that the collection of atmospheric video wallpapers won't use any more battery life than traditional LWPs.AndroidEuro SoccerIt might not have an official licence, but First Touch Games' Euro Soccer looks like a polished and playable take on European international football. 29 countries, a top-notch soundtrack and very impressive visuals give it a fighting chance of competing with the FIFAs of the apps world.iPhone / iPadBetscoresJust in time for Euro 2012 comes Betscores, an app that trumpets its combination of live scores and betting odds. It pulls in data from more than 50 online bookmakers and betting exchanges. An Android version will follow in August.iPhoneFisher−Price Photo StudioAn Instagram for kids? That might be overselling Fisher-Price's new app a bit, but it looks good fun: a photo-manipulation app to add stamps, frames and effects to children's photos.iPhoneGoodwood FOSGuardian stablemate Auto Trader has launched an app to tie in with the Goodwood Festival of Speed. It includes information and maps on this year's event, as well as an augmented reality game.iPhoneFishing SuperstarsDid you ever play Sega Bass Fishing on the Dreamcast with its rod controller? Amazing. The peripherals might be lacking from smartphones (for now), but Gamevil's new Android game gets everything else in, as you travel the virtual world hunting for fish.AndroidPiranha 3DDFans of snappy fish rejoice: the Piranha 3DD film has a new Android app, from the same developer that previously worked on a game for Scre4m. The fun here comes from the fact that you play the piranhas, not the hapless humans.AndroidTurnstileiPad app Turnstile is the work of the team behind Howler magazine, and focuses on a single football match: Argentina's friendly with Brazil on 9 June. Journalists including George Vecsey, Jonathan Wilson, Grant Wahl, David Hirshey, and Alex Bellos all chipped in.iPadHi-Life Go!This is the latest deals app for savvy consumers in the UK – in this case, offering two-for-one deals at more than 4,000 restaurants including branches of Prezzo, Pizza Hut and Ask.Android / iPhoneThe Magnificent Travelling PalaceAnother storybook-app for iPad aimed at children, this uses a blend of storytelling, animation and interactivity to tell kids more about Indian culture, including a dessert recipe if they want a taste too.iPad
And suddenly it's all over. The gigantic circus tent of gaming hubris that is E3 has collapsed in on itself for another year. Hundreds of new titles have been paraded across the stifling showfloor, many of them jammed into mega-stands that will have cost tens of millions to book, build and staff.So what remains? Well, here are the 10 titles that Gamesblog writers Keith Stuart and Simon Parkin most enjoyed discovering and playing during the three-day extravaganza. This is in no way meant as an all-encompassing "best of E3" collection – this is the stuff that really stuck outfor us, amid dozens of other really great games.Anyway, have a read and feel free to bring up any titles that particularly caught your eye.Beyond: Two Souls (Sony, PS3)David Cage returns with another fraught psychological thriller, this time following a young girl (played brilliantly by Ellen Page) who is shadowed everywhere by a supernatural presence and whose psychic powers bring her into deadly contact with the FBI.  The interface looks similar to Heavy Rain's with onscreen arrows and icons guiding player inputs, but there are also more free control sections, and the story looks to be more cogent and involving. The ability to control ghost character, Aidan, as he floats around the game environment is intriguing too. However, it's the drama and darkness that engrossed us during the E3 demo, as did Cage's insinuation that the plot may continue into lead character Jodie Holmes' afterlife…Dishonored (Bethesda, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)With a world designed by Half Life 2 architect, Victor Antonov, Arkane's plague-ridden playpen for the imaginatively cruel has a rare visual authenticity and coherence. The systems that fill City 17 are beguiling too, allowing protagonist Corvo to dispense of his targets in  myriad ways. It's another assassin game then, but in its freedom of choice Dishonored seems set to offer a flexible thrill ride, not just in terms of the structured overarching story, but also in the stories of brutality or cowering that blossom in moment-by-moment play.The Last of Us (Sony, PS3)Everyone knew Naughty Dog's post-apocalyptic action adventure was going to be bleak, but few were prepared for all the raw, visceral violence. In the E3 demo we see male lead Joel battling with a bunch of other survivors in a broken down hotel. He smashes one in the face with a brick, blows another's head off with a shotgun and generally pummels and blasts his way to bloody victory. The development team say they want the violence to be horrifying so that players understand the cost, the sheer finality of violence, in this dying world. But amid the action, there is a compelling emotional tale as well – the relationship between Joel and his young accomplice Ellie could be the most compellingly drawn since Monkey and Trip in the similarly apocalyptic Ninja Theory adventure Enslaved.Need For Speed: Most Wanted (EA, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Having already re-invented NFS: Hot Pursuit with considerable panache,  Criterion now has its hands on another Need For Speed offshoot. Most Wanted is an open-world driving adventure, in which players compete across seamless racing and freestyle events, racking up XP and sharing their best times, experiences and achievements over a re-built Autolog system. Our lengthy hands-on with the single- and multiplayer modes was thrilling and hilarious in equal measure, with breathtaking crashes, awesome handling and gorgeous city visuals. Criterion has clearly learned a lot from Burnout Paradise and Most Wanted is the massively promising result.NintendoLand (Nintendo, Wii U)Nintendo's Wii may have been buoyed by mini game collections in its early days, but the console eventually drowned at their ubiquitous hands. Bold, then, of the Kyoto-based company to lead its creative charge for Wii-U with a slew of snack games designed to show off its new console's capabilities. But in the hands, NintendoLand dazzles. Admittedly, these five-minute gameplay morsels are ideally suited to consumption on the E3 show floor. Nevertheless, NintendoLand effortlessly presented some of the best game ideas of this year's show.Project P-100 (Nintendo, Wii U)Curiously absent from Nintendo's press briefing, Platinum Games' Wii-U launch title may have a placeholder title, but its gameplay is anything but. Brighter and more accessible that the company's previous work (Bayonetta, Vanquish) Project P-100 enjoys some of the herding dynamics of Pikmin but combined with exuberant anime cartoon action. Integration with the Wii-U controller was a little clunky, but Project P-100 offers the kind of once common flash of Japanese creativity that we have so sorely missed.Resident Evil 6 (Capcom, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Few loved Resident Evil 5 more than the fourth instalment in the long-running survival horror series, creator Shinji Mikami apparently taking more than just his name from the company in his departure. But Capcom has poured resources at this next game, with over 600 staff working to finish the project ahead of its October release date and some its best creative minds working out how to define the genre in 2012. With (at least) three story lines to play through and some fascinating co-op innovation on show at E3, it seems like they are winning the war against the zombies.Sim City (EA, PC)The original urban sandbox returns with a full visual makeover and an intriguing multiplayer mode which allows friends to build cities in the same region, sharing and competing for resources. The depth and freedom are still there, but Maxis has added enormously to the user-experience, allowing for less rigidly blocked streets (you can now have bendy roads!), as well as providing little stories within the simulation, like criminals scorching into town and robbing banks. There's also a lovely new method of overlaying data onto the main map, thereby showing elements such as electricity and crime without having to resort to pop-up graphs and tables. Beautiful and exciting in ways only a Sim title could be.Tokyo Jungle (Sony, PS3)Shown off in a shadowy corner of Sony Europe's demo room, this PSN treat is a bizarre cross between a pet sim and a post-apocalyptic adventure. Players choose from a selection of animals, all with their own stats for strength, speed and hunger, before exploring the empty streets of Tokyo, devoid of humans but filled with vicious wildlife. The goal is just to survive and procreate, hunting smaller prey, avoiding larger predators and tracking down potential mates. You can also unlock clothing for your chosen beast, so you may end up controlling a kangaroo in hot pants and a motorcycle helmet as it creeps up on a pack of wild Pomoranians. Incredible stuff from Sony Japan and developer, Crispy's – and a Western release should follow shortly after the native launch in June.Watch Dogs (Ubisoft, PC, TBC)Ubisoft's near-future surveillance adventure was the biggest surprise of E3, coming out of nowhere to dominate every conversation on the packed show floor. Developed at the publisher's Montreal studio, this dark action thriller follows hacker activist Aiden Pearce as he battles an oppressive government and its corporate lackeys. The defining feature is the ability to hack into facilities and urban infrastructures to complete missions. Enemy getting away in a car? No problem - just hijack the traffic lights and cause a pile up right in front of him. More intricately though, you're able to access the personal data of every non-player character in the game, discovering their habits and secrets and unlocking a wealth of side-tasks and convert missions. It's every information voyeur's fantasy and a neat theme to base a paranoid high-tech action title around.•Keith Stuart travelled to E3 with EA; Simon Parkin travelled to E3 with Microsoft
What should you expect in Monday's WWDC keynote from Apple, and what should you not expect? From talking to developers and other sources, here are our predictions.You should get…Apple TV: App Store access and software development kit (SDK)The rumblings about Apple doing something in TV have been going on for months. However, the expectations that the company will unveil an actual TV set, or that it will unveil some sort of content deal with various TV stations, both sound wrong. What sounds entirely right, though, is that developers will be able to write apps that will bring games and other forms of content to the £99 set-top box that has picked up in sales recently.Why won't Apple unveil a TV set? Because there's no need to, and the sets themselves are the wrong market. Apple focuses on high-margin, high-growth markets (think of iPods, iPhones and iPads), especially where it can get in at an early stage. Selling TV sets, however, is a low-margin, low-growth market.Nor can Apple realistically hope to do content deals with all the TV channels around the world, which it would need to if it were going to launch its own ultra-amazing all-singing all-dancing TV set. Would it be able, or want, to tie up deals with the BBC for iPlayer, and ITV, and Channel 4, and 5, and write the necessary apps - and then do it again for France, Germany, Spain...But, equally, smart TV is a burgeoning market, where Google, Samsung and LG are all trying to interest people in the idea of "smart TV" that will be able to connect to the internet and show you YouTube clips, and so on.So offering an SDK which lets apps run on the Apple TV is the simple way forward. It lets Apple undermine games console makers (notably Nintendo). It lets it sell more games. And developers will be delighted to write apps that will deliver content from TV companies – or the TV companies themselves will.New desktops and laptopsThere's a great deal of expectation about "retina-capable" laptops and desktops which will have far greater resolution than existing ones; the appearance of apps with those capabilities over the past few weeks has heightened the rumours. Certainly the laptops are overdue for a refresh - so the MacBook Air and Pro are due something new, probably with Intel's Ivy Bridge processor. The big question is whether the "professional" desktop Mac Pros will get an upgrade; they've languished for months.IntentsAndroid and Windows Phone have excellent systems by which third-party apps can inform other apps (through a sort of registry system) what they're capable of taking as input and outputs; it means that you don't have to explicitly connect, say, a Flickr app to the photo gallery in order to be able to "share" it from your gallery to Flickr.iOS is overdue to get this; it would also simplify the process where at present Apple has to explicitly write in support for a particular social network to the OS (so that adding Twitter at the basic level was treated as a big wow; in Android it's just a given that you can tweet a picture). Intents will also mean that if MySpace or (lottery ticket alert) Friends Reunited suddenly became a giant social network (again?), it won't require Apple to do a ground-up rewrite.Visual overhaul?This one comes courtesy ofDave Verwer, an iOS developer and trainer, who points out that iOS has had much the same look and feel for its five years – while Mac OS X has changed its appearance, even subtly, with every iteration. Perhaps, he suggests, it will move to something more grey.Killing someone's business modelThis one via our apps blogger Stuart Dredge, who points out that over the past two years Apple has unveiled something that has killed some third-party product – so the "Reader" element of Safari was a serious risk to Instapaper and Readability, and some of the Game Center tweaking was a big threat to games companies.This time round, he's expecting that the UDID (unique device ID) tracking will be tweaked so as to obviate the need for companies like Flurry, which does mobile analytics in apps.Something different in MapsThe noises about changes in the Maps app – dropping Google's maps in favour of Apple's own, or some third party's – have become impossible to ignore, but the problem here is that any change has to work worldwide. As one developer said to me, it's no good for Apple to adopt OpenStreetMap – the level of detail in southern Europe just isn't good enough. There would be a huge defection from Maps to Google Maps (you can bet that would appear in the App Store) and those people wouldn't return to Maps, perhaps forever. That's not a risk Apple can (or would) take.Yet owning a company that does detailed mapping suggests something. Perhaps turn-by-turn navigation. Although in that case, why tell the developers?What not to expect…Siri APIsYes, lots of people have been saying that these are going to come because, well, Siri has been aroundsince October. Two points: first, it's still in beta; second, how would you drive third-party apps via a voice-driven interface?Consider that Siri simply turns speech into text; the API problem means this text has to be handed off to the correct app, meaning your problem is now twofold. You have to hand the text to the right app (which could be done, suggests Dave Addey of Agant, by getting people to preface their spoken phrase with the name of the app – which could be provided in phonetic form via an SDK); the app then has to process it.But if you take Agant's UK Train Times app, what are the potential entry points? People might want to see where they are on a track. Or find the time of the next train to a particular station. Or plan a journey on a particular day to a station, and then return on a different one. Figuring out quite what text you allow into the app, and how you set up the text-handling interface, would be a hell of a thing; and while developers might well be happy to accept that challenge, for Apple the problem would come if Siri's speech-to-text translation (which is dicey, and reliant on a fast internet connection) doesn't quite get it right. That would poison the whole Siri experience, which for those outside the US is hardly stellar anyway ("I can only help you find businesses in the United States…). Apple doesn't feel likely to do this. It's still too early in voice recognition.An actual TV set with Apple's name on itSee above.A new iPhoneIt's too early. Time was when the announcement of the phone would come, to go on sale later, and developers had a few months to get things straight for it. This doesn't feel like that time; LTE chipsets aren't yet ready in high enough volume (in fact they're constrained) which means that an iPhone announced now wouldn't have the high-speed mobile internet capability that is being rolled out in the US. True, T-Mobile is testing its 4G connection offering at WWDC this week - but I don't think this is really a preface to a 4G iPhone.ConclusionIn general, remember that people almost always overestimate what Apple is going to do - and are then "disappointed" when what is announced doesn't match their fevered imaginings. Apple has only rarely exceeded peoples' initial expectations (the iPhone is the best example) - but usually then goes on to exceed their subsequent disappointment too. If in doubt, dial down your excitement. (Some will find this much easier than others.) We'll find out how wrong (or right) all this is later on Monday. Join us then.
UBC Media, which supplies multimedia content to the BBC and 250 commercial radio stations, has struck a cash and share deal that will see it become the largest shareholder in audio-sharing company AudioBoo.The company, which took an 8% shareholding in AudioBoo for about £45,000 in 2010, has upped its stake to 40.3%.UBC Media has bought Imagination Technology's 33.95% stake in AudioBoo in a share deal worth £271,000 that will give Imagination a 7.6% shareholding in UBC.However, Imagination is keen to hold a larger stake in UBC and as part of the deal has bought £141,000 worth of shares, at a mix of 2p and 2.75p, to take its total stake in UBC Media to 9.8%.The deal means AudioBoo, which raised £200,000 in new investor money on Friday, is worth about £1m.Simon Cole, chief executive of UBC, said that the deal underlined the company's move away from radio and TV production into technology.The company, which on Monday reported a loss of £3.6m for the year to 31 March, said this was driven by a £3m non-cash goodwill write-down on the value of its production businesses to £1m."We have faith in our existing production companies but are not looking to make any acquisitions in this area, which many people expected us to," says Cole. "We're now more likely to invest in technology, and now have £3.5m in cash."UBC Media also announced that it has been selected to handle the global licensing and roll out of the RadioPlayer, the UK internet radio service backed by the BBC and the commercial radio industry, in partnership with Imagination.Cole said that UBC already has letters of intent for deals to launch the RadioPlayer in eight countries – four will be subject to licensing arrangements and the other four will see a bespoke internet player built.UBC Media also announced a deal to produce 15 hours of live TV content from the Cambridge Folk Festival for Sky Arts, as well as two hours of output for BBC Radio 2.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamKim Scheinberg's answer to: Apple Inc.: How does Apple keep secrets so well? &gt;&gt; QuoraAmazing story. The finish:I've lost track of the many reasons that have been given for the switch to Intel, but this I know for sure:No one has ever reported that, for 18 months, Project Marklar existed only because a self-demoted engineer wanted his son Max to be able to live closer to Max's grandparents.Quora, proving its worth.Google founders slated for questions in antitrust probe &gt;&gt; Bloomberg(That's "slated" as in "scheduled for", not "slagged off".)Plans for the depositions [of Larry Page and Sergey Brin] come as the Federal Trade Commission speeds up its antitrust probe of operator of the world's most popular internet search engine. Jon Leibowitz, the agency's chairman, said June 6 that he expects to complete the investigation by the end of the year. The FTC will then decide whether to sue Google.By which time Google will hope to have finished dealing with the European Commission's antitrust investigation.Android updates embarrassing, but do users notice? &gt;&gt; CNET NewsDanny Sullivan:What exactly was I missing by the operating system being so old? Nothing, really. The phone did just as much as my top-of-the-line Galaxy Nexus. It did just as much as my top-of-the-line iPhone 4S, for that matter. Sure, the pictures and video were lower-resolution, though not that remarkably noticeable. Aside from that, it wasn't like I was struggling to carry on my mobile life as normal.That's the reality check that can go missing when looking at update figures. People are clearly still able to use their phones despite not having the latest version of Android.In Russia, Yandex gets ousted as default search option in Firefox &gt;&gt; The Next WebThe commercial agreement between Mozilla and Yandex is notably set to expire on the 31st of December 2012, which begs the question: why was Yandex ousted in favor of Google in the most recent Russian-language Firefox browser build way before that date?For the record, Mozilla wasn't contractually bound to keep Yandex as the default search option in the Russian Firefox build - but still, why the change?The Firefox change was done as abugfix. Neat.Apple's hardware "dilemma" &gt;&gt; counternotionsAs the proverbial design adage goes, "People don't want to buy a quarter-inch drill. They want a quarter-inch hole." Non-geeks, Apple's primary audience, aren't interested in what the hardware is, but how the product solves their specific problems. Hence they buy on demonstrable value, rather than on potential of hardware specs.But Apple detractors ask why should the most valuable technology company on the planet -- with a large patent portfolio, unrivaled in-house industrial design capabilities and enormous influence over its supply chain and component pricing -- fail to offer the best hardware specs in the industry for its premium products? There are a few basic reasons why Apple doesn't believe it's in a hardware race.A post that gets better as you keep reading.'Mapping the Google exodus &gt;&gt; deCartaA counterpoint to Google's new moves in mapping announced last week:Much has been written in the last month1 about the exodus of developers from Google Maps, partly as a result of Google's plan to charge high volume users and partly a result of terms that make the "Free-ness" of those maps a little less free.Here at deCarta, we are seeing the effects. In the last 90 days, we have had 488 new companies sign up on the deCarta DevZone and start working with our offerings. Our DevZone has been supporting developers for about seven years, so when we see a big uptick, it's worth finding out why and what those people are looking for. So we did a survey...The results are pretty interesting. Three things in particular...Click over to read on.RIM discontinues 16GB PlayBook, still 'committed to the tablet space' &gt;&gt; The VergeContinuing with the 32GB and 64GB models:Despite this, RIM says it's still "committed to the tablet space" but believes the higher-capacity models offer "more value for our customers." In many ways, it makes sense to bump up media tablet storage, and RIM's not the first company to cut out its lower-end devices. It's also rumored that RIM sees a significantly lower profit margin from the 16GB version, so this could be part of general cost-cutting measures as it moves into what it hopes will be a more profitable era.Hang on - "significantly lower profit margin" implies RIM actually makes a profit on PlayBooks. That's not what its accounts have indicated over the past year. Very much the opposite.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's the Monday after E3 and I'm still jet-lagged, hence this rather late arrival of the Chatterbox post.How were your respective weekends? Any gaming fun?
With Apple about to announce iOS 6, the next version of its mobile operating system, it's useful to look back at what was introduced in iOS 5 – and, more importantly, whether anyone is actually using it. It's easy to announce software features that nobody really uses so you can bulk up the marketing blurb. But does it stand the real-life test?So here's what was announced in iOS5.NotificationsBefore this, iOS notifications were primitive - and easily outdistanced by Android 2.x's set of information in the menu bar (which told you that there were new emails, calendar events and Twitter or Facebook information).iOS 5's Notifications changed that dramatically: every app could now put information – such as the content of tweets or the sender, or the subject line and some content from an email, or the level of a stock, or the weather forecast – into the menu bar, in your lock screen or only after the phone is unlocked. It's a colossal improvement on the previous, intrusive iOS notifications, whichweren'tweremodal (ie you had to get rid of them) and interrupted other tasks. The only place they now survive is in Mail, where if there's no connection, you'll be told – even if you know and don't care.The granularity of iOS 5 notifications puts them miles ahead of anything presently in Android; you can get an idea of what's going on without having to jump between different apps, because only the latest information is brought to the surface. In many ways, it's like Windows Phone's tiles, though that is intended to give more of an "at a glance" view of what's happening. (I do like Windows Phone's display of your next calendar appointment in the lock screen, though it would be good to be able to configure whether that appears.)One thing that's annoying about iOS 5 notifications: if you unlock the phone and go to an app, a procession of notiications will appear at the top, rolling over the menu bar. If you're trying to do something with a menu item, it can feel like swatting flies.How useful?10/10How much used?10/10Over-the-air (OTA) software updatesAn enormously important step forward - again, bringing iOS to the place where Android already was. Except that Apple, because it controls the handsets, has been able to push updates out much more aggressively than the combination of handset makers and carriers – so that iOS 5 adoption leapt almost overnight from zero to more than 80%, according to app developer statistics, and even point updates (from 5.1.0 to 5.1.1) can gofrom zero to 30% in a matter of days.How useful?10/10How much used?10/10iCloud, iTunes Match, Photo StreamWhile iCloud is subtly different from OTA updates, it is part of the overall shift away from the "PC tether" that moving into mobile means. Again, Android was ahead with this, so that you could configure a new phone by signing in with your Google account - upon which apps and calendars and email would all be available. Apple matched that by letting you backup your phone to the cloud, though you can still choose to sync it to a computer if you prefer. Meanwhile, Photo Stream could sync photos taken on the phone to your Mac, via Wi-Fi. And iTunes Match, while not part of the official WWDC announcements, is another part of iCloud, using a music-matching service to let you get your music on any signed-in iOS device. Android hasn't got that outside the US because of licensing problems.Is iCloud popular? Well, by April, six months after launch, it had 125 million users. A fresh number will probably be announced in the coming week at WWDC.How useful?10/10How much used?10/10iMessageThis was Apple getting into the WhatsApp/BlackBerry Messenger field. It's like SMS, but runs over the data connection, so it can be free and cheap. (A packet data connection will often work slightly better than SMS.) It only works between iOS 5 devices, and one puzzle is whether an iMessage gets sent to a phone number, or to a login. It doesn't seem to have the world on fire in Europe (iPhone penetration is far higher in the US), but it's difficult to evaluate quite how much iMessage is actually used, especially when huge numbers of SMSs are bundled into both PAYG and contract deals these days, and apps like WhatsApp offer cross-platform "over the top" message sending.How useful?7/10How much used?3/10NewsstandA place for all your magazine and newspaper subscriptions to automatically download and be kept together – in effect, a pre-prepared folder for pre-prepared content. You may reply "what magazine and newspaper subscriptions?" and for many people that might be the block. Perhaps if it came pre-populated with content (a slot that no doubt would see publishers falling over themselves to bid for) it might be more useful. Instead, Newsstand can be confusing: you download something like the New Yorker app, and then wonder where it is. Answer: hiding in plain sight in Newsstand.How useful?3/10How much used?3/10RemindersThese sync with iCloud (on which more later), iCal and Outlook. You can also set location-based reminders for the iPhone 4 and 4S. This latter is a good idea, until you realise that it's going to suck your phone battery dry checking your position as it waits for you to hit the location "fence" so it can remind you. Generally, it's easier just to set a reminder for a particular time. The Reminders app in general is functional, but the world is full of to-do lists, as is the App Store. There's no golder bullet for it, which is why there will always be reminder apps.How useful?7/10How much used?5/10Twitter integrationiOS lacks (until this coming week?), while Android and Windows Phone do have, the ability for apps to communicate between themselves and say what they can do. So on Android the camera function can pass pictures to any apps that say they can work with pictures – whether that's Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, a photo editor, or whatever.Building in Twitter integration (notably to the camera app, but also to Photos, Maps, Safari and YouTube; names in the Contacts could also pull in Twitter avatars) is an important step forward. The fact that this was Twitter rather than Facebook limits the breadth of its appeal (rumour is that the two couldn't agree terms, not least on privacy settings), but it was also a significant move to build the API for an outside company directly into the OS, right down to the extent of including a hash tag on the top level of the keyboard. For Twitter, it's certainly been all to the good.How useful?8/10How much used?9/10 (for things like tweeting photos)CameraBefore iOS 5, if you wanted to take a photo, you had to unlock the phone and then navigate to the Camera app and then take the photo. Result: lots of missed photos. In iOS 5, you could access the camera directly from the lock screen by pressing a camera icon (later revised to sliding the icon upwards). This put it on a par with Windows Phone, which implemented the "pictures direct from lock" first. Apple also grabbed the neat idea from the Camera+ app of letting you take a photo with the "volume up" button – something that Camera+ was previously banned from the App Store for doing.The camera app also got grid lines for composing shots (other OSs do that too), pinch/pull to zoom out/in when composing, and tap-and-hold for focus and exposure lock. For editing you also got crop, rotate and red-eye removal. The changes to the Camera app were hugely important in getting the best use out of the phone's camera.How useful?10/10How much used?10/10Mail updatesMail got text formatting, text indentation, message flagging, mass message flagging (starred, read, unread) and custom mail sounds. If anybody was gasping to be able to bold or underline mail messages, we certainly never noticed them.How useful?5/10How much used?5/10CalendarThe iPad got a year view, while the iPhone/iPod Touch got a new week view. You could also tap to create an event, and view and add event attachments. While calendars are the bedrock of corporate life – where would people be if they didn't know about their next meeting? – it's hard to make them enthralling, sexy or easy to view when you're dealing with them on a mobile screen.How useful?4/10How much used?6/10Game Center improvementsYou could use personal photos; compare achievement scores with friends; find new friends via their recommendations and their friends' recommendations. This may be the sociai network Apple built which actually works, though it's very hard to know quite how many people are on Game Center. The feeling from developers is that in fact people use Facebook as their real game centre, so this isn't so revolutionary as it might have seemed.How useful?4/10How much used?5/10There were a ton of other little things, principally of interest to developers (unsurprisingly). But those are the headline ones. So if we tally them, we get – in this totally subjective view of what iOS 5 brought to the experience:Overall, how useful?78/110 (71%)Overall, how much used?76/110 (69%)Is that good or bad? You decide.(Updated: correctedmodalto non-modal in Notifications.)
Downtown LA may not have the glamour of la Croisette, but there's no doubtingE3is the videogame equivalent to Cannes – a huge trade and press show that stuffs all the industry's big players into acolossal convention centreto show off their wares.Microsoft came with two of the most anticipated titles, both sequels to highly popular and successful series.Halo 4(6 November) is the firstHalogame from new developers343 Industries, and returns protagonist Master Chief to centre stage. The Covenant may have been defeated inHalo 3but now they're back along with a new biomechanical foe, which brings an eerier, darker feel to the space shooter.All the familiarHalostaples are present and correct – and despite the switch in developer it plays just as well as ever. The War Games deathmatch multiplayer is frantic, with grenades being thrown and vehicles zooming around the expansive landscape. There's also new Spartan Ops cooperative play, which will be released in a series of weekly episodes for no extra charge, continuing the narrative from the end of the game.Microsoft's other big title wasForza Horizon(23 October), takingthe racing simon to the open road to create a more accessible game but with the same superb visuals and control mechanics. All the cars still handle like a dream, but now there's oncoming traffic and winding country roads to take into account as you race through urban and rural USA. It's more accessible but shouldn't put off the hardcore racing fans who've taken theForzaseries to their hearts.Sony's strongest titles were both brand new.Beyond: Two Souls,Quantic Dream's follow up toHeavy Rain, stars the Oscar-nominated actress Ellen Page and shares the same narrative focus as its predecessor, but with added telekenesis.The Last of Us(2013) is a brutal third-person action game reminscent of Cormac McCarthy'sThe Road, with a 14-year-old girl being protected by an older male survivor. The combat is visceral and the post-apocalyptic landscape looks stunning.Nintendowas all about its upcoming new consoleWii U(release date to be confirmed) and explaining the novel tablet controller that comes with it. In the collection of minigames,NintendoLand, which will accompany the console at launch, asymmetrical gameplay was emphasised, allowing players to do different things depending on which type of controller they use. For example, inAnimal Crossing: Sweet Daythree players collect sweets with Wiimotes, while another attempts to catch them controlling two guards via the tablet's analogue sticks – it's very tricky, much like rubbing your tummy whilst patting your head. Familiar faces returned, withPikmin 3andNew Super Mario Bros Uset to bring old favourites to the new console.They were also keen to show off third-party titles with perhaps the best use of the controller coming from Ubisoft.ZombiUshowed that the new console isn't just for kids, and the excellentRayman Legendsused a tablet player as an assistant. It has some superb rhythm action segments, where one player is platforming with the Wiimote while the other interacts with the landscape on the tablet to a beat.Ubisofthad an impressive conference all round, showing off exciting sequels toFar Cry,Splinter CellandAssassin's Creedthat are sure to please fans. However it was a demo ofWatch Dogsthat stole the show – aGTA-type game set in a large city where you are connected to all the technology within it to spy on fellow citizens. It looks incredible and promises a depth of gameplay that has yet to be seen in this generation of consoles.Five standout titles at E3Need for Speed: Most Wanted(out 2 Nov 2012) From British developers Criterion,Most Wantedis head and shoulders above recent offerings from EA's racer. It's an open world title likeBurnout: Paradiseand great fun – you can escape the cops in single-player or challenge friends online.Dishonored(12 Oct 2012) Bethesda's new first-person shooter brings something different to the crowded FPS market with its sumptuous steampunk visuals and its clever use of magic to switch things up.The Cave(2013) Ron Gilbert, the genius behind theMonkey Islandseries, returns with a new puzzler that sends intrepid adventurers into the eponymous cavern to search for their heart's desire.Aliens: Colonial Marines(2013) Sega still won't let us try being the Alien, but playing&nbsp;as the marines, motion sensor in hand, is thrillingly close to the films upon which it is based.South Park: The Stick of Truth(5 March 2013) Written and voiced by TV series creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker, this is an irreverent take on the RPG genre that takes you right into the world ofSouth Park. It looks identical to the series, and the story is full of the characters and jokes you'd expect – even Mr Slave.Device WarsIt took Sony and Microsoft a while to catch up with Nintendo'sWiimotion controls – but the Wii U's tablet/motion-controller is already looking a little passé.Microsoft'sSmartGlassisn't a new piece of kit but an app, to be released later this year, for all major smartphones and tablets. This will turn your touch device into a second screen and input for the Xbox 360, allowing you to pause a film on one and start it up on the other, gain interactive extra contact while watching video, and provide extra gameplay opportunities – such as finding people to play with online onHalo 4or creating custom plays forMadden NFL. If it works it will bring second screens to the masses of people that own both an Xbox and some form of touchscreen device.Sony's answer is interactivity between the PS3 and theirthe portable Vita, allowing it to act as an extra controller, provide added content, and even allow multiplayer between the two devices, as on PlayStation All-Stars Battle Royale. It's not as neat as SmartGlass, but in combination they must have Nintendo a bit worried.
As Apple prepares for a full week in which it will fete and educate the developers who write apps for the iPhone and iPad (and also its Mac computers) at its annualWorldwide Developers Conference (WWDC)in San Francisco - and with Google preparing to do the same for those writing Android apps at itsI/O event on 27 June- the question many are asking is: if Android phones outsell iPhones, why do developers still prefer to write for Apple first?It wasn't expected to be this way. Speaking at the LeWeb conference on 7 December 2011, Google's executive chairman Eric Schmidtwas in ebullient formas he considered the success of Google's Android mobile operating system. "Android is ahead of the iPhone now," he told the audience of techies and entrepreneurs. Ahead in terms of the number of phones, the quality of the software, the lower price, and having more companies making devices that used it, he said.He also had some predictions: "Ultimately, application vendors are driven by volume, and volume is favoured by the open approach Google is taking," he said. "There are so many manufacturers working so hard to distribute Android phones globally that whether you like ICS [Ice Cream Sandwich, the name for version 4.0 of Android, released in October] or not… you will want to develop for that platform, and perhaps even first."When one Android user told Schmidt it was frustrating to see iPhone and iPad - known as "iOS" - versions of apps coming to market before the Android one, Schmidt said that in part because of the new software, "my prediction is that six months from now you'll say the opposite". That is, that Android versions of particular products would be written before the iOS ones.Calendar timeSix months later, there are few signs of that happening. Instead, even while the number of Android phones in use has continued to grow steadily, to more than 300m, and with Android phones making more than 50% of the 150m-odd smartphones sold worldwide every quarter, developers still look to Apple's platform first.It's not initially obvious why. A huge number of apps are being launched on Android. Analytics firm Distimo, which tracks the various app stores, reckons that in the first four months of 2012 more than 100,000 apps were added to the Google Play store, versus 63,000 for Apple's App Store. Microsoft's Marketplace, for Windows Phone, and BlackBerry's official stores added 35,000 and 22,000 respectively in the same period.But follow the money - a big factor for the important developers, who can easily spend thousands writing a new app - and it's a different story. Distimo and analyst firm CCS Insight launched their App Vu Global service in early April 2012, tracking downloads and revenues from the app stores. Its initial findings claimed that Apple's App Store is generating $5.4m every day in app sales for the top 200 grossing iPhone and iPad apps. For Google Play, their estimate was just $679,000 for the top 200 grossing apps on Google Play, or about 12% of Apple's revenue.Another mobile app-tracking service, Flurry,noted on 7 Junethat "For every ten apps that developers build, roughly seven are for iOS." Though the total volume of apps being developed has doubled - from over 9,000 in the first quarter of 2011 to more than 18,000 in the second quarter of 2012 - that 7:3 ratio in Apple's favour has remained consistent.Part of that has been because iPhone users have shown themselves willing to pay for apps in a way that Android users so far have not. In January 2012, Apple said that since 2008, when its App Store opened, developers had been paid a total of $4bn, of which more than $700m was paid in the last quarter of 2011 alone. Google hasn't given a comparable figure, though Horace Dediu, who runs the Asymco consultancy,puts the figure for Google's total app sales in 2011 at $300m- meaning developers would get $210m in total.In March 2012, Flurry crunched data from developers using its tracking tools in their apps, and claimed that given the same number of users per platform, a developer who got $1 on the iTunes App Store would get $0.23 from Google Play.Nine-year headstart in credit cardsThat's a key pointer to why developers don't look to Android first. Some cases are simple examples of what economists call "opportunity cost". Dave Addey is managing director of Agant, a British software developer which has written, among others, the Train Times app which costs £4.99 on the iPhone, and uses National Rail data to offer real-time data feeds, plan journeys and show timetables. "We still prioritise iOS," he says. "Because it's the main platform on which people will pay for an app. We haven't done Android apps for business reasons. It comes down to this: do you port [translate] to Android, or do you develop another app for iOS? In the end, iOS is the better business case. Apple's greatest trick has been making it really easy to pay for apps. Once you have your iTunes account, you just enter a password." Google is trying to emulate that by encouraging people to add a credit card when they first set up a phone; but it is coming from a long way behind Apple, which started its iTunes Music Store selling music online in 2003, and is now one of the web's biggest five holders of credit card details, along with Amazon, eBay and PayPal.Addey points to the problems encountered by Imangi Studios, developer of the hugely popular Temple Run game - in which you are pursued along stone-lined routes by fast-moving unseen monsters - when it ported the app to Android, releasing it at the end of March.It was a huge success in terms of downloads, hitting 5m in about 10 days. But Imangi Studios - a husband-and-wife team, plus a designer - soon discovered that Schmidt's promise of Android being ahead in the number of phones and manufacturers was only too true. Despite writing it to run on 707 Android devices, they said that 99% of the emails requesting support were actually complaints that it wouldn't run on the user's particular phone model or version of Android. They were pilloried on Facebook, despite having what would be regarded by anyone as a successful release.Breaking up is easyThose subtle differences between devices are known in the industry as "fragmentation". While Apple does have some fragmentation - there are seven models of iPhone, three different iPads and four of the non-phone iPod Touch - they pale into insignificance compared to Android's, where OpenSignals, which provides a network coverage app,recently found1,363 device models running Android, from 599 different brands - though Samsung dominates with about 40% of the market.Android fragmentation, as perceived by OpenSignals based on devices downloading its Android app. Click for original post."It's a problem, especially for testing your app," says Agant's Addey. "You need to get a representative set of [Android] handsets so you can try it out. But that makes it hard to create a best-of-breed app because of the fragmentation, and because people are less likely to have the latest version of the [Android] software. You have to build to the lowest common denominator, rather than using the latest features."Google's statistics to the beginning of Junesay that just 7.1% of phones actively using its Google Play app market run version 4.0, or "Ice Cream Sandwich". The most-used version is 2.3, or "Gingerbread", released in December 2010, running on 65%; in total, 84.1% of devices using Google Play run Android version 2.3 or 2.2, dating back to June 2010.Google Play: proportion of devices running different versions of Android accessing within 14-day period, since January 2010. Source: GoogleBy contrast, although Apple's oldest handset on sale - the iPhone 3GS - dates to June 2009, before Android 2.2, it can run the latest version of iOS – so app developers can target apps at features it includes, confident the majority of users will be able to run them.And iPhone users definitely do update. Addey points to data for the UK Train Times app, which is available for every iPhone and iPod Touch ever made. The latest version of iOS, v5, was released in October 2011: Addey saw the proportion of devices using the preceding version, iOS 4, drop dramatically - while the proportion using iOS 5 leapt.Update feveriOS versions accessing UK Train Times app feed, by time. Source: Agant. Click for larger version with longer time seriesNow, just under nine months since iOS 5's release, 86.2% of devices using the Train Times app run iOS 5, 12% use iOS 4, and just 1.7% use iOS 3 (released in 2009). Other developersput the proportion of iOS 5 users at 75%- lower, but still overwhelming."Compare this to the 7.1% uptake of Android 4.0, and it's pretty easy to see why we develop new apps for iOS first," Addey says. "Apple is constantly pushing its users and developers to be running the latest versions." He says Agant has tended to focus on bigger apps, "because we know we can support the latest features from Apple." The team's latest product is a World War 2 app for the iPad which includes a day-by-day timeline that interacts with a map, Pathe newsreel videos, and commentary by the historian Dan Snow.There's noa priorireason why Apple should be able to get updates out more quickly. Changes to the "baseband" software which operates the radio systems in mobile phones (to connect to networks) have to be tested and approved by phone carriers; Apple has to go through those just like Android handset makers. Such changes are part of every major version both of Android and iOS.But Apple has a clear incentive to roll out updates - to keep users and developers happy - whereas carriers and Android handset makers are less eager; fragmentation and opportunity cost hits them too, and they may have more incentive to encourage people to buy a new handset than see them using the same one with newer software.Putting kids firstHowever, generalisations about what "developers" are doing in terms of platform support are risky. In key fast-growing categories – particularly free-to-play social mobile games – a number of companies launch new titles simultaneously on iOS and Android, or even on Android first. Glu Mobile, TinyCo, Storm8 and TeamLava, who have some of the most lucrative iOS games according to Apple's "top grossing" chart, are also fixtures on Android. Some companies are adopting an Android-first strategy here too.Japanese social games publisher DeNA, which recently reported revenues of $529m for the first quarter of 2012 alone, chose Android as the platform to launch its Mobage community globally in 2011. Its recently-released Rage of Bahamut game is on Android but not iOS yet.US publisher Pocket Gems launched a game called Tap Dragon Park exclusively for Android in May. Another US studio, Bionic Panda, focuses on Android games rather than iOS.Certain kinds of apps can only work on Android rather than iOS, too. British startup SwiftKey is a good example: its natural-language keyboard app SwiftKey X hasnotched up millions of paid downloads on Google's store. It works by replacing the default keyboard on Android devices – which Apple does not allow on iOS."The early adopter community on Android is quite tech-savvy, and very keen to shout about the latest thing that they've discovered," says Ben Medlock, chief technology officer at SwiftKey. "We're one of the rare paid apps which is making money on Android."Other app categories remain dominated by iOS – for example book-apps and children's apps. Swedish developer Toca Boca recently passed its 20 millionth kid-app download on iOS, but chief executive Bjorn Jeffery outlines the reasons it has so far shunned Android."It is a highly fragmented ecosystem to develop for, and the business model for upfront sales of apps still has its issues," he says, pointing to a question of how to allocate resources. "The answer there is unique to each developer, but I don't see 'Android first' becoming something strong in the kids app community within a foreseeable amount of time."Resources are at the heart of why Schmidt's hopes that more companies would put Android first are currently certain to be disappointed. Toca Boca, Instagram, Temple Run... These companies were well aware of strong demand on Android for their apps, and they all knew they could probably make money there. But, faced with a decision to double down on iOS or put already-stretched resources into Android, they prioritised Apple's platform.Volume, scale, or revenues?Schmidt's bold statement that "application vendors are driven by volume" was, it turns out, inaccurate. True, the economics for certain kinds of apps – particularly free and social ones – are driven by scale. Yet the majority of app developers are driven by two simple motives: where they see the most revenues, and by the constraints of their resources and team size. And both those presently favour Apple - substantially.
The Swiss investment bank UBS may have lost as much as $350m (£226m) during Facebook's flawed flotation last month, according to reports.In a statement the bank acknowledged making losses on the initial public offering (IPO) but declined to specify how much. The reported figure is 10 times higher than earlier estimates.According to the financial news channel CNBC, UBS is now considering legal action against Nasdaq, the stock market that handled the IPO.Nasdaq and Facebook are involved in a series of lawsuits over the flotation on 18 May. Problems with Nasdaq's trading systems led to delays and widespread confusion among buyers and sellers as to how many shares they held.According to CNBC, UBS wanted 1m Facebook shares but did not receive confirmation that its order had been taken. The bank resubmitted the order multiple times and all those orders were eventually fulfilled, leaving it with far more shares than it wanted.In the days before the IPO, Facebook raised its share price to $38 and increased the number of shares it was selling by 25%. The share price soared to $45 in early trading but ended the first day where it had begun, and has since slumped to $27.10.Last week Nasdaq sought to calm the escalating row by proposing a $40m compensation fund for firms that lost money on ill-fated trades. Critics including the broker Knight Capital, which said it lost $30m on the IPO, said the fund was insufficient.The rival exchange NYSE Euronext criticised Nasdaq's plan to compensate brokers in part through discounted trading costs. "This is tantamount to forcing the industry to subsidise Nasdaq's missteps and would establish a harmful precedent," it said. "We intend to strongly press our views that Nasdaq's proposal cannot be allowed to permit an unjust and anti-competitive situation."Suing the exchange over losses may prove difficult. Nasdaq's chief executive, Robert Greifeld, has admitted the exchange has been embarrassed by the saga but said it had no direct responsibility to individual investors. Nasdaq is protected against legal action over trading losses by its membership agreements exchange rules.
Price £21,295MPG 50.4Top speed 120mphStaying calm when every fibre of your being wants to be unpleasant is a challenge, but my neighbour James was doing a pretty good job of it. "Thank you, Joe, you've done a&nbsp;lovely job on Daddy's new car," he said to his young son, fists clenched by his side, jaw working. But how was Joe to know that you aren't supposed to polish cars with sandpaper? The enthusiastic car valeter had spent a&nbsp;busy hour grinding his way across two doors and the rear panel, leaving the shiny topcoat scored and scratched with a&nbsp;spider's web of fine white lines.If only James had bought a&nbsp;new Subaru XV instead of that Mazda, he needn't have worried. Car makers are always coming up with novel and often dubious ways to add value to their models, and the latest scheme from Subaru's dealers is that they'll wash your car every month and annually clear up its scuffed paint, graunched alloys and dinged bodywork, all for nothing.But being clean is the last thing a&nbsp;Subaru cares about. The marque's mojo has always been that its vehicles are tough, chunky, no-nonsense transporters that revel in inhospitable environments. For a&nbsp;generation the Japanese maker has been equipping its cars with all-wheel capability, from the Outback to the Impreza, and cleanliness has never been next to godliness at Subaru. Now, preordained to play in the dirt, comes its new XV crossover.Over the past decade, the rugby scene in Japan has been gathering pace. Brilliantly named teams such as the Ricoh Black Rams, Suntory Sungoliaths and Panasonic Wild Knights (can you spot the corporate sponsors?) have been a&nbsp;final paycheck for many an All Black legend on his last legs. And Subaru's first XV displays many of the characteristics of Japan's national squad: tenacious, committed and nimble, though not as physically intimidating as some of the hulking monsters out there. However, Subaru's marketing department may have missed a&nbsp;trick in the naming of the XV. The Japanese team is known as the Brave Blossoms. Just imagine, a&nbsp;Subaru Brave Blossom…The XV's boxer diesel offers a&nbsp;distinctive drive. Many modern diesels are smooth and quiet, but this 2-litre power unit makes a&nbsp;reassuringly old-fashioned clatter at low speed and a welcome growl under acceleration. More impressive still is the consumption figure. The official one is 50.4mpg, and covering 200 or so miles I&nbsp;managed 49.8 – the closest real-world figure I've ever achieved in a test car. It's typical of Subaru's forthright approach that it wouldn't fudge such a key issue. That same pragmatism is evident inside the car. It doesn't feel cheap, but there's no sense of indulgence. Plastics are chosen to be hard wearing, while fabrics are as unyielding as the Harlequins' front row.Is there a fly in the ointment? Just one: price. Subaru builds its cars in Japan and the yen's wayward nature means it is in the same league as an Audi Q3 or BMW X3. But if you want something different, and one that can withstand a&nbsp;six-year-old's valeting, the Brave Blossom is for you…Fire brands: the Brooklands Double Twelve Motorsport Festival 16 and 17 June 2012. Photograph: ObserverThe Brooklands Double Twelve Motorsport Festival 16 and 17 June 2012This year's Double Twelve Festival at Brooklands Museum is a wonderful weekend for motoring enthusiasts. All the action kicks off at 10am on Saturday 16 June and throughout the weekend visitors will be spoilt for choice with some world-class vehicles competing in challenges and heats as well as a period-style fun fair, Scalextric races and some unbeatable vehicle displays. After a day of thrilling action on the Saturday, drivers and spectators are invited to stay on into the evening for music and dancing 1930s style in the hospitality marquee. Vintage attire is encouraged as the Double Twelve once again evokes those halcyon days of British Motorsport at Brooklands – where it all began.The festival comprises three competitive elements: the Double Twelve Speed Trials is a "sprint" on the Mercedes-Benz World Track on the Saturday; the Double Twelve Driving Concours on the historic museum site spans both days; and as a climax, Sunday will feature the Test Hill Challenge which sees teams pulling vehicles up the steep incline and a myriad of two, three and four-wheeled creations all trying to reach the summit under their own steam.The Vintage Sports-Car Club who co-organise the weekend has confirmed an astonishing array of vehicles for the Speed Trials. They include: six pre-war Bentleys; eight MGs such as a K-Type Magnette, M Type, J2 and Bellevue Special; five Austin 7 Ulsters; three Morgan Super Aeros; two Bugatti Type 37s; giant veteran racers like a 9.2-litre 1903 60HP Mercedes, a 9.5-litre 1907 Wolsit and a 13.5 litre Panhard-Levassor; and two ERAs, one of which is Mac Hulbert's ERA R4D – fresh from victory in the recent Monaco Historic Grand Prix -.Meanwhile, two early Vauxhalls owned by the Vauxhall Heritage Centre that appeared in the Steven Spielberg film War Horse will compete in the Brooklands Double Twelve Driving Concours. The 1910 C10 3-litre Vauxhall, originally built to compete in the Prince Henry Trophy, a German trial designed to discover the world's best all-round touring car, has since been acknowledged as Britain's first true sports-car. This peculiar car has been owned by Vauxhall Motors since 1946 and is thought to be a pre-production example and one of only nine surviving cars of this type in the world. The other Vauxhall, a D-Type Army Staff Car built in 1918, was developed from the Prince Henry and cost £500. Used extensively by the War Office, it was a D-Type that was the first car to cross the Rhine into Germany after the 1918 Armistice.Advance tickets which give access to all the action on both the Museum site and at Mercedes-Benz World, are available frombrooklandsmuseumshop.comor on 01932 857 381 ext 268. Adult day tickets are £12 and family tickets (for two adults and up to 3 children) are £30 in advance or £15 for adults and £37 for families on the day. Tickets for Children (5 – 16 years) are available for £5 in advance or £6 on the day. The full list of Classes for both the Driving Concours and the Speed Trials, along with entry forms and application details, can be found at eitherbrooklandsmuseum.comorvscc.co.uk.
'"Great nations", said General (and President) de Gaulle, "do not have friends; they merely have interests".  Substitute "ethics" for "friends" and you'd be closer to the mark. In May 2011, the Obama administration published an admirable document setting out the US'sinternational strategy for cyberspace. It was subtitled "Prosperity, Security, and Openness in a Networked World", and contained a foreword signed by the president himself."Today," wrote Obama, "as nations and people harness the networks that are all around us, we have a choice. We can either work together to realise their potential for greater prosperity and security, or we can succumb to narrow interests and undue fears that limit progress. Cybersecurity is not an end unto itself; it is instead an obligation that our governments and societies must take on willingly, to ensure that innovation continues to flourish, drive markets, and improve lives."Stirring stuff, eh? Obama goes on. "The digital world is no longer the province of a small elite. It is a place where the norms of responsible, just, and peaceful conduct among states and peoples have begun to take hold.  It is one of the finest examples of a community self-organising, as civil society, academia, the private sector, and governments work together democratically to ensure its effective management.  Most important of all, this space continues to grow, develop, and promote prosperity, security, and openness as it has since its invention.  This is what sets the internet apart in the international environment, and why it is so important to protect."I couldn't have put it better myself.  But there is a small problem. At the time when he signed that stirring declaration, Obama knew something that the rest of us didn't – namely that theStuxnet worm, which caused such havoc at the heart of Iran's uranium-enrichment process had been written,under his authorisation, by programmers in the US National Security Agency (with some assistance from software engineers working for the Israeli military).When Stuxnet was first discovered in 2010, it attracteda great deal of attentionfor several reasons. For one thing it was so remarkably sophisticated and complex that its creation would have required a large software team. This led many of us to suppose that it must be the work of the security services of a major industrial country: it was hard to imagine run-of-the-mill malware authors going to all that trouble when they could be harvesting stolen credit-card numbers without getting out of bed. But the most intriguing thing about Stuxnet was the way it targeted a very specific piece of equipment: theSiemens Simatic programmable logic controller. It is commonplace in industrial operations everywhere – oil refineries, chemical plants, water-treatment facilities and so on. And it is also the device that controlled the centrifuges of the Iranian nuclear programme. Stuxnet could – and did – instruct the Siemens controller to cause the centrifuges to accelerate until they disintegrated.All this pointed toward one conclusion – that Stuxnet must have been the creation of either the US or Israel. But no one knew for sure. Now, thanks to somefine investigative reporting by David Sanger, we do. The Stuxnet project – codenamed "Olympic Games" – was actually started by the Bush administration and accelerated by Obama in his first months in office. What's more, Sanger claims that Obama took a detailed, personal interest in the progress of the Stuxnet attack and that there were some agonised discussions in the White House when it was realised that the worm, instead of remaining inside the Natanz nuclear plant, had escaped into the wild, as it were. An error in the code led it to infect an engineer's computer. When he left the plant and hooked up his laptop elsewhere the software didn't recognise that its environment had changed. And then the cat was out of the bag – which is how we first got to hear of it.Sanger's revelations raise some thorny issues, of which two immediately spring to mind. One: does Obama's duplicity – publicly espousing the internet as a space that is unpolluted by cyberwar and cyberespionage while covertly sponsoring a cyberweapon like Stuxnet – fatally undermine America's credibility as a defender of internet freedoms?Or should it be seen as a defensible exercise inrealpolitik– on the grounds that using software to sabotage Iran's nuclear ambitions would cause less collateral damage than an Israeli airstrike? And two: given that (a)&nbsp;software like Stuxnet could bring our entire industrial infrastructure to a halt, and (b) the likelihood that any piece of malware will escape into the wild, should we treat cyberweapons like biological weapons and ban their use entirely? Discuss, as they say in politics exams.
One of the most unnerving sentences I read last week was a brief question posed by someone I didn't know, about someone I didn't know: although by the time I read it, I was au fait with a conversation that they might – or might not – have had. But I certainly wasn't well enough acquainted with Melissa Stetten to be able to judge the tone of this tweet: "Did I just ruin Brian Presley's life via Twitter?"Stetten is a 22-year-old model who, on 6 June, took a flight from Los Angeles to New York and found herself sitting next to an actor called Brian Presley. This much, we think, is undisputed; what followed is not. In a series of tweets, Stetten appears to convey their conversation, which fulfils two cliches: that of person bored half to death by self-regarding neighbour who fails to pick up on their "I'm going to read my book now" cues; and that of attractive woman hit on by man emboldened by a hiatus in matrimonial or familial obligations.The tweets are, in fact, quite amusing, because Stetten displays a certain gift for the truncated comic narrative. "Brian is now talking about how he is an artist and believes everything happens for a reason, like how we're brought together on this flight," she begins. "Brian just took his Heineken in a plastic cup into the bathroom. Will report back shortly" is a further bulletin. "Brian said he was engaged to another actress but it didn't work out because they didn't 'mesh well' together" gives us an insight into his personal life. Along the way, a wellwisher tweets a link to an article fromChristianity Today, in which Presley had revealed how sobriety and weekly AA meetings turned his life around. You can virtually hear Stetten's snort of derision: "Holy shit. He's had 3 Heinekens and is wasted. Sober? Hardly."But it is the tweet that immediately follows that is the most chilling; and mainly because we don't know the answer to it. Has Stetten ruined Presley's life via Twitter? Might her insinuations – that he has fallen off the wagon, that he is primed for infidelity, that he is a tremendous fool – lead to an avalanche of disaster: the collapse of his career, the end of his marriage, a return to addiction? Who knows? Not us.And neither do we know – although we can perhaps hazard a guess — whatStetten (Twitter bio: "Just trying to keep up with the Kardashians")felt as she was typing that question. Was she overcome by the sudden apprehension that she might have unleashed a series of events over which she no longer had any control? Did she feel remorse?Or is it merely a rhetorical swagger, a quick pirouette of triumph?Quite possibly, none of the above; quite possibly it was something dashed off, to get a quick laugh or fill an idle moment, or keep the momentum going. That's the problem with abandoning yourself to someone's online persona: you don't actually know who they are.It should be noted that Presley denies the conversation took place, or at least as described on Twitter. "I guess in today's age you have to be careful who you say hello too [sic],"he confided ruefully (on Facebook).Those who found this exchange simply too inconsequential, or even too benign, have had somewhere else to look for their vicious jollies in recent days, as super-rich spousesBen Goldsmith and Kate Rothschildtook lumps out of one another via, once again, the medium of Twitter.It doesn't take the most obsessive privacy freak to suggest that the painful complexities of ending a nine-year marriage are probably best negotiated behind closed doors; and, after a few days, Ben and Kate agreed. Their tweets were taken down and their joint statement acknowledged that "things have been said in public which should have been kept private", going on to reassure us that "we accept our full share of responsibility for this", which is good of them considering that they are, of course, entirely responsible. You mightn't think that, though, from Kate's final thoughts on the matter. "All of you should go home," she tweeted, "and question whether you are really in a position to judge and condemn and then get on with fixing your own lives." Phew! Touché!On the surface, the difference between the two episodes is obvious: one was presumably conducted by stealth, the other had two fully engaged participants. But is it really that clear? How do you know, for example, whether your own beliefs about privacy might go out of the window in the heat of an acrimonious split-up, or sexual boastfulness, or spurned humiliation? Say that you could swear on your life that you wouldn't spill the beans in public, no matter what.Could you guarantee the same discretion on your partner's behalf?The thought of prenuptial – or even pre-cuddle – non-Twitter-disclosure agreements might be vaguely distasteful but it is also somewhat beside the point. Social media do not simply provide a forum for blabbing, they redraw our ideas of what is and isn't our personal life. All of this makes one feel rather nostalgic for, and kindly disposed towards,Melanie Sykes, who drew the wrath of the puritanswhen she exchanged fruity tweets with her new boyfriend, the wonderfully named Jack Cockings.Sykesmight have got away with this had she not been (a) a fair bit older than her new beau, and (b) a woman displaying an extremely healthy sexual appetite. Admittedly her messages of romance were a little gauche, and certainly exhibitionist.Of course, as many enraged moralists could barely wait to point out, they could have been seen by children. On the other hand, Mel and Jack seemed to be having a jolly nice time together and doing little to harm others. Indeed, their exchanges – rather less explicit these days – continue to charm."I'm a dolphin," he said to her, quite recently. "I'm a dolphin too," she replied. Allowing for the fact that this could of course be private code for some recherché sexual activity, what could be nicer?
Doctor Who: The Eternity Clock, PS3 &amp; VitaPurchasers of videogames licensed from films and TV don't tend to be the medium's most critical consumers.That means they're regularly treated with the kind of appalling disdain that leads to products like Doctor Who: The Eternity Clock. Although Matt Smith's voice acting as the Doctor is splendid, everything else about the game, from the cheesy Casio version of the theme tune to the texture-free art style, peculiar lack of sound effects and abysmal puzzles, suggests careful budget control and very little else. Even its central platform-hopping mechanic is destroyed by clumsy controls, poor signposting, and a level of sloppiness that would have been risible a decade ago. The … horror.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £13.99-£24.99Joy Ride Turbo, Xbox 360Joy Ride TurboKinect Joy Ride was a launch title for Xbox's half-baked sensor bar add-on, which got you to drive by holding your arms in front of you as though grasping an invisible steering wheel. It remains one of the worst games available for Kinect. Turbo seeks to make amends by not costing £40 and avoiding any mention of Kinect, presenting you instead with a colourful racing game featuring toy town weapons and simple, rainbow hewn tracks. It's playable enough, but its small clutch of events and limited multiplayer mode fail to endear it. In a world where Mario Kart had never been invented, this might provide brief entertainment. Fortunately, we do not live in that world.Microsoft, 800MSP (£6.80)Saturday Morning RPG Deluxe, iPadSaturday Morning RPG DeluxeDrawing inspiration from pretty much the full gamut of 80s, children's entertainment, Saturday Morning RPG is a pixellated nostalgia trip for players of a certain age. The plot revolves around hero Marty, who must rescue his girlfriend Samantha from the clutches of dastardly Commander Hood, an undertaking which boils down to a copious amount of exploration broken up by turn-based fights via a series of mini-games. The fact that your special powers are issued by a crudely rendered Fred Savage as the Games Wizard, complete with Nintendo Power Glove and rad 80s slang usage, should tell you all you need to know.Joystick Labs, £3.99Games newsAn add-on has been announced for the dauntingly vast Skyrim.Dawnguardwill be a vampire-orientated extension to the game to be released this summer, in a move likely to create a significant reduction in cases of sunburn among men aged 18-35 …BBC News inadvertently expanded its games coverage when it pasted up the impressively official-looking logo for Halo'sUnited Nations Star Commandinstead of that of the United Nations Security Council …Other games out this week includeRatchet &amp; Clank Trilogy HD(PlayStation 3), lightly enhanced for big TVs and incorporating the duo's three best titles …Rayman Origins(3DS) puts the delightful cartoon world of Rayman on to a portable device, andThe Sims 3: Katy Perry Sweet Treats(PC) lets you enrich your Sims' lives with, it says here, "a cupcake-themed guitar and candy playground equipment".
A comedian'smock musical tribute to the online "trolls" who targeted her has gone viralon a day when a mother who faced the same problemwon legal backing to have her tormenters' identities disclosed.The video of Thank You Hater, which was written and performed by Isabel Fay, features her delivering an ironically cheerful song-and-dance routine after initially showing her sitting in a cafe, where she reads a comment posted online by a troll saying: 'i hope you get cancar. but id have a go on ur tits'.The clip, which has been viewed tens of thousands of times hours after it was posted on YouTube, includes contributions from other actors and comedians recounting the gratuitous things said about them by commenters. Contributors to the video include Noel Clarke, Richard Herring, Helen Lederer and Josie Long.Fay's routine provides a typical example: "You wished me cancer and misspelled cancer/But I know that it's a metaphor/You hope that I will grow/Just like the tumour you hoped would kill me/Inside the tits on which you said you'd also like a go."At another point in the routine, she cheerfully sings: "I'm really sure, that if I met you, you probably wouldn't rape me like you promised that you would."Fay and her collaborators dedicated the YouTube clip "to hard working internet trolls everywhere", adding "Love ya, keep on trollin'!"Separately,a woman won backing from the high court to force Facebook to reveal the identities of cyberbullieswho targeted her with a string of abusive messages on the website.Nicola Brookes was granted a high court order after receiving "vicious and depraved" abuse on Facebook in response to a comment she posted in support of the former X Factor contestant Frankie Cocozza.Brookes, from Brighton, was falsely branded a paedophile and drug dealer by anonymous Facebook users who set up a fake profile page on the website. She now plans to bring a private prosecution against at least four alleged internet trolls, after the high court said Facebook should reveal their identities.
Well, holá. I&nbsp;rather like the look of&nbsp;this one. I&nbsp;mean, it's obviously a Seat Leon – a not unattractive family hatchback, but hardly one to stir the soul; showing its age a bit, too, to be honest. But this is the special sporty Supercopa edition. In Spain, where Seats come from, of course, the Supercopa is a football competition played between the team that won La Liga and the team that won the Copa del Rey. In other words, this is the Seat FA Community Shield. Suddenly it doesn't look so hot.To be fair, football isn't really the right sport to be talking about here. The Supercopa was developed and built in conjunction with Seat's motor sport division (which has a couple of World Touring Car Championship titles to its name). And it looks like it. The Seat Sport people have given it a makeover: new bumpers front and rear, side skirts (phwoar), and –spoiler alert!– a tailgate spoiler. Plus chrome-tipped twin exhausts, a set of BBS 18-inch alloys wheels…I do apologise, I appear suddenly to be writing forMax Powermagazine (even though it closed last year). But those alloys and the Supercopa bodykit do that to a man, bring out his inner hoon. Right, I'm off to Southend, to cruise up and down Marine Parade, or perhaps to find a car park whereyoungpeople are hanging out with their cars, doingbad– possibly evenillegal– things.Oh, hang on, perhaps I'm not. I'm turning round – not a handbrake turn, or a half-doughnut, but a proper three-point turn, with plenty of checking each way for traffic. I'm not going to Southend after all. I'm going to Sainsbury's instead. Because it's not quite the car I thought it was.Don't get me wrong, it's not a&nbsp;bad car to drive. If it wasn't for the bodykit, you'd be pretty impressed. The ride is firm but not impossibly so, it corners well, the two-litre turbo diesel engine has plenty of torque but is impressive rather than outlandish… Oops, drifting back into Max Power territory.OK, inGuardian Weekendlanguage, it's a sheep in wolf's clothing. No, not a sheep, something&nbsp;a bit better than a&nbsp;sheep. A&nbsp;chamois, or an alpaca maybe. And in lion's clothing, because that's what Leon means, in Spanish. Leon Trotsky? Not revolutionary enough. Leon Brittan? Not that conservative. Leon-ardo? Not ingenious enough. I'm thinking more Leona, as in Lewis – nice to look at, but a bit bland underneath, disappointing. Too mean? Back to the beginning, then: it's a Seat FA Community Shield. And I'm not sure one of them is worth 22 and a&nbsp;half&nbsp;thousand quid.Seat Leon FR+ Supercopa 2.0 TDI CR 170 PSPrice£22,530Top speed133mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.2 secondsAverage consumption55.4mpgCO2 emissions134g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Developed specifically to compete with Sony's arch-racing sim, Gran Turismo, the Forza Motorsport series has always taken a rather clinical approach to the breakneck joys of motorcar racing. Indeed, developer Turn 10 struck a deal with the BBC's enthusiastic Top Gear team for last year's Forza Motorsport 4 specifically to introduce a little colour to the otherwise dry presentation.So the announcement of Forza Horizon at E3 2012, an open world racing game set around a fictional music festival held in the state of Colorado was unexpected. Created in collaboration with British DJ and music festival curator, Rob Da Bank, Forza Horizon is filled with character and charisma, as well as a sizeable dollop of inspiration from Burnout Paradise."It's almost two years to the day since I met Dan Greenawalt [Forza Motorsport 4 creative director]," explains Ralph Fulton, design director at Playground Games, the studio handling Horizon's development under that watchful eye of Turn 10."We had dinner at E3 2010 and spent the entire time talking excitedly about racing games. Dan used that dinner to talk to me about his vision for the Forza franchise. He said wanted to do more with it:  to turn car lovers into gamers and gamers into car lovers. That phrase resonated with me. We set up Playground Games to make racing games that make a difference. That's what Forza Horizon is about."For Fulton and the team, the challenge to create a characterful game based upon Forza's sim-like core engine was a tall one, and the key to unlocking the conundrum was in the music festival concept. "We were thinking about where car culture and youth culture intersect," Fulton says. "Part-race meet, part-auto show, part-music show the idea was to create the kind of event where you can take your car and your friends, have fun and show off. That's Horizon. As soon as we created the festival a lot of things fell into place."Once the team knew that they wanted the game to revolve around a music festival they needed to find a location. "We knew by then it was going to be a vast open-world game; environmentally-diverse. And we knew it would have to be visually spectacular. We started looking for a place that ticked all of those boxes – somewhere that would offer all of that. That's when we arrived at Colorado."The US state provides not only beautiful vistas, but also different road types for the cars to contend with. Indeed, Forza Horizon sees the introduction of off-road racing to the series for the first time in its history. "This was hugely exciting to us as a studio," says Fulton. "Many of our team members have worked on Colin McRae, DiRT and other high profile rally games. Forza Horizon boasts 65 different surface types. It's not just about dirt and asphalt. We have many nuanced combinations in between."In fact, our team travelled to Colorado and took 60,000 photos. The game world is a mixture of real-life roads and sections that are purely 'inspired by' the landscape. But one thing we have nailed is the sense of scale and space. We developed a new technology which allows the game to draw 20km  into the distance while maintaining visual fidelity. It's spectacular."As an open world racing game, the player is free to drive around the map, taking on races as they arise and even fast-travelling to key action points. "The festival conceit informed our gameplay," explains Fulton. "It's not just about winning but also having fun, showing off and doing all kinds of amazing things in cars. The system tracks how stylishly you play – weaving in an out of traffic, drifting and so on. Points mean popularity. One of your goals is to become the most popular driver at the festival. But it's also about the freedom of the open road; the chance to drive along some of the greatest roads in the world: high speed interstate highways, off-road dirt tracks and winding mountain climbs."These features are far from novel, but there are innovations here too. "One of the things we quickly found was that players became lost easily. The world is so large that players would forget where they were, or where they were supposed to be going. We solved this with Kinect. A GPS system is always on in the game, controlled with voice. If I say: 'GPS festival auto-show' a green line guides me to where I want to go. I can even say things like: 'Where's my next race' and the game will point me in the right direction."Underneath the more accessible front end, Forza's sim-like core is still present and correct. "We haven't touched the core handling of the cars," explains Fulton. "Why would we tamper with that? But we do give players a bunch of different assists from the off to ease them in. they can switch these off if they want to have a sim-like experience. The point is: this is not an arcade racing game. It's an action racing game. If you love driving cars fast I believe Horizon will be best in class for graphics, physics and handling. Horizon proves you don't have to compromise."•Simon Parkin travelled to E3 2012 with Microsoft
A woman has won court backing to force Facebook to reveal the identities of cyberbullies who targeted her with a string of abusive messages on the website.Nicola Brookes was granted a high court order after receiving "vicious and depraved" abuse on Facebook after she posted a comment in support of the former The X Factor contestant Frankie Cocozza.The woman, from Brighton, was falsely branded a paedophile and drug dealer by anonymous Facebook users who set up a fake profile page on the website.Now Brookes plans to bring a private prosecution against at least four alleged internet trolls, after the high court said Facebook should reveal their identities.Facebook must now reveal the names, email and IP addresses of those behind the abusive messages, showing who they are and where they posted from.It is believed to be one of the first cases where an individual has successfully taken legal action against Facebook to reveal the identities of cyberbullies.It is understood Facebook has not yet received the court order – known as a Norwich Pharmacal order – but will comply when it does. The order was given backing at the high court on 30 May and must now be physically served on Facebook in the US, where the social network is based.Brookes, who suffers from Crohn's disease, said she now plans to bring "the strongest possible prosecution" against the internet trolls."I want them exposed. They exposed me and they invaded my life," she added. "I didn't ask for it. They wanted a reaction from me and now they have got it."Brookes told how she was targeted with abusive comments within an hour of posting about Cocozza, after the young singer was evicted from The X Factor last year."People were inciting hatred against me. They weren't just targeting me, they were also dragging young girls into it as well," she said.Brookes took legal action after being frustrated by what she saw as a lack of interest from Surrey police.Rupinder Bains, a partner at the law firm Bains Cohen which is representing Brookes, said she would consider forcing internet service providers to hand over more information about the cyberbullies if details from Facebook do not prove useful.Bains told the Guardian that Facebook did not resist the legal challenge, but said the obstacles for revealing the identities of internet trolls could cost lives."This [harassment] is a criminal offence and we have the legislation to protect us, but what's missing is the enforcement. This is where the system is failing us," she said. "In the States people have committed suicide over this and that's what will happen over here if things don't change."Bains suggested that Facebook and other social networks should charge users a small fee to join, so they are easier to identify in the event of a legal order.Facebook said in a statement: "There is no place for harassment on Facebook, but unfortunately a small minority of malicious individuals exist online, just as they do offline. We respect our legal obligations and work with law enforcement to ensure that such people are brought to justice."
A selection of 17 new and notable apps for you today:Tom Loves AngelaSeveral hundred million downloads later, Outfit7's Talking Friends series continues to go from strength to strength. Its latest app features its main star, Talking Tom Cat, wooing a fellow feline called Angela. He still repeats words spoken into the mic, but here's also a text-chat mode with the (AI) Angela, and even a song duet.iPhone / iPadHD Widgets (3.0 Beta)Many Android users swear by the HD Widgets app, so its new third incarnation – labelled as beta for the moment – should cause a stir. The universal smartphone/tablet app has more widgets, but more importantly a revamped user interface making it more accessible.AndroidEvernote FoodPeople love taking photos of their food, whether on Instagram, Facebook or Twitter. Evernote Food is a dedicated app for this, making the leap from iOS to Android. Take photos, tag them with location, fellow diners and other info, and then share with the (possibly not as envious as you think they are) world.AndroidMoMA Art LabThe Museum of Modern Art has launched a new iPad app aimed at helping children and families "explore how artists use line, shape, and color, and create your own artwork inspired by MoMA's collection". That means creating sounds, shape poems and collaborative drawings using works by artists including Henri Matisse, Elizabeth Murray and Jean (Hans) Arp.iPadFlirtomatic+ Chat, Flirt, DateMobile dating service Flirtomatic is a mobile industry veteran, having focused on a freemium model in the past. This new app is the "premium" version: £1.99 gets users no ads, more space to promote their profiles, and other exclusive features.iPhoneGraphic Elvis InteractiveThis app bills itself as "an illustrated, interactive and animated homage to Elvis" – a graphic novel based on The King, complete with a story by comic industry veteran Stan Lee, and other Presley memorabilia in digital form.AndroidDrag Racer WorldXMG Studio has launched a slick drag-racing game for iOS, with a focus on customising cars, challenging other players (including Facebook friends) to races, and working through an engrossing career mode.iPhone / iPadGokivoThere's some BlackBerry buzz building around Gokivo, a satnav app with turn-by-turn directions, local search and maps. Not least because it's free, and also integrates RIM's BBM messaging service.BlackBerryChord ExplorerMango Moo's Chord Explorer app aims to teach people to play the piano, armed with an 88-note keyboard, and the ability to create your own tests to improve your skills.iPhone / iPadPollisynthThis looks good fun: an iPhone synthesizer app that uses the device's camera. It "takes a picture of something, and then translates that picture into a unique sound-wave". With Facebook sharing so friends can swap the sounds they've created.iPhoneTaj Mahal Official TourThis is the latest audio-tour travel app, officially licensed for the Taj Mahal in India. Signs at the site indicate which audio tracks to play in the app to find out more about its points of interest. Which, happily, means no roaming data required.iPhoneMillion MomentsSony's own digital photo-sharing app came out on Android recently, but is now available for iPhone too. It helps you create photo albums from the images on your device or on Facebook, while sharing iPhone snaps back the other way.iPhoneColor Splash StudioDeveloper MacPhun says Color Splash Studio is the most popular colour-splash photography application for Mac computers. Now it's on iPhone, helping you convert photos to black'n'white while leaving colour on certain elements.iPhoneGCSE Additional Science (AQA spec) WordbookThis BlackBerry app is part of a range claiming to be "the first social learning apps for BlackBerry". That means revising for the Additional Science exam, but with BBM features built in to test friends as you go.BlackBerryAqua StoryTap Fish showed there was an appetite in the West for virtual aquarium mobile games, but Aqua Story has been doing the same thing in South Korea. Now Com2uS' game is going global, having signed up 2m players in its homeland.AndroidDuel of FateMore Korean games coming west here: Duel of Fate is a tactical card battler by Gamevil, which sees you pitting monsters against players from around the world. The app uses a freemium model: IAP buys runes for use in-game.iPhone / iPadPhonographicThis neat iOS app digs into your music-playing history and turns it into infographics: play counts, tag clouds of artists, top 10 albums and so on. Everything can then be shared to social networks.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFacebook app store launches &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukOur story from early this morning. More details later on Friday.App Center: A New Place to Find Social Apps &gt;&gt; Facebook Newsroom"The App Center gives you personalized recommendations, and lets you browse the apps your friends use. It only lists high-quality apps, based on feedback from people who use the app."Facebook's Dilemma With Native iOS Apps: Relevance or Revenues | TechCrunchFacebook says:The platform drove people to Apple's App Store 83 million times last month. On top of that, it sent people back to iOS apps they had already downloaded 134 million times. Facebook was also integrated into seven of the top 10 grossing iOS apps and six of the top 10 Android apps. The company's emerging power on mobile platforms has been very visible in the surprising rise of apps like SocialCam and Viddy.Up close with Lenovo's prototype Windows 8 tablet (pictures) &gt;&gt; CNET ReviewsAn earlier version was headlined "Hands on with...". However:While the Intel representatives wouldn't allow us to hold the unannounced device or talk about in-depth specs, we were able to pry out some information.Outrage as credit agency plans to mine Facebook data &gt;&gt; GigaOmEveryone knows Facebook is full of interesting data that's being exploited in all sorts of ways - whether by startups building businesses on the social graph, or employers who are vetting job candidates using the site. But here's a way in which you might not want your data mined: to help inform your credit score.That's precisely what's on the cards in Germany, where Schufa, the country's largest ratings firm, wants access to data from the Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter accounts of its customers.Not good.Sony's PS Vita and Nintendo's Wii U look equally feeble &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:Under attack from mobile and social games, the Big Three console vendors are stumbling through the year 2012. Nintendo had a notably disappointing Wii U showcase and Sony's Vita lacks the powerful slate of new titles it needs. We may be drifting towards a scenario where Nintendo shrinks to a rump company focusing only on portable gaming - and knocks out Sony's PS Vita in the process.There are several good reasons why it was vitally important for Sony to announce a strong PS Vita line-up at the E3. And why the failure to do so is deeply problematic for the pricey handheld.Lowered outlook, new Apple fight send HTC shares to 2-yr low &gt;&gt; ReutersThe world's No.5 smartphone vendor, battling to regain market share from Apple and Samsung, suffered a rapid fall from grace in the second half of 2011 after its phones failed to keep up with iPhones and the Galaxy range."The hope for HTC to return to its glory days is getting slimmer and slimmer," said Alex Hu, a vice president of Mega Securities' proprietary trading. "The best scenario is that it can be a regional player, but not a global leader anymore that can compete with Apple or Samsung," Hu said, adding he had sold all of his HTC stock.HTC cut its second-quarter revenue target by 13.3 percent on Wednesday, citing lower-than-anticipated sales to Europe and delayed sales in the United States.Also shut out of Windows 8 tablets by Microsoft because it hasn't sold enough Windows Phones. Can't catch a break.Last.fm Password Security Update &gt;&gt; Last.fmWe are currently investigating the leak of some Last.fm user passwords. This follows recent password leaks on other sites, as well as information posted online. As a precautionary measure, we're asking all our users to change their passwords immediately.This is getting repetitive. Who's next?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Facebook has launched an app store, similar to that for the Apple iPhone, in a bid to turn the social network into a key entertainment platform online.The network announced its "App Centre" ina blogpostlate on Thursday, confirming its first major move into a booming market of gaming, lifestyle and productivity applications.The app store will be available only to US users from Friday, opening to each of Facebook's 901 million users in the coming weeks. It will feature 600 apps, including the popular Draw Something and Pinterest, and new games such as Jetpack Joyride and Ghosts of Mistwood."The App Centre gives you personalised recommendations, and lets you browse the apps your friends use," said Facebook's Matt Wyndowe inthe blogpost."It only lists high-quality apps, based on feedback from people who use the app."The move is designed to keep Facebook users on the social network for longer, giving them less reason to leave the site for a rival platform.However, the focus on mobile apps is likely to attract criticism from those who see them as harmful to the future of the open web. Facebook has already faced criticism from internet rivals such as Google for its so-called "walled garden" approach to what can and cannot be released on its platform.The app store will be available on Facebook's iOS and Android apps, as well as on the main website. Users can send an app on the website to be downloaded onto their mobile device.Apps have quickly become a part of daily life for smartphone owners across the globe. Ushered in by Apple's iPhone and, later, by Google's Android and other mobile operating systems, an estimated 31bn apps were downloaded to mobile devices last year, according to industry analyst Juniper Research.Although most apps are free to download, the still-nascent medium is delivering significant revenues for hugely popular games such as Angry Birds. Juniper Research predicts that by 2016 mobile apps will generate $52bn of revenues – 75% from smartphones and 25% from tablets.
Here comes the weekend - already! Hurray for jubilees! What you up to then?
For a first-time visitor to the Electronic Entertainment Expo in LA, there's just one word to describe the experience: overwhelming.For three days each June, the games world – from publishers, developers and industry publicists to retailers, we media types and, now, bloggers – descends on the Los Angeles Convention Centre for a glimpse at what will be released over the next 12 months.Actually, overwhelming doesn't really do it justice. The show is spread over two massive halls at the convention centre – West and South. And the two halls are a five-minute walk apart, which means that visitors get plenty of exercise.The West hall is dominated by the big three – Nintendo, Microsoft and Sony. Nintendo, of course, is showing offthe new Wii U console, which should be in stores before Christmas (the company is yet to reveal the release date).The Wii U games look terrific – particularly Nintendo Land, New Super Mario Bros U, Lego City: Undercover and ZombiU. Disappointingly, Nintendo would not be drawn on the specs of the new unit, so we don't know yet just how powerful it is, or even what media the games will come on (it does have a disc slot, so my guess is Blu-ray).The South hall houses many of the third-party publishers and developers – Disney Interactive, EA, Ubisoft, Activision, Bethesda and others – along with smaller indie developers and peripheral manufacturers.Both halls are a sea of people standing or sitting in front of screens with a controller in their hands. The South hall, though, feels more like a nightclub than an exhibition space, a cacophony of light and sound. It's where trailers for all the bigger, louder games – such as Crisis 3 from EA, Assassin's Creed 3 from Ubisoft, Devil May Cry from Capcom and Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 from Activision – can be seen on massive screens above the booths.Of course, the hardest thing to do at E3 is play games. Many of the bigger titles – such as Halo 4, God of War, The Amazing Spider-Man and Beyond – have long queues of eager gamers lining up for a quick play.The biggest surprise of the show is the booth babes, surely an unnecessary anachronism in 2012? A booth babe row sprung up this weekover a tweet from Asusat the Computex technology show in Taiwan.No such silliness here at E3, but surely most people would agree that everyone attending the show is here for one reason and one reason only: the games.And driving home just how out-of-place these booth babes are is the fact that as you look around, you notice that almost half the people attending E3 are women – media, industry PRs and yes, even game developers.So here's a thought for next year, E3 – for the sake of balance, how about some booth boys too?These two might just fit the bill.
Internet dating mainstay eHarmony bills itself the "No 1 Most Trusted Dating Site," but the company confirmed Thursday that an unspecified number of its users' passwords were compromised and allegedly posted to a hacker network this week.Hours later the music website Last.fm announced that it, too, is investigating the leak of "some" of its members' passwords.A messageposted on the UK-based site's homepageadvised all of its customers to "change their passwords immediately" as a precautionary measure.These latest breaches appear to be part of a larger leak that compromised 6.5m LinkedIn passwords on Wednesday."After investigating reports of compromised passwords, we have found that a small fraction of our user base has been affected," eHarmonyposted to its blog. "We are continuing to investigate but would like to provide the following actions we are taking to protect our members."As a precaution, the dating website has reset the affected passwords, but did not say how many of its 20 million registered users might have been compromised.The tech news siteArs Technica reportedthat it found about 1.5m passwords leaked online that appeared to be from eHarmony users.The dating site did not immediately return a request for comment."To be honest, we get one of these breaches or another every other day," Kris Tuttle, an analyst at Research 2.0told the Guardian. "I think you're going to see this for a long time to come."Thursday's revelations of password breached come at the same time that the professional social network LinkedIn saw 6.5m of its own users' passwords posted online, most likely by the same Russian-based hacker."Consumers are going to become leery about what information they give over if they are concerned that security will be breached," industry analyst Michael Gartenberg cautioned Thursday.LinkedIn has called in the Irish data protection commissioner over the breach. A spokeswoman for the company said it was working closely with the watchdog because its regional headquarters are based in Dublin. The social network is not believed to have contacted other authorities about the incident.Lawyers warned that California-based LinkedIn could face legal action from UK users if their personal information has been leaked from the website.Simon Halbertstam, a partner at London law firm Kingsley Napley, said LinkedIn was liable under UK data protection laws if it is found to have not sufficiently prevented a security breach.He added: "If any UK data subjects feel they have suffered as a result of this hacking, they should consider taking legal advice or making a direct complaint to the Information Commissioner who can take measures against non-compliant organisations, including hefty fines."A spokeswoman for the Irish data protection commissioner's office said it would be receiving more information from LinkedIn later on Thursday. She confirmed that the breach does fall within the commissioner's remit, but that it has not yet decided whether to launch a formal investigation into the leak.The head ofGoogle's webspam team tweetedin the aftermath of the LinkedIn breach that using the same password for multiple accounts could lead to problems.
Let me begin by declaring an interest: I love theGame of Thronestelevision series. Love it. In the sense that I want to buy a house in the countryside with it and have kids and grow old together. It has bewitched me, mind, body and soul, to the point where I measure out&nbsp;my life in the week-long countdowns betweenepisodes, and I plunged into what will surely be months of inconsolable depression when the second season came to a close this week.What's striking aboutGame of Thrones(Xbox 360 / PS3 / PC) the game – or Video Game of Thrones, if you&nbsp;prefer – is that it's not a mere cash-in. In fact, developers Cyanide Studios bought the rights to the books before HBO had even committed to make the show. When they began work on the game, they had no way of knowing that its popularity would explode as it has. Unlikely though it sounds, this was a passion project, not a tie-in.While a few characters from the books and TV show make appearances, by and large, Video Game of Thrones tells two new, separate stories, written and plotted in collaboration with author George RR Martin. The two protagonists' tales are played out in alternating chapters. You begin the game as Mors, a battle-scarred veteran of the Night's Watch, out on a typically grisly mission to bring a rapist to justice. While his appearance is pre-determined, Mors can be built as one of three classes, and dialogue decisions allow him to be played as cold-hearted killer or gentle giant. The events of the game take place simultaneously with the events of the first series of the show, and Mors' quest begins with the arrival of a letter from John Arryn, the character whose death sets the saga's entire plot in motion.Survive the first adventure and the action shifts to the grimy fort town of Riverspring, where red-robed priest and heir to the castle Alester has returned a decade after running away. Alester has come to attend his&nbsp;father's funeral, but soon discovers&nbsp;something is rotten in the town of Riverspring. Several things, in&nbsp;fact: his dad's death was no accident, a suspect half-brother is plotting to hijack the succession and, as if there wasn't enough to worry about among the nobles, the starving peasants are on the verge of revolt.The central narrative is linear, but most problems can be approached in a variety of ways: the rioting peasants can be put to the sword, calmed with food taken from the castle's stores or placated by the introduction of higher taxes on the town's wealthy nobles. Each choice will have knock-on effects later in the game. (No prizes for guessing which one this Guardian writer chose.) There's none of the open-world freedom of bigger RPGs, but the narrow focus allows for a rich and fast-moving story.Gameplayis more of a mixed bag. There are some brilliant innovations, of which the potions system is a particular highlight. It has always bugged me that in a standard RPG, the player can stock up on 50 or 100 health&nbsp;potions and basically booze their way through battles quaffing a tonic every time a bad guy blinks. Here, the player has to collect refillable flasks before he can carry a potion at all, can carry no more than five flasks at a time, and has to resupply after downing each single measure.Another classy touch is the optional strengths and weaknesses in character creation. You're free to load up Mors and Alester with perks, combat expertise and skills, but must counterbalance each with a corresponding vulnerability, such as allergies, gout or pyrophobia. In fact, character creation is impressive: there are six classes, a choice of three for each character, and a two-sided skill tree for each class, plus a dozen weapon and armour types to specialise&nbsp;in, on top of which there are perks and&nbsp;abilities picked up through in-game action.It's only really in the heat of combat&nbsp;that the game fails to deliver: battles consist largely of repetitive turn-based auto-attacks, with a limited&nbsp;role for tactics, player skill or flair. It's not a game that will wow a Skyrim player, or whisk a newcomer away into its world. But for a fan of the&nbsp;tales of Westeros a little old-fashioned hack'n'wait'n'slash will be&nbsp;a&nbsp;small price to pay for two whole new chapters.
