It's three and a half years since Erin Hoffman became internet famous. Better known as "EA Spouse", she was the person who unmasked the crushing working conditions in some parts of the games industry.In a post on her blog, she revealed how her partner – a worker at Electronic Arts, the world's biggest independent games publisher – was being driven to the edge."The current mandatory hours are 9am to 10pm, seven days a week, with the occasional Saturday evening off for good behaviour," she wrote. "When you keep our husbands and wives and children in the office for 90 hours a week, sending them home exhausted and numb and frustrated with their lives, it's not just them you're hurting, but everyone around them."Crunch periods have always existed in the games industry – just as they do for other forms of entertainment – but EA Spouse lifted the veil on some of the pernicious working practices that were being accepted as normal in some quarters. Hoffman's blog post kicked off a huge outcry and, in the end, scored a victory: the process she started resulted in more than $30m of settlements between the company and its employees."Substantial progress has been made in several areas, particularly games production and human resources," she said from her home in Ontario, Canada.These days she runsGamewatch, a site dedicated to keeping an eye on working practices in the industry, and writes a column on the subject in online magazineThe Escapist."Individual developers both now seem to have a higher standard for working conditions that they will accept as normal, and feel encouraged to discuss ways of improving those environments and conditions through Gamewatch."With regular reports on the increasing success of the games industry – not least Grand Theft Auto IV's tremendous sales this week – this form of entertainment has never been more high-profile. Yet the revelations about Dickensian conditions highlighted the pressure put on ordinary workers to deliver the goods.The issue crosses many companies and cultures, according to Peter Molyneux, the veteran British games designer. Though British labour laws are stricter than some of their American equivalents, Molyneux – who sold his Lionhead studio to Microsoft in 2006 – believes that it is not an unusual dilemma for businesses of any stripe.Crunch times"The vast majority of industries – and especially creative industries – have crunch times," he told The Guardian. "We always worry about our work/life balance, but if a game takes three years to make, and someone turns around and says that the last three months are going to be hard, solid work, I don't think it's different from making a film or a TV programme or even writing a book."Saying that, we are striving so people have the right work/life balance. This industry has changed unrecognisably in how we make games. I think she [Hoffman] was right – this industry was bad at pushing people very very hard for far too long ... but I think that's changing now."Employment practices may be different, but in terms of financial reward, the gap between the UK and the US is closing. According to industry magazineDevelop, salaries are roughly the same on both sides of the Atlantic (despite the lower cost of living in North America), though entry level jobs such as quality assurance still drag far behind other positions.Questions remain about the increasing outsourcing to Asia, and Philip Oliver of Leamington-based studio Blitz Games told The Guardian that lower-paid Chinese labour was an increasing problem for western developers.But Hoffman remains hopeful that the situation for the ground-level workers in this moneyspinning industry will continue to improve."There's still a lot of work to be done," she said. "But there's plenty of reason for hope as well."Additional reporting by Kieron Gillen
According toPravan Mistry, a PhD student at the MIT Media Lab (where Pattie isPattie Maes):The goal of 'Quickies' is to bring one of the most useful inventions of the 20th century into the digital age: the ubiquitous sticky notes. Sticky (aka Post-it) notes help us manage our to-do lists, tag our objects and documents and capture short reminders or information that we may need in the near future. Keeping track of these sticky notes is a difficult task in itself. They are yet-another passive pieces of paper. 'Quickies' are stickies that have some intelligence and the ability to remind us about the task we ought to perform or to provide us at the right time with the information we captured in the past. 'Quickies' enrich the experience of using sticky notes by allowing them to be tracked and managed more effectively. The project explores how the use of RFID, Artificial Intelligence and ink recognition technologies can make it possible to create intelligent sticky notes that can be searched, located, can send reminders and messages, and more broadly, can help us to seamlessly connect our physical and digital worlds.There's more on theQuickies website, including WMV and QuickTime versions of the movie for download. The Discovery Channel ran a news report,Smart Sticky Notes Organize Themselves.Of course, plenty of people have tried similar things, including theAnotopen from Sweden, which we reported back in2000. (This also appeared as theLogitech IO Pen, which is now handled byDestiny Wireless.)Microsoft Research Cambridge has also played with the idea ofText-It-Notes, which (as I reported) "uses handwriting recognition so that a parent can scribble a message on a Post-It note and have it automatically sent via SMS to a mobile phone".It's an attractive idea, and I certainly thought so when I first saw the Anoto pen at Comdex. Whether it will ever become a commonly-used product is another matter. Somehow I doubt it.....
The web is 15 years old this week! Yay! To be precise, it was on April 30 1993 that Cern, which usually concerns itself with probing the nature of the universe by the usual means – giving electrons and positrons so much energy that they whizz round and round and collide with each other – published thedocumentation for building a world wide web.And this just in: spam is 30 years old this week. Damn! Since itsfirst incarnation was email, of course it pre-dates the web. (Though many people think "internet == web", as programmers would say.)The interesting thing about the web is the decisions that Tim Berners-Lee made back then. Because the use was for science, he didn't try to copyright or patent anything about it; to do so would be contrary to the ethos of science, where everyone builds on what everyone else has done. He let it be possible to see how an HTML page is put together, explicitly so that people could copy and improve on it.Consider how different things might have been: he (or Cern, his then employer) might have sought to patent big chunks of the method for communicating and laying out pages. He or Cern might have decided that the source of a page should be inaccessible except to those with the "proper" authority. In that case, each browser page would be something like an executable program that you'd download from the web. Courses in writing HTML would be fantastically expensive, and the preserve of a tiny priesthood.Wealth of websitesHowever, that's not what happened. Sure, we have to take the concomitant problems: phishing sites that look indistinguishable from the real thing because they've copied all the HTML and CSS and pull in the images from the original. But it also means we can build the wealth of sites we have. It might not be too much to say that in a closed-page-source world, Wikipedia wouldn't be possible, or would only be possible with a great deal more effort by its creators.And spam? The coincidence of the anniversaries is fascinating, because it demonstrates that venality is everywhere. The first spam message, an invitation (to everyone who then had an email address, it looks like) to a computer company's showing off of its goods, didn't gain its creator much traction. But from tiny acorns, huge acreages of Japanese knotweed grow - at least online. Spam now consumes more than 70% of email traffic and about 90% of blog comment traffic (according toAkismet).That's before one mentions all the zillions of spam blogs – splogs – out there, churning away endlessly. There's a strange circularity about it: the splogs watch for real blogs, and copy bits, and pull in Google ads on the basis of what they've copied. Computers watching computers, copying bits and serving them up for other computers, and then being indexed by more computers (the search engines).The intriguing question is why, given that spam had such a headstart, and that creating it is relatively easy, it hasn't completely overwhelmed the net? I know that there are some people for whom email spam is the bane of their lives: such asthis blogger in Kenya, who is annoyed that his basic quota of 30 emails per day ("You might be wondering which kind of business I do ... I'm neither a customer care representative nor a webmaster. The truth is, I do not know everybody who writes to me and do not need their mails") is frequently used up with offers to reclaim a huge fortune looted by a West African dictator. But he has at least taken the chance to investigate: "With some friends, we conducted our own investigation that took us to a West African country in 2006. I could not believe my eyes by seeing the 'yahoo boys' driving very expensive cars, going to expensive restaurants, [in] brief, living like princes. We also learnt from our sources that they sometimes kill people on their trail after realizing that they have lost money."(Somehow I think there's a big company which isn't going to like that 'yahoo boys' tag. But it's what they call them in Kenya.)Smart peopleThe answer, of course, is that spam is self-limiting. That doesn't mean that the amount is going to reduce. It's just that the multiple of the people who respond to spam and the amount of money they have is limited. Smart people like you and I don't respond to it. We get on and do more useful things. The spam falls into a void. And the people who don't respond to spam are more likely to hold onto their money and do useful things with it – perhaps building websites, funding useful sites, basically not encouraging the knotweed of venality to strangle what's there.Which is the key point. Japanese knotweed is a big problem, but Britain isn't covered with it. Weeds grow faster than flowers, yet we're not overrun with them; even in fields left alone, weeds don't dominate. If there's a message from this week's anniversaries, it is that while venality will always be with us, it doesn't have to triumph. After all, that first spam was from Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), which has since been subsumed twice (by Compaq, which was later eaten by HP). Spam didn't change DEC's destiny.Meanwhile, Berners-Lee's work is still there. Spam is older, and humans will always be venal; but there will always be more useful stuff than spam.
Blu-ray players were much less popular than HD DVD players in the US, but once HD DVD quit the market, it seemed likely that Blu-ray would benefit. It hasn't quite turned out that way, according to US market tracker NPD Group.The company says:Standalone Blu-ray player unit sales dropped 40% from January to February in the US and only saw a 2% increase from February to March, according to NPD's Retail Tracking Service. HD DVD player unit sales dropped 13% from January to February, but as production stopped and inventories dried up, sales spiraled down 65% from February to March. . "That standalone Blu-ray players haven't picked up significantly from HD DVD's loss shows that few consumers were dissuaded primarily by the 'format war'," said Ross Rubin, director of industry analysis, NPD. "When we surveyed consumers late last year, an overwhelming number of them said they weren't investing in a new next-generation player because their old DVD player worked well and next-generation players were too expensive. It's clear from retail sales that those consumer sentiments are still holding true."What are consumers buying instead? One answer is up-converting DVD players. Unit sales of those grew by 5% (comparing Q1 2008 with Q1 2007), while sales of ordinary DVD players fell by 39%.Upscaling DVD players can provide very good results at a much lower cost, and of course, there's loads of cheap content available.At the moment, the Blu-ray movie industry depends on sales of heavily-subsidised Sony PlayStation 3 games consoles, where users have a bundled Blu-ray drive whether they want one or not. And regardless of whether they will actually use it to play movies.Of course, new formats always take a while to get going. Are you planning to buy a Blu-ray player within the next year, in two years, five years, or never?
A couple of things today indicate that the path might be opening up for the anticipated release of a 3G iPhone later this year.First off, as our esteemed colleague Richard Wray reports, the decision by O2 and Carphone Warehouse to slash prices and dump their stock of first generation iPhonesseems to have paid off: they've sold out.Last month it slashed the price of the basic 8GB version of the iPhone - which can store roughly 2,000 songs - by £100 to £169 and the phone has since sold out. Carphone Warehouse has also sold out of the larger 16GB version of the phone, which costs £329, although O2 still has some stock left.Secondly, Ofcom today said that O2 hasfinally reached the minimum thresholdfor 3G coverage - 80% of the country. The network had been facing a potential swipe if it didn't reach that figure by the end of next month.It doesn't indicate anything concrete about a new iPhone, of course, but given the company's pretty lamentable 3G rollout in the past, it's more than likely that the Apple deal (which costs them a fair wedge) will have been somewhere in their thinking.We know Apple considers the European market with scant regard in comparison to its home territory, so perhaps this sequence of events means nothing. But Europe's demand for 3G is higher than the States - so there's probably a sizeable number of people on this side of the Atlantic waiting for iPhone mark 2.The real thing to wonder, mind you, is what level of suck the mobile companies think 3G currently rates. Just look at it:eight yearsafter spending £4bn on thechanceto punt at 3G, O2 has hardly even got itself in a position to take a kick.That's either an incredibly long-term bet that has a level of mastery I don't understand, or it's a bet that should be ashamed of itself.
Bank Holiday is here, and so is the rain by the looks of it. Anyone got any gaming plans? And anyone got any gaming plans that don't involve GTA? Stupid question probably. I plan to spend some time in Liberty City though my biggest "game" this weekend is Southampton vs Sheff Utd. And if Saints somehow stay up - heck, if they do the unthinkable and go down - I promise not to mention them on the gamesblog again until 2009. Anyway, Bank Holiday gaming - what are you planning?
There were further indications today that O2 is ramping up for the release of a relaunched Apple iPhone, with news that it has extended the reach of its 3G coverage.Media regulator Ofcom has confirmed that the network has finally completed the basic phase of its 3G rollout, a move that could increase its chances of offering a new, higher-speed iPhone later this year.Unlike most of the other mobile operators in Britain, which have had substantial 3G presences for several years, O2 has been slow to build its own high-speed network. Although it paid £4bn for a licence in 2000, it has lagged behind its competitors T-Mobile, 3, Orange and Vodafone in switching to 3G.Last year Ofcom demanded that all five licence holders should have coverage of at least 80% of the population by the end of 2007 – but O2 failed to reach that target and was threatened with sanctions if it did not succeed by the summer."O2 has now met its obligation to roll out its 3G services," said the regulator today. "This follows Ofcom's notice to O2 in February that it would shorten its licence by four months if it did not comply with its rollout obligation June 30."Since it won the exclusive contract to service the iPhone last year, O2  has been working to extend its Edge system – a lower-speed alternative to 3G preferred by Apple.However, last month the mobile phone network slashed the price of the basic iPhone model amid speculation that a new 3G version will be on the shelves before the end of the year. The basic iPhone models have sincesold out.O2 was not available for comment.
I'm finding Twitter very, very interesting - it's one of those tools which, once you tune in to it, seems to be the closest we humans can get to really rapid idea-sharing (and disagreeing, and so on). (I'mhere. Icon courtesy Simpsonize me. Realistic, eh?)So, what do you think are the best ways to follow what's happening on it? What tools do you use to make sense of what's going on?I'm usingTwitterrific(a Mac application). How about on Windows - what are the best tools there? Are there other Twitter Mac clients?For finding new people to follow, there'swhoshouldIfollow.For following threaded conversations, there'squotably. (Anexample.)What else, though? Let's hear what the best Twitter tools are. There's alist at mashable, but which are the *best*, and why?(Note: duck above is not official Twitter icon. But looks fun.)
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Cries of "Nice shot!" greet the satisfying ping of club against ball as Takashi Ochiai gets his round off to a perfect start. His opponents' magnanimity could be simple sportsmanship, but it's more likely to be the effects of the cold beers they are gulping as they track his ball to its resting place bang in the middle of the fairway.The greens at this Tokyo golf course are pristine, permanently bathed in sunshine and mercifully free of inept beginners failing, for the umpteenth time, to swipe their ball out of a bunker. If it sounds too good to be true, that's because it isn't.Links, one of several virtual golf courses to have appeared in Tokyo in recent months, is sating a growing appetite for communal gaming that owes much to the success of the group-friendly Nintendo Wii.Although Ochiai and his colleagues were brought here by their love of golf – not by an interest in video games – they owe their obvious enjoyment to a powerful piece of simulation software.The ball's journey is quickly cut short by a brightly lit screen; a virtual course that keeps a tally of shots played, the distance to the pin and the other vital statistics on which the gaming golfer depends.The software package calculates where the ball should come to rest depending on which part of the screen it strikes, and how fast it is traveling. Weekend golfers who require work on their swing beware: the software also knows a hideous slice or hook when it sees one.The system's maker, 3D, says it has sold 50 golf simulators – at about 6 million yen (£29,250) apiece – and reckons it will have shifted more than a hundred by the end of the year.Quick round"Most of our customers are groups of men who already play golf but have never been into video games," says Links' manager Atsushi Fujii. Most days the bar draws about 30 golfers, but on a busy evening more than double that number will come for a quick post-work round.Ochiai, jacket discarded and tie loosened, has never played virtual golf or any other virtual game, and admits he's having teething problems."It's totally different from the real thing, I'm not sure I'll ever get used to it. It might be better for younger people, who you hardly ever see on a real golf course."Those people include Tatsuya Yoshida, a 34-year-old film producer who is here with several friends."I play golf on Wii Sports, but to be honest, swinging a real club at a real ball is more fun than using a wireless controller. Once I get used to the difference in size I think I'll get to really like this."In a sense, places like Links are reconnecting Japan with its gaming roots. Just as the Space Invaders generation that frequented video arcades made way for solitary stay-at-home types, the mobility offered by the Nintendo DS and Sony PlayStation Portable consoles has convinced Japanese developers that the future will depend on accommodating the old-fashioned human interface.Monster HunterFew games drive home that message better than PSP's Monster Hunter Freedom 2G, which has sold 2 million copies in Japan since its launch a little over a month ago, making it the best-selling Japanese PSP game of all time.Since its launch, originally for the PlayStation 2 in 2004, the Monster Hunter series has racked up sales of 7.4 million, according to its creator Capcom.MH2G asks little more of its players than to track down and kill oversized monsters against fantastical backdrops.Like their virtual golfing counterparts, most prefer safety in numbers. In a recent survey by the gaming magazine Famitsu, almost 50% of MH2G gamers said they played the game with up to three friends; a mere 18% said they had never switched to multiplayer mode.Despite its popularity among Japanese teens, the title has so far failed to make an impact on gamers outside Japan."You could write a book about why Monster Hunter is a hit here but not overseas," said Jay Defibaugh, game software analyst at Credit Suisse in Tokyo. "Among Japanese junior high school boys, playing Monster Hunter is considered de rigueur. It resonates with them, whereas it may be too linear for the tastes of overseas gamers, who generally prefer something more open-ended."That message isn't lost on Capcom, which has yet to decide a MH2G launch date for Europe and the US, although the blogosphere is awash with rumours that it will be sometime in September."It will appear eventually," said Capcom spokeswoman Yoshiko Ikeda. "We just don't know when."Monster Hunter owes much of its success in Japan to players' ability to unite against a common enemy, requiring a level of cooperation that may have been its undoing among gamers in Britain and the US.Among friends"It's hard to pin down, but national character probably has something to do with it," said Kenichi Chiba of the gaming industry analyst Media Create. "Japanese people don't have a strong individualist streak. Games that are generally played alone are popular here, of course, but Monster Hunter is best enjoyed among friends."Significantly, the next title in the series, though originally earmarked for the PlayStation 3, will now be developed for the Wii following a surprise about-turn by Capcom last year. The new choice of platform may give the title the populist cachet it needs to repeat the successful transfer from Japan of other multiplayer-friendly titles such as Wii Sports and Mario Kart."In Japan, the key word in gaming will continue to be communication," Chiba said. "With games like Wii Sports and, on a slightly different scale, virtual golf, it makes absolutely no sense to play alone.""There will always be a place for software aimed at the solitary gamer, but I expect the market to make more room for titles that are meant to be enjoyed with family and friends."
What's your favourite piece of technology?A modified Xbox runningXbox Media Center.How has it improved your life?It has connected the video on the internet to the television in my living room.  There's a vast quantity of great television out there and this means that I don't miss a thing.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it at 6am this morning to entertain my early-rising six-month-old daughter while I made breakfast.What additional features would you add if you could?It would be great if it handled the TV networks' new on-demand services,  such as the BBC's iPlayer and Channel 4's 4oD.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I'd be disappointed if it wasn't superseded. Xbox Media Center is to video what the first MP3 player was to audio: the functionality is great, but it ain't no iPod.What one tip would you give to non-Media Center users?There are better ways to watch television than programmed television and DVD players.Do you consider yourself a Luddite or a nerd?That's something of a no-win question. I like to think of myself as the everyman, but I'm probably a nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Thirty PlayStation 3 development systems for work. ANixie clockfor home.Mac or PC?PC. I tried to switch recently, but there was too much PC knowledge to unlearn.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Aaron Neville's Tell It How It Is. My iPod gets connected to my car and there's a bug in its software that plays the iPod's first track each time I turn the engine on.Will robots rule the world?Not on my watch.What piece of technology would you most like to own?The hoverboard fromBack to the Future Part II.David Amor is the creative director ofRelentless Software, the makers of popular quiz game Buzz!
He is one of the most successful game designers in the world. Will Wright has transformed strikingly cerebral topics – town planning, architectural theory, ecology, ant farms – into videogames and, defying expectations, achieved enormous commercial success.For years it seemed Sim City would be his perennial albatross, until he created the Sims, which turned mundane suburban existence into a 100-million selling franchise. And now he's at work on Spore, which follows life from a single cell to a solar empire."I think I've always been interested in the idea of bringing subjects to people in interesting ways," he says. "Interesting subjects in interesting ways which aren't usually presented as being terribly interesting."For example, when he started studying urban dynamics, he found himself enthralled by a simply modelled simulator. "I had this little guinea pig city which I could do experiments on, which made the subject so much more interesting than reading a book. So the process of discovery, and getting other people to enjoy discovery has always been a part of it," says Wright.As time went on, he started to move into an area which he describes as "the abdication of authorship"."My focus started shifting more and more to players, and what they were doing," he says, "Because I found that fundamentally as interesting, or more interesting, than the actual games [was] parallel play. Sitting and looking at what someone else has done with the same game as you is fundamentally interesting to me."Parallel play has been enabled and expanded by ever-changing computer technology, especially ubiquitous networks. While a single-player game, Spore allows you to share all the creatures you've created, to populate other people's games seamlessly."When people tell me about playing a game and tell me what happened to them, then I hear how different their stories are," he says. "To me, that's an indicator of how good the game is.""If everybody has a very different story and a very different experience, then it's very personal and they were driving the story by playing the game. It's not a story that was being told to them in cut-scenes from the game designers' point of view."This ability for a designer to bring the player aboard is a key element that excites Wright."What I want to do is craft this landscape of experiences where the player has a huge degree of control over what they encounter," he says. "I think that's what games have as an advantage over any other form of media; that the player is half the author of the experience if the game is done well – or even more so. I think this is the first form of medium which has really achieved that and it allows us access to emotional regions that are inaccessible to linear narrative."There's more space to explore these areas due to the freedom offered by increasing computing power. "The simulations that we can run now are so much more elaborate than we could do back in the 8-bit computer days. The CPU power skyrocketed. I don't feel as if there are any meaningful technical limitations. It used to be a lot of my focus was on getting around these technical limitations, now the biggest limitation is more what we can imagine doing."He's taken a singular route through games that has reaped critical and economic victories. But between Sim City and The Sims was a clear decade of relatively unsuccessful games. Even with Wright's clear visionary quality, you wonder if he ever doubted whether his approach was the right one."I don't think there is a right one," he says. "In fact, with any art form, you want maximum diversity of people exploring the space. It's such a large pool of potential games, potential movies and potential pieces of art ...""What you really don't want is everyone crowded in the same little corner," he says. "So if anything, I felt more encouraged to avoid what other people are doing and keep to different areas. There's a vast space that we're not doing a very good job of exploring."
A sort oftopicalquestion this week - what was the weirdest, most ridiculously trippy game you ever played? Was it pretentious Spectrum classicDeus Ex Machina, with its free music and narration soundtrack, starring Jon Pertwee? Was it lewd photography sim, Gekibo? Or maybe Pa Rappa? Or LocoRoco? Or Revenge of the Mutant Camels?It can be a whole game, or just one bizarre psychedelic moment. It can be intentional or the result of hackneyed design. It just needs to be strange.
Mobile phone company O2 and high street retailer Carphone Warehouse have sold out of the basic version of Apple's iPhone and will not be restocking their shelves ahead of the launch of the new version of the device over the summer.There had been talk that O2, which has the exclusive rights to the iPhone in the UK, and Carphone Warehouse, its sole independent retail partner, would be left with thousands of unsold phones when Apple unveils the new version of the device later this year.But last month it slashed the price of the basic 8GB version of the iPhone - which can store roughly 2,000 songs - by &pound;100 to &pound;169 and the phone has since sold out. Carphone Warehouse has also sold out of the larger 16GB version of the phone, which costs &pound;329, although O2 still has some stock left.Apple is believed to have stopped making the basic version of the iPhone while it puts the finishing touches to a new 3G version, which could be shown at its Worldwide Developers' Conference in San Francisco in June.The speculation - which Apple has refused to comment on - is that there will be a basic version of the new-generation phone in the US for $399 (&pound;200) and a 16GB 3G iPhone for $499. But network partner AT&amp;T is expected to subsidise the phones, reducing the price by $200 and taking the basic 3G device down to $199 (&pound;100).O2's move to drop the price of its 8GB version of the current phone followed the decision of Apple's exclusive network partner in Germany, T-Mobile, to drop the cost of the same phone to just &euro;99 (&pound;80). According to reports in the French press, Apple has been pushing Orange, owned by France Telecom, to drop the price of the device in its home market, where Orange is the exclusive provider, to boost sales.Sales in the UK are believed to have outstripped those in Germany and France, with several hundred thousand sold since the iPhone went on sale in November.But iPhone sales in Europe have been nothing like as spectacular as in the US. Over the three months to the end of March, Apple shipped 1.7m iPhones. While that figure was helped by the launch of the device in Ireland and Austria, the bulk of sales were in the US. The company is still predicting that it will sell 10m by the end of this year.The 3G version of the phone is expected to sell better in Europe than the previous iPhone, which many users found slow to access the internet over a mobile phone network.
CSR, the British microchip designer, became a potential bid target yesterday after it admitted demand for its chips from major electronics companies had dropped and its shares plunged for the second time this year.The Cambridge-based company blamed growing economic uncertainty for the fall in business, saying it is causing manufacturers of consumer devices, that include its short-range Bluetooth wireless technology, to hold off making equipment. CSR's chips are found in devices such as mobile phones and headsets."Macro-economic issues are affecting demand for our customers' end products," said the chief executive, Joep van Beurden. "The economic climate and its impact on consumer sentiment is continuing to lead our customers to lower their inventory levels and shorten order times, particularly in the consumer electronics and headset segments."The company also wrote off the entire value of UbiNetics, the Cambridge business it bought only three years ago for &pound;27m, as it admitted that its hopes for the company have not come to fruition.CSR had hoped buying the business would allow it to bundle its technology into chips for mobile phones, giving it a larger slice of the overall market. But it admitted yesterday that integrating its technology with that of UbiNetics "is unlikely to happen due to the practical difficulties of integration and the differing timescales of product development".As a result the company recorded a first-quarter loss of $41.9m (&pound;21m) compared with a slight profit last year, while sales were up less than 1% at $160.9m.Shares in CSR plunged 71p, almost 18%, to 324p, valuing the business at &pound;430m. The shares were changing hands at over 900p in July but lost 24% in February after the company warned first-half revenues would be flat as a result of weak demand. Analysts said yesterday the share price plunge means the company has become an obvious bid target.
"I did games for 20 years and I really enjoyed it – it was good creating something and having people appreciate your work," says David Darling from his home in Warwickshire. "But I'm enjoying having a break."With his brother Richard, he founded Codemasters, one of Britain's most successful independent games publishers - and the inspiration for many tales about bedroom programmers. Their success was such that last week the duo wereawarded CBEsin the Queen's birthday honours.Some might say the recognition arrived a little too late: last year the Darling family sold its remaining stake in the company, making an estimated £80m in the process. These days David is enjoying his man of leisure status."I do different activities," he muses. "Rock climbing, a bit of Scuba diving, travelling. I'm renovating my house – that's quite a big project, so I'm managing that."Maybe, but it's still some distance from the bustle of running Codemasters. Over the years, the company was responsible for publishing hits including Dizzy, Brian Lara Cricket and the Colin McRae Rally series. He retains particular fondness for one game, however."When we made Micro Machines, I never realised quite how good it was," he says. "Andrew Graham, who was the lead programmer, was just amazing – a real perfectionist. I think the game is a masterpiece, which is something we didn't realise at the time."Given that the Darlings (like many of the young pioneers who emerged in the 1980s) grew up with the games industry, has anything about its continued progress surprised him?"I suppose it's generally where I thought it would end up," he says. "In the beginning, video games were new and people were comparing them to skateboards and hula hoops – asking if it was just a fad. We were adamant that it wasn't, because people have always been into games, whether it's physical games like football or mind games like chess. We thought that people like challenges and they are competitive, so we didn't think that humans were going to change."That gamble clearly paid off, but he still harbours a few regrets, for example not expanding the company to the point where it could directly challenge big players like Electronic Arts and Activision."We had the creative people, but we didn't bring in the financial people to make the business big," he says. "We were just interested in making games."What's next is still undecided. Will he remain a retired games publisher, or could he return to business? And if so, would he get back into games?"My grandfather used to design colour TVs, and he taught us how to build electronics. In fact, I was really into robots even before I was into games," he explains."I've been getting back into it, and doing a lot of reading into new developments in robotics. So if I start a new business, it would probably be in that area."
You may have seen some of the scare stories recently about the internet grinding to a halt in a few years thanks to our love of HD downloads and P2P copyright violation. Is this actually going to happen? How can it be stopped? And what does it all mean to us gamers?I sent some questions to Andrew Ferguson, editor ofThinkBroadbandwho deciphered the bewildering telecoms mess for me. He's also provided some tips for online gamers looking for the best broadband performance...What do you think about recent alarm regarding the internet's capacity to cope with increased demand? For example, theNemertes reportwhich suggests meltdown could happen in a couple of years...The debate needs to happen, though at its simplest level, as consumers use their connections more, we should expect to pay more. In the case of those on metered services - i.e. have a GB usage limit - this equation is obvious.The internet will cope so long as money is coming from somewhere to buy more capacity. Fibre backbones are in place around the UK that can have their speeds turned up easily, though hardware at each end may need upgrading as speeds step up.What currently, are the 'weak areas' in the telecomms pipeline from user to internet. I've heard about copper wire causing problems in the UK, are there other archaic elements of our infrastructure that are clogging things up?In terms of the current debate, defining the weak areas is difficult. A copper local loop doesn't care if you transfer 2GB per month or 2000GB, there is no pricing per GB over the actual copper segment and there is nocontentionat this level. The problems with the copper local loop arise with the time it takes to transfer the data, e.g. a PS3 game demo from Playstation Network that is 600MB in size will vary in download speed largely based on the speed of your ADSL or ADSL2+ connection.The cable networks (a la Virgin Media) will assert they are in a much better position, and as they roll outDocsis3.0 which will support 50Mbps connections they may well be. With the Virgin Media network it is a case of how much are they willing to spend on core network upgrades - obviously it is close to its limits otherwise why would it have its fair use policy in place on its products.A BIG NOTE: The Virgin Media network is only fibre based to within around 1000 feet of the home. The architecture is such that where the fibre ends they have kit to convert the signal to go over a metallic cable, and possibly a secondary street cabinet if the signal needs amplifying.The copper telephone network is capable of things like fibre closer to the home than it manages now, and some providers are in preliminary planning stages over this, which may see ADSL2+ speeds improving for people as the phone line becomes shorter.Will ADSL 2+ suppliers be as disadvantaged by ever increasing demand as ADSL?The backhaul issues and costs affect them both. One major difference is that ADSL2+ has so far been deployed viaunbundlingwhere the costs are lower and providers can utilise backhaul networks that are cheaper than BT. As demand increases, we may see these fill up, but for the same monthly fee an unbundled provider's connection should provide more usage than one via a BT Wholesale connection.We've heard that it'll cost billions to kit the UK out with fibre optic cabling - what can ISPs do in the meantime to ensure demand doesn't outstrip capacity? Is it all going to be about traffic throttling or are there more constructive solutions?Figures of £10 to £15 billion are mentioned, but the fibre here is about local loop - i.e. removing the speed limits we get from living too far from an exchange. The backhaul networks in the UK are already fibre based, and millions have been spent getting these in place. It is said that everyone is within one mile of a fibre link.Traffic shaping can be both good and bad. Some providers use it blindly and it is implemented poorly, others seem to do it better and are more open about its existence. For example, with BT Total they use traffic management on all customers to avoid major peak time issues - i.e. by splitting the traffic between application types. Some other providers use it to punish people who have used an above average amount of data in a time frame. Some like Virgin Media publish the limits, others like Tiscali do not.In terms of constructive things, providers need to be more open on the state of their network. A traffic light system to show that the network is congested (red), getting close to congestion (amber), or has plenty of spare capacity (green) should be easy for people to follow and could be used for different traffic types, e.g. gaming/streaming.It's often unclear to those on metered broadband access, how much gaming contributes to their monthly data usage. Are there any accurate figures around?Game playing varies but around 64Kbps to 128Kbps will cover most games including those with voice capability. Double this is your provider measures upstream bandwidth.I've become a PS3 and PSP user in the last few months, and the PS3 in particular with game demos from PlayStation Network has pushed up my usage: some demos are 2GB in size. This has cost me more now, as I've increased my package from a 20GB a month to 50GB. I expect to be averaging around 22-25GB a month now rather than 10-15GB, which sounds a lot but I work from home almost every day, listen to radio, play PS3 games online, download HD Video trailers and game demos and an almost constant usage of email/web shows.Are there any current Fibre-To-The-Home tests taking place in the UK at the moment?10,000 new homes inEbbsfleetare due to get FTTH this summer, for delivering internet, TV and telephone services. No copper local loop at all. Initially they are looking at a 10Mbps connections but with options of up to 100Mbps. How long the bursts will last is unknown.Hard to say what will happen in reality as contention is impossible to predict. Apparently, 100Mbps and 1Gbps connections in Japan are now running like a traffic jam [due to the massive use of P2P applications - seehere].I'd probably expect contention to get worse as speeds get ever faster - i.e. we may see small files burst to 100Mbps, but once a few MB are downloaded things will slow down. It's probably fair to expect a 10Mbps connection to sustain around 2Mbps for several hours, a 50Mbps somewhere around 8Mbps, and a 100Mbps connection maybe 20Mbps. Of course, a lot depends on what we are all doing with our connections and the price we will pay.The Virgin Media 50Mbps should be with us this summer also, but it looks like the traffic management will remain, and I commented on thishere.And what about 21CN?The big difference in the UK that 21CN will bring about is the network protocol for the backhaul from exchanges will change from ATM to IP - IP networks are generally considered cheaper to install and run. This does not mean people local to you will see you locally, your own internet traffic is tunneled through to your broadband provider.Do you have any tips for gamers looking for the best broadband connection?Wireless can be a problem for gaming as you can have a connection sometimes but it may be intermittent. Therefore, when locating your console and wireless router check the signal quality to avoid your own network introducing lag and jitter.An Ethernet connection is preferable as this will be faster, but can be difficult to install depending on layout of property. To avoid running cables you can use adLan 200 Aveasy Starter Kit[uses your household power grid to create a network] - I use these myself so know they work for linking your console from the games room to where the router is. Cheaper/slower homeplugs are available but I recommend these because they are fast enough to carry HD content from a media server across the network to the console. Also, people buying ADSL2+ and 20Mbps or faster cable products could benefit when downloading as it avoids the wireless slowing things down.In terms of an ISP to go for, Plusnet is the only major one that does a specificpriority product for gaming, but usage levels are low - a couple of PS3 demos in the month and usage is gone.Five things to look out for in an ISP:1. Go for an upstream connection speed of 448Kbps or faster (the VM cable products are OK, but if you trigger their management your upstream speed is a bit cramped for gaming). Some providers do a premium upstream at 832Kbps for £5 or £10 a month more, this means you can host games better, or if using in game speech or camera snapshots (Burnout Paradise) these are sent much faster.2. Consider the LLU providers, mainly Sky, UK Online, Be and O2 who offer a range of higher upstream speed services based around ADSL2+, which will provide those close enough to the exchange with higher speed downloads too.3. Research behind the adverts, see what other gamers are saying as this is the best way to judge an ISP. Surveys can become very out of date very quickly.4. Avoid the cheap unlimited deals as these often make heavy use of traffic shaping and it's generally done in a way that does not help gamers.5. Before blaming your provider for jitter and drop-outs in games do make sure that it is not the ADSL picking up interference and reconnecting while playing. Removing the ring wire is a free and easy way of generally improving ADSL and ADSL2+ lines. More infohere.
What is it about Sweden and indie games? Last week IinterviewedGothenburg-based coder, Jonatan Söderström, about his brilliant shooter, Ad Nauseam 2; now equally Swedish programmer Gustav Kilman has released the astonishingly hectic Fantastic Blood Boy, downloadable from theforumatIndependent Gaming Source. Gustav describes it thus:Blood Boy is an arena platformer where you have to fight enemies indirectly, using randomly generated items, while at the same time protecting 1 to 3 shifting objects from harm. FOCUS! It's a messy, messy game, and definitely not for everyone.It did my head in after a few minutes, but I love the game mechanic, which hints at archetypes like Missile Command, but with a Minter-esque sense of the surreal.By the way, if you're interested in indie gaming in general, I suggest you have a read of Juan Gril's feature,'The State of Indie Gaming'over at Gamasutra. Gril is a producer atJoju Gamesand knows his stuff about the scene and its slow quiet march into the mainstream courtesy of XBLA and PlayStation Network.
This is quite funny.There's morehere.And while I'm on the subject, you should readSimon Parkin's pieceon the depiction of immigration in GTA IV. Oh and CNN has anarticle on GTA IV vs Ironman. Apparently, even Robert Downey JR dressed in a tin can isn't going to tempt American gamers out of their gaming lairs. Let's face it who needs facile superhero brand extensions anymore, when you have Niko? I mean, isDowneygoing to steal a car while drunk and drive it through the window of a deli? Actually, it's probably best not to answer that.
It is not what you'd call an obvious career progression. In 1992, Ray Muzyka and Greg Zeschuk were practising medicine in Edmonton, Canada. Greg was a GP and Ray was an emergency room physician – and they were both keen gamers.Three years later, they decided to set up their own development studio."One day we were having lunch and I just said, 'hey wouldn't it be fun to make a game?' and Greg says, 'yeah, I know some guys who are good programmers, let's hire them'. The next day we incorporated a company, combined all our savings, maxed out our credit cards and launched into this… very interesting endeavour."The result was Bioware, now one of the top ten most important videogame studios in the world according toGame Developer magazine.Last year, the team released Mass Effect on Xbox 360, an epic space RPG considered - alongside the likes of Bioshock and Super Mario Galaxy - as one of the games of 2007. It is about to be released, in enhanced form, on PC.Oddly perhaps, Muzyka (pictured) is certain part of this success is down to the co-founders' experiences in medicine."When you're an emergency doctor you see a lot of stuff that's pretty hard; you have to learn how to deal with that. So when you run into a business crisis later in your life, it kind of puts that into perspective. It gives you a calm and reflective approach to problems and helps the people around you to see that there's always a solution. Because you know, when you see someone die in front of you as a doctor, there's no solution to that. That is the final outcome. It kind of grounds you for the rest of your life."Although many times more ambitious in scope than previous Bioware titles such as Baldur's Gate and Neverwinter Nights, it covers familiar ground for the developer - a role-playing game filled with rounded characters and engrossing human stories. Importantly, life is not cheap in Bioware's games: every loss is felt. It feels like this emphasis on humanity, too, is something that could come from Muzyka's time in ER."I think you're right. We try to approach things in a thoughtful way. Characters have to be realistic and credible, with their own personalities and psychology. I mean in real life, you know right away if someone's credible or not. If you make a credible character in a game then they'll stay out of that Uncanny Valley. And that's somewhere we're innovating. With our use of digital actors - we want to create characters that you want to spend time with."Bioware are deadly serious about characterisation - Muzyka refers to the cast of Mass Effect as digital actors, because that's essentially what they are: their minutely detailed facial expressions carefully mapped to every nuance of dialogue.The team developed a tool they named "Bio-RPG" - a sort of acting system that sat above the graphics engine controlling character movement and body language. They even hired an acting coach to come in and go through the fundamentals of portraying emotion to the programmers and artists. And again, Muzyka's medical experience proved handy."One of the things I learned as a doctor is how important the eyes are for our ability to read people. You're looking into somebody's eyes typically, when you're talking to them, so the eyes have to be right, they have to have that double reflectivity layer, the surface underneath."Last year, however, the developer's interest in portraying the true emotional lives of its characters got it into one of the most depressing videogame scandals of recent times. A Fox News report on Mass Effects's brief, rather prim love scenes (accessible only after developing relationships with key characters), accused the game of providing full-frontal nudity and interactive sex - neither of which are actually possible.It was a poorly researched hatchet job playing on the muddled fears of an older, technologically uncertain generation."More than anything, it was hurtful to the team," says Muzyka. "We're talking about games as art, we're portraying mature relationships with characters you feel a connection to. I mean that's a good thing, isn't it? And to hear these blatantly untrue allegations from people who haven't even played the game… yeah, it was hurtful."What we decided was that we'd let the community respond for us. Millions of people are passionate about the game, we let them comment."Muzyka sees Mass Effect and games like it as the future of narrative entertainment. He is a big fan of Bioshock and Call of Duty 4, both of which deliver an emotional kick - he talks of moments in the latter where he had to put the controller down and walk away for a few minutes; considering his experiences, that is a profound compliment to the writing and emotional visualization of the games.But this is just the beginning."I think games will be the dominant art form in five or maybe 10 years," he says. "I'm not diminishing other art forms, but games are becoming more relevant to young people. Games can make you feel genuine emotion. The most important thing for our studio is our vision of emotion."
Chart-Track estimates that GTA IV's first day sales in the UK were 609,000 units, which beats the record 501,000 sold by GTA: San Andreas in 2004. The title also set a new Xbox 360 record with 335,000 units, beating Halo 3's 266,000.So, just over half the copies of GTA IV were bought by Xbox owners, but the PlayStation 3 clocked up a very impressive 274,000.The numbers are fromgamesindustry.biz, which says: "These initial figures may change once Chart-Track has analysed the data in its entirety on May 6 following the UK Bank holiday."
Gizmodo hasgot its hands on a Psystar machine- you know, theMac clone people(delivered from their order, one takes it) and run it through some benchmarks, which suggest that the CPU runs at the same speed as a CPU of the same speed in a Mac (are we surprised? No) but that a better video card gives better performace. (Again, surprised? No.)The point of course being that the Psystar machine is a fair bit cheaper for that better video performance.And, it seems, a lot louder. I said, LOUDER. The fans don't link to the sensors on the processor and surround, it seems. Or as Gizmodo notes,It's LOUD. Crazy loud. OS X doesn't seem to interface with the fan controller, so it runs at full tilt all the time. It doesn't really come across on the video, but it's loud enough so that it's hard to talk on the phone when the machine is running. There's no way we could deal with this thing on a daily basis.One thing that seems odd is thatThe included copy of Leopard was out of the shrinkwrap, but there's no way to install it -- it shows up in Startup Disk but it won't restart, and it's not recognized at boot.Which could be a problem if your hard drive goes south. How you gonna reinstall your OS? How will you restore from a backup if you can't boot from a CD? Can you boot from an external mirror disk?The comments are interesting too,suchasThe OS has nothing to do with fan speed control (in the BIOS based systems at least), nor should they, because the BIOS is perfectly capable of monitoring temps and controlling fan speeds. Its obvious that Psystar didnt do any modifications to the system, literally dropped in all the parts like any of your corner stores, and loaded a disk image onto your hard drive. That noise could be solved by enabling a simple QFan setting on the MB. or... They could have cut sound output by 80% just by using a Scythe Ninja, along with some low rpm fans, which would have added about 50 bucks to the cost of this system.Find your own favourites, or browse theSystem Profiler file(note: SPX Zip format, whatever that is - video?).Now we come to the dog that hasn't barked in this long dark night of the soul: Apple. Is it going to sue Psystar for breaking the EULA on Leopard by installing it on non-Apple hardware? Or is that an empty threat - in which case, might Dell start doing the same, for example? (Someone post the idea onIdeastorm, quick. Oh,someone already has....)
Early indications are that the Xbox 360 version of GTA IV is outselling the PS3 in the UK.ELSPAare reporting that 335,000 copies were sold on day one for the Xbox, compared to 274,000 for the PS3. Good news for Microsoft then, although considering the installed bases and the fact that the previous largest day one seller on PS3 was GT5: Prologue - approx 80k - you can spin this as decent news for Sony too. And obviously long term sales are what ultimately matters. What isn't in doubt is GTA IV's sales record. Its combined day one sale of 609,000 has easily beaten the previous record holder - GTA: San Andreas (PS2) - which sold 501,000 on the 29th Oct 2004. And just in case you're wondering what the fuss is all about my GTA IVreview is here. I played it on the 360 rather than PS3 - primarily due to review code but achievements and future downloadable content played a part - but anyone here playing on both formats? If so, notice any real differences?
If you've watched the AirJelly video in today's YouChoose (below), you may want to know more. (Well, I did.) Festo hasinformation in Germanon its Web site, and there's a brochure in English (PDF). This says:AirJelly consists of a helium-filled ballonett with a diameter of 1.35 meters. This yields a filling volume of 1.3 cubic meters of helium. Since one cubic meter of helium provides buoyancy to lift approximately one kilogram, the total weight of AirJelly, comprising its ballonett and all ancillary components, must amount to no more than 1.3 kilograms.AirJelly houses two lithium-ion polymer accumulator batteries rated at 8 V and 400 mA, which can be completely charged in half an hour and are AirJelly's sole source of power. A connected central electric drive unit transmits the force to a bevel gear wheel and then to eight spur gears in sequence. These gears power eight shafts, each of which activates a crank; these in turn move the jellyfish's eight tentacles. Each tentacle is designed as a structure with Fin Ray Effect® - a construction derived from the functional anatomy of a fish's fin.There's more coverage and links at theAirshipworldblog.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft appears to have leaked the idea of a higher offer for Yahoo via The Wall Street Journal, but there are heavy hints that the company is prepared to walk on the deal. TheWSJ storysays:Microsoft this week indicated a willingness to raise its bid to as much as $33 per Yahoo share, attempting to avoid the hostile takeover battle Mr Ballmer had threatened, according to people with knowledge of the situation. Mr Ballmer and Microsoft advisers lobbied Yahoo shareholders to bring pressure on its board to do a deal. Yet Mr Ballmer in recent days has also appeared ready to walk away from Microsoft's offer altogether, say people familiar with the matter, as Yahoo and some of its shareholders seek significantly more money.The story adds:The success of a Yahoo test to carry search advertising from Google Inc has played a key role in emboldening some at Yahoo in their continued resistance to Microsoft's overtures. Pending developments this week in the Microsoft standoff, a broader pact along those lines could possibly be reached within the next week, say people familiar with the matter.Of perhaps even greater significance is what it signals: that Yahoo's bosses would rather commit commercial suicide than get taken over by Microsoft. (In the short term, Yahoo can make a buck quicker by giving Google control of its finances, but in the long term, it has to do exactly what Google wants.)Microsoft's offer is currently worth about $29 a share, but shareholders are said to want $35 to $37, and Yahoo's board even more. Yahoo is actually worth around $19, and in my view, heading downwards. It's not unusual for a semi-hostile takeover to mean that a company fetches more than it's worth on the open market, but whether this particular deal would do much for either company is open to doubt.My advice to Ballmer is:walk away now!Withdraw the offer and do something useful for six months. If you still want Yahoo then, it will be available for less than it is today.
Asus officially launches the EeePC 900 in the UK today, in several colours, including pink, blue and black. To mark the event, Asus is running an online"spin the wheel" competitionwith a first prize of an Eee PC 700 running Windows, preloaded with Windows Live.There's also a promotion with the film, The Ugly Duckling and Me (on DVD from June 16). Asus says that on the Tottenham Court Road, London, today (May 1) there will be "a huge EeePC mascot and two larger-than-life lead characters fromThe Ugly Duckling and Me, Ratso and Ugly -- a fantastic photo opportunity for any snappers in the area."To enter the May 1st competition, take a picture with the EeePC man and send to eeepc@asus-uk.com for your chance to win the DVD and other fantastic ASUS products as prizes.Any citizen journalists in the area are welcome to report back, as is anyone who manages to buy a PC 900. I'm assuming that there must be some for sale....
Another peril can be added to the hazards of the innocent-looking computer keyboard. Not content with encouraging repetitive strain injury, the type-pads sometimes harbour more filth than the average loo seat and house millions of bacteria which can cause diarrhoea and vomiting, a study has shown.A microbiologist carrying out research published today for Which? Computing magazine examined samples from 33 keyboards and found a variety of bugs including E coli and S aureus, which can cause skin infections and make people ill.The scientist swabbed a loo seat and a toilet door handle in a typical London office for comparison. One of the keyboards in the experiment had to be removed from the office because it was five times dirtier than the lavatory seat and home to 150 times the acceptable limit of bacteria."[It] was increasing the risk of its user becoming ill," said the microbiologist, James Francis. "I haven't seen a reading like that in a very long time - it was off the scale."Two more of the keyboards had "warning levels" of bacteria, while a further two showed high levels of coliform bacteria, which are associated with fecal matter.The research showed that the chief culprit for contamination was people eating at their desks and dropping crumbs which lodge between keys and encourage the growth of millions of bacteria.Other causes included poor personal hygiene, particularly people failing to wash their hands after using the toilet. Dust, which traps moisture, also provides ideal conditions for the growth of bacteria."These results are generally typical of offices up and down the country," said Francis.Sarah Kidner, the editor of Which? Computing, said: "Most people don't give much thought to the grime that builds up on their PC, but if you don't clean your computer, you might as well eat your lunch off the toilet."Why not give your PC a spring clean? It's quite simple to do and could prevent your computer from becoming a health hazard."The survey, in which more 4,000 people were questioned, found that 22% cleaned their keyboard and 27% their monitor on a monthly basis. Just over one in 10 said they never cleaned their keyboard, while 20% said they never cleaned their mouse.The magazine also warned that headphones can ferry germs between people and transfer headlice.Which? Computing recommends that computers be shut down and unplugged before being gently dusted with a soft, lint-free cloth and wiped with an approved computer cleaning fluid.A vacuum cleaner can be used to clean vents, but contrary to internet myth, keyboards should not be put in the dishwasher, the magazine said.
I'm sorry, Dave, I can't open that fileAn Apple "concept" film from 1987, with a bowtied virtual butler and fold-out computer. Instead of this, we got Clippy and Bob, and have to update Facebook ourselves. (Then again, imagine the chaos if you had these in open-plan offices. Maybe they tried him using a mouse and doing it himself and found it too boring - where's the interaction?) Hey, though - is it a Kindle?Soon to be a scary filmThese are airborne robot jellyfish - a phrase which is just crying out for the words "Attack Of The" or "Killer". Without the relaxing music, we'd feel worried about their exact intentions.A screen made of glass - so?See if you can figure out how this is done: a screen that appears to be transparent. There's a brief clue near the end.Got a favourite technology or games video? (Or figured out the glass screen without asking the web?) Tell us in the comments!
Are you suggesting that Outlook Express users should now switch to Windows Live Mail, as Microsoft recommends? What would I gain and lose?Ian BradfordPeople who use Hotmail should now switch to Windows Live Hotmail and, ideally, download the Windows Live Mail desktop client software (get.live.com/wlmail/overview). Windows Live Hotmail is free but supported by adverts, like Gmail. The immediate benefits are 5GB of storage plus 90 days between logins instead of 30 days.When you set up WLMd, it will auto-configure your existing accounts (POP3 and IMAP) and pick up email from Outlook Express. It will also collect your Live Hotmail, thus providing a vitally important offline backup. You can see and manage multiple accounts down the left-hand pane, and have each set of folders in a different colour.WLMd's two-way synchronisation with Live Hotmail works very well. You can read and sort your mail into folders offline, and when you go to Live Hotmail in a browser, you'll find the changes have been made to your web-based email. WLMd also has better spam blocking -- you can block whole countries and all mail in unwanted character sets (Arabic, Chinese, Cyrillic etc) -- plus a phishing filter. It has decent search (right-click and select Find). It can handle RSS feeds as well as Usenet newsgroups, and it integrates with other Live services such as Messenger, Spaces (blogs) and Photo Gallery. As with Outlook Express, you can still drag or copy one or more emails (.eml files) to the desktop or to a folder, which is handy for instant backups, etc. It still doesn't offer threading. Otherwise, if anything important has gone missing compared with the 2001-vintage Outlook Express 6, I have yet to notice it.The major omission is that WLMd does not support multiple identities, but correctly, different users should log on with different user accounts.WLMd has a Vista-style look and feel and is the obvious option for Vista users.People who don't use Hotmail -- or don't want access to free Live Hotmail offline -- can still use any mail client they like, including Thunderbird and Outlook Express.Note: The sentences in italics were cut from the print version, which is often necessary to fit the space. Not a problem for a blog, of course!
The Adobe Flash player appears to leave .sol files on my PC. What are they?Tim StillwellThey're SharedObject Local files that Adobe Flash uses to store data on your hard drive. This can include settings and video or game data. SeeAdobe supportfor an explanation of how they can be created. Flash can store up to 100K per site without asking for permission. However, you can control it. Right-click on any Flash object, such as a YouTube video, and select Settings. The Local Storage section provides a slider so you can choose how much the site can take, from none to unlimited, and see how much space it's using.
In an earlier answer about broadband speeds (March 20), there was no mention of contention ratios. I can get download speeds of 8Mbps from BT; however, at busy times this drops to less than 2Mbps. My assumption is that there is insufficient capacity at the exchange to meet the demand from a number of users simultaneously.Derek WatersThe broadband capacity at the telephone exchange is shared between many different users, on the assumption that they won't all want to use it at once. Usually there are 50 home users per stream, or 20 business users, with the business users paying the extra cost. The contention ratios are therefore 50:1 and 20:1.However, while you might be on a congested exchange, I don't think it's contention in this case. In the evenings, BT and some other ISPs use traffic-shaping, or throttling techniques to limit bandwidth so that everybody gets a share. I expect your 2Mbps is a consistent rate and that your connection goes back to 8Mbps instantly at midnight, or whenever the ISP turns traffic-shaping off.The problem is that a relatively small number of peer-to-peer file-sharers are using the majority of the communal bandwidth. It's a bit like leaving your taps turned on all the time, except P2P software adds lots of extra taps. Some people now want to change the net's so-called fairness algorithm to stop file-sharers taking more than their share. SeeFlow Rate Fairness: Dismantling a Religion, written by a BT researcher.
Spyware Terminator says it has identified Key Thief but unfortunately it doesn't remove this threat despite saying that it has done so. I have run Spybot S&amp;D, AVG AntiSpyware, Ad-Aware and Spyware Doctor and none of these has identified Key Thief.Tony ThomsonKey Thief is a keylogger but you can download it from idigitaltech.com as a legitimate security program, so some programs may choose not to identify it as malware. It's a grey area. However, you can look for Key Thief by searching for files such as startkey.exe, keyserv.exe, skey.exe, srvcks.exe, ikeyhk2.dll and keythf2.ini, and for the name, Idigital Technologies, preferably in Safe Mode. If you can't find anything on the hard drive and Runsrvcks isn't in the registry, it could be a "false positive". You could try asking other users about Key Thief atforum.spywareterminator.com, or run 2Spyware's automatedremoval tool. You could also try installing the trial version of Key Thief yourself, then uninstall it. Usually, most programs can tell if they're already installed.
I am trying to install Linux on some oldish (3-5 years old) home-built PCs that run Windows fine. There are huge hardware incompatibility issues. I have tried about five distros. Ubuntu Edgy will install on one machine, but Gutsy will not, though it runs fine from a live CD. Knoppix runs on another machine, but only on that one. PC Linux won't work on any of them. Have you any suggestions for a Linux version that will be hardware-tolerant without me having to turn into a Unixhead?H JohnsonThe first two I'd have suggested were Ubuntu and Knoppix, which are generally reckoned to have very good hardware detection. With those not working, I'd try Mandriva.
You don't have to look too hard on guardian.co.uk this week to see that we've gone computer games mad. In part, it's the release of Grand Theft Auto IV that has inspired so much games coverage, but ironically there's not much about GTA this week. With so much attention on one title, we figured it was only appropriate to profile the entire industry and give the rest of the players a say.And so, we started out our Games Week coverage with a few opinionated words from gaming luminaries: Richard Bartle, commonly considered one of the fathers of the Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game genre; Peter Molyneux, inventor of the God Game genre; and Nolan Bushnell, the man who started it all with a little arcade classic called Pong.Later in the week, we asked Kieron Gillen, seasoned games journalist and one of the progenitors of the New Games Journalism movement, to track down Will Wright, a man who's invented almost as many species as God. Wright translated our basic social human nature into the most successful entertainment franchise of all this: The Sims, and with that simple premise, he cracked it. Technology correspondent Bobbie Johnson produced a massive feature on the series, documenting its digital conception and following it to the phenomenon it is today. And then there's the series of profiles on British gaming legends like David and Richard Darling, the longest-running British game publishers, and Philip and Andrew Oliver, who gave the world Dizzy in the late 1980s and are one of the largest games developers in the UK.But we didn't want Games Week to read like an OK! magazine supplement of who's who in the interactive industry. No, we were also interested in pulling apart the nuts and bolts of the industry itself, starting with its darkest hour.Three years ago, a forum poster known as ea_spouse documented the 100+ hour working week of the professionals who create our entertainment. After a flurry of activity and debate at conferences, the furore petered out and gaming hacks were distracted by other things. But has the ea_spouse incident managed to change anything? A crack team of hard-bitten games journos investigated the murky waters of working conditions and discovered that not much has changed. Even though the games market plays money games with the big boys, the people who make the products that land on the shelves are still the worst paid and the least well-represented across the media industries.So what do these professionals actually do behind the closed doors of their studios? Regular Guardian contributor Steve Boxer snuck into the conference room of Sony London, one of the most innovative studios in the world, to document the processes behind the development of such varied series as SingStar, the karaoke phenomenon, and Driver, a gritty racer. And my fellow gamesblogger, Keith Stuart, interviewed MMO developers BioWare to find out what it takes to entertain millions of players.We also went indie wild: discovering the secrets of making successful games on a shoestring. Ian Bogost, a leader in the newsgaming movement and one of its successful independent developers, gave us the insider's view on how to create games that take news stories as their kernel of inspiration and distribute them to a mass market. John Kirriemuir took this idea a step further and looked at how the UK's education system is integrating games into its lessons.All this talking to people who make it happen inspired us to get in on the act ourselves. We launched Spaceship - the Guardian's very own game development project - to offer readers the chance to build a concept into an interactive game released to the masses. You can find out more about that on the gamesblog and can play developer attextadventure.org.uk. Plus we announced GameCamp08, the UK's first games-oriented un-conference, taking place at 3Rooms in London on Saturday. The ticketed event - which sold out in an hour - brings some of the brightest developers from around the country together with their players, and the many media folks who are keen to find out what's coming up from the innovative incubators of the industry. Plus there's the game-y Tech Weekly podcast, a worldview with the latest from Japan and some future-think about the online games to watch.If you're left wanting for games-related stuff after all this, there's even more littered across the Guardian network. So put down your controllers and pick up your browsers. You think you know games? You don't know jack. Dive in and read all about it.
An interesting fact about the new generation of websites - from YouTube to Facebook - is they were all created by small startups. The big boys - such as Google, Yahoo and Microsoft - were either too slow to see what was happening or unable to respond anyway. Which raises the question of how vulnerable dotcom giants themselves are. We may soon know. This week sees the launch, initially in the US and Canada, of an eBay "killer" named Wigix.com which is unashamedly aiming at the solar plexus of the most successful online auction site in the world. The trouble is, it is extremely difficult to shift an incumbent with a dominant market share. Ask Microsoft.If anyone is going to have a swipe at eBay, now is maybe the time as it has had to face a barrage of criticism from an admittedly small number of users for raising its fees and other changes. A global boycott has been planned for today. EBay does have competitors, though they tend to be confined to niche markets, such as bid4abook.co.uk for rare books, or condemned to pick up the bits that fall off eBay's table, such as onlineauction.com.In the UK its nearest - though distant - rivals include cqout.com and ebid.net, an interesting site that has been going for 10 years and is now expanding abroad. It claims, like onlineauction, to have had a boost from eBay's recent travails. The other long-standing UK site, qxl.com, has been the subject of a bit of an auction itself as it was taken over by Tradus, which was then bought by MIH internet and is now more of an overseas company controlled from South Africa.What chance have newbies in an industry where the winner takes all? The team behind wigix, led by James Chong, has vast experience, having set up the Charles Schwab internet share-trading system. One innovation is taken directly from share trading: instead of an eBay auction, a seller simply lays down a selling or "offer" price (together with specifications) while potential buyers state the price they would buy at (the "bid"). The computer then hooks them up with each other.To compete with eBay, wigix is doing something imaginative and maybe foolhardy. It is inviting anyone to put up products (even if they are not selling them) or just product categories not on its database, and in return they get 1% of the transactional profits from those products as long as they stay an active user. This could create a flood of freeloaders simply searching for unlisted products - but wigix won't worry if they scale up its activities. The site will also rate sellers according to searchable information about where they live and their PayPal status etc so that newbie sellers are not put off by not having a record of highly rated transactions, as eBay sellers have.Chong says he wants the site to be a real community. The catalogue will be Wikipedia-style, which people can add to and subtract from. If buyers can't make the flash work on a camera then they can contact the previous buyer or the community for a solution. Chong added: "The user experience of eBay hasn't changed for 10 years. It has deteriorated. It has all the characteristics of a market with a dominant player and is ripe for innovation."I did a pre-launch test by putting up a book with the price plus other details including a photo (compulsory), and I also put a phone on my watch list. It will email me when one arrives in my price range. This was before I realised that it is initially confined to the US and Canada. I don't know whether wigix will be successful or, if it is, whether it will merely trigger a radical response from eBay. But it is unequivocally good news that companies are emerging to take on the dotcom dinosaurs. If wigix even partially succeeds, it will show others what can be done. Will Google, Yahoo and Microsoft be the next targets?vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Darker side of mappingIn theory this opens the door to all sort of eugenicists' wet dreams (Mapping the individual - cheaply, April 24). Using the results to prevent children being born with certain congenital conditions is the benign possibility, but the darker possibilities are to breed out characteristics deemed unwanted or try to encourage other characteristics. While I don't think we are going to produce a government that wants to do that, I wouldn't have  confidence in all the governments of the world.skuds.orgWii are unfitI gave it [Wii Fit] an initial spin last night, although I would recommend not trying it with a stomach full of beer and pizza (Game reviews, April 24).thenunchuk.wordpress.comClouds from both sidesNowhere is it mentioned that an essential prerequisite for creating huge server farms to keep the clouds afloat is free software. (You need to have your head in the cloud to have any sort of future online, April 24). Just as the open-source Lamp stack created the current wave of web 2.0 companies, so free software will run the magic machinery keeping clouds aloft.opendotdotdot.blogspot.comFree data, more jobsThere are an infinite number of innovative uses for our data that are just waiting to be built, but they will only be realised if the data is made free and open ( Registering interest in re-use of data, April 24). These ideas will create new businesses, new jobs and therefore boost our economy.pyrosoft.co.uk/blogI suspect that this [using Met Office data] only seems plausible to people with a very limited knowledge of numerical weather prediction and data assimilation. For if, as the article seems to suppose, generating a forecast is simply a case of having the right set of starting observations, why then do governments and organisations around the world spend quite so much on supercompting resources?sawyl.livejournal.comFuzzy pictureWe had a real lift with the news that the Guardian newspaper had run an article on us and that it was complimentary (Soon we'll all have a CCTV in our pockets, April 24). Calls to get people to pick up copies were followed by the realisation that we had a critical bug with the main subject of the article - our live mobile phone video integration. As we like to say round here ... something from the "bad news department".worldtv.com/blogEarth to GoogleAll Google Earth shows of our house and street is  the view of about six or so years ago - different garden layout, different colour car on a drive that was remodelled five years ago (Our house, in the middle of Google's street, April 10). If it doesn't give current satellite shots of reality, what is the point of Google Earth? (PS: I'd like to ask myself but it is notoriously clever at hiding its "Contact us" details.)George Hastings,ManchesterGreen and pleasant FMI have been considering replacing my portable FM/LW radio with a DAB one and I have been reading the reviews. All makes seem to have one thing in common. The batteries in my analogue radio last for months. All the DAB reviews for portables refer to batteries lasting not months, not weeks, not even days but just a few hours. Not only does this make the running costs of DAB portables much higher, but think what that implies for mains-powered DAB radio sets too. They must also be making significantly bigger demands on electricity supplies. I think I'll stick to an FM/LW portable on economics and portability grounds, never mind being green. Apparently FM is higher quality anyway.David Greenwood,Cobham, Surrey&#183;Read all this week's letters and blogs in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology&#183;Write to: Letters TechnologyGuardian, 119 Farringdon Road. London. EC1R 3ER. Telephone: 020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933. Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
If there's a primary school-aged child in your family, you've probably heard of the Club Penguin social networking site. You've probably also discovered that, while the basic site is free, the cool stuff costs &pound;37.95 a year. Don't tell my daughter, but the Cross household is about to cave in: &pound;37.95 doesn't seem an unreasonable price for encouraging her to stay in a safe corner of webland.For many families, of course, spending &pound;40 is no casual decision. So if you're poor, the web is a slightly less safe place. That's if you're on it at all: of the 17 million Britons bypassed by eBay, Facebook, iPlayer and the rest of web culture, half are in social groups D and E.Digital exclusion is a familiar problem. Gordon Brown is the first prime minister to think that the job of doing something about it is worth a Cabinet minister's time. This week, the minister appointed to that job, Paul Murphy, who is also the Welsh secretary, made his first public statement of how he plans to go about it. He sees the job as one of banging heads together, he told the annual UK Online Centres digital inclusion conference on Tuesday, but he was upbeat about the challenge.A digital inclusion Cabinet committee, which met for the first time last week was "a nice committee", he said, with everyone keen to do their bit. "All the options open to us were good ones." We shall see. While talking about digital inclusion is heartwarming stuff, making it happen isn't about playing Santa Claus.For a start, the percentage of excluded individuals has remained stubbornly around the one-third mark. There are clear overlaps between digital and other forms of exclusion. The age gap remains as stubborn as ever, despite predictions that the web would quickly become a medium for oldies. While the very fact of having children doubles the chance that you'll have internet access, research shows that poorer parents are much less likely than rich ones to use their kids' web access. This suggests that cracking the problem is going to be more complex than chucking a bit of money at providing access through public libraries and UK online centres (welcome as that would be).Historically, initiatives have been split between three separate government departments: education, local government and culture. While all three share the ambition of ending digital inclusion, Murphy may need all the diplomatic skills he gained as secretary of state for Northern Ireland when it comes to agreeing priorities and budgets.A fourth stakeholder may prove even more troublesome to bring on board. At Tuesday's conference, it was striking how many questions dealt with the problem of broadband access as soon as you get outside wealthy metropolitan areas, and attacked the government's market-led approach. Faster broadband is vital both for extending the use of IT-based social services - telecare, for example - and, perhaps even more important, nurturing new communities of digital content creators among groups who today turn their nose up at things digital.Kevin Carey, of the e-inclusion charity humanITy, spoke scathingly of market failure: the argument that it is in telecoms companies' interests to invest in connecting poor people rather than upgrading services to rich ones is "bogus", he said.And that sums up the biggest problem faced by any government programme to promote digital inclusion. People talk as if we are aiming for a fixed bar. In real life it's a moving target, and paid-up Club Penguin members seem to be moving at a faster pace than those who can't afford the ticket.
Yes, in businesses and on what Microsoft calls "ultra low cost PCs" such as the Asus Eee PC, but probably not otherwise. Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer, visiting Belgium, prompted another round of speculation last week by quipping that XP could be given a stay of execution beyond June 30. "XP will hit an end-of-life," he said. "We have announced one. If customer feedback varies, we can always wake up smarter, but right now we have a plan for end-of-life for new XP shipments."Still, there are a couple of areas where XP will live on for a few years. The first is on ULCPCs, which are part of Microsoft's Unlimited Potential programme (microsoft.com/unlimitedpotential/ULPC.mspx). Its aim is to make computing "relevant, accessible, and affordable to a broader range of economic segments," particularly in the developing world.Microsoft has already invested in making XP easier to install and run on small Flash memory-based computers, and the idea was that these less attractive systems would have no impact on sales of Vista. Well, who'd want XP after Vista came out?Actually, Microsoft knew one answer to that, too. Businesses are very slow to change their computing systems, partly because of the time and cost of testing all their in-house software. They also like to have a fixed drive image on all their machines, instead of upgrading piecemeal as they buy new PCs.This isn't usually a problem. Companies on Microsoft's Software Assurance scheme pay their subscription and nobody cares whether they install XP, Vista or DOS 3.3. However, PC manufacturers such as Dell and HP are now exploiting this backwards compatibility feature to ship Vista PCs pre-downgraded to Windows XP."Downgrade rights" only apply to business systems, Vista Business and Ultimate, so this may not help consumers. Vista Business does not have the multimedia features consumers expect, and the Ultimate kitchen-sink version is absurdly expensive. It's hard to justify paying top whack for Vista if you just want the old XP. There are also dangers. Today's PCs are increasingly designed for Vista, and a growing number of new parts will have Vista drivers but no XP drivers. There's no guarantee that XP will be able to make full use of a Vista machine, and that risk will grow.So far, Vista's quality has been dimmed by a shortage of drivers, by rank bad drivers, and by crapware-infested installations from companies such as Sony (tinyurl.com/5u4ov2). Things have improved a lot, albeit far too slowly, but once XP has gone, the hope is that Vista's superiority will pull through.At least Vista shouldn't require the 18-month slog Microsoft devoted to producing the Service Pack 2 needed to rescue the horribly insecure Windows XP.
I'm sorry, Dave, I can't open thatAn Apple "concept" film from 1987, with a bowtied virtual butler and fold-out computer. Instead, we got Clippy and Bob, and have to update Facebook ourselves. Damn. Hey - is it a Kindle?tinyurl.com/4ks7toSoon to be a scary filmThese are airborne robot jellyfish - a phrase which is just crying out for the words "Attack of the" or "Killer". Without the relaxing music, we'd feel worried about their exact intentions.tinyurl.com/4abj22A screen made of glass - so?See if you can figure out how this is done: a screen that appears to be transparent. There's a brief clue near the end.tinyurl.com/6p5quk&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Ever almost run into the back of another car because you misjudged how heavily it was braking? Or has anyone run into you? If some research work at Virginia Tech succeeds, then smart brake lights might prevent some accidents.So what is a "smart" brake light? Currently when you slow down, the brake lights switch on no matter how hard you press the pedal. For anyone following the car in front too closely, the difference between gentle deceleration and a sudden stop may not be immediately apparent. A smart brake light, however, would show whether someone is just touching the brakes, or making an emergency stop.Just this thought occurred to American businessman Meade Gwinn after being "rear-ended" on Route 66 in northern Virginia. He approached Virginia Tech's mechanical engineering department and was introduced to Professor Mehdi Ahmadian. John Hennage, a PhD student, is also now involved."The device works based on detecting the deceleration of a vehicle during braking," says Ahmadian. "If the device detects rapid deceleration, then it activates the smart brake light to warn other drivers on the road."Ahmadian's device - he's working with Gwinn and Hennage - uses a microchip called a tri-axial accelerometer. Deceleration forces during braking displaces its silicon structure by minute distances, causing detectable changes in capacitance. That allows the electronics to judge the braking force applied."The use of the tri-axial accelerometer will allow us to detect other events beyond hard braking and use the smart brake light to warn other drivers," says Ahmadian.Fitting smart brake lights seems more of a challenge than the electronics. Regulations prevent original equipment being altered on vehicles, so Ahmadian's students put together a prototype horizontal light bar using amber, red and flashing lights.Hennage is now combining the braking sensor electronics with the extra LEDs found on commercial vehicles as a cheaper option. Under normal braking, the brake lights work as usual but in heavy braking the extra lights flash.Mercedes Benz already provides standard brake lights which flash when braked from high speed, although Virginia Tech's work provides for greater sophistication. But success won't be easy for Ahmadian. He says: "The regulatory issues will certainly be a big part of getting the smart brake light into vehicles."
EA's official Euro 2008 game gives you the chance to right the failure of any of the home nations to qualify for this summer's tournament. Building on the improvements made to FIFA 08 - slow-paced realism, rock-solid online play - Euro 2008 adds a couple of interesting new features, the best of which sees you compete as one player rather than a whole team. This lone control is immensely satisfying as you time your runs and work the channels. Assists are as satisfying as scoring, and there is even satisfaction from playing as a centre back. Then there is the Battle of the Nations mode - choose your country, start playing and see your on and offline performances aggregated onto a daily leaderboard. At the end of the tournament the country with the most points gets virtual bragging rights. Not as fluid as Pro Evolution Soccer on the pitch but more than a match off, Euro 2008 is far better than expected.
In the early 1920s, when there were still plenty of people in the western world for whom making a telephone call would have sparked a frisson of awe, an American company began marketing something called the Hush-A-Phone. It was a black plastic funnel, designed to be attached to a telephone receiver, shielding the speaker's mouth "so others cannot hear confidential matters". It didn't take off at first, but by 1948, the Hush-A-Phone was doing well — which was when AT&amp;T, the operator of the US phone system, decided enough was enough. At the time, AT&amp;T owned not just the network but also every telephone connected to it, and it had the right, it claimed, to ban "unauthorised foreign attachments".Hush-A-Phone fought back, and a legal battle dragged on for several years before a court found in the funnel-maker's favour. "To say that a telephone subscriber may produce the result in question by cupping his hand and speaking into it, but may not do so by using a device which leaves his hand free to write or do whatever else he wishes," the judge concluded drily, "is neither just nor reasonable."A few years later, AT&amp;T lost further ground, when another judge rejected its efforts to outlaw the sale of walkie-talkies that could be hooked up to the phone network: the firm couldn't insist that its wires be used only for calls between AT&amp;T phones. The two cases meant the telephone system was officially open for tinkering: within certain limits, any inventor was free to experiment. Many did, and by the 1970s the fruits of their experimentation looked less like the Hush-A-Phone and more like the internet, which began, after all, as nothing more than "foreign attachments" — computers — using phone lines to exchange data.Fiddlers' free-for-allPerhaps it's an exaggeration to suggest that if AT&amp;T had won the Hush-A-Phone case, we'd never have had email or the web. But it could certainly have slowed things down. Jonathan Zittrain, the amiable but intimidatingly brainy 38-year-old professor of "cyberlaw" at both Oxford and Harvard universities, thinks we shouldn't forget the Hush-A-Phone story: it shows that unimaginable future innovations depend on our present-day technologies being "generative", or open to being fiddled with. (A personal computer is generative: it can be programmed to do things the manufacturer could never have predicted. A coffee-maker is not.)But things are looking grim, Zittrain argues in his new book, The Future Of The internet And How To Stop It. While we rightly fret about censorship of the web, a cause with which Zittrain has been closely involved, we're missing another serious problem, beneath our noses. To put it briefly: those gadgets you love so much — your iPod, your iPhone, your BlackBerry, your PlayStation, your Sky+ box — may be killing the internet.Zittrain is aware that this makes him sound like a killjoy. "It is very hard to make the argument," he acknowledges. It goes like this: unlike the internet itself, where creative chaos reigns, popular new devices such as the iPod and BlackBerry are "tethered appliances", closed off to amateur tweaking, and modifiable, to a large extent, only by their manufacturers — and so they stifle the kind of innovation that enabled them to be created in the first place. It also enables the companies that make them to reach deep into our lives: Apple doesn't monitor emails sent over your iPhone, but could; Tivo, the television-recording device, routinely informs headquarters of what you've been watching."We care little about the devices we're using to access the net," Zittrain says. "We don't think of that as significant to [the net's] future the way we think of [censorship]." Indeed, tethered appliances make censorship easier. In North Korea, Zittrain notes, radios are manufactured so they can't be tuned to non-official sources. Controlling a Chinese dissident's communications with the outside world is far easier if they pass through a mobile phone; on the wide-open internet, the authorities fight a constant losing battle, shutting down each new chatroom or messageboard as it pops up.Most people, of course, just want their iPod or Sky+ box to work: they don't want to mess with its insides. We have welcomed tethered appliances with enthusiasm, the book argues, because they're stable and secure. "We have grown weary, not with the unexpected cool stuff that the generative PC had produced," Zittrain writes, "but instead with the unexpected very uncool stuff that came along with it. Viruses, spam, identity theft, crashes: all of these were the consequences of a certain freedom built into the generative PC. As these problems grow worse, for many the promise of security is enough reason to give up that freedom."Seen from another angle, amateur creativity is blossoming online: look at the effort people put into their blogs, Facebook profiles or MySpace pages. But this freedom is peculiarly limited. Facebook users give the site vast quantities of personal information, but must trust it to use it wisely; the company recently enraged members with an advertising scheme that tracked their online purchases. But the episode only underlined how all-pervasive Facebook is: the disaffected users' chosen form of protest was to start a Facebook group."If much of what I do online relates to other people, and they're all on Facebook, well, there might be something better, called Schmacebook, but I can't alone just make the decision to move," Zittrain says. "Once people are locked in, that has its own inertial benefit. I want to see Facebook have to earn its members every day." Zittrain envisages a "portability policy" for personal data: if we're going to give so much of our data — lucrative, exploitable data — to privately-run enclaves on the web, shouldn't we have the right to move it, easily and at will, from site to site?Entertaining geekThe Future Of The Internet And How To Stop It is a densely-argued, sometimes overstated book, but in the lecture theatre at New York university, where he's also a visiting professor, Zittrain becomes a different person. "He is, bar none, the most entertaining tech policy geek in the world," is how one blogger puts it. "Imagine Dennis Miller with a cyberlaw degree." The day we met, I watched him work a roomful of graduate students, beset by mid-afternoon sleepiness, into animated hilarity as he discussed the new risks the internet poses to our privacy. Although Zittrain is an evangelist for the "generative" world, that inventiveness, he was explaining, has a sinister side — especially now that so many people have access to cheap cameras and video recorders. Hence, for example, Dog Poop Woman, a South Korean dog-owner captured on video refusing to clean up her pet's excrement inside a subway carriage. The video went viral; her image was incorporated into music videos and movie posters. "Her life, we're told, has been a living hell ever since," Zittrain said. "This is her defining moment. This is her epitaph."Or take Gawker Stalker, which enables people who spot celebrities in the street to post the information instantaneously online, with a map to identify exact locations. "That seems kinda weird to me," Zittrain told his students. "The idea [is]: 'I just saw Jack Nicholson at Starbucks — I'm going to take his picture and get it online as fast as possible, so that people who like him can rush in their bathrobe to stand awkwardly near him before he's even finished his drink.' That's where we're at with the celebrities, and it's my claim is that this is where we're headed for everybody... My biggest worry," Zittrain says, "is that everything becomes like a press conference."Freedom is the wordIn Zittrain's eyes, however, those calling for more control of the web are making the same mistake as those of us who flock to "tethered" gadgets, fleeing from freedom when the real solution lies in even more freedom. The book tells how the town of Drachten, in the Netherlands, decided to experiment by abandoning road signs and traffic lights. Free of rules, people took more care and co-operated better; traffic flowed more smoothly. They took responsibility for the functioning of the system. Wikipedia, which Zittrain sees as a beacon of the internet's best future, seems to work for the same reason.So it's crucial, he argues, to safeguard and to extend the chaos of life online, to resist the dominance of "tethered" gadgets, and to oppose attempts to end net neutrality, which prevents broadband carriers to privilege certain applications or content online. And if this embrace of disorder and anti-authoritarianism sounds like anarchy — well, Zittrain points out, it's only the same kind of free-for-all that characterises our real-world life. Usually, we don't need strict rules, or control from on high, in order to get by. "There aren't police everywhere, waiting to intervene in case somebody should kill somebody else in a park," he says. "Most of the time, people get along fine."&#183;The Future of the Internet And How to Stop It is published today by Allen Lane. To order a copy for &pound;18 with free UK p&amp;p go toGuardian Bookshopor call 0870 836 0875
Five years in to the world's largest civil computerisation programme, the NHS in England is waking up to the danger of computers creating fast lanes for hospital infections. The IT agency NHS Connecting for Health has just spent &pound;1m on custom-designed PC keyboards that are not only cleanable, but encourages users to clean them. The snag is that the deal covers only 1% of the NHS's keyboards.A quick inspection of any keyboard shows how they collect muck. In an office, it's disgusting; in hospitals, it's potentially lethal. Dr Peter Wilson, a consultant microbiologist at University College Hospital, London, says that studies have found up to a quarter of keyboards in wards are contaminated with MRSA and other pathogens.Vital signsThe danger arises from the way the NHS shares computers, he says. A nurse taking blood pressure and other vital signs will enter them on the keyboard directly after touching the patient. "She doesn't wash her hands between patient and keyboard, because she's not touching any other patients." However a doctor making a ward rounds will later touch the keyboard to check data - and then move on to the next patient. "That's how an infection can go round the entire ward," Wilson says.Wilson became concerned about the problem in 2005, when the hospital moved on to a new site with some of the NHS's most advanced IT. Washable keyboards were available, but they first had to be disconnected from a computer and then dried with a hair-drier before being reconnected. "Nobody's going to do that on a ward - it's hopeless," he says.To find something more practical, the hospital drew up a specification for a safe keyboard: the wishlist was a flat keyboard that could be cleaned by wiping, made of a material that didn't trap bacteria; that resisted bleach and bacteria, and, ideally, warned users when dirty.Three manufacturers submitted kit; after tests the hospital chose one, from the US company Esterline. The sealed unit is coated in medical-grade silicone and flashes a red light if it has not been cleaned by a set interval (usually 12 hours). To cancel the red light, a user has to wipe the entire surface with a damp cloth.University College Hospital carried out a controlled trial of the technology and found that four fifths of keyboards are now cleaned at least twice a day; previously they were cleaned "hardly at all", Wilson says. The bacteria count on keyboards fell by 70%.The hospital has now installed 2,000 of the keyboards across the site, in all areas apart from purely administrative ones. Across the rest of the NHS, however, conventional keyboards remain the norm. Last week, Connecting for Health's chief clinical architect, Dr Mike Bainbridge, told the annual Healthcare Computing Procurement that 7,500 centrally ordered cleanable keyboards would be offered to "all high-risk areas of the NHS". This however, works out at about 40 for every acute hospital.Now wash your terminalThe next stage in safe NHS computing is a fully washable handheld terminal. Bainbridge said that by setting a tough specification, the NHS has inspired the IT industry t create a new device, the Mobile Clinical Assistant, based on Intel technology. The handheld device is fully washable. (An early prototype with a touch screen was discarded in favour of an active stylus after doctors were found to be entering data with scalpels.) Half a dozen manufacturers are now producing devices to the spec, Bainbridge said.The technology isn't still perfect. Because each unit has to be sealed, doctors' smart-card readers, the basis of the NHS's whole IT security strategy, have to be carried on separate pocket devices, communicating with Bluetooth. Last week's conference heard several grumbles about the compromise. Bainbridge admitted that the current devices are "unacceptable" but that a separate security sign-on gadget would continue to be essential. The obvious alternative, fingerprint recognition, is a non-starter because clinical workers tend to wear gloves.It all adds up to a set of new examples why big hospitals - which planners originally assumed would lead the march of IT in healthcare - are extraordinarily difficult to computerise. In one sense, the NHS in England is lucky - the new generation of software ordered as part of its &pound;12bn IT programme is running so late that it has a breathing space in which to get the hardware right.
Perhaps overexcited by the PS3's under-bonnet grunt, Namco has taken an experimental approach to the latest version of its venerable arcade shooter. As ever, it comes with a lightgun -  which is oddly misshapen due mainly to the presence of two joysticks. Which allow you to navigate an all-new first-person shooter mode. Which, unfortunately, is ham-fisted in its technical execution (its worst aspect is forcing you to proceed at a snail's pace, and the muddy graphics are awful). Luckily, this is interspersed with plenty of the high-octane on-rails shooting action that forged Time Crisis's reputation and with three-screen battles, clouds of attacking insectoids and fearsome bosses, arcade devotees will still find plenty of satisfaction. Others may find the excruciatingly cheesy plot and characters, plus the laughable FPS mode too much of a turn-off, and the gun is initially fiddly to set up, too. But those who misspent their youth in the arcades will still love it.
Here's a challenge: name a virtual world where players can act out the parts of different people in a facsimile of real life. What's it called?Given the hype in recent years, you might be forgiven for saying Second Life. Or, since it has commanded headlines this week, you may have pondered Grand Theft Auto and its incredible copy of New York City. But how many would have suggested The Sims?Last month Electronic Arts announced that it had sold more than 100m copies of the groundbreaking franchise, which offers players of all ages a chance to indulge in their own sugary duplicate of life.Despite its enviable position as the best-selling PC series of all time, The Sims remains something of an outsider to the gaming community. That's not something that troubles the people behind the curtains, however."We don't worry about respect, or the position of the game in the industry," says Nancy Smith, president of the Sims label, from her Silicon Valley headquarters. "We know we attract creative people of all ages and both genders."Unprecedented successWhile some of the game's sales are doubtless driven by the unending river of add-on titles, the numbers point to unprecedented success. Indeed, The Sims and all its spin-offs are so profitable that the game commands its own label inside EA, the industry's largest publisher, as well as a staff of 350.The numbers elsewhere are equally impressive. "We've now got 4.5 million players who come monthly, and we've had 70m downloads of player-created content," says Smith. "So much of the creativity comes from the players - just look at the 100,000 Sims movies posted on YouTube."That substantial team and all the resources they have are now being put into a plethora of new projects, including Sims on Stage (a sort of virtual karaoke), Sims Carnival (a build-your-own game environment) and The Sims 3, predicted to be the game's most realistic iteration yet.The fact that the franchise has spread out in so many directions surprises even Rod Humble, the expat Briton who heads up The Sims studio. "If you think back to when The Sims launched, as a game design it was utterly insane," he says. "There was no end, there no win or lose - but it absolutely fitted with a 'what if' scenario that we all have in our heads."Back then, at the turn of the millennium, the project was championed by its creator, Will Wright. He has now moved on to another project - the much-anticipated evolution game Spore - but at its heart the Sims has remained the same. Along the way it has been a core part of the rise of so-called "casual gaming" - typified by Nintendo's Wii and a plethora of web-based games. Humble quietly disagrees with the "casual" monicker, however, and suggests that there is more going on than just a widening market."I think the 'casual' label is pretty much meaningless now," he says. "You've seen a big shift in perception ... it's got to the point now where we're on our own, and we're able to do all sorts of things in terms of mass entertainment and themes. A few years ago I don't think people would have thought about a game where you run a business or have a family."Real life, he suggests, is "pretty easy to think about" and allows anybody to understand and interact with the game. "These aren't the things you usually associate with videogames - they wouldn't be out of place in a TV show."Therein lies The Sims' greatest selling point - but also its biggest challenge. The true competitors that it faces are not from the videogaming world, but from other forms of mainstream entertainment - social websites such as Facebook or MySpace, perhaps ... or even television itself. "The Sims is played - sometimes obsessively - by people who don't regard themselves as gamers," Humble says. "It's the same way that people who watch TV don't think of themselves as TV-watchers, they are fans of their favourite programme."Entertainment moguls of all stripes know how fickle audiences can be. Whether it's dropping one social networking service in favour of another, or switching off their favourite long-running soap opera, past success is no guarantee for the future. And, of course, there is nothing to prevent a competitor coming up with a more enticing offer.Rewards of riskThat is something Humble knows only too well - his last job was at Sony, heading up the successful online roleplaying game EverQuest. Until a few years ago, EQ was the number one name in the genre ... until World of Warcraft came along and, in a flash, took over the market.That's why Sims 3 (due for release next year) is crucial and, Humble implies, exactly why his team is trying out so many new ideas while they can."Creatively, our success puts us in the position where we can do more. We've actually become more risky because we've already got this established base to work from," he says. "You're guaranteed that people will look at it, even it it's a flop."
Siemens, Europe's biggest technology group, warned yesterday that global financial turmoil would depress business this year as it abandoned hopes of a surge in earnings and pointed to thousands more job cuts ahead.The German group, in the throes of a corruption scandal, said operating profits this year would be flat as it booked &euro;857m  (&pound;672m) in charges in its power generation, transport and IT systems divisions.Second-quarter operating profits were &euro;1.2bn, down by a third, but Siemens shares rose 4% on a 12% jump in orders to &euro;23.4bn and hopes of a recovery in 2010.However, Peter L&ouml;scher, chief executive, said: "We expect the consequences of the crisis in the financial sector to be felt in other sectors in the course of the next fiscal year. We already see first signs of greater cautiousness on the part of customers in our standard products business here in Germany."He said there would clearly be a reduction in staff numbers as he reaffirmed the target of cutting &euro;1.2bn of costs by 2010. Siemens is already shedding 6,800 jobs in its loss-making corporate telecoms business, which it wants to sell off.L&ouml;scher said he still expected revenue growth to be twice the rate of global growth but said earnings would be flat compared with the initial target of growth at twice the rate of rises in sales. The group has been hit by order delays and cancellations.The IT division made a &euro;35m loss after &euro;89m in charges from a cancelled contract for the UK government. Power generation showed a &euro;221m loss on charges of &euro;559m and transport - hit by problems at Shanghai's Transrapid monorail and Combino trams that cost &euro;209m - a loss of &euro;153m.
If wireless technology is so good, why do we still have light switches? We're surrounded by wireless signals, in the form of Wi-Fi and mobile phone networks. We're also surrounded by devices that need controlling, including the TV, the hi-fi, the lights, the door lock and the heating. But the two rarely meet. We could connect all the devices that are currently off the net, but our wireless networks are built wrong.Switching, slowlyIt only takes tiny amounts of data to switch on a light or change TV channels, but our networks are built for speed and range. GSM is being replaced by the faster 3G, and new faster Wi-Fi technologies reach further in our homes. This takes its toll: Wi-Fi and 3G chips are expensive, and need significant electrical power.What we need is a slow network (because with light switches, you don't need responses in the millisecond range - tenths of a second is enough) that uses very little power.And around 2003, that technology seemed to have arrived. ZigBee was set to end complicated wiring and give us light switches that can be placed anywhere and controlled from a remote.Although ZigBee is a short-range connection, it can set up a "mesh" network in which communications can be passed on between remote nodes, so there is no limit to the number of devices in a network, or the distance it can cover in multiple hops if there are enough devices within range of each other.But where is ZigBee? It's still a marvellous idea, but we aren't all drawing our curtains and turning on the lights with the touch of a button. Worse for the ZigBee community, it has competition.Alternatives were always possible. ZigBee uses the same unregulated radio spectrum as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, and a radio communications link, called 802.15.4, defined by the IEEE standards body. Other technologies are lining up to use those resources.Zensys, for example, uses lower frequencies for Z-Wave, a technology that has had investment from Cisco and Panasonic. Insteon combines wireless and powerline technology, which uses mains wiring to send data. And there's One-Net, an open source alternative that promises to be cheaper.Another interesting contender uses internet protocol (IP), the hugely successful method that runs the internet and all the corporate networks of the world. But even if ZigBee can shrug off those threats, it's got a bigger one on the horizon: a new version of Bluetooth, the low-power wireless system we all have in our phones.Bluetooth has always been sparing in its electricity needs, but recently acquired a truly low-power sibling. It's now called "Bluetooth low energy", but was created by Nokia under the name "Wibree" - and last year was adopted by the Bluetooth authorities as an ultra-low power version, sometimes called ULP Bluetooth. In contrast to ZigBee's mesh approach, low-energy Bluetooth is a simplified network - a "star". One device - your phone, say - is the master and the other devices are slaves. ZigBee's fans say this is a big limitation if you want to make something like a burglar alarm for a building.But backers of low-energy Bluetooth says mesh is not a suitable option for a low-energy network. Slave nodes can just go to sleep when they have nothing to say, but mesh nodes have to be scanning all the time for messages to pass on. "A Bluetooth low-energy device will on average use micro-amps to keep a link up and running," says Robin Heydon, standards architect at chipmaker Cambridge Silicon Radio (CSR). "Mesh requires you to have your receiver on all the time."And that means problems for the would-be rival. "Low-energy Bluetooth is lower-power, lower-cost and more robust than Zigbee," says Heydon. "It can be added to Bluetooth at virtually zero additional cost." Low-energy Bluetooth can be added very cheaply to a device that already has Bluetooth, such as a phone, because it shares a lot of the circuitry. The biggest cost in a Bluetooth chip is the analogue parts that drive the radio - and low-energy Bluetooth can share these. The only extra costs are some digital parts to handle the Bluetooth low-energy protocol, which cost about 2c (1p). Since it uses the same Bluetooth radio - but more efficiently - adding Bluetooth low energy won't drain phone batteries.Heile however dismisses low-energy Bluetooth for its lack of features. "It's just Bluetooth with frequency-hopping turned off. That's enough to make a Bluetooth doorlock without the batteries going flat, but it's not a networking solution. It supports no more than eight devices."That's wrong, says Heydon. "The structure of the network is completely different." Traditional Bluetooth has a limit of eight devices, but the low-energy version's star structure means it can have "a master and many, many, many slaves," he says.Zigbee backers insist that low-energy Bluetooth's star topology must be inferior to ZigBee's mesh. Meshed devices hand messages on to others, so ZigBee can talk to every device in the house, not just those within 10 metres. Heydon responds: "The problem is, you can't do low power and mesh at the same time."Painfully and slowly, ZigBee is gaining a foothold. For instance, Gothenberg in Sweden, has commissioned a city-wide scheme to install ZigBee-enabled electricity meters.Measuring growthHeile predicts that around 600,000 ZigBee-enabled meters will be installed this year, and analyst West Technology Research Solutions expects 7m ZigBee units to be sold in this year, compared with roughly 2m last year.Heydon's prediction, though, for ULP Bluetooth is in the billions. "The additional cost of adding low-energy Bluetooth to a Bluetooth chip is very close to zero," he says. From the middle of 2009, "all new phones that have Bluetooth could also have low-energy Bluetooth. That creates an instant market for other devices."But it's also in the future. Reality brought ZigBee down to earth - could it do the same to low-energy Bluetooth?Nick Hunn, chief technology officer of the wireless silicon company Ezurio, puts it another way: "The ZigBee PR machine is still running smoothly on bunny power, unaware the headlights are bearing down on it." The next couple of years may decide whether it will get run over - or be the method of choice for turning those lights out.
Moving to Windows LiveAre you suggesting that Outlook Express users should now switch to Windows Live Mail, as Microsoft recommends? What would I gain and lose?Ian BradfordJS:People who use Hotmail should now switch to Windows Live Hotmail and, ideally, download the Windows Live Mail desktop client software (get.live.com/wlmail/overview). Windows Live Hotmail is free but supported by adverts, like Gmail. The immediate benefits are 5GB of storage plus 90 days between logins instead of 30 days. When you set up WLMd, it will auto-configure your existing accounts (Pop3 and Imap) and pick up email from Outlook Express. It will also collect your Live Hotmail, thus providing a vitally important offline backup. You can see and manage multiple accounts down the left-hand pane, and have each set of folders in a different colour.WLMd's two-way synchronisation with Live Hotmail works very well. You can read and sort your mail into folders offline, and when you go to Live Hotmail in a browser, you'll find the changes have been made to your web-based email. WLMd also has better spam blocking - you can block whole countries and all mail in unwanted character sets (Arabic, Chinese, Cyrillic etc) - plus a phishing filter. It has decent search (right-click and select Find). It can handle RSS feeds as well as Usenet newsgroups, and it integrates with other Live services such as Messenger, Spaces (blogs) and Photo Gallery. As with Outlook Express, you can still drag or copy one or more emails (.eml files) to the desktop or to a folder, which is handy for instant backups, etc. It still doesn't offer threading. Otherwise, if anything important has gone missing compared with the 2001-vintage Outlook Express 6, I have yet to notice it. People who don't use Hotmail - or don't want access to free Live Hotmail offline - can still use any mail client they like, including Thunderbird and Outlook Express.Sol with FlashThe Adobe Flash player appears to leave .sol files on my PC. What are they?Tim StillwellJS:They're SharedObject Local files that Adobe Flash uses to store data on your hard drive. This can include settings and video or game data. See tinyurl.com/6e2goz for an explanation of how they can be created. Flash can store up to 100K per site without asking for permission. However, you can control it. Right-click on any Flash object, such as a YouTube video, and select Settings. The Local Storage section provides a slider so you can choose how much the site can take, from none to unlimited, and how much space it's using.How you're shapedIn an earlier answer about broadband speeds (March 20), there was no mention of contention ratios. I can get download speeds of 8Mbps from BT; however, at busy times this drops to less than 2Mbps. My assumption is that there is insufficient capacity at the exchange to meet the demand from a number of users simultaneously.Derek WatersJS:The broadband capacity at the telephone exchange is shared between many different users, on the assumption that they won't all want to use it at once. Usually there are 50 home users per stream, or 20 business users, with the business users paying the extra cost. The contention ratios are therefore 50:1 and 20:1. However, while you might be on a congested exchange, I don't think it's contention in this case. In the evenings, BT and some other ISPs use traffic-shaping, or throttling techniques to limit bandwidth so that everybody gets a share. I expect your 2Mbps is a consistent rate and that your connection goes back to 8Mbps instantly at midnight, or whenever the ISP turns traffic-shaping off. The problem is that a relatively small number of peer-to-peer file-sharers are using the majority of the communal bandwidth. It's a bit like leaving your taps turned on all the time, except P2P software adds lots of extra taps. Some people now want to change the net's so-called fairness algorithm to stop file-sharers taking more than their share. Seetinyurl.com/276d6t.Installing LinuxI am trying to install Linux on some oldish (3-5 years old) home-built PCs that run Windows fine. There are huge hardware incompatibility issues. I have tried about five distros. Ubuntu Edgy will install on one machine, but Gutsy will not, though it runs fine from a live CD. Knoppix runs on another machine, but only on that one. PC Linux won't work on any of them. Have you any suggestions for a Linux version that will be hardware-tolerant without me having to turn into a Unixhead?H JohnsonJS:The first two I'd have suggested were Ubuntu and Knoppix, which are generally reckoned to have very good hardware detection. With those not working, I'd try Mandriva.Stop, Key Thief!Spyware Terminator says it has identified Key Thief but unfortunately it doesn't remove this threat despite saying that it has done so. I have run Spybot S&amp;D, AVG AntiSpyware, Ad-Aware and Spyware Doctor and none of these has identified Key Thief.Tony ThomsonJS:Key Thief is a keylogger but you can download it fromidigitaltech.comas a legitimate security program, so some programs may choose not to identify it as malware. It's a grey area. However, you can look for Key Thief by searching for files such as startkey.exe, keyserv.exe, skey.exe, srvcks.exe, ikeyhk2.dll and keythf2.ini, and for the name, Idigital Technologies, preferably in Safe Mode. If you can't find anything on the hard drive and Runsrvcks isn't in the registry, it could be a "false positive". You could try asking other users about Key Thief atforum.spywareterminator.com, or run 2Spyware's automated removal tool (tinyurl.com/4hvryx). You could also try installing the trial version of Key Thief yourself, then uninstall it. Usually, most programs can tell if they're already installed.BackchatDavid Benson points to The Counter (tinyurl.com/4bvp54) which puts IE7's market share at 40% and IE6 at 38% - "statistically nowhere near as significant as your article implies. I wish it were: I am a web designer and I yearn for the death of IE6 (and 7 preferably!)." I've found Net Applications' numbers generally reliable, and for March, and they put IE7 ahead by 46% to 29%. In any case, (a) Microsoft has stopped asking if Windows is "genuine" before installing IE7 and (b) people are now beta testing IE8, so you can be happy that IE6 is finally on death row.blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Go!View your PSPThis summer, Go!View will enable PlayStation Portable users to download Sky programmes (pay per view) via their PCs.gopspgo.co.ukLet's danceDance Battle Audition is a free online dance game for PCs. It was developed in Korea, now has 300 million users, and hopes to take over the UK.goaudition.co.ukRobot conductorHonda's Asimo robot has been signed up to conduct the Detroit Symphony Orchestra to open a Yo-Yo Ma concert.tinyurl.com/59l2cvEmporia Life PlusA new slider version of the Emporia Life phone, aimed at older users, should be available at the end of May, contract-free for &pound;144.67.matobmobile.co.ukSpend money fasterOn May 27, Apacs plans to launch its Faster Payments Service, which will enable banks to clear payments "within hours" instead of three days.tinyurl.com/2gpt69AVG the eighthAVG has now released a free version of its AVG 8.0 anti-virus software for non-commercial use.free.avg.comFind me, SpotSpot is a satellite messaging service that can track you and send a pre-programmed plea for help from anywhere.findmespot.eu/enIn the pictureThe Photographers' Gallery in London has unveiled a new web site, and is planning to move to a new home.photonet.org.uk
