The Flickr experience (Tag team, January 3) is like tuning into the personal TV station of friends. Flickr taps into the social power of digital photos more effectively than one-to-one picture messaging.http://123suds.blogspot.comLifehacker has a nice set of tips for Flickr beginners (http://masl.to/?P66961B6A).  You've been paying attention, right? Flickr is extreme photo sharing. If you haven't heard or are wondering about the tagging phenomenon (bottom-up organisation of complex data), Online's piece is a good place to start.www.pfhyper.com/weblog/News out recently reveals the size of the mobile music market, particularly ringtones (The ring of success, February 3). The desire for personalisation is particularly apparent among many mobile phone users: wallpapers, ringtones, icons, screensavers and games are newer ways of personalising a mobile beyond the now pass&#233; removable covers. Arguably these items are also a new way of consuming media, if in a rather superficial manner.http://rssmedia.blogspot.com
Blogging eh? Who said it couldn't change the world. Following on from myblog about the London Evening Standard, it seems that someone was reading. Today's issue has replaced the patronising "For the Games Addict" title in their entertainment round-up, with the blander, but far more palatable "The Game To Play". Of course, it could be a coincidence, but I prefer to think otherwise. Maybe we should start a campaign against the lazy and unimaginative use of gamer stereotypes by the mainstream media? Or CALUGSMM for short. Okay, the title needs some work, granted, but hey, we've got to start somewhere.
Everyone who uses email for work or pleasure will have cringed at the swearword-laden, half-formed email that  Alastair Campbell managed tosendto a BBC journalist rather than the colleague it was presumably intended for.Most of us have experienced the horror of realising that a hasty reply, sent in anger or carelessness, has gone to the wrong person or should never have left your inbox in the first place.The portable Blackberry emailer - the gadget that communicated Campbell's electronic faux pas - has become the gadget of choice for British business executives, allowing hard-pressed managers to view and respond to their emails anywhere. But the device - dubbed the "Crackberry" by email addicts who cannot resist checking for new emails every few seconds - multiplies the chances of sending something inappropriate to your boss, colleague or - even worse - a journalist by making email utterly inescapable and raising people's expectations of an instant reply.So how does one navigate the minefield of workplace email communication, whether by Blackberry or old-fashioned Microsoft Office? After more than a decade of using email, I have established my personal email diktat:1. Think before you send every email: would it be quicker, more efficient, and more friendly to phone or even walk over to the person and talk to them in person? But do use email when you want to keep a record of your own or someone else's words.2. If you're emailing Doris in accounts, don't cc your message to everyone in the company just so you can share your razor-sharp witticism about P60 forms with 200 people. It wastes bandwidth (a measure of the amount of data that can be transmitted by your email network at any time), clogs up other people's inboxes and ultimately, isn't that funny. In fact, people will hate you for it.3. Don't let your email inbox overflow. Try to deal with every email as soon as possible by responding to the message, deleting it, flagging it for attention later or filing it away. This is where a Blackberry can be invaluable, allowing you to use idle moments on the train or bus tend to the pile of non-urgent but still important email that gathers in your inbox each day. But never, ever, check your Blackberry during a conversation or, even worse, during a meeting: you're effectively telling whoever you are talking to that whoever has just sent you a message, they're bound to be more interesting or important than they are. It's unprofessional to twiddle your scroll wheel under the table, and it's no excuse to say "everyone else does it".4. Don't send email attachments unless you absolutely have to. They eat up bandwidth and often can't be opened by other people. Could you place the document on a server that everyone can access or add the text to the body of the email instead?5. Don't forward every "hilarious" jpeg/virus warning/chain letter you receive from friends to everyone in your address book. If it's a virus warning it's probably a hoax, and if it's that funny, most people will already have seen it. If you must, limit your forwards to a few close friends and clearly mark your email as frivolous spam in the subject line. Ignore this rule, and people will begin ignoring every email that you send - including the important ones.6. Always include an informative subject line in your email: this helps your colleagues to locate salient emails in their inbox and gives them an idea of how important your message is, so they can read the message marked "your pay rise" before the one called "has anyone seen my X Files mouse mat?"7. Avoid bitching about colleagues to other members of staff via emails: the old adage that if you wouldn't write it on a postcard, don't write it in an email: this is even more salient now that the newfreedom of information lawshave come into force. Many firms monitor staff email usage and you never know when someone could be reading messages over your shoulder. And it is all too easy to hit the reply button rather than forward and end up sending your Campbellesque rant to the very person you are moaning about.8. Before you fire off an angry email to someone, save the message on draft and take half an hour (or a day if you're really angry) to let yourself cool down. Then take another look at the message and decide whether to send, edit or delete it.9. Make every email you send count: don't rush a message off in 10 seconds, even if you can send messages from your mobile or Blackberry from anywhere in the world. And if you're saying anything important or controversial, double check which names are in the subject line before hitting send. Spelling mistakes, sloppy grammar and half-formed sentences make you look slapdash and possibly slightly unhinged. Having said that, each company has its own unwritten rules about the degree of formality required in electronic communications: work out what they are and follow them.10. And finally, be forgiving of colleagues' email faux pas. If a colleague sends you an email that you deem to be rude, just remember that tone is completely lost in electronic communications, and it may be that they were trying to be funny or simply rushed off a message in a moment of anger and instantly regretted it.
We'd all assumed PlayStation 3 would be unveiled this May at E3, the annual games event in LA. But with Sonyconfirming that they will be showing their new baby beforehand- possibly at an event in April - the next generation race is really beginning to warm-up. And you can't blame Sony - Xbox 2 and possibly Nintendo's new console are likely to be shown for the first time at E3. Sony will gain maximum publicity by debuting early as they aim to retain their massive sales lead into the next round of consoles. But Sony are now under threat, with the next iteration of the Xbox in particular a big challenge to Sony's dominance of the market. Expect PS3 gossip to go through the roof over the coming weeks...
Carly Fiorina, the chairman and chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, the computer and printer manufacturer, today stepped down following disagreements over strategy at the company.Ms Fiorina, one the most powerful businesswomen in the US, had steered the company from its roots in the printer business more strongly towards computers. HP has named its chief financial officer, Robert P Wayman, as the interim chief executive.In 2002, she pushed through HP's acquisition of Compaq Computer Corporation in the face of fierce resistance from shareholders and directors, who argued that the move would dilute the value of HP's profitable printer and imaging business.Appearing at the World Economic Forum last month, she tried to downplay a Wall Street Journal report that the HP board was considering shifting her day to day duties to other executives. Describing the report as "speculation", she said her relationship with the board remained excellent.Analysts today told Reuters that her departure would be good for HP, and the company's shares jumped more than 11% in pre-market trading."This is a good move for the company," Shannon Cross, a Wall Street analyst with Cross Research, said. "I would say there will be a boost to employee morale because, internally, people had become frustrated, certainly within the printing division."Ms Fiorina said in a statement: "While I regret the board and I have differences about how to execute HP's strategy, I respect their decision. HP is a great company and I wish all the people of HP much success in the future."Patricia Dunn, the vice chairman of Barclays Global Investors and a member of HP's board since 1998, has been named non-executive chairman.In a statement on behalf of the board, she said Ms Fiorina "came to HP to revitalise and reinvigorate the company. She had a strategic vision and put in place a plan that has given HP the capabilities to compete and win. We thank Carly for her significant leadership over the past six years".
"Carly Fiorina, the embattled leader of Hewlett-Packard, stepped down as chairman and CEO on Wednesday as HP tries to redefine itself for a new era," reportsCNet."The company's board said the change is effective immediately. Robert Wayman, HP's chief financial officer, has been named interim CEO and has been appointed to the board."A report inUSA Todayhas a bit more detail.Comment:HP is the world's second biggest computer company (having absorbed Compaq, DEC, Tandem and Apollo, etc on the way) and the biggest ever run by a woman.
"Follow along as we explore new depths of geekery..." saysWright This Way.[Thanks toRael Dornfestfor the link.]
Mike Butcher, the editor ofNetimperative, tells me that they are getting ready forThe Imperatives 2005, a new award ceremony.The prizes range from Lifetime Achievement and Best Site to Hottest New Start-Up. There's even a category for "best digital media blog". Fancy that.But guess what? Despite the fact that the main deadline for entries has passed, apparently it has been extended for the blog category -andthey are waiving the £50 entry fee that applies to everyone else.I'd be happier if someone could tell us what a "digital media blog" was, or why the entry form is a PDF that they'd like you to send to them (wot no online form?) --- but ignore my grumps...Don't delay, people. Here's your chance for fame and glory!
The beta ishere.Cool, but US-only.Gary Price has done a quick review atSearch Engine Watch.
TheMercury Newshas a piece about the Audioblog service which, while not new, is perhaps not widely known:Enter Audioblog.com, a Web-based service run by Eric Rice, an East Bay digital media producer. Audioblog.com simplifies the task of posting audio and video files to Web sites. "We said blogging is now a platform, people are constantly publishing, so let's now do the audio thing," said Rice, who already was doing an online radio talk show when he founded the company.The Audioblog service costs $4.95 a month. To get audio onto their Web sites, bloggers can upload an MP3 or WAV format file to the Audioblog servers, or call into the service from any phone.
Jane fromGame Girl Advanceposted a great self-confession report about her particular game of shame,Summoner.From the post:"As the classic Evil Summoner FAQ eloquently describes, the game itself is a piece of shit. Badly designed, badly written (except for one mildly interesting plot twist), frustrating, and inflexible.Jane's well-constructed argument has contributed to a rather boisterous group therapy session on theWomen in Games Developmentforum, where members who have been harbouring terrible interactive secrets have been pouring their hearts out. Like most therapy, it's been a painful experience, reminding me of those titles I secretly love but can't bring myself to admit. I had a shifty through my games collection and found a few I hate to love:Lula: The Sexy EmpireA porn management simulation. Wholly engaging, but probably not for the reasons the creators intended. The graphics are awful, the interface is overly simplistic (I'd rather not think about why), but the design dangles the proverbial carrot just out of the player's reach in a laudable style.Salmon RunFrom way back on the Atari 2600, the objective of this title was to get to the top of the river to spawn, jumping up ladders and avoiding bears. Go salmon go! The graphics are horrendous, the levels are impossible, but I still love it beyond my ken.Thrill KillThe notorious title, banned for its vileness, still has a place on my PlayStation regardless of the repetitive nature of the fighting, the poor graphics and the OTT special moves because it introduced some interesting new qualities to the design of a beat-em-up, including the elimination round and the final "thrill kill".Black and WhiteWhile I absolutely loved the idea, the actual implementation frustrated me beyond belief. Still, regardless of the bugs, the unpolished release version and the utter lack of an in-game point I do love smiting my little villagers. It's a great place to visit after a particularly hard day at the office.Games are like biscuits. Some people like those chocolate-covered orangey things and others prefer traditional butter shortbread. Beauty is in the eye of the taster.Game Mattershas a great round up of people's opinions on what makes a game bad.
Mobile gamers love retro titles – at least they do if theELSPA java download chartsare to be trusted. The likes of Tetris, Pac-Man and Space Invaders continually loiter in the top ten, refusing to be budged by newer, fresher brands. It's hardly surprisingly then that most mobile publishers have tied up deals to convert classic coin-op, home computer and console titles to the mobile platform.Here's a big pile-up of the latest contenders, some just out, others on the way over the next couple of months (there's no such thing as a firm release date in this industry, believe me). Can't face the present? Come this way…SpeedballThe classic Amiga sci-fi sports title is coming soon courtesy of leading UK mobile developer, Macrospace. This cross between football and the old Games Workshop board-based battlerBlood Bowlwas a masterpiece of slick gameplay housed within an imaginative cyberpunk setting.Gridrunner ++Jeff Minter's PR chap Jim McCauley alerted me tothiswork-in-progress mobile translation of the cult 8bit shoot 'em up, which was recently updated for the PC. I'm hoping that a Java version of Attack of the Mutant Camels follows.Sabre WulfBased on the GBA update of the much-loved Spectrum arcade adventure (originally developed by Ultimate who went on to become Rare, of course) this is a bright cartoon-ish platformer using a 2D rather than isometric perspective. I sort of miss those smeary Speccy graphics, though.Space InvadersDigital Bridges brings us Space Invaders for the 21st Century. They're promising new game modes and features. But what can you possibly add to the game that inspired Metal Gear?TempestAn absolutely faithful (at least according to publisher, iFone) translation of the timeless shooter. They've had a tough time getting the graphics to fit on small mobile phone displays, but from the screens I've seen it works extremely well. Due out in March.MillipedeAgain from iFone, it's another Java conversion of a classic Atari coin-op. This 1982 follow-up to Centipede featured new enemies and a pesticide-style smart bomb. I was never a big fan.Tetris OnlineDue out in April, this new version of the legendary block-sorting puzzler features an over-the-air two-player mode. Could well be the title that introduces the concept of GPRS multiplayer gaming to a confused and uncertain audience. Yep, iFone again.LemmingsAn admirably faithful Java take on the Amiga puzzle legend. I wrote about ithere. It's from… iFone.Super BombermanVery decent take on Hudson's utterly fabulous Super Bomberman series from the SNES era. The AI enemies might be slightly jittery, but the gameplay is perfectly realised and doesn't bother with any of the unnecessary refinements from later in the series. German publisher Living Mobile is responsible for this one and has a follow-up, Super Bomberman 3D, on the way.Adventure IslandSet for release in March here's another welcome Hudson Soft conversion from Living Mobile. This lovely scrolling platformer originally appeared on the Nintendo Entertainment System in 1986 and should work brilliantly on mobile.2089 NectarisBit of an offbeat choice here by Living Mobile. Yes, it's another Hudson Soft conversion, but this time of lesser-known turn-based battle strategy title, Nectaris: Military Madness, originally released on the Turbografx console in 1989. A laterPSone conversionwas critically acclaimed but disappeared without a trace. Nectaris, however, was a brilliant game and no doubt inspired the GBA top-seller, Advance Wars. Its combination of use-friendliness and real strategic depth will make for perfect mobile fare.Ghosts n GoblinsA more than presentable re-make of the mid-eighties Capcom platformer – again from Living Mobile. This one is out right now apparently.JoustTHQ Wireless is responsible for this and the following four conversions of early eighties Midway coin-ops, all due out on Java over the coming months. This is theonewhere you engage in courtly battle atop a giant space ostrich.RobotronTheonewhere you rescue humans from evil robots.Marble MadnessThe one where you control a marble through a series of tricky mazes. Not sure how this one will work without the trackball interface, but they managed it for the early 8bit conversions. I'd prefer to see the similar, but certainly not identical C64 originalSpindizzy.Spy HunterThe one where you drive along a really long road shooting other cars, and then your car turns into a boat, and then back into a car.DefenderThe really, really good but quite complicatedoneby Eugene Jarvis. The minimalist visuals still look great today, a quarter of a century after the game's original release.TurricanAnd after all that Midway revivalism, THQ Wireless turns its attention to the Commodore 64 with this 'successor' to Rainbow Arts' scrolling shoot 'em up, which would later spawn a successful Amigaconversion. Enormous levels and taut Metroid-esque gameplay marked this one out.Jet Set Willy RacingOkay, not strictly a conversion of the Spectrum platformer, but this racing spin-off will interest the fans. It's still in development, but should be released by Advanced Mobile Solutions in the Spring. No, Matthew Smith isn't involved.CivilizationKorean publisher Com2Us is currently working on this Java translation of the empire building strategy sim. A monumentally ambitious project. Let's hope they don't just give up and turn it into a platform game, eh?
Cisco Systems last night reported second quarter profits up nearly 13%, although sales missed expectations, as the company continued to see strength in its traditional router business and emerging technologies such as internet telephones.For the three months ended January 29, Cisco earned $1.4bn (&#163;7.5bn) compared with $724m, in the same period last year.Excluding special items, Cisco earned $1.48bn compared with a profit of $1.32bn last time. Sales jumped 12% to $6.06bn, from $5.4bn last year. The earnings beat Wall Street expectations, while revenue missed.Since the high-tech bubble burst four years ago, Cisco has been branching out into areas beyond its core router and switching business.The strategy is paying off, said John Chambers, Cisco's chief executive.The results were announced after markets closed. Earlier, Cisco shares were up 8 cents, to $18.24, on Nasdaq. They lost 49 cents after-hours.
The rival mobile telephone content providers iTouch and Monstermob said last night they had ended their brief courtship.The firms acknowledged last week they were in preliminary talks that might lead to Monstermob making an offer for iTouch.If iTouch, in which Independent News and Media has a 34.8% stake, and its smaller rival Monstermob had merged, they would have created a company with a market capitalisation of &#163;240m. Neither gave any reason for the failure of the talks, which are thought to have begun early last week.Monstermob, which supplies services ranging from ringtones and games to videos and gaming products and targets 14- to 35-year-olds, said that it would "pursue other opportunities".iTouch, which provides weather, sport and financial information for mobile telephone users, said on Friday that a link with Monstermob was one of a number of "strategic options". Last night it merely said the talks had been terminated.
Interesting to seethe chartstoday. Straight in at number one in the all formats list isSonic Mega Collection Plus- a collection of classic, and not so classic, Sonic the Hedgehog games.Retro-gamingis increasingly popular, but it's rare to see a collection like this top the charts. So why has this done so much better than the numerous Atari and Midway retro offerings of the recent past? It's probably to do with the time of the year - there's not much out at the moment - and the relatively cheap price. But it's also because of the polish. From the "SayGah" logo sound effect to the collection of original manuals and artwork, it's clear that a lot of love has gone into this. Maybe the games industry is going the way of the music, with lavishly packaged re-issues tempting you to buy again what you already own.
1.Sonic Mega Collection Plus2.Need for Speed: Underground 23.G rand Theft Auto: San Andreas4.The Simpsons: Hit and Run5.The Incredibles6.Fifa 20057.Pro Evolution Soccer 48.Sonic Heroes9.Football Manager 200510.Uefa Champions League 2004-5Leisure software charts compiled by ChartTrack, (C)2001ELSPA(UK) Ltd
For some people, the instinct in times of serious illness is to close the shutters, switch on the answering machine and endure whatever lies ahead in the privacy of a tight circle of family and close friends. But for others, sickness feels more bearable when it is a public affair - when the one who is ill draws in a wide circle of friends and acquaintances ... or, in some cases, the world, through the medium of personal health weblogs.The written word is one of the means human beings use to purge emotions, heal or comfort each other, writer and reader alike. When BBC online writer Ivan Noble died late last week, 300,000 people logged on to read his final post on the web diary that he had begun to chart his experiences after being diagnosed with a malignant brain tumor in August 2002.During the life of the diary, fellow bloggers across the world wide web offered countless words of comment and comfort on Noble's site and on websites of their own - all examples of writers and readers forming an online community of suffering and support in the field of health.Every voice is different, but the basic role for most of these bloggers entails posting regular personal entries, responding to readers' emails and comments, and keeping the site updated with pictures, archives and links to other web pages that the blogger finds interesting. All this becomes a job in itself, and in some cases an added incentive to live.One blogger wrote of finding that his web diary helped him just as much as it offered advice and inspiration to others: "I know that it has kept me going much longer than I would have without it, and I am grateful."Many health blogs reveal how the bloggers' husbands, wives or friends remind and encourage them to post their thoughts as often as possible, as if this wall of words helps to keep the sickness at bay.And when it comes to generalised outbreaks, such as the Sars epidemic of 2003: "The thing about blogs is that they are a good way of dealing with public anxiety about emerging diseases," says Trevor Jackson of the British Medical Journal.Over the past months, DaveyBoy, an HIV-positive blogger from Toronto, Canada, has written many tense entries forHIV-Aids.blogspot.comas he waits to find out whether his newborn baby has contracted HIV from his mother. In October, 10 days after Ethan was born, he wrote: "Still worried about Ethan's HIV status, still worry he got HIV from mom or during delivery. Even if he isn't HIV-positive, I still will have to be careful the rest of my life around him as my blood is infected." Three tests later, and things are looking good. Ethan has tested negative for them all, and has just one more to confirm his clear status.Laura, who was 58 when she started her weblog in July last year, is going through the menopause. On Is It Hot in Here?, she documents her search for natural and safe HRT options, charting the highs and the lows of each hormone treatment. "No hot flushes and no sex drive! That's the good news and the bad news for the new year," she wrote on January 19.Dr Sarah Rawlings, policy manager at the charity Breakthrough Breast Cancer, says: "We know from talking to women with breast cancer that, for many, talking or writing about their experiences can help them cope with their diagnosis and subsequent treatment. Online diaries, such as blogs, are one way of doing this, and often provide reassurance for other patients. They can also help family and friends understand what a loved one is going through at a particularly difficult time."But could it be that our hunger for weblogs that trail the traumas of the sick is mainly a morbid fascination with bodily functions, death and disease? Emma Candy, who was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in June 2003 when she was 35 years old, wrote a blog charting her treatment, excerpts of which were published in the Guardian after she died in February last year.Like many health bloggers, she often reflects on the meaning of her diary posts and the psychology behind them. "Not sure what my blog is meant to be any more," she writes on November 12. "Is it a daily diary? A photo-love story? A eulogy to family and friends? A resource for others in the same situation?"In the tradition of theatrical tragicomedies, however, Emma seems to cope with the most difficult situations through humour, a feature common to many health bloggers. In the darkest moments, a light touch can offer relief or perspective. And laughter unites people, bringing about the comfort of company.Cass Brown, author of the popular weblog Cancer Giggles, also has humour close to his heart, describing his website as "an idiot's guide to accepting, living with, laughing at and dying from cancer".And Dori Johnson - who was first diagnosed with breast cancer in 1998 - imbues her posts with irony and wit. Archived pictures of her hair loss, showing her when blonde and when bald, are called "Hair today and ... gone tomorrow". And one day in November last year, under the heading Simplifying Life, she writes: "Went to trim my toenail today and the whole thing just came off! Sure makes that job easy. Such are the joys of chemotherapy ... Hope nothing serious falls off. Happy new year to everyone."Dori also puts her cancer into perspective by blogging about the other things in her world - her favourite recipes, for example, and her journey towards adopting a child after she found she could have no more of her own.The following is taken from No Bra Required, posted by Dori's husband, JE, in December 2002. "Dori will probably not like me sharing this, but sometimes you just got to get things off your chest. Last night we played a huge round of "what if" with all the big questions we are facing right now. For example, what if Dori's disability claim is denied? if can't sell the Yukon; if we can't pay the property taxes in January; if I lost my job. All things out of our control and not worth even worrying about. But Dori worries anyway and makes an already stressful time of year and time in our lives even more so. In the end we got it all out there and I think we both feel better. Change is certainly coming and we will do what we need to do. Everything will be all right. We decided that, no matter what, as long as we had each other and our kids and family, we would be very happy together."One of Dori's recommended weblogs, I Will Survive, supports this view. Its author, Sandee, was diagnosed with breast cancer in 1998. The cancer, which she calls the Dragon, has now spread to her bones.   Sandee says her website is a place to escape, somewhere that keeps her mind off her illness - even though, paradoxically, cancer is the weblog's driving force."I've been having more pain in my spine than usual this week, this puts me in worry mode," she writes. "Blows my mind that there is no cure for bone metastasis. They say that the average survival after the diagnosis of a breast cancer metastasis to bone has dramatically improved to about 24-36 months. Sigh ... is this supposed to make me feel better?"Technologically, the blog is a phenomenon of the web age - but the union of health and the diarist has a long tradition. John Mullan, senior lecturer in English at University College London, notes the similarities between 18th-century journals and today's weblogs in their unflinching honesty about personal health. From the religious confessionals of Medieval English literature to the modern diaries of Anne Frank, Virginia Woolf and Sylvia Plath, "One of the things that diary keepers did was monitor their health," he says. "It wasn't for anybody else, it was part of what self-inspection was about. They told you what they ate and what stomach upsets they had. They bothered with all the day-to-day trivia."In 1812, for example, Fanny Burney wrote a journal about her mastectomy without anaesthetic. "It's an extraordinary account of her   symptoms, how she was diagnosed with cancer," says Mullan. "And then, in excruciating detail, the operation itself." Health weblogs do the same, with cancer sufferers recording intimate details of their chemo- therapy, medication and surgery. The reader is spared no detail. Fanny Burney even got her husband to comment on the operation, which is again reflected in the habit of bloggers who include comments from their friends and family, especially when they are too sick to post entries themselves.Back in our own time, thousands of readers have found good in the web words of the likes of Ivan Noble. As his friend, Simon Fraser, wrote: "Some wanted to share cancer experiences and took strength from Ivan's courage and openness; others wanted to offer him support."Noble lives on in the minds and words of many bloggers due to a request in his final post: "I will end with a plea. I still have no idea why I ended up with a cancer, but plenty of other cancer patients know what made them ill. If two or three people stop smoking as a result of anything I have ever written, then the one of them who would have got cancer will live, and all my scribblings will have been worthwhile."Many have taken his words to heart. One blogger writes, "If I hadn't given up smoking last year, I'd be stopping today." Another: "After   reading his last few sentences, I made a promise to myself to give up the ciggies, not even allowing myself the odd one. I will think of him every time I'm tempted, and remember that when we're given a chance to prevent cancer, we should take it."Re-reading their posts brings these health bloggers to life in such a forceful way that you catch your   breath when you remember that some of them have died. The simple tales of living day to day with a life-threatening disease are unimaginably touching and can help families and friends of those suffering understand the experience.Even for those who have chosen not to share their stories on the internet, Ivan Noble's diary has been   very evocative. "My wife died 18 months ago from cancer and I can only think now what &#91;Noble's&#93; family are going through," says one correspondent on his website. "I did think about blogging my experiences of widowerhood, which now would have helped people like &#91;Noble's&#93; wife, but coming to terms with grief and keeping a diary about it was too much for me."And as another reader, Iain, wrote of Noble: "Ivan, you started writing this column at about the time I was diagnosed with cancer. Thankfully, I have come through it. I owe a lot to you - it was you who gave me perspective, hope and determination. I made my family members read it to help them understand. I still recommend your column to people I know who fall ill. I will miss your writing."&#183;Ivan Noble's Tumour Diary is atnews.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/4211475.stmMay I Be Frank?:www.mayibefrank.typepad.comIs It Hot in Here?:www.healthdiaries.com/blogs/hot/www.nobrarequired.comwww.day-without-rain.org/sandee/www.sarswatch.orgwww.thecancerblog.comwww.rdoc.org.ukwww.cancergiggles.blog-city.comwww.dipex.org&#183;For Guardian Unlimited's special report on weblogs, go toguardian.co.uk/online/weblogs
CNethas a good follow up to the story gamesblogpostedlast year, in which an everyday Joe forked out $26,000 for virtual land in the online game Project Entropia. From the article:"Storey said he's making a modest income from the property now, collecting small payments for hunting rights and other fees. But he expects his investment to really pay off once MindArk releases a housing update for the game and his virtual bulldozers start digging out prime home sites fellow players will pay to occupy."The article gives a great overview for the curious and uninitiated to the wierd world of the economies of online games.
No sooner had the trumpets blared for Firefox as a secure alternative to Internet Explorer, than somebody goes and finds a hole in it.According tothe Register, a loophole in Mozilla, Firefox, Opera, Netscape, Safari, Konqueror and others, means the URL display could be spoofed.The bug could be exploited by registering domain names with certain international characters - which look like other commonly-used characters - in order to hoodwink users into believing they on a different, trusted site. As such, the bug creates a new wheeze for phishing attacks. For Germans to use national German characters in ".de" domains, for example, is one thing, but the use of national characters has been extended to the international domain space (.com, .net an .org) and extends the scope for confusion.Apparently it's not a design flaw in the browsers themselves, but the implementation of international domain names. Though surely, it's the job of designers and programmers to watch this stuff.Meanwhile, it appears that Firefox is looking for a commercial partner. SayethZDNet:[Tristant Nitot] The European head of the Mozilla Foundation, which manages the browser's development, predicts that the product now has enough credibility to attack the commercial and public sector worlds."In order to woo businesses and government organizations, we are developing complementary administration tools to the browser to make it easier to deploy to a network," he said."We're also looking at getting together with a commercial partner, which will provide technical support and other services around Firefox."A commercial partner for Firefox. Hmmm.Google, anyone?
There's a piece in today's Timeslaw pages(may require registration) exploring the difficulties for companies and staff over using (or abusing) email.Helen Brearley was dismissed as a designer for a Nottinghamshire shopfitting after using her office system to exchange more than 300 personal emails, many of the sexually explicit, with her lesbian lover over 15 weeks. But last week an employment tribunal ruled that her dismissal was unfair and awarded her £26,000 in compensation.However, the decision was not saying that she was within her rights to have sent the emails, but that the company's policy was not clearly laid out....Her employer was in the wrong because she had not been warned that her behaviour was unacceptable. The difficulty for employers and their staff is over the interpretation of what is acceptable.After years of these things happening, it is surprising whenever someone comes a cropper, but we're still clearly a society coming to terms with the public nature of what we believe is "private" material.
Bill Gates, his shoulders hunched against the cold and wearing a grey V-neck sweater beneath a chalky pinstriped suit, is fielding questions about his other company.Mr Gates is best known as the billionaire founder of Microsoft. When pressed, many would also be able to point to his philanthropic efforts in areas such as health. Few realise that he is also chairman and sole shareholder of the second largest image library in the business, Corbis.On a freezing New York day last month, Corbis managed to attract several hundred members of the media, Wall Street and Madison Avenue, home to the American advertising industry, for a presentation of its annual results. That is no mean feat for a private company. It helps, when seeking a little publicity, to be able to produce the world's richest man as a draw.Of course it helps in other ways too. Corbis, established 16 years ago, has yet to turn a profit. Mr Gates can afford to be patient. "Certainly if you want to be the first in something you often end up being ahead of your time and Corbis has had way more than its share of being ahead of its time," he says. The business is now being pushed into the spotlight. The annual meeting, only the second hosted by Corbis, is part of an attempt to raise its profile as Mr Gates grooms it for a possible stock market flotation.Corbis was born in 1989 out of his twin fascinations with art and the impact that digital technology would one day have on the delivery and use of images.The original plan was to create a digital library of the world's art collections. The company experimented with direct-to-consumer businesses such as an online poster store, museum kiosks and CD-roms on the Barnes Collection of art outside Philadelphia or the Leonardo da Vinci notebook. Mr Gates also thought that homes would have huge television screens hanging on their walls that could be used to display art or other images when not in use."Back in the late 1980s, when I was thinking about the digital revolution, this idea of what it would mean for imagery was something that fascinated me," he says. "I was someone who carried lots of slides around and as I tried to learn about art and history, the idea that, boy, this imagery could be easy to navigate and very accessible - I thought something dramatic could come and change that."The first five years of Corbis, he says, were "very experimental". In the mid-1990s Mr Gates and the company's management decided to turn it into a business proper.The company began acquiring picture libraries including the Bettman Archive in 1995, a collection of 11m photographs, many of them iconic images, such as Albert Einstein sticking out his tongue and the Wright brothers in flight, and set about making digital copies.Today Corbis has more than 70m images and is second only to Getty Images, founded by Mark Getty, a scion of the famous oil family, and Jonathan Klein, both former bankers at Hambros in London.In an effort to move towards profitability, Corbis is pushing into new markets. It relies disproportionately on the editorial business and is focusing expansion on the advertising and marketing sectors, where prices and margins are higher.Corbis is also developing new business streams. They include commissioned photography, using a large network of   freelancers, and services aimed at emerging markets: for instance packaging film clips, such as ET saying "phone home", that mobile phone networks sell to customers as substitutes for text messaging.The division generating the most excitement is rights services. The company hopes to exploit the ever more complex layer of rights from photographers, to celebrities, landmarks, film and TV clips, logos, music and so on. It has built a team of experts in rights clearances that can either offer a stand-alone service or support for the core image licensing.Steve Davis, the chief executive of Corbis, says awareness of intellectual property has exploded in the past 10 years, leading to more and more claims. He cites the example of the Eiffel Tower in Paris. By day it is in the public domain. By night, advertisers wanting to use the image need to pay the person who put the lights up."There is a huge opportunity here," he says. "Lawyers on $400 an hour can spend ages calling around to find out who they need to talk to about the Hollywood   sign, for example, and then when they finally reach them they have no negotiating parameters. We already have them in our Rolodex and we have probably done 10 deals with them in the past year, so we know what they can charge."Corbis has also begun to represent rights' owners. Its first deal was with the artist Andy Warhol's estate. Last month it announced an agreement with Marvel Entertainment, giving Corbis the right to act as a broker, licensing images of super-heroes such as Spider-Man, the X-Men and the Fantastic Four for commercial use.Last year revenues at the company grew by 22% to $170m (&#163;91m). Adding in Germany's Zefa, which Corbis acquired last month for &euro;56m (&#163;39m), then sales would have been $211m. Getty, by comparison, has sales of more than $520m and profits of $21m.This year Corbis aims to reach profitability. Broadening the ownership, potentially with an initial public offering, would be a "typical part of the evolution of a successful company," Mr Gates says.   "We'd expect to be there in something like three years. We need to prove how profitable the business can be."Gates says he spends about 50 hours a year on Corbis business, meeting for top level strategy sessions every four to six weeks. Mr Davis describes him as "terribly engaged". "I'm always in awe that despite probably not having given us too much thought for a month, that within an hour and a half he can hit on all the important things we are thinking about and struggling with," he says.Some of that early experimentation might also be finally paying off. The arrival of huge plasma TVs has prompted hardware manufacturers and cable companies to approach Corbis about licensing images for their screens, the firm says.The billionaire founder already uses Corbis content on his own huge TVs at home. For anyone interested in the decor of the world's richest man, his favourite images tend to be American art, sailing, historical figures, Nobel prize winners, old movie stars and golf.
Thanks to posted tips fromMary Hodderat the weekend, there were no great surprises today whenAsk Jeevesannounced it had bought out web-based feed-reading software Bloglines.Ask Jeeves, a leading provider of information retrieval technologies, brands and Internet advertising services, today announced it has acquired Trustic, Inc., the company that owns and operatesBloglines.Bloglines is the world's most popular free online service for searching, subscribing, publishing and sharing RSS feeds, blogs and rich web content. Bloglines will continue to operate as an independent brand in the Ask Jeeves portfolio and retain its name and unique URL."Bloglines is not only a market leader in feed aggregation and blog search, but it is truly one of the most useful and addictive services on the entire Web. We are excited about providing Bloglines with the resources to grow its service and help it reach a broader audience," said Jim Lanzone, Ask Jeeves' senior vice president of search properties. "Bloglines is a natural fit for our multi-brand portfolio, as we extend our information retrieval services to encompass the rapidly growing amount of dynamic content and information available in the blogosphere."It's taken a while, but a few blogging entrepreneurs now seem to be fitting the mould of typical dotcommery - build your product, launch a small firm, get acquired by a big firm, make some money.I'd just like it to be known that Onlineblog would gladly accept offers in the region of $10-20m.We can all dream, eh?
Game Girl Advance has just posted a really interestingarticlediscussing a Maoist games review site. Yes, that's videogames reviewed from a communist standpoint.The piece goes on to consider the highly subjective games journalism found on the web, making comparisons with the Gonzo journalism of Hunter S Thompson and his ilk.It's a fascinating read - especially for those of us who willingly gloss over the political and social ramifications of the games we play because we, you know, just like shooting stuff.
Nearly 800 staff are to lose their jobs at T-Mobile sites across the country as part of a European-wide cull by the parent group, Deutsche Telekom.Staff at the head office in Hatfield, Hertfordshire, together with call centre workers at places such as Merthyr Tydfil in south Wales and Greenock in Scotland are in the firing line, the firm said.Last night a spokeswoman for T-Mobile explained that 795 jobs would go in total, with 535 coming through redundancies and 260 positions being outsourced to third-party operators of call centres.The company spokeswoman said: "We cannot say at this moment which parts of the country will be affected but we hope to have details within two weeks after talks with the unions."The Communication Workers Union warned there could be "action" against the company if talks did not proceed smoothly.The CWU's organiser, Nick Childs, who has written to T-Mobile asking for a meeting, said: "This announcement will come as an enormous blow to our hard-working members at T-Mobile. They are the ones who have stuck by the company through thick and thin."Now the company is repaying their loyalty and hard   work by throwing one in eight of their staff on the dole."The swingeing British cuts were revealed as the German economics minister, Wolfgang Clement, called on his local firms to halt planned redundancies as the number of unemployed in the country reached a record five million.Mr Clement fears this month's jobless total in Germany will exceed January's 5.04m, the highest since Hitler's rise to power in 1933.He singled out Deutsche Bank for criticism after its announcement last week that it would be making 6,400 workers redundant. Germany's biggest bank, which increased its pre-tax earnings last year by 50% to &euro;4.1bn (&#163;2.8bn), has embarked on a new &euro;1.2bn round of cost-cutting to reach its target of a 25% return on equity this year.Just under 2,000 of the job cuts will be in Germany, with the rest in the City of London and in other overseas locations. Mr Clement said reducing costs should not be used as the only way of trying to rise to the top of the international competitiveness league.Since early December, according to Der Spiegel magazine, a series of big companies have announced a total of 7,400 job cuts in Germany. There is also a threat of more to come at the insolvent construction company Walter Bau, which employs 9,400 people, and the stores group Karstadt.The job cuts come after a year in which the Dax 30 index of leading companies made more than &euro;60bn in profits.
The &#163;6.2bn programme to build an integrated IT system for the NHS in England is in danger of catastrophic failure due to a collapse of confidence among the doctors who are supposed to use it, a Guardian poll of GPs and consultants has revealed.The programme is the biggest civil IT project in the world and John Reid, health secretary, was determined it should not repeat the mistakes of previous government computer procurement disasters.But a survey of doctors by medical pollsters Medix found the government has squandered the support of clinicians by failing to consult them on specifications or pay attention to the practical difficulties of operating the systems in a busy clinical environment.A year ago Medix found 56% of GPs in England were at least fairly enthusiastic about the health service's National Programme for IT (NPfIT), but during polling in the last week of January that fell to 21%. Among hospital doctors, support fell from 75% to 51%.The poll followed a National Audit Office report last month which criticised the Department of Health for failing to engage doctors in preparation for the new systems until they could be demonstrated to work without glitches.A new electronic booking system, allowing GPs and patients to fix an appointment at the most appropriate hospital, was supposed to be working everywhere in England by the end of this year, but worked hardly anywhere by the end of last year.Instead of reaching a target of 205,000 successful online appointments, GPs managed to achieve only 63.The Medix poll, co-sponsored by the Guardian and Computer Weekly, found doctors were anxious about the   confidentiality of the proposed NPfIT system for transferring electronic patient records. This will allow authorised medical staff throughout the NHS to access a patient's medical history.The poll found 70% of GPs and 42% of non-GPs think records will be less secure than current systems. Only 2% of GPs believed the new system would be more secure.Just 5% of doctors said they were adequately consulted about the IT programme and 71% were not consulted at all.Robin Guenier, chairman of Medix, said: "After more than two years of delay, it will be a major challenge to overcome the distrust that seems to be replacing enthusiasm in the minds of many doctors."Paul Cundy, chairman of the GPs' committee on IT at the British Medical Association, said: "It's increasingly difficult to remain optimistic about NPfIT, given the collapse of enthusiasm for it in the profession. It's fallen over a cliff edge."A spokesman for NPfIT said: "We know there has been some discontinuity in our clinical engagement. But we have recently adopted a new approach, appointing a number of senior clinicians to lead this engagement work."Alan Burns, NPfIT's director of service implementation, said he would prove to doctors over the next three or four months that NPfIT was secure and Choose and Book would not overload GPs with extra work.He acknowledged a series of personnel changes among top managers responsible for making the programme acceptable.Mr Burns said he was now senior responsible owner "for all practical purposes". He added: "I don't take this job lightly and intend to stay responsible for it."
"District of Columbia political, religious and community leaders gathered at a church this week to support a proposed ban on the sale of violent and sexually explicit video games to minors. They summed up their objections in a word: poison," detnews.comreportedon Saturday.We all know of course that these people have a point - children shouldn't be playing games like Grand Theft Auto. But this is a complex issue and reading the piece carefully reveals the many problems at the heart of this debate...For a start:"These politicians cannot pull this," said Ian "Red" Morganstein, 29, an assistant manager at For Your Entertainment, a store that sells Grand Theft Auto and other games labeled mature. He said the store does not sell the games to anyone younger than 17."It's not us. It's not the game companies. It's the parents," Morganstein said. He said he has turned away youngsters only to see them return with a parent. "If you're concerned about it, don't bring your 8-year-old son in here to buy games about violence and sex."How do you legislate against poor parenting decisions? How do you educate stressed-out, over-worked and sometimes just plain stupid mums and dads that little Johnny should probably not be blasting hookers to death for two hours every night? You can't. Some people chose not to engage in the arguments concerning videogame violence, because videogame violence gives them a few hours of peace every night.Another problem is this: the key guiding force behind this campaign is the religious right, and who wants to be told what to do by a bunch of self-righteous zealots, who find it utterly impossible to take a moral stance against anything without dragging Christian dogma into the equation? And we know they won't stop at preventingminorsfrom playing violent games.Meanwhile, it's difficult to stick up for the videogame industry while it transmogrifies into just another collective of buck-passing, profit-rabid corporations, treating their employees and customers like automatons and justifying every morally questionable action by lazily citing freedom of speech or the pressures and demands of the market place.As gamers, we're stuck between these ridiculous groups as they plot out the future of this industry. Do we have a say?
Looks like it might be time to say goodbye to a famous piece of technology, the Hubble telescope.Reutershas the story:The aging Hubble Space Telescope -- a path-breaking scientific instrument whose eye-catching images have won fans around the world -- would die in orbit under the 2006 budget for NASA proposed on Monday.The U.S. space agency's total budget would rise 2.4 percent over 2005 to about $16.5 billion, but only $93 million would be spent on Hubble, with $75 million of that aimed at bringing the observatory down to Earth safely, NASA's comptroller said."Hubble is a spacecraft that is dying," Comptroller Steve Isakowitz said at a briefing in advance of the budget's release. "We have decided that the risks associated with the Hubble servicing at this time don't merit going forward."Despite its false start, Hubble has managed to illuminate all kinds of things from the heavens for us - Shoemaker-Levy 9 hitting Jupiter, the existence of dark matter and evidence of planets in other solar systems.Of course, NASA's been planning on replacing Hubble with theJames Webb Space Telescopefor some time, but our man in the know says that it's actually vast improvements in land-based telescope technology that have done for it... perhaps space-based scopes just don't cut it any more.
"Holographic storage drives and other products based on holographic storage technology may come to market as early as this year. Tokyo-based Optware Corp. announced plans this week to create products based on its HVD (Holographic Versatile Disc) technology, first for the health care, oil and gas, and pharmaceutical markets, and eventually for the home market, reportseWeek."Optware's HVD-based products will store between 100GB and 1TB of data and be able to transmit data as fast as 1G bit per second."Optware's announcement came on the heels of a similar announcement earlier this month [January] fromInPhase Technologies Inc. of Longmont, Colo."
Michael Jackson's father went on television last week and claimed that his son was only being vilified by the press "because he is black". Now, I can believe many things about Michael Jackson but ... black? I mean, honestly. Next you'll be telling me that Tim Westwood is white.The second thing about the Jackson trial is the way the press has turned the alleged abuse of a child into something akin to a reality-TV show. Night after night, American news programmes bring viewers the latest revelation from inside Neverland, while tabloid magazines battle for that exclusive interview with the man who tended Michael's pet llamas. And all the while, the question they are all asking is not whether Jackson is innocent or guilty but whether he will end up in jail. They should just put it to a text-message vote and be done with it.But Jackson is not taking the adverse media attention lying down. Last week he posted an emotional video statement on his website,mjnews.us, proclaiming his innocence and pleading to be allowed a fair trial, like "every other American". Who does he mean - every other American who shares his bedroom with a chimp?The video was quickly picked up by news broadcasters and transcripts appeared in newspapers and on other websites. As PR strategies go, Jackson's use of the web is nothing short of brilliant.Mjnews.us was set up by the star's representatives shortly after the allegations came to light, with an announcement that the site would "serve as a source of official communications on my case", and that "any statement that does not appear on this website must be considered unauthorized". Jackson's people clearly realised that their client's reputation was going   to be torn to shreds by the media and that there was a real risk that "friends" would make unauthorised statements on his behalf.Thanks to the site, Jackson can ensure that the media, and more importantly the wider public, have a direct feed of pro-Jackson propaganda and that his side of the story makes it into people's scandal-hungry brains.And it's not just Jackson who has realised that, when a media storm hits, the official website is a celebrity's best friend. When Martha Stewart found herself in hot water last year over her dodgy share dealing, she used herMarthatalks.comsite to keep fans abreast of developments and to explain her decision to take some jail time rather than appeal the conviction. Even more cunningly, she continues to post irregular updates from prison - scribbling the messages on paper and sending them to her PA for transferring on to the web.Stewart is a shrewd media operator and obviously understands the importance of remaining in the public eye during her spell behind bars. Thanks to her regular web updates, Stewart will have a much easier job re-starting her career when she is released later this year. Meanwhile, on this side of the Atlantic, our embattled celebs haven't proved quite so web-savvy - but there have been a few who have tried.The earliest and most infamous example was Jonathan King who, in 2001, used his official site to respond to child abuse accusations, and then continued to post statements protesting his innocence after he had been jailed. If only his posts had been less smug he might even have succeeded in winning back a bit of public support.More recently, and in far less controversial circumstances, Blunkett biographer Stephen Pollard used his site to deal with the surge of media interest after Michael Howard hurled his book around the Commons. Pollard took to the web to correct critics, thank fans and just milk the situation.So, no matter whether you're a Jackson or a Pollard - or even a King - the importance of having an official site to take on your critics can't be overestimated. In fact, as the media get ever more hungry for scandals and a growing number of famous names end up behind bars, it occurs to me that there might be money to be made from their misery. I'm considering setting up a site called mysideofthestory.com where troubled celebrities can post official statements whenever they need to, at a fraction of the cost of maintaining their own site. I've emailed Michael Jackson to see if he wants to invest in it but sadly I've yet to receive a reply. It's probably because I'm black.&#183;Paul Carr is editor-in-chief of the Friday Project (www.thefridayproject.co.uk)
Free newspapers, free TV stations, free digital radio, free music downloads and free websites. It seems that the only thing no longer free in the media is the proverbial lunch. Last week Rupert Murdoch, the oracle of media profitability, found himself talking about free content encroaching on his businesses in both newspapers and on TV.Metro, the free morning commuter paper, conceded Murdoch, had had a negative effect on sales of the Sun, and as a result Murdoch's News International is watching developments in the market "very, very closely". For Associated Newspapers, which launched the Metro concept in the UK in 1999, this is analogous to the tethered goat being told that the boa constrictor is watching its situation very, very closely. But what is the worst that could happen? Another free newspaper? As the old saying goes - you can't fall off the floor.Transport for London is discussing the possibility of allowing a second free paper to be distributed, in the evening, in the tube - an option which has attracted interest from at least three national newspaper groups. Free newspapers are not new, but Metro has shown what was previously in doubt among the nationals, that the   cover price does not necessarily determine the value of the audience to the advertiser.Associated has always maintained that Metro did not threaten its paid-for London paper, the Evening Standard, because it grew the audience for newspapers and was sold in the morning, rather than the afternoon. Looking at the Standard's circulation dives and listening to Murdoch's more candid assessment, one can only conclude that this is no longer true.It also opens up some uncomfortable truths about the modern media model. It is what Clay Shirky, US academic and writer on internet economics, describes as the "fame versus fortune" model - ie what happens when a medium becomes attractive for its reach rather than its revenue. If barriers to entry are sufficiently low (for instance publishing on the internet which costs nothing for one amateur) then free content flourishes because writers are motivated by exposure rather than money. The paid-for media have been snooty about free content on the web for a long time, but now the price of content is being driven down - and not just by the internet but by increased competition in the industry.Take, for instance, Murdoch's other great cash cow, BSkyB. For 10 years it   has dominated multichannel television. But now it faces the rise of Freeview, the "less is less" free digital option for those who cannot or will not subscribe to Sky. While Sky continues to grow, propelled by football and the Sky Plus recording technology, it is, we are told, being outpaced in sales by the earthbound option. Last week Channel 4 struck a further blow for no-pay TV by announcing that its hitherto subscription-based channel E4 would be going free. Sky has, it thinks, little to fear from Freeview - after all, subscribers who want the all singing, all dancing, all cricketing option will still go to Sky.But the issue is substitutability - only five terrestrial channels are no substitute for 500. But perhaps 30 channels for nothing is an acceptable alternative to paying &#163;20 a month for a little bit more. If this is the case then Sky will have to lower its prices to keep the migration from Freeview running at an acceptable rate. The sports rights genie is escaping from its magic bottle - Six Nations Rugby was webcast live last weekend by the BBC - and Sky will find itself in the same place as the rest of every other industry, facing the inevitable con clusion that the cost of content to the consumer will have to come down.Exactly what will happen is anybody's guess. But one short-term probability is that the traditional publishers and broadcasters, who can no longer charge more for pieces of content and retain an audience, will have to rely on the technological wrapping paper to provide the value.In the newspaper market this would mean new formats and new presses, giving their readers smaller and more colourful papers. In music, we have the intriguing model of iTunes and the ubiquitous iPod. People pay Apple 79p for a track of music - but are they really valuing the music, or the ease of downloading it on to a format they understand? For Sky it is certainly Sky Plus, the solid state recording option that is more valued by subscribers than three dozen entertainment channels.But back to the local and regional press where the freesheet predated even the internet. Once the free papers had spiked the competition's guns and stripped their advertising, forcing consolidation, they have in many cases become paid for - at least for the time being.&#183;Emily Bell is editor in chief of GuardianUnlimited.emily.bell@guardian.co.uk
In soapland, there is nothing like a wedding to boost the ratings. From the preparations to the honeymoon, the audience can expect to share the drama. Until now. TV viewers are being excluded from the nuptials of Hollyoaks's Mandy Richardson and Tony Hutchinson - in a broadcasting first, when the lovebirds jet out to Paris in a fortnight, only mobile phone users will be invited. For a price, subscribers will be sent a series of picture messages with brief plot captions."Viewers can get that little bit of extra info to gossip about with their friends," promises Sarah Dunn, who stars in the February 21 mobile premiere as Mandy. Those without the technology will be none the wiser, but integrating phones with broadcast media, so viewers can access their favourite TV programmes on the move, could prove a crucial tool in retaining brand loyalty.For &#163;1.50, users will receive five daily instalments of the Mersey TV-produced soap as a series of picture slides, via multimedia messaging (MMS). The producers point out that the price is relatively low, compared to the cost of ringtones and graphics, which their target audience already download. Mersey TV further insists that they are not considering extending the project to their other teen-oriented show, Grange Hill, to prevent the 14-18 demographic becoming over-commercialised.It is more a creative tool than a money-spinner, says Lee Hardman, the head of Conker Media, Mersey TV's digital development and production division, which developed the technology along with mobile marketing specialists Brainstorm. "This   type of thing only works if the production team buys into it; creative elements cannot just be bolted on as a revenue generator."Hollyoaks, which is set in a fictional suburb of Chester, regularly commands more than two million viewers in a 6.30 timeslot. Although the show is aimed at 16-24-year-olds, the mobile service is seen as a way to tap into a slightly younger audience, with the promise of "a unique insight into their favourite characters". An existing SMS text message service delivers a character's extra thoughts as the closing credits roll.But the show's executive producer, Jo Hallows, concedes that viewers will be missing out on plots by not subscribing to the MMS stories. "It's a shared secret with the audience," she says. Hallows says she is surprised by the limited take-up of the technology, given the endless possibilities to bring viewers closer to their shows.On Vodafone's 3G service, US drama 24 has launched 24 "mobisodes" to tie in with its fourth series, but unlike the Hollyoaks service, these do not feature the same characters as the broadcast version. In the Netherlands, the twice-daily Jong Zuid and the Endemol-produced Fantesstic operate as exclusively mobile soaps without any television companions.It is estimated that one in 20 phones in Britain are now MMS-capable, but given the popularity of this service, TV companies have been slow to take up MMS technology as quickly as they seized SMS. Last year, for example, viewers of Five's Family Affairs were able to vote by text to decide on the outcome of a major storyline, and text votes are crucial to shows such as Big Brother and I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here!. In April last year, Johnny Vaughan's now-defunct BBC3 chat show was the first to encourage viewers to send in MMS pictures of themselves to be praised or ridiculed. This idea was transferred to Vaughan's BBC1 show on Saturday nights with Denise Van Outen, Passport to Paradise, in which MMS photos were displayed at the end of the episode. However, the BBC has not pushed the technology in the other direction, with the only noticeable sign being trials of Video Nation clips on the 3 network. The BBC's interactive team say that they are looking at how to make content available on mobile platforms, given that people are leading busier lives preventing them from watching programmes at their scheduled time. Yet they have no plans to apply the technology to bigger shows such as EastEnders.The makers of Hollyoaks know that they are on to a winner with the MMS spin-off, given its low production costs and the fact that its audience is completely comfortable with the technology. The show's website receives 15m hits a month. Hallows says: "They change their mobile phones more often than they change their underwear. It's their biggest priority, so we need to   tap into that and it will enable us to develop a closer relationship with our fanbase. This is an opportunity for kids to get messages on the school bus, which means they will gossip about them. The new technology is in its infancy but it is growing very fast and we have only just started with it at the moment. The only limit really is your imagination."Hollyoaks already uses MMS in other ways: subscribers can receive a 15-20 second trailer for the next day's programme, but the sound quality is still not perfect. Last year, 30,000 budding actors sent in pictures via their phones and the web vying for a place   at the Hollyoaks On The Pull auditions. Another cheekily named product, Textual Intercourse, will bring viewers right to the heart of the new MMS spin-off. As Conker Media points out, it is quite a challenge writing a story when you are limited to 160 characters per slide, so they are opening the process out to their audience. Viewers will be encouraged to use SMS to send in their own 160-character stories for the MMS service.In the 1990s, Mersey TV's Hollyoaks and Brookside were the first shows to launch spin-off videos. Hallows, who has been with Hollyoaks since it launched in 1995, says that if the de mand is there, now even specific storylines can be tailored to the audience's desires. She says: "If we wanted to make a late-night DVD, the fans can say 'we want it to be like this and we want these people to be in it'. Effectively, we can make it for them with the money that they pay us. If the audience wants it, why not give it to them?"
There's a good piece in this week'sEconomistfollowing the latest twist in the sale of IBM's PC-making business.Three senior Republican Congressmen are lobbying against the proposed $1.75 billion purchase of IBM's personal-computer business by Lenovo, China's largest PC maker. They claim that it will allow the Chinese government to acquire sensitive American technology and, potentially, use IBM's facilities to spy for the Chinese Armed forces.In a letter to the treasury secretary, John Snow, the trio wrote that the deal "may transfer advanced US technology and corporate assets to the Chinese government". Lenovo's parent company was founded, and is still controlled by, the Chinese Academy of Science.The piece gives the Congressmen short shrift, and rightly so. Whatever misgivings one may have over the deal, particularly in terms of jobs, it seems like a rather desperate roll of the dice to claim that it's a bad thing on security grounds.IBM is selling off its PC manufacturing business, a well established technology which Lenovo are already keenly aware of. The idea that it will help Chinese intelligence infiltrate America's military secrets seems more than just a little ludicrous.
"The dog ate my computer", doesn't quite have the same ring to it. Pupils in Cheshire are among the first to move towards a "paperless school," following the introduction of a new system which allows them to file their homework by email.The pilot project being run by the information and communication technology department at St Ambrose RC college in Hale Barns, Cheshire, allows pupils to email their homework in and have their teachers email back their marks. They can even do some lessons online.Headmaster Michael Thompson told EducationGuardian.co.uk: "Pupils are incredibly enthusiastic about this. The homework is emailed to the boys, then they email it back. They are so enthusiastic about getting it done, that they just want to finish it. We are getting it returned within half an hour. It's also made marking homework much easier."We're looking at using the electronic means to deliver the lessons. You could pull in the latest video clip or news headlines from the morning to show the class, it helps you deliver things right up to date. By using the electronic system presentation of work improved, so the boys are concentrating on content and accuracy rather than presentation."He added: "We'd like to bring in palm pilots for the sixth form, so boys can take notes with a pen which are immediately turned into electronic notes, or so teachers can beam out extra notes the boys need."The scheme is currently limited to ICT lessons but the hope is that it can be expanded to other subjects with more online lessons to replace traditional homework.Most of pupils at the grammar all-boys school have access to a computer at home, and those who don't can use school facilities after hours.The school's ICT head, Peter Mayland, said: "It is far more flexible for both teachers and pupils and allows us to be more creative and challenging in the choice of work we set."But perhaps most importantly it is in itself a constructive use of ICT, giving the pupils more confidence to use the tools of the subject. The paperless school may not be too far ahead."The move will open up a whole new generation of excuses for late submission with pupils having to blame computer breakdowns and network failures for late submission of assignments, rather than blaming an accident involving a household pet.Other E-learning initiatives currently being piloted in schools include a "parents gateway" at St Martin's school in Brentwood, Essex, which allows parents to check their children's attendance, punctuality, target grades and results online. They can also see what homework their children have been set everyday. From 9.30 in the morning they can log on to make sure they were in school on time. Parents of 1,000 out of 1,800 pupils at the school have so far signed up to the scheme and the website has scored 20,000 hits in the year it has been running.Meanwhile, Sunnybank prep school, in Burnley, last Autumn announced that it would be transmitting real-time images from its classrooms on the internet for parents to check what their children are up to all day. Incidents can be recorded on to a CD for parents' careful consideration.However, there are some concerns that efforts to improve the use of ICT in schools could be hampered by teachers' lack of ICT skills. Ofsted has repeatedly criticised the inconsistency of teachers' confidence in using computers, saying that too many lack even basic skills.Last month the education secretary, Ruth Kelly, announced a new drive to provide training in schools to help teachers improve their skills using online packages.
At last year's E3, Sony "thrilled" attendees at their early morning press conference with a talk about Cell technology and its potential role in powering the next PlayStation. I'm blaming the jetlag, but at the time seeing the PSP in action was far more exciting than a presentation on processing cores. Of course, I should have had a seventh coffee and been more attentive -Cell processingis big news. Full details about the chip used to power PlayStation 3 will bereleased later today. Apparently it will be capable of handling 16 trillion floating point operations, or calculations, every second. But can it do emotion? Ahem.
You arrive at the concert hall and, instead of getting a programme, pick up a small piece of electronic kit that could revolutionise the experience of live symphonic music.You take your seat, and Stravinsky's Firebird begins. As the music proceeds, you glance down at the small screen in the palm of your hand and read: "Stravinsky's virtuosic orchestration reaches a climax in this passage, where the illusion of WHOOSHES! is created by passing lines quickly from instrument to instrument."Later the screen encourages you to listen for short repetitive rhythms as "the Firebird struts her stuff", for seductive string pizzicatos, "chirping winds" and dazzling runs by three harps.You glance at the screen again and see live pictures of conductor, soloists and orchestral players.The Concert Companion (CoCo for short), developed in the US, embraces wireless technology to help concertgoers understand what is going on as it happens. An operator sits at a computer in the hall and, on cue, transmits programme notes to every device.CoCo, which uses a standard PDA (personal digital assistant), has already been on trial with five orchestras in the US, including the Philadelphia and the New York Philharmonic, and will be used regularly by other orchestras throughout the 2005-06 season.Some observers are already hailing it as a potential saviour of the classical concert because of its potential for winning new audiences by demystifying Bach and Bruckner - or even Birtwistle.Managers of Britain's orchestras will have a chance to weigh up CoCo's likely impact when its inventor Roland Valliere, a former executive with the Kansas City Symphony, demonstrates it at the conference of the Association of British Orchestras in Birmingham at the weekend.Mr Valliere was impressed by research that showed how audio guides and surtitles had increased visits to galleries and opera houses. "I began to wonder whether a similar approach might be possible for the classical concerts," he said."The idea is to appeal to individuals who the researchers call 'culturally inclined non-attenders': people within the baby-boomer generation who have an interest in culture, listen to classical music on the radio but for whatever reason don't attend concerts."There seem to be two main reasons: they don't have time and they don't have the information; classical music is a language they don't quite understand."Public responses to trials have been generally favourable. "I usually avoid Stravinsky," commented a user at a concert in Saratoga. "This made it much more enjoyable."Others found it more work than "just listening", with one noting that he felt as if "somebody &#91;was&#93; kind of cheering the piece on".Michael Henson, managing director of the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra, said he would come to the conference demonstration with an open mind."I always think we should be looking at ways in which we can enhance the experience of the audience," he said.But John Summers, chief executive of Manchester's Hall&#233;, was more sceptical."I think this is patronising," he said."For me, music is an aural experience, about being there. I would be absolutely staggered if these devices became part of the regular concertgoing experience."
Gamesindustry.bizhas reported that Europe is Sony's lowest priority in the forthcoming release of its "all-in-one" handheld games console, the PSP. Afterannouncingthat the release of its trump card to the Nintendo DS would hit the streets on 24 March - a mere fortnight after the new Nintendo handheld stock arrived - the company quietly backed away from releasing their machine on the same date to the European market. Has it already done its damage?Sony's voracious marketing strategy has historically undermined the releases of other products, resulting most explicitly in the takedown of console rival theSega Dreamcast. Is this just another attempt to knock another contender off the podium, and will the Nintendo DS, on the shelves 11 March, be able to handle the heat?
"Stationed in a remote corner of Iraq, Marine Corps reservist Karl Linn's only means of communicating with the outside world was through a computer. Several times a week, the 20-year-old combat engineer would log on and send out a batch of e-mails and update a Web site with pictures of his adventures," reportsThe Washington Post."For his parents in Midlothian, Va., the electronic updates were so precious that when he was killed last week in an enemy ambush, one of the first things they did was to contact the company that hosted their son's account. They wanted to know how to access the data and preserve it."But who owns the material is a source of intense debate."Linn's father, Richard, said he believes the information belongs to his son's estate, just like his old high school papers, his sweaters and his soccer ball, and should be transferred to the next of kin. The e-mail and Web hosting company, Mailbank.com Inc., said that while it empathizes with the family's situation, its first priority is to protect the privacy of its customers. It refuses to divulge any information about the accounts."Comment:It's worth reading the whole story, which looks at other examples of the same problem. One potential snag is that some e-mail companies deactivate accounts and delete the contents if they are not used for a specific period, which can be as little as 30 days.
"At the O'Reilly Emerging Tech Conference in 2004, a startup called Flickr introduced a funny little social networking app that let you upload digital photos into chatroom and IM conversations. While the original launch met with rave reviews from attendees, the Flickr team kept adding features and evolving the service. By July 2004, they had achieved a critical mass of features, and Flickr was becoming the hottest thing on the net. In January 2005 alone, Flickr has been profiled in Wired, The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, and the Washington Post." says theO'Reilly Network.Oh yeah, and last week'sGuardian Online, but we also covered it a year ago in an article based on ETech 2004,Let's be Friendsters.The O'Reilly feature is a long interview with Flickr's chief executive, all-round good guy Stewart Butterfield.
Yet another article complaining about the outpourings of vitriolic abuse and stupidity with which the Mac "faithful" respond to anything that's less than unstinting in its praise for all things Apple, this time inSilicon.com. The MacLoonies are a small minority, of course, butIt's this minority that seems to be under some form of mass hypnosis - perhaps some far-reaching extension of Steve Jobs' 'reality distortion field' - thinking that Apple can do no wrong and is a panacea for all the IT wrongs in the world.Even if this were true, it's the wrong way to get the message across. As the article notes:The collective moral outrage does Apple evangelists, and by extension the company itself, no favours. The vitriol seems particularly misplaced in online forums read worldwide by thousands of senior technology professionals and business decision makers holding the IT purse strings.Apart from anything else, it's odd, because large numbers of journalists are Mac users, and give Apple far more coverage -- and far more favourable coverage -- than it could reasonably expect. But even Mac fans such as the Wall Street Journal's Walt Mossberg have suffered torrents of abuse.Fans of minority and/or failing systems sometimes overcompensate -- we've seen it with the Amiga and OS/2 in particular. However, in this case, Apple must bear some of the responsibility. In the Mac's early days, ace marketing man Guy Kawasaki -- the first real IT evangelist -- ran an Evangelist mailing list that drew attention to the sins of any journalists who failed to toe the Apple party line. This often led to them being deluged with hate mail.Being a smart guy, Kawasaki figured out that this was doing Apple more harm than good and eventually he closed the list. Unfortunately, once this kind of idiocy had got going, it never stopped.And given Steve Jobs's congenital arrogance and apparent need to be worshipped, it's hard to imagine the company trying to do anything about it. Indeed, Jobs appears at MacWorld and plays to the crowd.The Linux movement has its share of nutters, too, but Linus Torvalds just laughs at them, and they've become increasingly marginalised. But of course, Torvalds is actually leading a revolution, rather than marketing an off-the-shelf lifestyle choice.
So Microsoft has finally launched its search engine, MSN Search. Because search is a key strategic area and because anything Microsoft does is deemed newsworthy, the result was acres of newsprint and megabytes of web coverage.Thus far, the commentary has not been very enlightening. On the one hand, there are the frustrated sports journalists who always write about these things as if reporting a prize fight. Will the 800lb gorilla (Microsoft) slay plucky upstart (Google)? Then there are the hacks who are training to be investment analysts, full of pompous hooey about whether Microsoft's capacity to 'bake' MSN Search into Windows will enable it to 'leverage' the operating system monopoly and destroy Google.A few decided to try the 'head-to-head' contests so beloved of consumer magazines. 'What is the distance between London and Lima?' inquired the Daily Telegraph. MSN came up with 61,000 links. The first few offered links to a sports betting website, a shopping directory, a cancer charity, a travel agency and Cambridge University Students' Union. Google came up with 110,000 links, the first of which provided an answer (6,320 miles). Another inquiry concerned the name of King Alfred's wife. MSN offered a link to its Encarta website, but the answer wasn't there. Google 'won' by suggesting several history sites - the first of which named Alfred's queen as Elswith, 'a variant of the more commonly used Ealhswith'. And so it went on.Let us try a different tack. We start by clearing our minds of wonderment. Google seems terrific to us partly because it is so much better than what went before, but mainly because it performs so well on simple kinds of queries. If you know someone's name, then it's easy to Google him or her before agreeing to a date. If you can't remember who wrote a particular book - well, Google will find it.And this kind of memory prosthesis is wonderful in its way. But it's also exceedingly primitive, as you find whenever you embark on a search that is unspecific or vaguely conceived. Google is like a promethean idiot savant who can memorise a million pages a second and never forget a word - but who doesn't understand a single thing.If search technology is to develop into something that can do more than online fact-checking and retrieval, it has to cross the chasm which separates dumb computing from intelligent reasoning.As far as I can see, there are basically only two ways in which that can happen.The first is to arrange that web pages provide more useful information than they do at present. Currently, they are mostly just raw text (plus images). But for years, Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the web, has been campaigning for what he calls 'the semantic web' - in which the   information encoded in pages is structured in such a way that even relatively dumb search engines can draw intelligent inferences from them .Thus it would be immediately obvious that a web page about Casablanca referred to the movie, not the city. To some extent, this is already happening via the use of XML - the so-called 'extensible markup language' that supplements HTML.The semantic web will help, but it won't lift search technology to the point where it becomes as useful as interrogating a human expert. For that to happen, search engines have to know more about their users.A useful analogy here comes from natural language processing. The problem with language is that it is ambiguous. This often stumps computers. Humans are good at it because they know about the context in which something is being said. The way to boost machine understanding is therefore to provide more context - which is why the technology works best in highly specialised domains where the context is limited and easy to articulate.What this suggests is that for a search engine to be really powerful it has to know a lot about the user and the context of the inquiry. What's the purpose of the query? What does the user already know? Where has she looked earlier? How good are her cognitive skills? And so on.This is all highly personal information, but to get really powerful searching users will have to be willing to entrust it to the search engine. So in the end, the question of which engine will win out is only incidentally about technology. It's basically about trust - who would you trust with intimate knowledge about yourself and your online life? You only have to ask the question to know the answer.&amp;#149john.naughton@observer.co.uk&amp;#149www.briefhistory.com/footnotes
Mobile phone content provider iTouch last night admitted that it was in talks about a possible takeover by its smaller rival, Monstermob.Earlier the two companies had said separately that they were in takeover talks but without acknowledging they were negotiating with each other.Last night iTouch said that it was continuing "to evaluate a number of strategic options" and that it was "currently in preliminary discussions with Monstermob which may or may not lead to an offer for the company."The company declined to comment on why the talks centred on the possibility of iTouch being reversed into Monstermob rather than a bid by the bigger group.Yesterday's flurry of statements followed intense market speculation about a possible merger between the two companies which saw Monstermob shares soar 15% on Thursday. Yesterday iTouch shares climbed more than 11% to 37p while Monstermob shares ended down 4.4% on the day at 293.5p.In its statement, Monstermob said that it was considering two acquisitions. One was a possible purchase of an overseas mobile phone content provider and the other "an acquisition that may constitute a reverse takeover under the Aim rules".Taking over a company with a higher market capitalisation is one definition of a reverse takeover and iTouch's market value is around &#163;155m while Monstermob's is around &#163;87m.Monstermob was founded in 2000 by its chief executive Martin Higginson and supplies services such as ring tones, games, videos and gaming products. TecCapital, the investment vehicle of Telegraph Group owners the Barclay brothers, has a 7.5% stake. In the first half of last year the company made a pre-tax profit of &#163;793,000.iTouch, in which Independent News &amp; Media has a 34.8% stake, provides weather, sport and financial information services for mobile phone users as well as wireless technology applications for businesses.City forecasts suggest iTouch clocked up sales of about &#163;74m in 2004, with earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of more than &#163;8m, compared with a small loss in 2003.
Shadow Of RomePS2If you studied the Romans at school you probably came away with the impression of a well-organised culture who, despite having no airports or web access, inadvertently invented the toga party. From Shadow Of Rome you will also learn that they spoke fluent American. Alternating between gladiatorial combat as the mighty Agrippa, whose father is framed for    Caesar's murder, and his friend Octavianus, who uses disguises to infiltrate the Forum, your job is to uncover the truth about the emperor's killer. What this means is hilarious fountains of blood in the Arena and stealth elements that prove way more fun than they ought to, in a gore-soaked romp through everyone's favourite classical civilisation.&#183;Capcom, £40MercenariesPS2, XBOXTaking place in the near future, your group of mercenaries has been hired to stop North Korea using its nukes. To do that you take jobs from the UN, South Korea, China and the Russian mafia, while balancing the fact that doing favours for one faction makes the others more likely to shoot you on sight should you stray into their territory. Taking place in    vast environments in which virtually everything you see can be made to explode, the feeling of joyous pyrotechnic freedom is only limited by often-fuzzy vehicle handling and an imprecise feel to gun aiming. Although not quite Grand Theft Auto with air strikes, this is a bit of highly-inflammable rough and tumble.&#183;LucasArts, £40Max.tvHome shoppingDatel, makers of the Action Replay device that lets you cheat in video games, have launched TV home shopping channel Max.tv. Featuring their own products as well as other things gamers might like such as remote control cars, iPod look-alikes and a whole world of "ultimate" DVD players, Max.tv's presenters-cum-salespeople adopt the house style of QVC to    deliver hypnotically unceasing paeans to products you might previously have ignored at Dixons. There's something soporific about allowing it to wash over you, and stripped of the Ratner's-like jewellery and Princess Diana memorial china, it's more watchable than its non-game-orientated cousins.&#183;Sky channel 669;www.max.tv
Two hundred million songs were legally downloaded last year, a 10-fold increase from 20m the previous year. And although this figure is still dwarfed by the 700m tracks downloaded from illegal peer-to-peer networks and MP3 blogs, the tide appears to be turning.About 70% of paid-for downloads are bought fromitunes.com, but what of the competitors?Napster.co.uk, which has just dropped its prices to 79p a track, has some excellent features, including 10 radio channels where you can skip to the next track.Bignoisemusic.comis great for exclusive tracks you can't find anywhere else and, importantly, 10p in every &#163;1 spent goes to Oxfam.If your tastes are more leftfield, thenbleep.comis best for pre-release electronica, whilewww.karmadownload.comservices the independent and unsigned scenes. Finally, those in search of bargains should head towippit.com, where prices start at 29p.
We've been quiet this week, but in digest format it looks like we've been busy. Before things kick off pre-Easter games release rush, enjoy the peace and tranquility of gamesblog: the week that was.MondayGT4 - is it out of step with modern tastes?Steamed upTuesdayWomen in Games Conference call for papersShake, Kitty, shakePSP gets infectedEnthusedWednesdayChris Crawford: the interviewThursdayVirtual protestsPSP: officially as powerful as PS2PSP US launch date announcedFridayEnthusiaNew publisher reaps glorious HarvestBritish games on a global scene
Sony, IBM, and Toshiba "are poised to reveal details at a chip industry conference on Feb 7. One hint of what's to come: Cell will include a cluster of Power processors, making it 10 times more powerful than today's contenders. If the momentum continues, IBM could emerge as a much more potent force in the processor realm," saysBusinessWeek.Comment:The most telling quote -- applied to many IBM efforts but particularly its chip business -- was always: "You can buy better, but you can't pay more." So far, the PowerPC processor, which was originally intended to wipe out Intel, has mainly been associated with marginal products such as the Apple Macintosh, the Pegasos (an Amiga spin off) and Nintendo's struggling GameCube, with the Microsoft Xbox II to come. However, the Cell processor could rescue IBM's fortunes in processors, if it comes anywhere near the pre-launch hype.
"There's been such great demand for Local search results that we've added a Local link on the Google homepage so you can find nearby businesses around the U.S. and Canada even faster than before. Try it out and tell us how it's working for you. We suggest keeping an eye on Local, too - you'll soon see even more features. Whether you're at home or traveling, you're now one click closer to whetting your appetite," saysGoogle's blog.Danny Sullivan has written about it over atSearch Engine Watch, saying:Despite the move, the service remains in beta. First launched as a Google Labs project in September 2003, then released as a formal beta in March 2004, Google Local has been in development for between a year and two and a half years, depending on what start date you go with.Either way is a long time and adds further fuel to the fire of Google not knowing how to get products out of beta. More telling is the fact that Google previously had suggested that Google Local would only make it to the home page when the beta process was over.
At a British Screen Advisory Council seminar yesterday, I was suddenly struck with a truism that should have been blatantly obvious before but needed to be spelled out for my very tired mind. The games industry subsists by appealing to a global market, and therefore any Great British Contribution must pander to an international audience. Suddenly the penny dropped, and I realised that the mantra thatsomebelieve could "save" the UK industry, to "emphasise what's different about British outlook and culture," is a pipe dream.Home grown intellectual property from other media transferred into games falters in an international market because the brands are particular to the UK. Making games that would appeal toonlya British audience would be business suicide, and therefore the call for unique game properties is an extremely difficult one to answer on a global scale. Thus sequelitis and a reliance upon existing international pan-media IP.However, I do have faith there is a bit of insidious Britishness in the international success stories that come from these shores.Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasHome-grown and filled with very British humour, from the scatological to the extremely clever. GTA: London 1969 was an aberration, and made by a Canadian company.Tomb RaiderThat Lara Croft is a very cynical lady.Conker's Bad Fur DayBizarre, twisted humour that - if it was a TV show - would only get broadcast on BBC2.Colin McRae RallyHow many games can you name that feature so many regional accents?The GetawayMoreAlfiethanGodfather.PopulousOnly the subject of a former Empire could come up with a god simulation.What have I missed, and what in the world would a game made only for a British audience look like? A massively multiplayerEastEnders?
A new publisher, Rising Star Games Limited, is starting up in Hertforshire and its promising launch portfolio contains several new iterations of the fabulous farming simHarvest Moon. As the company's press release states:European gamers will be treated to four new iterations of Harvest Moon. Harvest Moon: Oh Wonderful Life will appear on Game Cube and PS2 in September and October 2005 respectively, marking the series' first-ever appearance on a Sony Console. Harvest Moon: Friends of Mineral Town arrives on Game Boy Advance in June 2004, with an all-new Harvest Moon game (working title: Harvest Moon DS) arriving on Nintendo's dual-screen handheld in November 2005. Each of these versions will offer a slightly different twist on the staggeringly popular Harvest Moon theme, and promises to introduce the series' wonderful concept to a whole new audience.So how did a company in Hertfordshire snag such hot gaming booty? Well, Rising Star is a joint venture with Japanese publisher Marvelous Interactive Inc. and Japanese Nintendo distributor Bergsala AB."The firm's goal is to reduce the period between Japanese and Western release, reversing the threat of grey imports. Thanks to Rising Star's close working relationship with its development partners, there will even be occasions where the European release is ahead of the Japanese street date," they promise intriguingly.Also among the company's offerings are updated versions of Bubble Bobble and Space Invaders for the Nintendo DS (each with new gameplay modes), and a hack and slash adventure for the PS2 entitled Sword of Destiny. This is not to be confused withSpear of Destiny. Although a hack and slash title involving a mid-eighties rawk band seems like a great idea. Sadly it may never happen.Anyway, any new publisher entering this industry and promising to bring us fresh Japanese goodies as quickly as possible should be welcomed with open cheque books - although, speaking as a gamer, there will always be room for grey imports in an industry obsessed with regional control.Harvest Moon is lovely, isn't it?
Konami have been showcasing their new racing game, Enthusia, as at a press event. The game is a serious racing simulation - think Gran Turismo rather than Burnout. Gran Turismo was a dirty word here though, with Chief Producer Manabu Akita unwilling to answer questions relating to Sony's epic driving sim. You can understand his reticence though. Enthusia is Konami's first entry into racing simulation, and establishing it as a brand is the most important thing. The game features hundreds of authentically modelled cars and "realistic physics". There are apparently 300 simulation parameters for each car. Far more interesting is the "Visual Gravity System" - an on-screen guide that shows G-Forces and tyre-pressure. The VGS is supposed to help improve driving technique and awareness, but initial play suggested it was more off-putting than informative. If, like me, you wouldn't know a cam-shaft from a brake-pad then Enthusia offers some shorter, more arcadey, challenges that see you driving through checkpoints. Chief Producer Akita was involved in the Le mans race and clearly knows his stuff. And there's no doubt that Enthusia, shocking name aside, is a decent sim. But I can't help but feel that Gran Turismo 4 overshadows everything in this genre.
It is hard to avoid the buzz online about Flickr, a photo organising/sharing service yet to celebrate its first birthday. In tones echoing the optimism of early 90s internet culture, enthusiasts say the service makes possible new kinds of conversation and community. For others, it shows how the efforts of individuals can be harnessed to help organise the internet.Flickr's growth has matched this excitement. Though still in beta, it has 245,000 members, and is growing at 5-10% a week, according to co-founder Caterina Fake. "We have 3.5m photos online - members upload up to 60,000 new photos a day."Digital photography is hugely popular and online storage and organisation is one solution to the image overload many snappers experience. But other sites offer similar services. So why has this Vancouver-based operation generated such excitement?Flickr is well designed and easy to use, but its popularity is probably because it permits what Fake calls "a rich, sharing experience". The tools it gives users - in particular the ability to "tag" photos (describe their content with a key word) and then, via those tags, share images with others, have unleashed the social potential of digital photos.Fake credits del.icio.us, the "social bookmarks" site, as a key influence, because it was the first site to really show what could happen when users were allowed to create tags to organise information online themselves then share it with others. The initial attraction of del.icio.us is storing bookmarks online, so you can access them wherever you are. But del.icio.us also encourages users to "tag" bookmarks (for   example with key words such as "poetry" or "apple"). This helps individuals organise personal links. But because links are shared across the site, a user can see links stored by other users under tags they use.So del.icio.us is an easy way for individuals to pool their online searching to find more useful information. Launched in December 2003, the site is popular, says founder Joshua Schachter, "because it's useful to an individual user, but the 'multitudinous individuality' it permits allows for wonderful discovery across users".The same goes for Flickr. It's easy to upload photos taken with your digital camera or cameraphone. You can choose to keep them private or make them publicly available. Tagging images helps you organise your collection, but also share it. So searching on the tag "cat" will call up all publicly available photos with that tag.More usefully, Flickr's tags (and the ability to form groups around them) make it easy for family and friends to share photos from weddings or other events. "You can also get creative and make group scrapbooks around a theme," says Fake. Hence "Flickr fads" - photos created to fit certain popular tags, like the thousands of photos tagged "squared circle", all interpreting the basic guideline (a circle framed by a square) in different ways.In these cases, tags bring people together and channel their creativity. Flickr fads can take on an activist edge - the "fuh2" tag pools photos of people "giving the finger" to Humvees, the gas guzzling cars favoured by celebrities. Tags also collate newsworthy images - the "tsunami" tag hosts a powerful collection of pictures taken by ordinary individuals.For Clay Shirky, a social software   pundit, "Flickr and del.icio.us scale beautifully from individual utility (save this photo/link) through community (share this photo or link with family, friends, or colleagues) to public accessibility (share this photo or link with anyone and everyone). The personal utility gets people using the service, and the communal utility means the value of the service grows over time."In other words, they work because they let individuals do something useful to them first and foremost. Social network effects only emerge later. This is different from first generation social networking services such as Friendster (which let users link to friends, and friends of friends), according to Erik Benson of the Robot Coop, which created 43 Things. This lets people share (and tag) personal goals online with others, in the hope that that will help people actually achieve them. "We were influenced by Flickr, del.icio.us and others - but none are only about   creating a list of friends. They're about sharing a particular set of experiences and making stuff happen."For Caterina Fake, this focus helps Flickr avoid the "friend inflation" of standalone social networking sites. "Someone befriends you, you don't want to say no. So it becomes about having the most friends. On Flickr, the only people you add as friends are those you want to let see your friends-only and family-only photos, and whose photos you want to see in your aggregated photos."Flickr is an incredibly social site - people form groups and links by adding notes and new tags to each other's pictures. For some, the site has achieved such ubiquity that they use it to communicate via images. Whenever Fake flies overseas, she sends photos of the baggage claim area to Flickr on arrival so her mother knows she is safe. She mentions Flickr users who took a cameraphone to the birth of their baby and shared the experience with friends   via the service. "It's like tuning into the personal TV station of friends."Flickr taps into the social power of digital photos more effectively than one-to-one picture messaging. "No one who's seen a group pore over a photo album was surprised that photos are good for group communications," observes Shirky. But cameraphone companies "designed their systems to force one-to-one use. Carriers are committed to only creating uses of the phone that match their 'one transaction, one fee' model. But for all the social uses of mobile phones, the first thing the service has to do is get the data away from the smothering embrace of the carriers and out on to the internet, where you can build real group applications."For most users, Flickr is just a fun/useful service. But for some bloggers, it (and del.ico.us) has sparked a debate about how best to organise data online. Blogger Thomas Vander Wal coined the term "folksonomy" - a conflation of "folk" and   "taxonomy", to refer to the "bottom-up" organisational categories that emerge when individuals tag or describe information and images and those tags are pooled.Shirky and others have argued that folksonomies that use tags - "user-created metadata" - are the only cost-effective way to generate order in large dynamic systems such as the net. Critics insist this will never yield the clarity of controlled classifications administered by professionals. Each approach has strengths. Folksonomies bring structure to the chaos of the net, but you'd probably be happier if your doctor used a more controlled database when it came to figuring out if you had a life threatening disease.The folksonomy discussion inspired David Sifry, founder and chief executive of blog aggregator/search site Technorati to launch its "Tags" service. Searching on a particular tag (eg China) calls up all links loaded under that tag on del.icio.us, all photos using it from Flickr and all blog posts categorised under that word. Sifry admits that categories that bloggers choose for their posts are broader than tags. But users can add tags to their posts on top of their categories, and he suggests that people might start to change the way they categorise blog posts to take advantage of Technorati Tags. For example, an Irish blogger has suggested that if his compatriots all tagged their posts with "irish blog", it would generate an Irish group blog on the relevant Technorati page, without anyone having to do anything more.These "self-organising effects" aren't always benign. Some bloggers showed that the "teens" tag on Tech norati brought together innocent photos from Flickr and links to pornographic sites. That problem has been fixed and Sifry says he is working on ways to deal with this issue and listening carefully to the online community. "Technology alone isn't going to solve the problem," he says, suggesting that perhaps social networks might work together to filter or tag objectionable content. Flickr allows users to tag images that might cause offence and these aren't publicly available.In a way, Technorati's tags show how Flickr might extend its influence. Shirky says it is really "a service with a web front-end" and that people will build sites that use it in interesting ways.So will the site (and tagging) continue to grow, or is it, as some critics argue, too "geeky" for the mainstream? "Over the years, I've heard that email, IM, Geocities, weblogs, and file-sharing networks would remain niche because they were too hard for 'regular' people to use," says Shirky. "The people saying those things don't understand that, for people who swim in technology (which is to say people under 30), these kinds of services are obvious bordering on intuitive."He argues that as more people use Flickr, individuals will find new ways to tag images. The future won't always be easy for Flickr. "Costs will go up, pioneer members will complain about newcomers, newcomers will complain about pioneers, it will slow down when everyone is uploading this Friday's crop of 'Look! Another margarita!' shots." But what you need to remember, he adds, is that these are "the kind of problems you get with success".Linkshttp://flickr.comhttp://del.icio.uswww.corante.com/manyhttp://vanderwal.net/random/www.technorati.com/taghttp://masl.to/?N2CE15D5Awww.shirky.comwww.43things.com
