Mobile phone giant Nokia today cut its sales forecast for the second half of the year in further evidence that the mobile phone market has reached saturation.In its mid-year update, the Finnish company said it expected sales of up to 10%, well down on earlier forecasts of at least 15%.Nokia reassured its shareholders by maintaining its profit target for 2002. But the news came as a fresh blow to the wider technology and telecoms sectors, which dragged down the markets. The FTSE 100 opened lower as Vodafone and BT took a hit.Nokia, the maker of more than one in three of all mobile phones sold worldwide, also trimmed long-term annual growth targets from the 25-35% used only a few years ago. The company instead expects more modest annual growth of sales and earnings of above 10%.Mobile phone companies have been hit by slowing demand for handsets after years of breakneck growth and there are doubts that consumers have the appetite for new handsets with more sophisticated features. Nokia is coming out with 10 colour-screen models by the end of the year.Nokia also expressed "growing confidence" that mobile multimedia would provide further impetus for the industry.With sales growth slowing down, Nokia will face even tougher competition from rivals Motorola, the world's second largest maker of mobile phones, and Samsung of South Korea.Nokia shares traded 1.7% higher at 13.57 euros, but the company has dropped over 50% this year.
On the fifth floor of a factory in east London, Mercury Prize winner Talvin Singh is letting loose on a pair of record decks. With the lights of Canary Wharf still glistering in the distance, a party is being thrown by a group of artists at the Ambient   TV studios in Hackney. It is 3 o'clock on Sunday morning.Ilze Black, a lively Latvian woman in a bright pink wig, is serving cocktails and keeping one eye on the Apple laptop perched on the edge of the makeshift bar. As Ilze serves the drinks, the Apple serves up a live video feed of the party to the internet.   "It is all wireless," she gesticulates with a flap of her hands, "we are sending it all through the air."There are no cables attached to Ilze's shiny white Apple computer. Amid the bottles of beer, the iBook sits flashing jerky images from the dance floor. "Maybe you'd notice the connection if someone tripped over a wire," she grins.The area around the Ambient TV Studios is witnessing a new type of network technology. Technically, it uses a standard known as 802.11b, in jargon it's known as Wi-Fi, others simply say "wireless" internet and the poetically minded call it a "data cloud".Ilze Black is a core member of Ambient TV, a loose collective who describe themselves as media artists. Their studio, on the bank of the Grand Union Canal on the border of Hackney and Bethnal Green, is in the thick of this data cloud. The cloud can be described as a dense network of radio signals casting pulses of data over relatively short distances through the air, rather than down a cable.Earlier this year, Ilze, along with her fellow Ambient TV members Manu Luksch and Mukul, climbed on to the roof of their studio and installed a home-made radio antenna. This antenna now sends and receives data from a similar antenna on the roof of the office of Free2Air, just across the canal. On the north end of the building, another omni-directional aerial casts clouds of data for others to use.Advocates say that wireless technology like this could make traditional cable connections obsolete within five years. Critics say that 802.11b is a flawed protocol that is impossible to secure, vulnerable to the weather and only useful in remote areas. Ambient TV says it already has six computers set up in this way and has connected a further 10 people who all receive the internet at high speeds.Although many are not fully operational, it is estimated that there are nearly 100 antennae - or nodes - being built in London already, many of them in the East End. Other groups in cities such as Edinburgh, Sheffield and Brighton are experimenting with similar wireless networks.For a long time, the Radiocommunications Agency considered 2.4 GHz - radio spectrum used by 802.11b - to be of such poor quality that it was exempt from licensing and useless for commercial applications. However, the appetite for wireless networks seems to have caused a rapid change of direction. Earlier this month, the Department of Trade and Industry announced it was to allow commercial services to operate across the 2.4 GHz radio   spectrum. Immediately, a number of companies, including BT, announced plans to press ahead with the creation of wireless networks of their own.It is 18 months since Online first reported the idea of casting data clouds across the skies of London. Then, in the autumn of 2000, a loose group of hackers, web designers and net activists had come together to form Consume, an ad hoc organisation fronted by James Stevens. Along with the Free2Air organisation, the group had the idea of using 802.11b to create a city-wide wireless network. Others, like Simon Worthington, co-editor of Mute magazine, began coordinating plans and a number of academics and scientists have donated thousands of unpaid hours to the project.It has all generated the kind of excitement rarely witnessed since the early days of the web. But 18 months on, the data clouds that float over the East End are thin, wispy strands of data cirrus. Despite the best efforts of groups such as Consume, Free2Air and You Are Here, the desired state of data clouds is still months away.In Bedford Square, two weeks later, a group of students chalk out an office floor plan on the pavement   opposite the Architectural Association (AA) in Bloomsbury, London. A group of six students and their lecturer march out of the AA at lunchtime, carrying chairs and their laptop computers. A man in a pinstripe suit stops and stares as all seven sit down within the chalked markings, open their laptops and switch on.It takes a couple of minutes to establish a connection, but soon, they begin searching for news of the crucial Ireland versus Saudi Arabia match, play music picked off internet radio sites or send emails."You have to totally rethink the internet when you encounter a wireless network like this," says Pete Gomes, a visiting lecturer in film and communication at the AA. "We want to demonstrate that it is possible to build simple, cheap, wireless networks and that anyone with a laptop can connect within the radius of the antenna we have on the roof of the AA."As Gomes wrote recently in the AA's journal, most of the technology for wireless is hand built. "Low-tech copper wire and coffee cans make directional antenna with the ability to transmit DVD-quality video direct to computers in the local area using a designated public frequency."Ironically, the biggest problem with casting a data cloud outside the AA is the sun. When it shines, the pavement networkers struggle to read their computer screens. James Stevens, a pioneer in this sort of thing, resorts to covering his laptop and his head with his jacket.Developed in the late 1990s, wireless networks are usually found in rural areas where the cost of cabling is very expensive. Elsewhere, in Central Park in New York, for example, you can tune into 802.11 while cradling a laptop in a nearby cafe. One university in Berlin recently cast a campus-wide data cloud and issued each of its students with a network card.On Sunday morning, a week later, news of another node from an unlikely source proves it's not just geeks wiring the East End. Father Alan Green, the rector of the Church of St Johns in Bethnal Green has just returned to the rectory from a local Sunday school. He has recently given approval for one his tenants in the church crypt, Martin Kavanagh, to set up an antenna in the bell   tower built by Sir John Soane in 1826.Like many priests, Father Green faces a dilemma. The church is broke. Earlier this year, the Archbishop's Council announced a plan to offer the use of Church of England steeples to mobile phone companies wanting to erect new masts. It would bring in much needed cash, but Father Green is a progressive priest, and he thinks there may be another way to connect the church to the wireless age."We are really keen &#91;on the data cloud&#93; because it combines our notions of helping the community and how to use the building itself. Here we have an enormous tower that precisely facilitates what is needed."I suppose we could make money if we allowed a mobile phone mast to be installed in there," he admits, "but on balance, what we must offer is a commitment to the community, so the wireless idea is the cleverest I think."And so finally back to   Ambient TV. The party is now nearly over. The lights of Canary Wharf still shine brightly but the dancing has all but stopped. A few stalwarts sit round a large wooden table, the light from their laptops staining the cloud of cigarette smoke that drifts above their heads.Ambient TV's Manu Luksch pulls up a chair. Born in Austria, she came to London four years ago after spending time at the Munich Media Lab where she first encountered the open access ideas that allowed artists a free hand to explore new technology."I'm interested in how global technologies can be adapted to local circumstances," she explains. "The internet has made the global local. But in some ways I think that it has made it easier for people to talk to people in San Francisco than it is to talk to people across the street. Since we built our antenna we've had to deal with the people around us."Years ago, people were   much more in control of their environment," she continues dreamily. "They could name every tree in the forest, they could mend the things they had in their houses. Now if your computer breaks down, most people rely on others to come and repair it. I think that when you get involved with something like a wireless network, you are faced with the challenge of taking control or your environment again and, of course, you start to do this locally."To build a wireless network, all you need is a computer and a wireless network card costing as little as &#163;50. This can allow, for instance, an internet connection to be transmitted from the house to the garden shed. But to participate in a wider network you need a radio antenna, a lightning conductor and dedication.Giovanni D'Angelo, an   artist and John Lee, a self-employed video engineer, sit in Gio's local pub in Shoreditch. Gio has his own node just around the corner, but because of the high density of buildings in Shoreditch, the network can't quite reach the pub. The cloud is just not thick enough."Once we have this backbone up and running, we should be able to cast a wider network across most of the East End," says D'Angelo."You really need two aerials," chips in Lee. "You need an omni-directional to make the cloud around the node, and another directional aerial to make the point connection to another node if you want to connect to a wider network." Only when there are enough of these nodes will Gio access the network in his local pub.What's the hardest thing? Getting everyone to agree when working in a cooperative project. And not falling off the roof, joke the pair.
Ad notesNow you can find the answer to the question on everybody's lips, which is usually "What's that song used in the latest Levi's/Ford/Coca-Cola advert?" Rather than admit you recognised Agadoo by Black Lace, or the Sugababes' Overload, you can send people either to Commercial Breaks and Beats or The Song of The Salesman for excellent guides to the music used in TV ads. To answer questions about life's other great topic - "Who is...?" - send them to the UK Television Adverts site, which lists the actors who appear in them, as well as the music used. Sadly, none of these sites matches the American Ads.com in letting you watch the commercials online, thereby avoiding television altogether.WebbysThe results of the 6th Annual Webby Awards were announced on Tuesday, so check the site for the winners and the five-word acceptance speeches. If you missed out this year, there's a call for entries for the 2003 awards.Type artCreating a Flash website about "interactive kinetic typography" does not sound like an obvious way to attract visitors but, in this case, the results are fascinating. There's an online chat system where the letters fly around, pages for converting pictures into ASCII art and composing music, a wonderful visual toy called Motion Sickness, a balance where you can weigh one word against another, and so on.  The site is one of the 60 finalists in the Flash Film Festival 2002, which will be held in New York on July 10. You can only vote for one site, but follow a few links and you may find something even better.Home pageApartment Earth may have about six billion inhabitants, but so far only a couple of dozen have moved in. You are invited. All you have to do is submit a photo of your living room, a few detail pictures and a mug shot, and fill in an application form. If you leave an email address, people can write to you. You can imagine what a brilliant site this could be, given global participation and an efficient search engine. Even if it's limited to earnest American exhibitionists and art students, it's still pretty interesting, though not for very long.Re TardisAlthough bonkbuster got the publicity, there were many    interesting words in the last batch added to the Oxford English Dictionary. Tardis may be one of the most evocative for Online readers, but others include Bitnet, e-mailer and e-mailing (both with hyphens), gateway and V-chip. There's a full list of new words in the Help section of OED Online. It starts with mis- words so you have to scroll half way down to the section headed Out-of-sequence new entries.M wayM is for Nottingham, described as a "Mysterious Multiple-Player Drama/Game in and out of Time, on and off the Web". If you want to join in, it's a collaborative    writing project run by trAce, the online writing centre at Nottingham Trent University, and a sort of detective game that introduces you to the city and its history. If you can make it to trAce's writing conference next month, it promises to turn into a costume drama. (What got murdered was the printed book, and the butler didn't do it.)Megan's mapHow many websites get around a million hits on their first day? And how many of those are run by police departments? The City of San Diego, California, managed it recently when it put its "High Risk" and "Serious" Registered Sex Offender Map    online, as required by what is known as Megan's Law.Icon easyNot sure why I clicked the icon for potty training, but it led to an entertaining loading screen and some colourful cartoons. Other icons for radio, film, TV, and Top of the Pops were much easier to read, but pressing a letter on the keyboard proved even more effective. Peepo's icon-based interface is the front end to a web directory - something like Yahoo, only much smaller. The long-term project is to make it easier for people with learning difficulties to enjoy the web.
How important is your web presence to you?  It doesn't necessarily act as the instigator of interest but I think it's a great first entrance point - it's almost the reception point for people. Often we find that visitors will have had a look at the site before they come. That's also true for some of the academic and commercial partners we collaborate with. It saves us a huge amount of time as it allows people to visit the site and get a flavour of what the Eden Project is about beforehand.What can visitors to your website experience?They can learn a lot about what's happening on site and what our future aims and ambitions are. In September we're hosting a big online conference after the Johannesburg UN world summit on sustainability  and visitors will be able to participate and contribute to that dialogue. There are also QuickTime Virtual Reality clips of the biospheres and daily events programmes. We're launching the Eden Sessions  in the summer so we're looking into webcasts for them.You also have a tie-in with the Guardian's Learn.co.uk?When schools want to download educational packages, they can go straight there and the material is accessible directly from the classroom. We were quite keen to keep that separate from our general website, partly because there's commercial activity on the main site and we didn't want the two to be that closely linked.What computer do you use?I have a Compaq Armada laptop   that's like my right arm. I'm quite conscientious at backing up but I'd still be heartbroken if I lost it! When the technology fails I switch into "cajoling" mode and talk to my computer as if it has a personality! I also use an iPaq  but I must confess my Filofax still travels with me.Is the mobile important to you?Critical. When you're based in Cornwall you spend time travelling on the train and it's important to stay connected. I have a Nokia Communicator, which, theoretically, allows me to send files back to the office. Before they enable sending video-clips, they need to establish an efficient mechanism for sending and receiving big chunks of text. We've had situations where someone's tried to send me an attachment and the iPaq won't accept it. I'd like something that would allow the transmission of a reasonably large spreadsheet without being subject to the vagaries of satellites!Visit: &lt;A HREF="http://www.edenproject.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.edenproject.comThe Eden Sessions will begin next month. There will be live performances from Pulp, Spiritualized, Beth Orton and Doves. There will also be a Womad concert in August.
Excuse me for being smug, but I'm writing this outside, in the sunshine, with a cup of espresso and a pastry propped on my laptop. I was just sent an email by Guardian Online commissioning this piece. Despite the fact that my internet connection is 30 yards away, I picked it up, finished my Instant Messenger conversation, minimised the live cricket score window on my browser, and set to work.How is this possible? Well, as you've no doubt twigged from the surrounding articles, I'm the happy user of an 802.11b wireless internet connection between my office, and the surrounding street. As a writer, with no need to be anywhere but at the end of an internet connection, an email address and a mobile phone number, it's a revolutionary step.But the wondrous convenience of writing in a place designed to bring me regular blasts of caffeine is really nothing compared to the   serendipitous meetings it has created: for as the network I set up is free for all to use, and somewhat advertised on the web, this cafe has seen a steady stream of like-minded technology enthusiasts, bloggers, and geared-up layabouts united in the joyous realisation that they never need go to the office again. A correctly enabled laptop, and a coffee addiction later, your first delivery of email over a community wireless network seems to come with angelic music and a parting of the clouds.Setting up a wireless access point for your street is less trouble than you might think. It requires an old PC (a 486 or better, so I mean "really" old), a couple of network cards - one wireless - and some patience. The Consume.net people can show you how, as can the many community wireless organisations around the world.I had some old equipment hanging around, and it's great to put it to some use. All I then had to do was point the   antenna out of the window in the direction of a comfortable spot, drop leaflets through the doors of my neighbours and register myself on the Consume database.It was from the Consume database that I had my first visitor. Seeing a flickering light on my network hub, I knew someone was using it. It was Doc Searls, co-author of the Cluetrain Manifesto and top US blogger, who is in Britain for a few days. "The Revolution is on, People!" he was to write later that day, "I haven't felt this jazzed and with-it since the Sixties."Since then, he and many others have used the spare bandwidth on my internet connection, and I've drunk plenty of coffee. In fact, with the caffeine, the only thing wired around here is me.
Do you remember the days, just before the end of the last century, when you could tear a tiny hole in the fabric of your life, leap through and head for the hills? Now, just when you think you are unsafe in some wild, adventurous place most people have never heard of, you find yourself sitting in a cyber cafe checking your bank balance and worrying about how your real life is getting on without you.The internet, so useful before you escape and when you want facts for your photos when you return, has become the essential tool for travellers: from gap-year teens to grandparents visiting places they missed in the Sixties. We are all there, collapsing time and geography, stitching together strange new places  and our familiar worlds. And, of course, it has become the ideal place to book a hotel, search "location, town"), check transport, see if we've won the lottery so we never need to come back.For Nancy and Murray McKay, two of the many travellers on the road in Laos recently, the net made the difference between escaping for a long trip or staying somewhere closer to their home in Toronto, Canada. "We have to stay in touch," Nancy said as we ate mushroom and eggplant by the river at Luang Namtha near the border with Burma. "My mother is ill and we have teenage children... Do you know where there's a good internet link?"The next day we got a bus for the six-hour ride down to Luang Prabang - to a hotel booked on the web   because, well, you know how busy Luang Prabang hotels and guesthouses can get. I found that within a couple of years, the number of internet cafes had increased from zero to more than half a dozen, with scores of machines in constant use.There, young backpackers    vied for web and email links with rich Europeans and saffron-garbed monks and novices, unwitting birds of paradise among touristwear and fake designer shirts. The internet has become a vital part of travelling. It was a similar story as we headed south, through Vientiane, Siem Reap in Cambodia with its lightning fast links, Phnom Penh where there was a queue for machines between 6am and 7am - 11pm and midnight in the UK - as well as Sihanoukville on the Cambodian coast.Words, digital photographs, cheap phone calls - $1 a minute from Siem Reap, the nearest town to Angkor Wat, to the UK. How did we manage without it? A colleague tells how his son was travelling in Laos, one of the poorest countries in the world, when he became ill. He was two days from the nearest hospital... but minutes from an internet connection that let him pass on his symptoms for his father to check with a doctor and reply that it was unfortunate but not serious.Without a link, he might have had to cut short his travels in remote areas and head for the Laotian capital or Thailand for treatment. On the subject of health, check out  Masta.org as you plan what precautions to take during your trip. Working the web for all kinds of information is well worth the effort before travelling: not just to check the    flights at CheapFlights.com (see link below).Imaginative searching for what is available in your destination country, checking health and hazards like visa requirements, and setting up any visits and meetings can make it all more rewarding. Just log on to your favourite search engine and start with the destination and, like travelling itself, see where the trail takes you. I had searched Google for Ubon Ratchathani in Thailand, near the border with Laos and immediately got everything I needed to - from a description of the town, to hotels and cruises on the Mekong.It is a distinct advantage knowing when Laos is likely to grind to a halt during the Buddhist festival of Magha Puja in February, or spring to life during the Vientiane's Mekong boat races in October which celebrate the end of the rainy season. Time your visits with the aid of Whatsonwhen.com . When you get to whole countries, like my search on Thailand, the web can suck you in for days with virtual visits to everything from today's villages, to historic battles, Buddhist architecture and Cambodian classical and folk dances. Use the web creatively and it will add meaning and interest to your trip.
Anybody in the UK can now have always on, high-speed broadband internet access, and a lot of people should be able to get it at a reasonable price. If, that is, they don't mind ignoring their ISP's terms and conditions, and possibly breaking the law.Neither of these needs to be a problem. The law is due to change on July 31. Unfortunately, we are still waiting for at least one internet service provider to step into the breach and offer a suitable broadband service to the   towns and villages where ADSL and cable access will probably never be available.The idea is simple. You can get a broadband connection almost anywhere in northern Europe, by satellite. All you have to do is install a dish and share access using a standard Wi-Fi (802.11b) wireless network. Access becomes affordable if five to 10 families live close enough together to share the connection, and the cost.Satellite broadband is not new: there are tens of thousands of users, mostly in the US. Wireless networks are not new: there are publicly accessible "hot spots" all over the world, including the UK. The idea of multi-drop services is not new: many hotels and apartment blocks have satellite dishes that deliver TV channels to every room or flat.The only novelty comes from using the same or better technologies to serve remote communities instead of well-heeled business travellers. But there are obstacles.The law is the first problem: technically, it is still illegal to use Wi-Fi for public access networks. Last week, a BT Openworld spokesman, pouring cold water on the idea, said: "Our official answer has to be that customers have to act within the law."But there are already public access Wi-Fi networks operating in the UK. Some   are run by groups of activists, and some are commercial trials, such as Megabeam's hot spot at Paddington Station, London. It is no secret that BT Retail is getting ready to open a series of hot spots as soon as the regulations are changed, though we can expect them to be in high-traffic areas such as airports and large hotels.The ISP's terms and conditions are the second problem. As my BT Openworld spokesman pointed out, the service contract and billing apply to a named individual and sharing access is "a breach of our terms and conditions. If a problem occurred, we couldn't offer them support." Indeed, some ordinary users have already felt the lash, getting emails threatening to discontinue their service for using more than one system at once.I called Philippe Bodart, chief executive of Aramiska, in the Netherlands, hoping for a more favourable opinion. Aramiska offers a technically more advanced two-way satellite service with an installation fee of &#163;400 and prices starting at &#163;199 a month. The top of the line 2Mbps service with unlimited downloads would be the most suitable for sharing. It costs &#163;549 a month, and an extra &#163;200 a month to connect up to 100 PCs, plus VAT    (see link below). Think in terms of 20 people paying &#163;40 a month."The regulator has to deblock the frequencies," said Bodart, "but we are definitely looking at the implementation of wireless networks. Bear in mind that our service is for businesses, but if you look six to 12 months down the road, obviously we could consider doing it for consumers. It might be feasible: we'd have to look at the economics."Not a ringing endorsement, perhaps, but not an outright rejection either. However, when I suggested that people in a village could get together and form a small business to share internet access, Bodart just laughed.But it's an idea that has come of age. Users want broadband internet access. The government wants a "broadband Britain". There is no other way to deliver it. Even if BT or the cable companies wanted to spend the billions required to lay cables to the most remote parts of the UK, they cannot afford it.   Even if they could, we can't wait. What the Americans call "back-hoe time" - how long it takes to dig trenches to lay cables - moves much slower than "internet time". Cabling Britain could take a decade. That is not acceptable.Nor is it necessary. Satellite internet services mean that even the most remote users can have broadband access now. In this case, of course, "remote" starts not far south of Croydon, and includes large areas in the home counties.The cost of satellite access is, unfortunately, too much for most individuals, but shared access can solve that problem for many users. The government can help by making it legal to share by Wi-Fi. ISPs can help by providing a business-style shared access package for consumers. And regional development boards, local authorities, schools, libraries and community groups can help to create and support groups willing to share their broadband access.If they don't, it is not going to stop the Freenetworks movement, which is already spreading across the globe). But it would be better if the UK got behind the idea and encouraged its development, instead of trying to fight it.
Powered upYour leading article makes a convincing case for using the power of PCs not normally employed as tools for research (Keying into the global computer, June 13).Those who are not interested in extra-terrestrial intelligence (SETI) might well like to support Oxford University's cancer research project in computational chemistry, which is supported by Intel and run by United Devices - www.ud.com.Ivan F Whiteivan.white@dsl.pipex.comLoose chips _I love it. Just as the rest of the wired UK is up in arms about the amendment to the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, Paul May (Feedback, June 13) wants multimedia messaging (MMS) traffic subjected to detailed monitoring.Every mode of communication facilitates actual crimes of varying kinds, so   let's have everything we say monitored. Freedom of movement likewise. And since Mr May is principally concerned in his letter with crimes of child abuse, the single "device" that enables up to 90% of crimes of child abuse is the family, so let's have all families subject to close and ongoing scrutiny at all times.Ian Shuttleworthshutters@cix.compulink.co.ukMore messageI was dismayed to read Paul May's letter regarding the supposed dangers of MMS. We live in a world where rights to privacy are continually being eroded. His suggestion, therefore, that not monitoring all images on the network is somehow sanctioning the technology for use by child-sexual abusers is as dangerous as it is idiotic.Perhaps we should have all mail in the country routinely opened and checked for this disgusting material. I can almost hear the chest beating of Victorian paranoids as they rail against the introduction of the Penny Black and its infernal "abuser-to-abuser technology".Greg Rankingrankin@yahoo.comStrike backAnother issue that seems to be overlooked with Sony   disabling the playing of CDs on PCs is the transfer of music to the new breed of Net Mini Discs (May the fraud be with you, June 6). I have recently purchased a Net MD MZ-N505 and I am very pleased with it and the software it comes bundled with. It enables me to upload CDs or MP3s on to my PC, convert them to the MD format and transfer them extremely quickly to the Net MD (up to five albums - 320 minutes). If my PC is no longer able to view Sony CDs, then their own software and hardware becomes useless to me.This is obviously ridiculous but when has that ever stopped big companies from not displaying joined-up thinking!Incidentally, a lot of modern CDs also seem to have some sort of coding on them that stops me transferring them to the Net MD at the full level of compression (LP4) -another hidden feature of this issue?Keith Maggionimaggionikl@hotmail.comNow, listenI read with great interest and disgust Tony Smith's article on copy protection of audio CDs. I think the solution to the sales crisis, if indeed that's what it is, for the international record companies would be to reconsider the price policy for music CDs.What was not mentioned in the article is that Apple Macintosh CD players may be destroyed by some of the protection techniques. Mac owners should be warned of this and the consequences.Apple Computer has determined that customers void their warranty if they attempt to use its products to play copy-protected CDs. Apple offers several actions that may correct problems caused by the discs, but adds that if none of them works, then an authorised repair service will be necessary, and the warranty will be void because "any attempt to use nonstandard discs with Apple CD drives will be considered a misapplication of the product."Kjell E Erikssonkjell.eriksson@infografen.comLight reliefThe price of printer cartridges is a scandal (Feedback, June 6) and I am amazed that there is not a continual howl of protest. As for the outrageous Epson IntelliSense cartridge chip, this can be reset with a charger kit. The firm I got mine from no longer supplies them but they are available from the links below  for about &#163;28 and include a black and colour compatible cartridge.Once you have this, get a bottle of refill ink and a   hypodermic syringe and at least your black ink will cost very little. I can send step-by-step directions for refilling Epson cartridges from a refill bottle to anyone who asks.Brian Lightbrilight@dial.pipex.com
If this is the shape of things to come, then it's a nice shape. The first thing that strikes you about the XDA, O2's new combined phone and pocket computer, is its sleek stainless steel case. But the XDA is not just a beautiful piece of kit.In one device you have a mobile phone, personal organiser, web browser, email, word processor, dictaphone and MP3 player, using Microsoft's PocketPC 2002 operating system, over a quick GPRS connection. The second thing you might notice is the price: just under &#163;500 if bought with a 12-month contract with O2, or a hefty &#163;800 without.That's a lot, especially when you add in the "mobile web" tariff required to use the XDA on the internet: O2's Web Surfer rate starts at &#163;13.99 a month, which includes 4MB of data download - or about 120 web pages. Pricey or not, the XDA is far and away the most exciting handheld on sale. Slightly larger than a Palm-style personal digital assistant and weighing 200 grams, the XDA works extremely well, and is the first handheld of its type that is more than the sum of its parts. Remember those articles about how we were all going to be surfing the web and sending emails in the bath? Well, this is it.The colour screen is crisp, the sound quality is surprisingly good -    it can also be used as a speaker-phone - even without the headphones. The device's reception is also extremely good, even when the signal is weak: for the first time I was receiving emails on the Tube in tunnels. The XDA's most obvious weak point is its battery life: since battery    technology has not kept pace with devices such as this, users are stuck with 3.5 hours of talktime, and about 15    hours of use. Given the way batteries degrade over time, users may soon struggle to get through a day without recharging.But there isn't much O2 can do about battery life: it is selling a bigger battery and in-car charger accessories, which could help. It could do something about the minimal memory installed: just 32MB of Ram, and a single expansion slot. That aside, O2 should be applauded for its initiative in producing the XDA, a more versatile performer than the Blackberry, and more advanced than anything else on the market right now. If you can afford it, why wait.RA You can already get mobile phones with built-in radios, MP3 players, cameras or even thermometers. Now iScan has released what it claims is the world's first truly mobile scanner. It is a small device that slots into an Ericsson phone to turn it into a bar code scanner. This offers the prospect of paying    for your shopping at Tesco or a meal in a restaurant by waving your phone at a bar code. You could also place a bet by scanning in a bar code in the racing section of a newspaper, which then sends your wager in by text message and deducts payment from your bank.Success, of course, will depend on sufficient establishments signing up for it. The initial uses are expected to be corporate - with carrier companies such as FedEx using phones to scan the bar codes on parcels instead of the expensive terminals they use now. But once third-party developers get involved, all sorts of applications could emerge.You can't just attach the device and start scanning because the phone itself has to be re-programmed. So most of the early applications are likely to arise from sellers offering the phone and scanner as part of a package. How much it will cost will depend on how much the seller can recoup in other ways. It could be subsidised or &#163;200 for the scanner plus the cost of the phone.Who needs a an old-fashioned pager in the new era of mobile phones and personal digital assistants? Lots of    small and medium-sized companies, according to PageOne. Yesterday it launched Oventus, which claims to provide executives on the move with "the most comprehensive communications tool in the world". Pagers have always had the advantage of receiving messages in areas where mobile phones can't operate but have suffered from being a one-way channel of communication.They are still one-way but they can now link up with emails, text messages, call centres and the internet. They can provide secure (ie encrypted) communication and be used in conjunction with a mobile phone to provide two-way links. The selling features also include guaranteed delivery (as long as the pager is switched on) with detailed message tracking. Prices start at &#163;25 a month for a basic service for very small companies or around &#163;250 a month for companies with up to 50 employees.
Soldier of Fortune II PC £34.99 Raven/Activsion ****Level-headed assessments of the original Soldier Of     Fortune's merits tended to be obscured by its extreme violence quotient: Raven's tweaks to the Quake III engine on     top of which the game was built allowed players to shoot individual body parts clean off enemies, and create     unfeasible amounts of blood and gore.Soldier Of Fortune II is just as violent, although in a slightly more realistic     manner than its predecessor. This time, you can only shoot people's heads off with the shotgun. You can also add a     parental lock or reduce the level of blood and gore during installation.If you are not squeamish, you will find that     Soldier Of Fortune II is one of the best first-person shoot-'em-ups ever made. Again, you play John Mullins (a     Vietnam vet turned mercenary who, in real life, is most affable and amusing) and must under take a series of     missions in locations from Prague to the Colombian rainforest.Gameplay is varied, mixing classic action with stealth     episodes and arcade-style sequences in which you man fixed guns on moving objects. That format renders the game     fairly linear, but that is the only criticism. The graphics, AI and general atmosphere are superb: enemies will kick     tables over for cover and even new weapons if you shoot their original ones out of their hands.Co-operative     multiplayer modes are present and correct, while near-unlimited replay value is afforded by a random mission     generator. Soldier is a classy and addictive game that will enrapture the first-person shooter enthusiasts. (SB)Duke Nukem: Manhattan ProjectPC	&#163;19.99 3D Realms/ Ubi Soft	**Just for a moment, when you see this game, you think "Could this be it? The new Duke Nukem shoot-'em-up we've all been waiting for?"Sadly, you soon realise otherwise. While Duke Nukem Forever continues to wallow in development hell after nearly four years, 3D Realms   has released a retro twist on its favourite son: a sideways-scrolling shoot-'em-up.This genre has been dead for some time, but you still hope for some surprises. And yes, the graphics are above average, crisp and clear with    big explosions and scripted levels broken up by bosses and surprises. But I haven't seen gameplay this dated since the late 1980s. You cannot move in or out of the screen except to climb ladders or enter doorways. With only a forced   illusion of 3D and a miserable array of moves, this game is all about acquiring weapons. Once you have them, you have to hope that something runs into your line of fire.And then there's the Duke, ekeing out a living teasing big-breasted hostages with lines such as "I go where I please, and I please where I go!"Yes, it is keenly priced, but this is a terrible mistake for a franchise once hyped as being bigger than Lara Croft. It also smacks of the need to release "something" after endless delays for the proper sequel. Time has passed, gamers have grown up, and hamming it up like Jean Claude van Damme's dad isn't going to help. (MA)F1 2002PlayStation 2 		&#163;40 Electronic Arts 	****Last year's Formula One season was won by EA Sports' F1 2001, with healthy sales on the PS2. This year's edition faces tougher competition from the PC, Xbox and GameCube versions, plus Geoff Crammond's Grand Prix 4, but don't bet against it. The Xbox version, featuring fantastic wet weather effects, didn't win many friends, while the success of the long-delayed GameCube program, due tomorrow, will be constrained by the machine's small market share.F1 2002 on the PS2, however, is very much the mixture as before. The teams and drivers have been updated - this is the official game, after all - but the graphics are still jerky, and the cars still fearsomely hard to steer with a gamepad.The simulation is astonishingly detailed, and includes options for tyres and the effect of lighter fuel loads. For   the first time, you can also get a boost by slipstreaming behind another car. You can actually go through a full race weekend in real time: spend an hour practising, an hour qualifying, go through the warm up and then a full-length race. Even the pit stops can be interactive.EA has also introduced a few tricks to get you to try other cars and different racing techniques. You can collect bonus cards to unlock new areas of the game, and tackle 11 short challenges. You can also race like so many real F1 drivers, where the man to beat is your team mate.Players who fancy a little light relief can switch from Simulation to Normal mode for some arcade-style racing. This is also useful for beginners who would otherwise be unable to complete more than a couple of laps in one piece. The game also includes a decent set of multiplayer and split-screen options.However, players who have grown bored with or given up on F1 2001 are unlikely to find enough new stuff here to rekindle their interest. They can pretend to be Mika Hakkinen and wait for next year. (JS)
Fancy spending &#163;500 on an electronic Filofax? Sounds like a bad deal? It is, but a surprising number of people invest in a personal digital assistant (PDA), either a Palm or Pocket PC-based computer, then use it as a notebook with a couple of extras thrown in.Partly to get around this, Orange is offering to hook up people with PDAs to the internet with equipment they own, if possible. Otherwise, the mobile network operator is offering a deal on an iPaq 3870 PDA and Ericsson T39m mobile phone, includ  ing a GPRS connection and Bluetooth communication between the devices. The shop assistants will set up a suitable email account and configure the devices so they work together immediately after it's charged up. The hardware will cost &#163;499, with the Orange contract on top. If that sounds expensive, then bear in mind the iPaq by itself normally sells for &#163;560 or more (from the link below and numerous online and retail outlets).The joy of Bluetooth, the wireless network that glues the devices together, is that it gets around the need for a    fiddly infrared connection. Mobile phones such as the Nokia 7110 have built-in modems and infrared connections that can communicate with all but the most basic PDAs, but in spite of claims made by manufacturers, infrared isn't the most robust communication for   your equipment. If you have a flat surface and can keep reasonably still, then it's fine. But if you are stuck on a train, it can take a few attempts before you get all the emails waiting on your server. Bluetooth is a truer network and will keep the devices linked whether they are in different rooms or simply in your jacket pocket.Email is certainly quicker through the system, although Orange's boast that the little box can also pick up the web requires a degree of selectivity about which sites you want to examine. Anything with too many graphics or objects will slow the system; I could order a book through Amazon but so many bits were download ing so slowly it became very frustrating.Emails zip along, although under a GPRS contract you pay for the amount you download rather than the time you're on, so the speed won't bring the cost down.Buying the top-of-the- range option isn't obligatory, although going back to anything else once you've tried it is nigh on impossible. PDAs with expansion slots can take a Bluetooth card that will come with the software, so as long as the phone and contract are Bluetooth and GPRS compliant, the performance will be the same. Bluetooth PCMCIA cards combined with a Bluetooth phone will likewise connect a laptop to the internet.The infrared connection remains serviceable for GPRS and non-GPRS accounts on any mobile network, and most modern laptops will have an infrared port to allow this to happen, but looking at websites becomes incredibly slow. You are restricted to   9,600kbps with anything other than GPRS, which itself is slower than an ordinary modem connection.It has been said that GPRS needs to become cheaper before it is any real use, and there is some justification for this, particularly for the casual user. But for those who can lose business by leaving the emails until they get back to the office, this package is well worth considering.
SynchroniseIs it possible to synchronise Microsoft Outlook data on a laptop with a PC? I've tried using Activesync but can't get the two machines to connect.Mike McNichollJack Schofield replies:If Outlook is set up in Internet Only or No E-mail modes, rather than Corporate Workgroup mode, then I cannot see a way of doing it. It would be incredibly useful if Activesync, which synchronises Outlook with handheld computers, supported notebook PCs too, but it doesn't. You could invest in Puma'sIntellisyncfor Notebooks (see link below) which does what you want and more. A free, but less effective, solution is to use the Intellisync software installed on Yahoo, and synchronise both machines with the same Yahoo data. Finally, you could network the two PCs and use the desktop PC's copy of Outlook to access a master copy of the Outlook.pst file kept on the notebook. But that is one for the geeks.SpammedPorn spam accounts for at least half the messages I get at my company address. I have asked the IT people if they can stop it but apparently they can't. I don't like them on my computer, especially now that government departments will be checking what I get sent. Name withheldJS:Suggest that your IT department buys some filtering software such asGordano Ltd'sGLWebMail  orBrightmail, subscribes to a filtering service such as Brightmail, or switches to an ISP that does some spam-blocking. In the UK, EasyNet, Nextra and AT&amp;T Business Internet Services use Brightmail software. Although filtering costs money, your IT department would save money by not having to store and back-up vast quantities of spam, and save their staff huge amounts of valuable time.DivertedIn an attempt to solve a long-standing problem, I tried to go to the Microsoft support site and got a totally different (more general) Microsoft site with a different URL. Why?Maurice B LineJS:I suspect that, as is often the case, Microsoft is being too clever for its own good. The Internet Explorer browser has a language setting, which you can find by selecting Tools|Internet Options and clicking the Languages button at the bottom. Microsoft's servers check the language before sending you to MSN.co.uk rather than the MSN.com you wanted, for example. Since I want to decide which sites I go to, I have most browsers set to English (United States)&#91;en-us&#93; instead of English (United Kingdom) &#91;en-gb&#93;. Either way, it is often easier to use Google to search for the Q number rather than go to theMicrosoft Support Knowledge Base. Also, MSKB is slow and you can get pages quicker from Google's cache.Scan againI am unable to run Scandisk in Windows 98SE: it says I have applications running, even though I have shut down Viruscan and removed all applications from the task bar. Is there an application I can run to check if there is something running?Tony BowenJS:You can find out what is running on a PC by pressing Ctrl-Alt-Del, which calls up the Task List. Usually this is enough. However, you can useEndItAll2to see and close down programs not shown on the Task List. For more help with Scandisk, see Q222469  and Q287914 in theMicrosoft Support Knowledge Base. A quicker answer is to run Scandisk after restarting your PC in Safe Mode. This usually works.Mac openerI have an iMac with OS 9.1 with Outlook Express 5 and Appleworks 6. I have no problem opening attachments sent as text files but DOC and RTF attachments from PCs are basically a blank wall. Is it absolutely necessary to have Microsoft Word to open these attachments?Arril JohnsonJS:The traditional solution for Mac users living in a PC world is DataViz'sMacLink Plus, which supports a huge number of PC file formats. I think it is worth buying Word but you don't have to.Backchat&#183;Several readers have leapt to the rescue of Ewan Bennett, who asked about disabling the F1 key in Microsoft Excel. Colin Hall suggests downloading a program,My Function Keysand re-assigning the F1 to F4 keys to do something useful. Dave Rowson suggestsHot Keyboard, which also lets you reassign keys: "The program was free on the PC Answers June 2002 cover disc." You can download it from the microsite at the link below but it costs $29.95 for individual users. Finally, Dave Green sent in an Excel macro that does the job, but it is too long to print.&#183;Last week, I was complaining about having to install the DivX video player along with the DivX 5 codec. Steve Hoselitz and others tell me you still have to download the player. However, during installation, you can untick the box for the player and install only the codec. If that was also the case before, DivX's email support line neglected to tell me about it.&#183;Ask Jack once hosted a long-running debate about ways to disable the Caps Lock key, and Colin Hall has found an excellent solution. Simply download a shareware utility called < A HREF="HTTP://www.phoebusnet.com/sMaRTcaPs" TARGET="_NEW">sMaRTcaPs, which disables Caps Lock, Numlock and the Insert key.
Ready for thetooth phone?
If you haven't got around to buying a DVD player yet, then maybe it's because you have a few hundred VHS tapes and really don't feel like trying to find copies of Themroc, Tampopo and Terminator on silver discs. In that case, maybe you could be tempted by theHR-XV1that JVC announced this afternoon. It combines DVD and VHS in one box. It will also play your CD, VCD, CD-R/RW and MP3 (CD-R/RW) discs and NTSC tapes, if you have any.
TheWebby Awardsmightnot be what they used to be, but Auntie won't be caring today: the BBC has won two of the prestigious awards, handed out last night in San Francisco. Itsnews sitewas named best in its class; theRadio 4 sitewon the radio gong. There's a full list of winnershere. Thefive word acceptance speechesdon't seem as funny as before, either.
Vodafone's chief executive, Sir Christopher Gent, was paid £2.4m in the year to March, although the mobile phone company lost £13.5bn loss during the year, it emerged today.Sir Christopher also received, in a separate payment, bonus issues of Vodafone stock currently worth a total of about £1.6m.This contrasts with a decision this week by German rival Deutsche Telekom not to grant stock options to board members this year following its share slump.Sir Christopher's big pay day, disclosed in Vodafone's annual report, is bound to rekindle charges of fat cat salaries at a time of heavy financial losses, severe job cuts and falling share prices.Vodafone last month reported the largest loss in British corporate history, including £20bn of writedowns and other charges related to acquisitions.Vodafone investors will not be amused by details of Sir Christopher's salary as they have seen their shares tumble to 93p from a peak of 400p two years ago.However, Vodafone's falling share price has also hit Sir Christopher's bonus package.Sir Christopher was granted the bonus, originally worth £10m, following the company's takeover of Germany's Mannesmann two years ago, and has already received half in cash.The second half, made up of 1.6m shares, was originally worth £5m, but as Vodafone's share price dropped, the value of the bonus has fallen to about £1.5m.Vodafone said the shares were awarded on the achievement of earnings growth targets over the two years to March 31 2002."The shares were put aside for two years," Vodafone said. "We are disclosing today that the performance conditions have been met and shares will be released to Chris Gent and other directors."The company insisted that Sir Christopher was still paid less on average than the heads of large European companies, who earn between £3.4m and £9.3m."Award levels for the chief executive will be set by the remuneration committee to deliver total remuneration that is between the top 25% and 10% of the remuneration levels of other chief executives of large European companies," the company said in its annual report.
This just in...PC Worldhas conducted some important research into how to employ knowledgeable sales assistants - oh, no, doh! - no, it's the UK's top five sci-fi gadgets ("in full," it says here, which means they list all five). Number one is the Star Trek Teleporter, two is the Men in Black memory eraser, three is a Star Wars Light Sabre, four is James Bond's mobile phone-controlled car, five is Dr Who's TARDIS.
Ministers were yesterday forced into a humiliating climbdown over plans to hand a host of public bodies the right to demand access to the communications records of telephone and internet users.Bowing to intense public and political pressure, David Blunkett, the home secretary, admitted that the government had "blundered" into the issue as he announced that the proposals had been shelved to allow more consultation.The move stunned opposition politicians and civil liberties groups, who had been expecting ministers to unveil tighter safeguards yesterday in response to the wave of resistance that had been growing since the Guardian revealed details of the proposals last week.The draft order extending the reach of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act - due to be debated yesterday, then postponed until next week as opposition swelled - has been withdrawn until the autumn at the earliest. It would have given a host of government departments, local councils and quangos the power to demand, on their own authority, access to detailed communications logs, including individuals' email records and mobile phone location data. Current legislation gives only the police, the intelligence services, customs and excise and the inland revenue these powers.Last night the Home Office also withdrew a second draft order giving the same list of public bodies the power to authorise themselves to conduct surveillance against individuals and to use informers.In a development certain to increase pressure on ministers to restrict the number of bodies able to demand communications data, the Guardian has discovered that the watchdogs appointed to monitor the way ministers and public bodies use the sweeping powers given to them under the act have expressed serious doubts about their ability to do their job properly. It emerged yesterday that the chief surveillance commissioner, Sir Andrew Legatt, will have to oversee the activities of 1,039 public authorities with only a staff of 22 to help him.In a little-noticed report published this year, he warned: "I clearly cannot carry out any meaningful oversight of so many bodies without assistance."Attributing the government's change of heart partly to the objections of his son, Hugh, who works in the IT industry, Mr Blunkett said the proposals had been interpreted "entirely in the wrong direction"."When you are in a hole you should stop digging, and having full consultation on the issues raised seems the best way to do it," he told BBC Radio 4's The World at One.Lord Strathclyde, the Tory leader in the Lords, said: "Had we not made clear that we would seek to defeat these outrageous proposals they would have been rammed through the Commons."Richard Allan, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: "This government is not overly willing to stand up and defend civil liberties on principle so I think what has really caused this decision is the fact that the proposals are completely unworkable."The Devil is in the detail&#183;Police, the intelligence services, customs and excise and the inland revenue will be given the power under section 22 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 to compel telephone, internet and postal service providers to hand over the detailed   communications logs of individual users, without first seeking the permission of a judge.&#183;The Home Office wants to expand this list to include seven government departments, every local council and a host of other public bodies, including the postal service commission and the food standards agency.&#183;Until this section of Ripa comes into force, the police and all these other   organisations can request communications data from service providers under the Data Protection Act, but the provider can refuse if they do not believe there are sufficient grounds for the request. In such cases, the agency making the request must convince a judge to give a court order to obtain the data.&#183;The data obtained could include name and address, phone calls made and received, source and destination of emails, identity of websites visited, and mobile phone location data which records the user's whereabouts whenever the phone is switched on to within a few hundred metres. To access the content of communications (eg by placing a wiretap on a telephone or intercepting an email), the authorities still require a warrant from the home secretary.&#183;The data obtained could include name and address, phone calls made and received, source and destination of emails, identity of websites visited, and mobile phone location data which records the user's whereabouts whenever the phone is switched on to within a few hundred metres. To access the content of communications (eg by placing a wiretap on a telephone or intercept an email), the authorities still require a warrant from the home secretary&#183;The data can be obtained on the grounds of national security, preventing or detecting crime, protecting the economic wellbeing of the UK, public health and safety, collecting tax, preventing death or injury in an emergency and any other purpose specified in an order by the home secretary.
It's just been announced that UK Home Secretary David Blunkettis backing downfrom his controversial plans to hand snooping powers to a wide range of government agencies, asreported in the Guardian,over the last eight days, andblogged here. Officially, the plans will not be debated until the next term of parliament - that's in the autumn - but the suggestion appears to be that they have been shelved for the forseeable future.
Two months of hearings have resulted in a"blistering indictment"of what went on between the government of California and Oracle, the Silicon Valley software company run by the computer industry's chief egotist, Larry Ellison.
The home secretary, David Blunkett, today announced that the government was temporarily shelving plans to give public bodies more powers to snoop on private communications.He said the government had "blundered" into the issue and more consultation will take place before new proposals are presented to parliament.Widespread concern about privacy had led to a rethink and the admission that the government had "dug itself into a hole", Mr Blunkett said.He added: "The proposals were intended to provide protection and regulation of the access to data."The rest of the world interpreted them in entirely the wrong direction."When you are in a hole you should stop digging and having full consultation on the issues raised seems the best way to do it."The proposals had aimed for tighter regulation of the transfer of data from private communications such as mobile phones and emails.Since new laws governing their transfer were introduced two years ago this had operated on a "very ad hoc basis", Mr Blunkett said.He added: "As a department we blundered into this. It has raised an enormity of concern on one hand and confusion on the other."Mr Blunkett is postponing introduction of the bill to allow for further discussions about the implications.The government first announced a delay in plans to push through the controversial package yesterday.MPs had been due to debate a draft order today enabling various Whitehall departments, as well as local authorities and other public bodies, access to communications data.Last night, a spokesman for Mr Blunkett said the debate would now take place next Monday evening in the Commons. But today, the Home Office said the plans would be postponed until the next session of parliament which means they will not get debated by MPs until the autumn at the earliest.Today Mr Blunkett said that a conversation with his son that helped change his mind.He said: "I have a son of my own who is in the data business who said, 'Look Dad, people are simply seeing this in exactly the opposite direction to what you intended and if you don't get off it you are going to end up with people not just misinterpreting but believing that their own communications data is going to be interfered with'."As someone who believes very strongly in my own privacy, I share the worry that people have about that."If they are hearing what we are doing wrongly then we need to start from scratch."Ministers would attempt to build "consensus" before trying to introduce similar orders, Mr Blunkett added.Lord Strathclyde, the Tory leader in the Lords, said there was "a great deal of confusion in the government's mind" over the issue."On Sunday we were told that this was the most important regulation coming forward," he  said."On Monday when we protested and objected to the way they were doing this they said they were going to propose some minor safeguards and today, as you have pointed out, they have said they are going to defer the whole thing at least until the next session of parliament."I very much hope they will take the opportunity of rethinking this complete policy."I have called it a 'snoopers' charter'. If the ministerial curtain-twitchers can be put back in the box this is a bad policy, it is a wrong policy and if it is the start of the policy being dumped then I am very glad.""They were trying to rush it through the parliamentary process as quickly as possible," he added."When they realised there was going to be real opposition to this move they suddenly began to walk backwards and they have been walking backwards ever since."And the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Norman Baker called it "a humiliating climbdown for the home secretary"."In his view I suppose it is better than a humiliating defeat, which is what would have happened if the government had pressed on with this measure," he said."It is astonishing really that such an illiberal proposition, which has outraged the country in many ways, could have got as far as it did."I suppose the home secretary should take some credit for pulling the plug even at this late stage."Chris Mullin, chairman of the Commons home affairs select committee, welcomed news of Mr Blunkett's decision, which came after he called on ministers to come before the committee and defend the proposals."We share the widespread concern that has been expressed and we shall await his final proposal with great interest," the former minister said.The Tories had warned that they would be prepared to oppose the draft order when it came to the Lords, if Labour used its majority to push it through the Commons.With the Liberal Democrats and some independent crossbench peers thought to be opposed to the measure, the government could easily have faced defeat in the upper chamber.Some Labour backbenchers were also believed to be wary of the move.The draft order would extend the surveillance powers under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, which are currently restricted to the police, the intelligence agencies, Customs and Excise and the Inland Revenue.The government departments which would have been covered under the extended powers include health, trade and industry, transport, the Home Office, the Department for Work and Pensions and the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.The order would also have covered every local council, and would have extended to a range of bodies from fire authorities to the Food Standards Agency.The government has said the powers are necessary to prevent serious crime, but has been strongly criticised by civil liberties groups.
There's a nasty security hole inApache, the open source Web server software, but the quibbling in the background, reported by AP, looks even more alarming.
"Audiogalaxy Caves Under Industry Pressure"says the IDG News Service. It will pay music publishers "a substantial sum" and filter out copyright songs.APalso has the story.
"Software companyThinkFreeon Monday announced a low-cost alternative to Microsoft's Office software for Mac OS X, offering a package of word processing, graphics and spreadsheet software for $50," reportsCNET News.com. I'm not sure why they're highlighting only the OS X angle - it works on Windows and Linux too.
The walls of Ted Turner's international headquarters, 14 floors above downtown Atlanta, are lined with Oscar statuettes. If you try to pick one up - to brandish aloft, for example, the actual best-production award for Casablanca - you will discover that they are all firmly bolted to their glass display shelves, and Turner's aides, who pace the floors crackling with nervous energy, will break their frowns for just long enough to laugh at you.Turner isn't frowning, though. "Great Britain, huh?" barks the 63-year-old multibillionaire founder of CNN, former champion sailor, Rhett Butler lookalike and record-breaking philanthropist, bolting out from behind his desk with such force that he almost dislodges the best-picture Oscar for Gone With the Wind, which he seems to use as a paperweight. His famous pencil moustache is silver now, impeccably kept, and it twitches and leaps every time he smiles, which he does a lot - in amusement, but also in exasperation at conflict in the Middle East, impending environmental catastrophe, everything. "We've met, haven't we? No? Huh. Great Britain. Let me tell you something. I've got some great paintings of the Battle of Trafalgar..."The smiles seem particularly out of place because Turner has just emerged from the worst two years of his life - years that he has said left him feeling "suicidal". In spring 2000, he was suddenly sidelined from the broadcasting company he had built from scratch, kicked from the driver's seat into a meaningless advisory position by means of a fax message. Then his wife of eight years, the actress Jane Fonda, came home one night - the way he tells it - and informed him that she was now a born-again Christian; they divorced last year. Two of his grandchildren developed a rare genetic disorder, and one died. Turner's friends said he was inconsolable.Then, just when he felt it could get no worse, he brought the wrath of America upon himself by telling students in a speech in Rhode Island that the September 11 hijackers had been "brave". He was stung into silence. "Where's the upside in opening your mouth?" he says now,   scissoring himself into an armchair overlooking the city, the shelves behind him crammed with more than 140 plaques and trophies. "It's kinda nice to keep quiet at a time when everybody else is telling everybody what to do."Instead, he threw himself into his charity work, which is dizzying stuff in itself: he pledged $1bn to the UN in 1997 and helped pay off the $34m it was owed by the US in 2000. Turner's UN Foundation, the biggest of his three charities, recently spent $22.2m in one month combating intestinal parasites in Vietnamese children, reducing China's greenhouse-gas emissions and helping women from Burkina Faso start businesses selling nut butter. "But I'm trying to force myself to relax," he says. He has just got in from Argentina, he explains, where he owns "a couple of ranches" - rather an understatement, since he has 128,000 acres there and 1.8 million in the US, making him America's largest individual landowner. "When I was young and ocean-racing competitively, and working the rest of the time, I was going 24 hours. I was on the verge of collapsing. But you've got to slow down a bit. That's what I'm finding from my..." - and here he punctuates his sentence with the weirdly drawn-out "awwww" sound he uses instead of "um" or "er" - "from my personal experiment with life."Nigel Pritchard, CNN's head of international public relations, who is sitting beside me, has prepared a memo outlining some things his boss might like to consider not saying. Craning my neck, I see that it politely suggests that he might steer clear of talking about AOL Time Warner, the company resulting from the merger of the internet firm AOL with the company that Turner Broadcasting was already part of. And, specifically, he might like to avoid reference to that Rhode Island speech. Nigel is only doing his job, but I suspect that he knows this part of it was never going to be very effective: Turner is notorious for doing as he pleases. Early in his career, he made a pitch wearing no clothes to advertising executives; later, he caused controversy by travelling to Cuba to get Fidel Castro to tape a promotional slot for CNN."I made an unfortunate choice of words!" he cries when the subject of the Rhode Island speech is raised. "I chose, accidentally, to say that they were brave. That was a mistake. Because brave - it's the home of the brave here. And the home of the Braves!" (Turner owns the Atlanta Braves baseball team.) "All right! I use that word so often, it just pops out. It's on the top of my mind because I've owned the team for 25 years. I sing the song every time."He leans forward as if sharing a secret, except that his voice, amplified by encroaching deafness, never quietens. "Look, I'm a very good thinker, but I sometimes grab the wrong word. I say something I didn't think through adequately. I mean, I don't type my speeches, then sit up there and read them off the teleprompter, you know. I wing it."Kofi Annan, the UN secretary general, is reported to have thought that Turner was playing a prank when he offered to spend $1bn on the beleaguered organisation. Nothing could have been further from the truth: in his various world-saving projects - everything from preventing the extinction of the Chiricahua leopard frog in the wilds of New Mexico to founding an influential nuclear non-proliferation institute - Turner really does seem to see himself as locked in a personal, elemental battle against apocalypse. "I'm doing everything I can to try and avert disaster while we kind of give us a little time to get our act together, because in time we'll have to do it," he says. "Either that, or, you know... it's goodbye." He doesn't just give money: his staff are sometimes taken aback to see him skulking in the streets nearby, picking up litter.Turner has always lacked a statesman-like gravitas in his philanthropy, and in his universe, it turns out, environmental apocalypse is basically like sport. "It's like baseball," he says, but he is too polite not to cater to his audience. "Or we could use soccer. We're down by one goal, with 10 minutes left to play. Well, the game's not over. But we're gonna have to not let the opposition score any more, and we're gonna have to get at least one more goal, and preferably two, to win the game. That's where we are right now," he says, careening recklessly into a pool analogy. "We're right behind the eight ball."He is baffled, enraged, driven to louder and louder pronouncements and bigger smiles of confusion by the fact that nobody else seems to be thinking about these matters at the moment, embroiled as we are in the war on terrorism. "But right now, aren't the Israelis and the Palestinians both terrorising each other?" he says, as Pritchard starts scribbling furiously on his notepad. "It looks to me like they're both doing it. When the Brits retaliated for the Germans, for the, awwww, Krauts... for the Nazis bombing London by bombing Berlin, weren't you both terrorising each other? The rich and the powerful, they don't need to resort to terrorism... The Palestinians are fighting with human suicide bombers; that's all they have. The Israelis... they've got one of the most powerful military machines in the world. The Palestinians have nothing. So who are the terrorists? I would make a case that both sides are involved in terrorism."But Pritchard is writing at warp speed now, and there has always been a part of Turner that wants to please everyone, including his worried public-relations staff. "The United States, I think," he says, pulling himself together, "would probably not be considered a terrorist example at the current time."It must get depressing, I say, to dedicate so much time to issues that seem to have faded from the agenda. And so much money: when Turner gave his first billion to the UN, he dropped 67 places on the Forbes 500 rich list, out of the top 10 for ever. (His fortune now stands at $3.8bn.) Even with his resources, he must feel powerless now compared with when he sat astride the world's biggest media conglomerate. Does he ever feel hopeless? "I remember, many years ago, at the height of the cold war, I was down the Amazon with &#91;the explorer&#93; Jacques Cousteau, and I had a hopeless thought, and I said, 'Jacques, I don't think we're gonna make it.' And he said, 'What difference does it make? What else can we do?' "Then he is suddenly quiet. "It is depressing," he says softly. "The Middle East, the environment, all these things - it is depressing." He turns his head away and his lips start pursing and unpursing, mashing his moustache. The skin around his eyes turns red, and he blinks, and it becomes apparent that Ted Turner is crying. "It is depressing," he says again.But it lasts only moments, and he is soon arching forward again, outlining his solutions. One of these has always been a spirited internationalism that can seem a little goofy these days - the simple benefits of getting to know your enemies instead of raising the barricades against them. CNN gained a reputation in parts of Europe as a sinister force of American imperialism, but in fact it has always dripped with this let's-all-get-along ethic, and Turner says his greatest pleasure, back when he had full control of the channel, was in "ordering them to cover this or that UN conference from gavel to gavel".It is the same with his theory of diplomacy. "The worst thing you can do if you want to start a fight is to use derogatory terminology," he says. "You go into a bar in Britain and say, 'I don't like you blokes' - you're gonna get punched in the nose, right? Whammo! You know - 'Britain stinks. Does anybody wanna defend it?' Whammo! Right? I mean, it's easy to start a war if you want to."It isn't hard to see how Turner's childhood might have instilled this sense of permanent crisis, of desperate insecurity, behind the frenzied activity that is his trademark. His father, from whom he inherited an advertising business that he turned into CNN, was prone to fits of rage, and beat him with a coathanger; he committed suicide when Turner was 24. Even before that, his younger sister had died from an immune disease when she was 12, and Ted was sent to a boarding school he hated. His father, he has said, not without admiration, believed that instilling insecurity in his son would help him to achieve. All in all, Turner seems to have been a well-qualified candidate for total psychic collapse. "But when everything goes wrong," he says today, "you can either give up or you can try to fight. I tried to fight."Initially, he really did want to fight: "When I was a little kid there was this book called A Yank in the RAF. That's what I wanted to be. A Yank in the RAF. The Battle of Britain! Biggin Hill! A Spitfire - I was gonna take off and shoot the Krauts out of the sky... but I was born in 38. By the time I was seven, the war was already over. And I saw what happened in Nagasaki and Hiroshima and London, I saw the little kids shaking and being put on the trains and sent to the countryside. I thought families ought to be able to live in their houses and not have to worry about bombs falling from the sky."He says his sense of responsibility comes from being taught in a Christian school; then again, he's prone to mocking "Jesus freaks", and didn't seem to think he could live with Fonda once she converted. "But I don't really want to talk about all that," he says. "It's personal." He's now seeing an old flame, a Frenchwoman called Frederique d'Arragon. "She's been, awwww, a part of my life for a long time," he says sheepishly.After a brief spell in the armed forces, he ploughed his energies into his father's billboard business, purchasing a radio station and using empty billboards to advertise it. His radio empire grew, and expanded to local television. By 1980, he was launching CNN, although it was not until the Gulf war that the often-derided channel came into its own. He bought Hanna-Barbera's entire back catalogue, creating the Cartoon Network, and hundreds of old MGM films, which he recycled on another lucrative channel, Turner Classic Movies. His firm eventually merged with Time Warner, also the publisher of Time magazine. But then came AOL, and Gerald Levin, the chief executive of the new giant, decided he didn't need Turner - or perhaps couldn't tolerate his unpredictability. Levin is gone now, and his replacement, Richard Parsons, has brought Turner back into the fold in a new vice-chairman position. The line from corporate communications is that Turner is back in the saddle.But this is not how Turner sees it. "It doesn't mean a whole lot, to be honest with you," he says. He often refers ruefully to himself as an "emperor of Japan" figurehead for AOL Time Warner, wheeled out for ceremonies. But his semi-detachment does let him indulge his penchant for needling his new bosses. He is full of enthusiasm, for example, about an eco-cartoon called Captain Planet. "But I can't get them to show it on Cartoon Network," he sighs. "They say they can't get the ratings."He gets his information on current affairs from the Economist these days, he says. "You better say that I read Time magazine, too. You better say that. But it's not really for me. It's too populist.""Oh, God," Pritchard moans softly."Awwwww," says Turner, announcing a new thought. "I did not choose, awwww, to be phased out of the company. Out of active management. It was very painful for me. I was in the habit - I'd been working at this company for 40 years, only job I ever had other than being in the armed forces years ago. It was a very difficult transition for me. I love CNN. I love the Cartoon Network. I mean, I thought these things up. CNN is accepted all over the world, but I was like the British Expeditionary Force. I was one man, on an airplane all over the world, trying to convince people about a US-based network coming into their country... What I wanted to do, I figured, was to set an example for getting along. That's what Gandhi tried to do - bring the Hindus and the Muslims together. Nearly starved himself to death until they stopped fighting." When I ask why he didn't end up as more of a Rupert Murdoch figure, he just grimaces. "Whoaaa, God," is all he says.And then he remembers that he has got another appointment, and he is bouncing out of his chair, showing off his Oscar and his paintings, ushering me towards the door with a serenade of Rule Britannia. He stops only to offer, for inspection, a dollar bill, encased in plastic, which he keeps on his desk - a rare commemorative issue featuring a picture of a bison. The same bill is reproduced on his tie. Turner has a fondness for bisons: there are more than 25,000 of them on his ranches. His chain of restaurants, Ted's Montana Grill, serves bison burgers. "Pretty cool," he says to himself, turning the dollar bill over in his hands. He looks across to check that I am just as thrilled by it as he is. "Pretty cool, huh?"
Toshiba has just announced the Pocket PC e740 handheld, based on Microsoft's PocketPC software, as the first with built-in Wi-Fi (802.11b) networking.
A small company in Singapore reckons you can run any application on your handheld computer, by actually running it on a server. It's called theMXI (Motion Experience Interface), Sounds like someone has reinventedCitrixfor the PDA....
Sony Ericsson and Nokia unveiled newmobile phonestoday.
Does size matter?AllTheWeb now claims to index fractionally more pages than Google. It has yet to prove that it offers a better "sarch experience", though it is certainly worth a try.
The "snoopers' charter" that Imentioned last weekhasbeen delayed, reports Guardian Unlimited. A draft order which would have extended heavy-duty surveillance powers to bodies including local councils and Consignia was due to be debated by MPs tomorrow, and could have faced defeat in the House of Lords. Now the government says "parliamentary procedures" have held things up. No new date has been set for a debate. There's more information on a campaign against the new powershere.
George Gilder, the controversial technology guru who predicted that infinite bandwidth would have the same impact as the microprocessor, broke with habit and took his own investment advice in the late 1990s. For a spell, he was fabulously wealthy, as he touted countless telecoms companies like Global Crossing in a famously bullish tipsheet which was, at one point, taking $20m a year in subscription revenue. Now, he admits he's broke (if not quite as broke as Global Crossing, which in January became one of the world's biggest bankruptcies) - but he could still be right about where the tech world is headed. Read more inthis fascinating Wired magazine piece.
Andrew Meldrum, the Guardian's correspondent in Zimbabwe, is on trial in Harare, accused of "publishing falsehoods" in this newspaper's online service. His case is important, not only as the first test of the Mugabe government's repressive media laws, but because it amounts to an attempt to inflict these laws on the rest of the world.The Guardian newspaper is unavailable in Zimbabwe, but the prosecution insists that its criminal courts have jurisdiction over editors and journalists abroad whenever their "falsehoods" are downloaded by intelligence officers who spend their days surfing the net for criticisms of their country.The crime of "abusing journalistic privilege" by publishing falsehoods carries up to two years' imprisonment. It is found in the Access to Information and Protection of Privacy Act - a disingenuously titled piece of legislation which in reality provides for the licensing, controlling and punishing of editors and journalists, 10 of whom have been charged so far. The act was rushed through parliament in January, and these charges relate to stories which discomfited the Zanu-PF government in the run-up to the election.The prosecution contends that the crime is one of strict liability - ie that the journalist is guilty if the allegation reported turns out to be false, however credible or newsworthy it was at the time of publication. On this basis it will become risky to report any allegation made against the government, lest it turn out to be unfounded. Editors and reporters convicted under the act may not only be jailed but may also lose the licence to practise their profession that the act now requires them to obtain.The magistrate in the Meldrum case must decide the crucial question of where the website story is published: in London, where it was uploaded on to the Guardian Unlimited webserver, or in Harare, where Sergeant Blessmore Chishaka downloaded it last month at the Central Intelligence Organisation.If the crime of false publication was committed in London, the Zimbabwe court should have no jurisdiction. But if committed on downloading in Zimbabwe, the court would have jurisdiction to punish not only Meldrum but the editor of the Guardian and anyone else responsible for the uploading. (Mr Rusbridger, like General Pinochet, would have his travels truncated: no family holidays at Victoria Falls, or in countries like China and South Africa which have easy extradition arrangements with Zimbabwe.)Last week the prosecution, which likens the world wide web to television broadcasting, sought to demonstrate how Guardian Unlimited is published in Zimbabwe. The court moved to the business centre at the Sheraton Hotel where Sergeant Blessmore quickly accessed Guardian Unlimited and called up every article written by Andrew Meldrum - except the offending piece. "Possibly it has been deleted," he concluded. In that case, of course, President Mugabe's laws would have already caused the censorship of information which would otherwise be available now in Britain, and throughout the world.The case resumes today, with the prosecution relying on a copy of the webpage downloaded last month. The defence proposes to produce expert evidence to explain the difference between "push" technologies like broadcasting which transmit or direct information to particular areas and the "pull" technology of the world wide web, by which information reaches Zimbabwe only as a result of an electronic message sent from that jurisdiction which pulls the copy off the web server in London - the place where, as a matter of common sense, it is made available to the public.Courts throughout the world are grappling with the legal consequences of publication on the ubiquitous and directionless web. For example, Australia's high court is deciding whether it has jurisdiction in civil defamation over a Wall Street Journal website in New Jersey. But the Meldrum case is the first to assert local criminal jurisdiction over foreign web postings. Countries with more barbaric laws against seditious writing (Iran and Libya, for example) would doubtless welcome a precedent.This prosecution may prove an "own goal" for Robert Mugabe. He claims that his laws, however repugnant to other countries, are of concern only to Zimbabwe: they provide no warrant for the international community to interfere in his internal affairs. But by giving these laws extraterritorial effect, asserting jurisdic tion over web publishers wherever they may be located, his laws are attacking freedom of speech abroad as well as at home. Even on his own outdated theory of national sovereignty, this would entitle other countries to take action against Zimbabwe to protect the freedom of speech of their own citizens.These new media laws are blatant infringements of the country's constitutional guarantee of freedom of expression: the acid test of the country's judiciary will be whether, in subsequent proceedings, it has the independence to say so.&#183;Geoffrey Robertson QC is co-author of Robertson &amp; Nicol on Media Law, published by Sweet &amp; Maxwell. He attended the Meldrum trial at the request of the Guardian.g.robertson@doughtystreet.co.uk
You might have read about the Apple"Switch"campaign which is running in the US, the one that's created quite a viral stir on the web. Today, an interesting account of how the campaign was put together is posted onMac OS X: The Search for OS Canaan. The author isDamon Wright, a Network Administrator who appeared in one of Apple's ads having traded in his Windows PC for a Mac, and who is now very happy having made the switch. Beyond the message (a lot of pro users appear to be seriously considering Mac OSX), it's interesting to see the amount of effort required to create an apparently spontaneous viral campaign for a big corporation. Apple, and its ad people, knew exactly what they were doing.
Wired has a look atonline gaming.
Marc Andreessen, formerly of Netscape Communications, reckons the browser wars are not back.
An Australian woman is on trial for allegedly trying to sell her baby daughter for A$10,000 (&#163;4,000) to a childless couple in the US, over the internet.The woman, who is 39 and cannot be named, apparently agreed to sell her child - now a year-old and in care - after she was allegedly raped.She was remanded until the end of next month by a Melbourne magistrates court on Thursday, on two charges related to agreeing to receive payment for adoption. If convicted she could be jailed for two years.According to the Herald-Sun newspaper the woman, who has two sons, said she had received between 80 and 100 replies from prospective parents and chose a professional couple in New York who wanted her to give birth in the US and agreed to pay her medical and legal bills and air fares.The woman claimed that no money had changed hands, and wants the child back.
Ohmygod. "InJesus, Entrepreneur, Laurie Beth Jones, bestselling author ofJesus, CEO, shows you how to find soul satisfaction in your work."
PACMANgoes with US Airforce to Afghanistan. No, not the game, and not the Tablet PC either. (Tablet-shaped PCs have been doing useful work in industrial settings for a decade, and there is absolutely nothing new about this type of application, unless you are ignorant enough to think the tablet PCs being used are the same as the Tablet PC design Microsoft boss Bill Gates has been touting for the past 20 months.)
The internet in Europe is facing its first major test today as unpaid volunteers who have been maintaining a network that carries a quarter of all European web traffic prepare to switch it off.Roughly 100 unpaid former employees of failed Dutch telecoms company KPNQwest, who have been keeping the company's Ebone network up and running, plan to shut it down at 4pm this afternoon if no buyer comes forward.The workers have been occupying Ebone's operations centre in Hoeilaart just outside Brussels but have decided that after eight days enough is enough. "If your email doesn't crash you will still feel the impact of the global price increases that must result from the closure of a network of this magnitude," the workers warned in an email last night.Ebone's clients include many of Europe's internet service providers, including AOL and Easynet, as well as other carriers such as C&amp;W, AT&amp;T, Deutsche Telekom, Energis and Telecom Italia.Major consulting firm Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young is also understood to have placed   clients with Ebone. US-based financial news service Bloomberg also has a number of connections to the Ebone network.While many large corporate clients of Ebone have already switched to other operators such as Colt and BT Ignite, small and medium-sized businesses which use Ebone for their internet connections are unlikely to have managed to find alternatives.Many small businesses have already contacted Ebone, saying that they fear the shutdown will force them out of business. "To be honest we don't know what sort of impact shutting down the network will have - no one can really predict it. All you can do is estimate it because the network carries 25% of European internet traffic. No one has ever shut down a major internet provider before," said Graham Kinsey, one of the handful of volunteers still at the network centre in Belgium.The interconnected nature of the worldwide web and the fact that Ebone's network was state of the art, means that a lot of internet traffic used it as the quickest route between two computers.Anthony Tilke, former senior manager for internet   technology engineering at the company, said that if the network was shut down it was likely to take longer for web pages to load up and emails to be delivered."You will not see a complete cut in traffic, there are alternate routes that traffic can take. It will be rerouted but you will see a tremendous degradation in service," he said.KPNQwest bought the Ebone network in March this year from US carrier GTS. That deal greatly increased KPNQwest's debts and the company was plunged into a funding crisis which forced it to seek protection from its creditors late last month.The company has been frantically seeking a buyer for all or part of its business. Although talks have been held with two other European network operators who wanted to lease Ebone's capacity for a short period no deal has yet been struck.Last night one Ebone employee said:"Rather than potentially lose control of the network if bankruptcy administrators start to sell off assets in the various countries we have decided to take direct action now and shut down the network."
Traders were asking whether Lastminute.com had finally come of age yesterday as the company announced the acquisition of travel website Destination Holdings Group for &#163;12m - backed by a placing of shares to raise &#163;8m.Not only is Destination Group actually profitable but it has over 16 years experience in providing holidays, flights and car hire services.The deal will immediately boost Lastminute.com's bottom line. It follows a deal announced earlier this week with the travel   agency arm of German airline Lufthansa, which has helped the company plug a hole in its operational network.That deal will greatly help Lastminute.com's German business to join its counterparts in the UK and France in breaking into the black.Traders who had once dismissed Lastminute.com as a flash in the pan were yesterday admitting that it appears the business will be one of the few dot.com winners. The company's shares closed up 7.5p at 91.5p, just a few pence off the year's high.
The chief executive of Yell, the telephone directories business which yesterday moved a step closer to flotation, was paid a &#163;3m bonus by the company's former owner BT for helping sell it to a consortium of venture capital firms one year ago.On top of the bonus, John Condron is set to receive shares in Yell worth more than &#163;15.5m when it floats in London next month. Finance director John Davis will get &#163;6.5m worth of shares.The big winners, however, are Apax Partners and Hicks Muse Tate &amp; Furst, the venture capital firms which bought the owner of Yellow Pages from BT for &#163;2.1bn in June 2001.They will see the &#163;650m of cash they invested in Yell double in value at float. They are 
 also getting a &#163;50m management fee from Yell. Advisers Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan will share &#163;40m in fees.Yell yesterday announced that its shares will be priced at 270p to 345p when they float on July 3, valuing the business at &#163;1.8bn to &#163;2.3bn. Including debt it will have a total value of up to &#163;3.5bn.But the price tag is &#163;500m lower than originally expected as the company's advisers try to get the business away in a tough market for new issues. Pubs group Punch Taverns was recently forced to slice its offer price by 10% to get its shares away in a market spooked by the poor debut of music and books retailer HMV last month.The news came as another company once part of the BT empire announced that it has 
 paid bonuses to its three most senior directors totalling more than &#163;500,000.Wireless network mmO2, which used to operate under the Cellnet brand in the UK, has seen its share price more than halve in value since it was demerged in November. Yesterday, however, the company revealed that senior management are being given performance bonuses.In its annual report mmO2said chief executive Peter Erskine is getting a bonus of &#163;250,000 on top of a salary and benefits package worth &#163;481,000. Included in the bonus is a &#163;25,000 payment for successfully steering the business to flotation.Finance director David Finch received a bonus of &#163;145,000 on top of a salary and benefits package worth &#163;250,000.
How smart isCyc?
McAfee says it has seen the first example ofa virus that can infect JPEG files, though it is not (yet) in the wild.
The NHS is to appoint an IT supremo to rescue the health service's e-strategy - but may have to make the successful candidate the highest paid manager in the NHS.Junior health minister Lord Hunt said last night that the new national IT programme director general would be "a person of the highest calibre with a depth of expertise in delivering national IT projects".Industry insiders expect that the NHS will have to pay at least £200,000 to attract a top ranking IT specialist from the private sector - and even this is regarded as a conservative figure by some pundits.At £200,000 the IT director will be one of the highest paid public servants in the UK - his or her salary dwarfing that of the NHS chief executive, Nigel Crisp, (£160,000) and the health secretary, Alan Milburn (£124,979).The advertisement for the job, published this week, describes it as "a Herculean task &#91;that&#93;... will demand an individual of extraordinary talent and experience."It is coy about salary, it promises "an impressive package" but  states: "We are, quite simply, seeking the very best available deliverer of large scale IT programmes in the UK."Lord Hunt announced the plan to appoint the IT expert at his launch of the latest revision of the NHS IT strategy at the annual conference of the Association of IT Staff (Assist) in the NHS, in Birmingham yesterday.Previous NHS IT projects, he said, had a "mixed record". He blamed past fiascos on "a lack of unequivocal leadership on IT".Responsibility for the NHS's billion-pound annual spending on IT is split between the NHS information policy unit in Leeds and the NHS information authority in Birmingham and with individual trusts, which can decide largely what systems to buy."I can't think of any other national or corporate organisation that would  approach IT in the fragmented and piecemeal manner that we have over the past four years," Lord Hunt said.The IT director general's main responsibility will be driving a new four point  "implementation plan", which is due to begin in April 2003.This will create&#183;Electronic booking of appointments&#183;Electronic ordering of prescriptions&#183;A shared electronic health record&#183;A national common IT infrastructure.All are due to be reality by 2005 - a tall order by the standards of previous national computer schemes.One potential obstacle is money: officials have said the plan will need £5bn on top of existing IT budgets.Lord Hunt said that the Department of Health is still "divvying up" the new cash promised in the Budget, and could not say how much would go to IT.Another obstacle is the time taken to procure the systems. It normally takes at least two years to procure a system for the NHS. "We will have to sort that out," Lord Hunt said.The new IT plan is the third since Labour came to power. But Lord Hunt claimed that it represents continuity from the first strategy, Information for Health, published in 1998.One of that strategy's targets, for electronic patient records in hospitals, has been quietly dropped. This is largely because of the widening gap between the handful of hospitals that have managed to computerise and the rest that have not.The new emphasis is on bringing every NHS organisation up to a basic standard. This will be the responsibility of the 28 new strategic health authorities created in the latest reforms."What I am not going to have is a small number of trusts in each strategic health authority holding up progress because they can't come to decisions," Lord Hunt said.
Crime watchIn 1996, British artist Jenny Polak moved to New York to set up a studio in Lower Manhattan. Straight away she began noticing the Immigration and Naturalisation Service detention centre across the road from her new studio. Polak wanted to look inside to take some pictures but, as in the UK, such centres prohibit photography. But when a drawing of the inside of a detention centre arrived anonymously by fax, Polak had the idea of creating a website that would reveal the centre's hidden insides.The result is Hard Place, an online collection of the interiors of 10 immigrant detention centres in the US. Polak used architectural software to process dozens of drawings from inmates or their legal teams. They make for some uncomfortable viewing, revealing countless windowless corridors and labyrinthine architecture. The site also offers legal documentation and some fairly harrowing audio clips.The site echoes another ongoing, officially sanctioned project, 360degrees.org, which uses photography to record conditions in US prisons. But Hard Place is more than a documentary. As in the UK, the number of detainees   in US detention centres is rising, thanks to increasingly harsh anti-immigration legislation. It all makes Hard Place one of the most politicised pieces of net.art available.Water aidThames Water has linked up with Water Aid and promises to donate a further &#163;50,000 if 2 million people click on its site before the end of the month (&#163;150,00 has been raised already). The money will go towards providing safe drinking water in Africa and Asia for 10,000 people. There are only a few weeks left and 400,000 more clicks are still required to meet the target. It only takes a few seconds.Cash inBillions of pounds worth of unclaimed assets accumulate in the UK banks and pension funds every year. Now, a new company estimates that one in 12 of us has some kind of unclaimed inheritance. For a fee, it will search for it on your behalf. The service costs &#163;10, but if the company finds nothing after six months, it will refund half your money.Pogo not yogaPunk Rock Aerobics is the latest fitness craze to turn up in New York. Apparently, participants bored with yoga are turning up and spending an afternoon energetically pogoing to a soundtrack of punk classics. You can only book classes in New York, though it would be devilishly   easy to recreate in your front room. You can also get a taste of the "work out that rocks out" at the website. An acid house fitness club could be just around the cornerLasersWhile laser beams have long been part of the battlefield, airborne lasers fired from Boeing 747s have strictly been the stuff of science fiction _ which is why the site at www.airbornelaser.com  looks such a set up. Sites advertising military hardware don't usually come in shades of sickly purple; nor do they donate whole sections to "fun stuff". But this appears to be no spoof. A quick check on Jane's Defence confirms that the site's creator, Team ABL, is a genuine outfit, so the kind of lasers associated with films   such as Star Wars could be a reality.Virtual trainingThis week, the government-backed Resource Discovery Network has launched more free online training in internet skills to students and lecturers in further education, and added 11 new "teach yourself" web tutorials.The worm is...Digitalcraft.orgis a German site in English that catalogues many forms of digital culture. It already boasts decent sections on computer games - including a catalogue of computer emulators - and commercial website designs. Now the site has adopted the computer virus as cultural artefact and is holding an exhibition celebrating its dubious   charms at the Museum of Applied Arts in Frankfurt. Named after the I Love You computer virus that wreaked havoc in 2000, the site catalogues the 30-year history of the computer virus. Thankfully all the viruses are held offline, but a number of essays on virus culture and computer language are there for your perusal.Top trumpsWho is, or was the worst dictator of all time? Who murdered more of their own people than all others? Such twisted and ironical questions can be answered at the online Dictator Cards trump game. Jackal humour at its very best - just make sure you have Stalin on your side.Good guidewww.healthfoods.comwww.purefood.orgAuntie's saywww.bbc.co.uk/foodFood linkswww.nutritionsoundbites.com
The transport monster has spat out seven ministers in five years, which shows that macro level attempts to tame the beast are not working fast enough. Maybe it is unfair to blame an individual for not providing a solution when we are part of the problem. But we can choose to be part of the solution, starting on Saturday, when National Bike Week kicks off.Find the lowdown on 1,500 biking events for all abilities and ages taking place throughout the UK at the Bike Week link below. It also includes the Bike2Work programme for those of you willing to bike into work next week. But don't take part just to help out a minister. Cycling is fun. And it is soft on joints, hard on muscles and damn good for you. Don't bother with the rusty heap in the garage - splash out on a new bike. These days, they have suspension and oh-so-comfy saddles.Find initial advice at NBDA link below  and check out the models at the trade sites. You will get change from &#163;350 for a basic model hybrid or mountain bike. Pick from the range of Rockhoppers, Stumpjumpers and Chickenbashers. Yes, I    made that last one up but what a great job to be a bike namer. To test ride a bike, however, you will have to go to a shop. Find your local one at the Handbooks link below.But before you go, pump up your credibility as well as your calf muscles by doing the bike training programme at Netfit. And avoid the smirks of the taut-looking blokes in the bike shop by absorbing the brilliant explanations at How Stuff Works.Actually, bike folk are friendly but they are almost without exception evil tempters. You may drop in for an inner tube but you come out with four pairs of thundergusset technical knickers and knee pads like ciabatta with Velcro straps. And you look great! Drool over more fab kit at Cyclestuff or Wiggle.co.uk. But when you try it on, how should your    new bike feel? Not uncomfortable. If you feel part of the machine, you may have found the perfect bike. But just in case, check out the sizing charts at the Bicycle Net link below.Pad up and try the tricks found on the ride section of www.mbuk.com.If you can bunnyhop your toddler, you will impress the teenagers. If you want to get out of town, check out Bike Events  or Trail Break for a fun day with or without the family. The latter site gives details of timed off-road events over a choice of distances. If you are not ambitious, enrol in the pub class and refuel with lunch and five pints of Verger's Armpit. Being drunk in charge of a bicycle is a no-no, so check you know the limits at the IAS link below.Another way to be keelhauled by your local bobby is to cycle on a footpath. But you can ride on bridleways, roads used as public paths and byways open to all traffic. The sites at the Ordnance Survey or MTB Routes show you where you can ride in your area.  And it's not just the country police who might turn on you. Mountain bikers and ramblers are sworn enemies.Who hasn't been forced off a rural footpath by a gang of biked, bandy-legged stringbeans? Ruffled and upset, you turn a corner to find one of the gang trying desperately to fix his front fork before becoming the victim of Rambler's Revenge: verbal abuse    and well-aimed owl droppings. He would do well to look at Time Out Doors. If National Bike Week grabs you, consider buying a town bike for that commute: the mountain bike may have machismo, but it takes more guts a) to assemble a neat little Brompton in front of amused onlookers and b) to ride it in the face of juggernauts. Look for city cycling advice at the green grass link below.Compared with the Netherlands, the UK's bike lanes are prehistoric. As well as the risk of being sliced in two by the No 204 to Wembley Hill Rd, the ability to speed-jump parked Volvos is an acquired skill. Join the gang at Sustrans  and campaign for a better deal for bikers as well as walkers. The downside of riding in towns is the greater chance of your bike being pinched. This doesn't mean that country folk are law-abiding, but bike theft happens more in towns.If you follow the advice at Coventry's  cyber watch, you may not have to worry about your bike going AWOL but you may want to pay for a better chance of recovering it through the bike register link below. Unless, of course, it has already been stripped for parts and melted down into nail clippers. But never mind... you had your eye on that manipulated alloy Chickenbasher XC Mark 2 anyway.
Why is it important to understand the impact of technology on society?Many perspectives on the impact of the internet and other information technologies on society have failed to inform the public. In fact, they suggest that a person must either get on the steamroller or be part of the road. However, individuals can shape information and communication technologies to reinforce their values and interests. Theories of an information society leave the public nothing to decide. They can only prepare for the coming information age. Theories of access, which my colleagues and I are developing, help individuals think about the way in which decisions about how they use email or answering machines can shift more communicative power to them or to others.What areas of research will you explore at the OII?One area is e-democracy, where my research has focused on the role of the internet in policy advocacy. Is the web enabling citizens to have a greater influence on the policy process? A second is work on the role of new media in higher education and learning, which challenges traditional approaches to campus-based education. Once we get a stream of projects under way, we will develop an innovative degree programme to complement the OII's research interests. Hopefully within five years, we will offer a masters degree in internet studies.What are the challenges of internet research today?Debate about the internet is beset by many views about whether new technologies will build new communities or isolate individuals, create or destroy jobs, and enable democracy or bring about a surveillance society. Also, research on the internet is too often tied to commercial interests. The OII will conduct research that is independent of commercial concerns. Finally, a great challenge to research on the internet has been the difficulty of convincing leading academics and institutions to take new information and communication technologies seriously. I've pursued research in this area since 1974, but only now, with my appointment at the University of Oxford, do I feel that this burgeoning, multidisciplinary field has come of age.What is your background?I'm a social scientist and I don't think of myself as tech-oriented at all.What about gadgets?I'm not so fond of gadgets. I use a paper scheduling system rather than a personal digital assistant. I still use a fountain pen and paper to think through ideas. Too many people writing about technology are just enthusiastic users who don't really think about why they use technology.What are your favourite websites?Besides the site for my daughter's under-11 girl's soccer team, I don't visit sites regularly. But I nearly always use the same couple of search engines - HotBot  and Google.  
 
Visit:
Losing a linkThe UK government wants to retain details of our electronic activities. At the same time, bypassing copy protection to view something you own is illegal. Perhaps people should have paid more attention to the likes of the Electronic Frontier Foundation in Europe, which has been campaigning on the issue of loss of freedom. The next big issue is software patents. If we go the same way as the USA, then for the first time companies will be able to patent an idea. So, once I have an idea for a product, no one else will be able to produce software that does the same sort of thing. Goodbye to choice, low cost and reliability. The big boys in the US are patenting everything they can, and that includes BT's claim to patent web links, which could result in us having to pay more for internet use since every page that uses links would owe money to BT. The more who join the EFF Europe fight, at least by writing to their MP, the more chance we can stop it now.Tony BurrowsCMSABUR1@livjm.ac.ukPirate clonesThe record companies seem to forget that we've heard their spurious complaints about "piracy" before (May the fraud be with you, June 6). Anyone remember the slogan: "Home taping is killing music"? It wasn't true then, and it isn't true now. Anyone who wants to clone Celine Dion can do so by running a line out of their amplifier or CD player into their computer; the process may be slightly more time-consuming than ripping a CD via software but the end result would be the same. Sony and co. are evidently unaware of those time-worn aphorisms concerning bolting horses and barn doors.John Coulthartdiscordia@mail.comCracking codeRecord sales have been decreasing year on year for the past five years, mainly because most people have rebought their old vinyl collection. The record companies can't stop the piracy, because even if Sony employs 1,000 programmers to find a secure form of encryption, there will be 10,000 kids trying to crack the code.Neil Butlerrenus@maths.tcd.ieRippableTony Smith states that the Sony Attack of the Clones soundtrack CD is "not capable of being ripped to the net".    This is not true. Anybody who is determined to rip a CD and make it available over the internet will do so with a normal CD player and the line-in socket on their PC soundcard. The protection just makes it impossible for the listener who does not have any other CD-playing equipment.Geoffrey Swindalegeoff.swindale@chesterton.co.ukCopying SonyCould the Sony that restricts our ability to play music on our PCs be related to the Sony that makes computer drives that copy DVDs and CDs?Prof Adam Tickella.tickell@bristol.ac.ukReal problemAlthough Warren Newman is correct to say that RealPlayer is not yet available for Mac OS X (Feedback, June 6), it is possible for users to access BBC and other Real content, as RealPlayer for OS 9 works under OS X's Classic environment. This is not an elegant solution: I haven't been able to get RealPlayer to launch automatically when clicking on a link to a Real file, so have to download the file then double-click it, but it works around what is (hopefully!) only a temporary problem.Pete Clark(email address supplied)Stream freeWarren Newman writes of problems listening to    RealPlayer content from Mac OS X. Operating systems such as Linux also have problems with such proprietary systems. Thankfully, however, the BBC is trialling an alternative - Ogg Vorbis - a Free Software alternative that can be easily implemented on just about any operating system. To encourage the BBC to adopt this open technology, as explained on http://support.bbc.co.uk/ogg , email oggfeedback@bbc.co.uk. Recently I listened to an Ogg stream of a talk by Richard Stallman of the Free Software Foundation from the University of Aberystwyth, from the stability of my Linux box, which has at least three audio players I could have used.Chris Howellshowells@kde.orgCamera crimeJack Schofield's review of the Nokia 7650 camera-phone (June 6) mentions a surge of possible offences to the sensibilities of Daily Mail readers from multimedia messaging (MMS) dating games. I'm more concerned about its potential role in child sexual abuse. MMS will enable the person-to-person distribution of images of abuse without any apparent obligation on the part of the carrier to police content on the network. Phone companies cannot be liable for the nature of conversations conducted on their networks, but MMS and such camera-phones facilitate actual crimes, rather than    mere discussions of them. Network operators should be obliged to monitor and analyse images transacted on their networks and make them available to law enforcement agencies. This would greatly increase the cost of MMS services. But the alternative is to sanction an efficient, hidden, near-real-time, abuser-to-abuser technology.Paul Maypaul.may@verista.com
Do you remember FuckedCompany.com? More to the point, have you visited it recently? When it launched in May 2000, just after the dot bomb detonated, Philip Kaplan's "dot.com deadpool" quickly became the place to survey the wreckage and count the cost.It's not hard to see why. It ran some great stories, it was funny and it felt authentic: Kaplan was/is a programmer and the site was powered    by his and his users' outrage at what the "suits" were doing to the net and the willingness of the media and public to buy the dotcom myth.He started to get as much media coverage as his targets, becoming a poster boy for the times (forget the dotcom kids, say hello to the notcom kid). He wasn't the only one. Just as there were Wall Street analysts who became stars by boosting the dotcoms (Henry Blodgett, Mary Meeker), so there were financial pundits who became celebrities by aggressively marking down e-commerce companies.In June 2000, Ravi Suria, a bond analyst at Lehman Brothers in New York, suggested Amazon.com would run out of money in six months and became a media darling in the process. FC got so much favourable press, you can't help wondering whether Kaplan wasn't tempted to cut and run for an initial public offering.That was never really a possibility. But he did imitate his dotcom targets in one way. He scored a book deal. F'd Companies - Spectacular Dot-com Flameouts (published by Simon and Schuster) is out in the US and due here in August.  Reading the book reminded    me that it was ages since I'd checked out FuckedCompany. It's still the same, sort of, but more than a little beside the point now. The book, however, still rocks, as Kaplan might say.In slangy prose that mixes short sentences, SCREAMING CAPITALS, relentless sarcasm and lots of masturbation jokes, it profiles a selection of failed dotcoms, detailing why they crashed and how much they lost. The figures are mind-boggling, as are some of the ideas. As Kaplan asks, who really believed that people would trade in their dollars for a "stupid-ass" alternative currency called Flooz?  F'd Companies is one of the better post-dotcom books.Its simple structure (basically a list of failed net companies) builds up a sense of the madness of the times. Read it alongside the sober economic analysis of John Cassidy's Dot.Con and you'll get a picture of the dotcom era.  Nevertheless, F'd Companies leaves a sour aftertaste. Despite Kaplan's scorn for dotcom rip-offs, he's up to something similar himself (his book repackages and resells material freely available on his site).But it's more than that. You can't help feel  ing that Kaplan is wasting himself a little. In the margins of his book, he hints that he really wanted to do something interesting online. But he got sidetracked. Fair enough. The dotcoms were an inviting target. But why is he still there taking potshots?Why is FuckedCompany.com still going?  One reason might be that people find it so difficult to get some perspective where the net is concerned, so there's still a market for his schtick. In the late 90s, they believed that everything dotcom was bound to make money, despite evidence to the contrary. During the past two years, people have swung the other way, believing that everything connected to the net is bound to fail, ignoring all evidence to the contrary.Wall Street isn't immune to this. Recently, the New Yorker's James Surowiecki pointed out that Ravi Suria's   gloomy predictions about Amazon have generally been proved wrong but that doomsayers get an easy ride because they fit with the mood of the times, the feeling that all dotcoms are, to quote Kaplan, fucked companies.  But surely it's time to get over this. Kaplan's funny, but rather self-indulgent, book ought to signal the end of the line for notcom negativity. The truth is, for all their criminal wastefulness, the dotcoms did do something good. They helped turn the net into a basic fact of life. Big deal, Kaplan might say. And he'd be right. But that's the point. The net is no longer the greatest thing ever, or the worst thing ever.It's just there, a boring everyday reality.  That's a good thing, because no one now thinks they can get rich quick online. So the financial scam artists and the media whores are going to go elsewhere. And the field is clear for people who want to be there, for the geeks and hackers to get on with things quietly and do something that isn't motivated by the desire to turn a quick buck.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
A 19-year-old architectural student in the Czech Republic recently reached a landmark when his PC, running the SETI@Home screen-saver, made the project's half-billionth download. At the same time, millions more PCs in homes, offices and universities around the globe were "folding" proteins, helping with cancer and Aids research, analysing stock market trades, or calculating ever larger prime numbers. Welcome to the grid.The success of SETI@Home, which uses about 3.5 million PCs to analyse telescope data in the    Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence, should not be measured by the fact that it hasn't found any. By showing that it is possible to harness the processing power of millions of PCs connected to the internet, it has encouraged the development of dozens of projects to do the same thing in more sophisticated ways, ushering in what could be a new era in computing.Today, most of the world's computer power is not concentrated in giant data centres. It is sitting on desktops, where it spends most of its time doing nothing. While you are getting a cup of coffee, or at lunch, or just pondering your next move in    Minesweeper, the computer keeps ticking over, "wasting" processing time. Find some way to harness these spare resources and there is the potential to construct a sort of "distributed computer" more powerful than any supercomputer. SETI@Home, launched in April 1999, takes the simplest approach. A central server takes data that has been collected from the Arecibo radio telescope in Puerto Rico, and splits it into chunks that can be downloaded over the internet.When your PC is inactive, the SETI@Home screen-saver kicks in and starts work on this data, looking for patterns that could indicate an intelligent signal. The results are sent back in exchange for the next set of data until the project is completed.  The project has exceeded director David Anderson's expectations: "Our original plans were based on the assumption that we'd get 50,000 to 100,000 participants. After one week we had 200,000 users, and it's increased steadily to 3.6m. Also, the project was originally planned to last two years; we're now in our third year and, since our user base is still solid, we're planning to continue the project and variants for at least another year."No matter how sexy it is to think that your PC may be about to find evidence of an alien civilisation, there is also the opportunity to make a more immediate contribution to science. The Folding@ Home project is not as big as SETI, with only 15,000 volunteers, but it is poised to make a big leap in popularity when it is included on the search engine Google's toolbar for Windows, which is currently being beta-tested. Proteins self-assemble, or "fold", into complex three-dimensional shapes that determine their function.While the process is fundamental to biology, little is known about how it works on an atomic level. "Mis-folding", or changes in shape, can lead to disease: it is implicated in Alzheimer's and BSE, among others.  Until now, it has been impossible to simulate folding: it would take one computer about 30 years.However, a team led by Dr Vijay Pande at Stanford University has changed that. Pande has been researching protein folding for more than 10 years."With my move to Stanford, it was natural to think about new ways to perform research in the field that would make a significant contribution," he explains. Eventually, he realised you could use distributed computing to simulate protein folding."We have folded several proteins and the results are now either published, or awaiting publication. No other distributed computing project can state that."  Pande's team started by    folding the relatively simple beta hairpin molecule. "The beta hairpin was a natural candidate as it's small and we could compare with experiments," he says."With that 'proof of concept' successfully completed, we have moved on to more biomedically relevant proteins, such as the amyloid beta peptide that causes Alzheimer's disease." The collaboration with Google came after meeting company president Sergey Brin at Stanford, andPande hopes to "significantly increase the number of participants, to hundreds of thousands of PCs".Perhaps you want to do more than make a contribution to science - such as win money at the same time. The Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search (Gimps) has been running since 1996 and has found five very large prime numbers. Late last year, the project discovered the largest prime number. Written in mathematical shorthand as 2 13,466,917-1 (or two times itself nearly 13 and a half million times, minus 1) it has more than 4m digits (think of roughly two and half times the whole of the copy of the Guardian, but all text). You can buy a poster with the number printed on it in a very small font (and a free magnifying glass).This is only the 39th Mersenne prime found, a special category of prime numbers named after Marin Mersenne, a 17th    century French monk who studied them.  Mersenne primes are relevant to number theory, but most participants join Gimps for fun, downloading numbers that are likely candidates to test. However, The Electronic Frontier Foundation is offering a $100,000 prize to the first person to discover a 10m digit prime number. Your chance of finding it is only about 1 in 60,000, but that is better odds than the "new" Lotto.Unlike SETI@Home or Folding@Home, Gimps is designed to run all the time the testing computer is switched on, but in the background, at a low priority. It can take a while. The record-breaker was found on an 800MHz PC with 512 megabytes of memory after 42 days of continuous processing. There are many similar projects, including Genome@Home, Fight Aids@Home, PCP@Home (tackling Post's Correspondence Problem), a Generalized Fermat Prime Search, and Seventeen or Bust, "a distributed attack on the Sierpinski problem".Art (The Electric Sheep Project) and games (The Distributed Chess Project) are also represented. For many more examples, see  the link below. But the real question is whether the same approach    can be used for business. Distributed computing is nothing new - it was a popular research topic in the 1980s - but typically the processors would be inside a single box, such as a supercomputer, or a clearly defined and controlled network of computers. Exploiting millions of machines whose reliability and owners are unknown, is a different game.However, the idea's potential is so huge that solutions are being sought. The basic idea means you stop thinking about running programs on a computer, and start running them on a network. It should work much like the National Grid that distributes electricity, but distributes computer processing power instead. Jobs are split up and tasks are assigned, according to need.  The distributed computing technology for Gimps was developed by Entropia, a company that also develops grid computing for commercial enterprises.President and chief executive John Wark sees a big future: "Over the next three years, we see grid computing becoming the standard computing infrastructure for high performance computing problems in industries like life sciences, chemical, oil and gas, engineering, etc. We will also see grid computing becoming increasingly integrated with the traditional business IT computing infrastructure."    So in the future, while you are writing a memo on your PC, in the background it may be, unknown to you, helping to analyse your company's sales, holding a tiny part of your main stock database or even processing your wages.At the Folding@Home project, Pande is also enthusiastic: "While it's bleeding edge scientific computing right now, it will become more mainstream, especially as others see what one can accomplish, given new algorithms that are suited to distributed computing." Big computer companies such as Compaq, Hewlett-Packard and IBM are working to commercialise grid computing, often in collaboration with governments who want to reduce the cost of their huge computing infrastructure. At the end of April, Gordon Brown, the chancellor, opened the National e-Science Centre (NeSC) in Edinburgh, to develop grid computing in the UK.IBM is involved, and the company is also collaborating with the US Department of Energy to develop a massive academic grid that will link research supercomputers and off-site scientific instruments such as telescopes across America. The project is due to be completed by the end of this year.  IBM's Brian Carpenter, a grid specialist, says: "The grid in a narrow sense came out of the scientific community, to    do large scale e-science, but it will be much more than that.It will be the way to manage resources of any kind on the net, without you having to think about it." In a multi-vendor networked world, this requires a standards-based architecture, and Carpenter points to the Open Grid Services Architecture (OGSA). This is an evolving version of the Globus Toolkit  from a project led by the Argonne National Laboratory, the University of Southern California and the University of Chicago's Distributed Systems Laboratory. The Globus Toolkit will also be used in Butterfly.net, announced at the beginning of May, which is being built by IBM's summer students.This will be the first computing grid dedicated to online gaming. Its multiplayer games will, in theory, allow more than a million people to play at the same time. It is claimed the system will be more reliable by eliminating problems such as game-play lag caused by too many players trying to log on at the same time, or having to stop a game for maintenance or upgrades.Also, Butterfly.net has been designed to allow players using different platforms -PlayStations, PCs and so on - to play each other with the same game. Initially, there are 50 servers, which will allow for 5,000   players. But there is no theoretical limit as new servers are added. In the first stage, grid computing can be done the way SETI@Home does it. This isn't a peer-to-peer system, because all the control resides at the centre, with the server or host computer. It's just like home working such as knitting: jobs are dropped off, processed and collected. There's nothing intrinsically wrong with centralised control: it can be very efficient. However, the real revolution will only come when grid computing works on a democratic peer-to-peer basis over the internet, so that anyone can play.From that point of view, SETI@Home may look much less important in 10 years' time than peer-to-peer projects such as Jabber (distributed instant messaging), Groove (collaboration), Freenet (document distribution) and Free Haven (anonymous storage). Unless, of course, the aliens say hello, and Anderson is philosophical about that. "We'll probably hear a signal within 50 years," he says. "SETI is not for the impatient!"
