TheBritish Heart Foundationhas launched a new 'interactive game website' aimed at teaching children about the marketing tricks used by big fast food companies. The charity has recently conducted a survey into the eating habits of children, discovering that two thirds do not perceive fast food as a treat. In other words, it's a regular part of their weekly diet.The BHF is especially critical of the way junk food and fizzy drink manufacturers use videogames to entice kiddies. Apparently, one in five children have spent time playing a game on a food or drink label while one in eight have played a game on a food or drink company's website.InFood4Thought, players select a character then navigate a stylised city environment filled with fast food adverts and marketing ploys. It's well-presented and interesting if a little slow on my browser (but then Iamusing Safari on an old G3 iBook via Virgin's cheapest broadband package). Teachers' packs are being sent to 2,500 schools; the packs include 'red reveal' glasses, apparently, a popular marketing gimmick, "to help kids see through junk food marketing messages."The problem, I suppose, is attracting children to the site in the first place. They're more than willing to sample the interactive offerings of their favourite food and beverage brands, but most will associate the British Heart Foundation with old people - if they even recognise the name at all. Apparently the charity is advertising through Bebo and MSN, but this also needs to be a Facebook application and an Xbox game - hey, if it'sgood enough for Burger King...More infohere.
With a new technology boom in full swing, there's plenty happening online - so we've decided to explore some of the big issues for Europe's dotcoms in a startup special with hostAleks Krotoski(here's the MP3).First up isLoic Le Meur. The French blogger and entrepreneurexplains why he decided to move to San Franciscofor his new web startup,Seesmic. But is Silicon Valley really the only place to be? We get a different point of view from studio guestPaul Cleghorn, who is hard at work with online TV aggregatorTioti.Elsewhere,Jemima Kisshas cued up the first audio instalment of her"Elevator pitch"feature, our whimsical look at some of the exciting new companies out there. First to ride the Lift of Doom:WeLoveLocal.Plus there's the usual dissection of the week's news and views, withCharles ArthurandBobbie Johnsonalong for the ride.Episode six is very happy to have your attention, but we're always looking for more ideas and help from our listeners. Tell us what you think in the comments or email us attech@guardian.co.uk.·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·or download this to your computer·The podcast feed URL·Visit our Facebook group
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Mobile network O2 has overhauled the cost of using Apple's iPhone handset just two months after it went on sale in the UK.The mobile network today announced that iPhone owners who are currently paying its lower-rate tariffs of £35 and £45 per month would get a substantially improved package, and simultaneously introduced an expensive "super-tier" contract costing £75 per month.The new deal will give up to three times as many free calls and text messages for the same price, with £35 tariff customers – who form the bulk of the user base – receiving 600 free minutes per month instead of 200. The company also said it was phasing out its existing £55 per month deal, moving customers to the equivalent £45 per month contract instead.The high-end tariff, costing £75, will give users 3,000 minutes and 500 texts. The £269 cost of the iPhone itself remains unchanged, and the length of all new contracts will remain at 18 months, said the company. It also confirmed that the iPhone's free access to wireless internet provided by Cloud will stay in place.Whiirl of publicityO2 has exclusive British rights to carry the iPhone, which launched last year in a whirl of publicity. The new tariffs bring the costs of using Apple's handset into line with many of O2's other deals, but some critics will undoubtedly be concerned that the new offers are being launched as a remedy for poor sales - particularly in light of press reports that the handset has not met O2's sales targets.Apple has yet to release UK sales figures, although chief executive Steve Jobs said earlier this month that 4 million iPhones had been shipped worldwide since the gadget first went on sale in the US last summer.In a statement, O2 said that it was happy with the performance of the iPhone and existing customers would be pleased with the changes."The iPhone is already our fastest-ever selling device and this added value will allow us to appeal to an even greater segment of the market - it is an unbeatable proposition," said UK marketing director Sally Cowdry.However, the Financial Times hasquoted sourcessuggesting that the handset had sold 190,000 units in the run-up to Christmas, falling narrowly short of O2's public expectations of 200,000 in the first eight weeks.
With a new technology boom in full swing, there's plenty happening online - so we've decided to explore some of the big issues for Europe's dotcoms in a startup special with hostAleks Krotoski.First up isLoic Le Meur. The French blogger and entrepreneur explains why he decided to move to San Francisco for his new web startup, Seesmic. But is Silicon Valley really the only place to be? We get a different point of view from studio guestPaul Cleghorn, who is hard at work with online TV aggregator Tioti.Elsewhere,Jemima Kisshas cued up the first audio instalment of her "Elevator Pitch" feature, our whimsical look at some of the exciting new companies out there. First to ride the Lift of Doom: WeLoveLocal.Plus there's the usual dissection of the week's news and views, withCharles ArthurandBobbie Johnsonalong for the ride.Episode six is very happy to have your attention, but we're always looking for more ideas and help from our listeners. Tell us what you think by email: tech@guardian.co.uk
As it's a quiet morning,here'sCNET blogger Don Reisinger on why the SNES is the greatest console of all time.... think of the world the SNES spawned. Instead of releasing a veiled copy of the NES to get in on the fight with Sega earlier, Nintendo created a follow-up that was worthy of the 'Super' moniker and gave developers the license they needed to create the legendary titles that we still play today.And after playing through some of the classics from well over ten years ago, today's gaming just doesn't compare. In fact, I would gladly give up the beauty of Gears of War for just 15 minutes of Donkey Kong Country. Who else is with me?It's a simple little piece, combining both nostalgia and a Digg-batingly definitive title. I agree with Don's reductionist assessment of the Mega Drive, but think he's way too harsh on PlayStation - the machine that bought us Resident Evil, Metal Gear Solid, Gran Turismo and Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, while reviving the RPG genre with Vagrant Story, Xenogears, Vandal Hearts and, oh yes, Final Fantasy VII. And how can the machine that effectively heralded the 3D graphics/CD ROM era, be written off as not groundbreaking?This dewy-eyed ever-so-slightly revisionist account also champions SNES as a great machine for third-party developers. Well, perhaps in comparison to NES, but Nintendo's suffocating Seal of Quality programme and its high licensing costs could be said to have stunted innovation rather than encouraged it. Famously, one of the reasons Sony was embraced as a console manufacturer was that it whole-heartedly supported third-party development; it slashed licensing charges, it distributed programming libraries and APIs. Without an in-house development culture of its own, it saw the value in really fostering and maintaining relationships with studios all over the world. PlayStation, for good or bad,createdthe modern, global videogame industry and its attendant culture.I think Nintendo fans have a greater propensity toward nostalgia because Nintendo's best games are themselves heavily nostalgic. Once you've read David Sheff's Game Over, it's almost impossible to play a Super Mario game without imagining the young Miyamoto gamboling through the woodland close to his boyhood home, discovering hidden caves and lakes. SNES is innocent. PlayStation is not.And anyway, everyone knows Dreamcast was the best console of all time.
Last weekwe briefly mentioned the BBC's alternate reality game forTorchwood, the surreal Dr Who spin-off that, quite honestly, suits the ARG platform to a T.In an interview with Torchwood Magazine, creator Mat Fidell explains the plot:A genetics professor has gone missing. It's probably nothing but he had just claimed that he was being hunted by aliens. It's probably just his imagination and the team have more pressing concerns. It's an ideal opportunity to test out the potential candidates. If you think you've got what it takes, give it your best shot.The game has been written by Torchwood screenwriter Phil Ford, who's woven in new characters, baddies and awkward places for you (and possibly members of the cast) to get into. Each week, there'll be clues on the website and in the show. He explains:where we can, you may find that there are elements of the episode that you've just watched which may crop up in each weekly mission. It's a good idea to watch the episodes very carefully in this season because you never know what in the background may turn up and be relevant to the story online.The high production quality brought to the video clues by the BBC brings the medium up to date. Keep your eye on the proceedingshere.
Internet giant Google is relaunching its mobile search engine in the company's latest attempt to break into the lucrative mobile phone market.The American dotcom hopes that itsnew systemwill get more people using their phone to search for local data, maps and news. In an attempt to draw more customers, the interface has been made cleaner and faster, and the results are being tailored for mobile as opposed to computer users."It's the same search index but it's a little more aggressive on location," said Dave Burke, engineering manager with Google mobile in London. "Let's say for instance you put 'Arsenal' in there – chances are you're not going to look up the history of the club but you're looking for the latest scores. So we have lots of sports information that we fire at you."The service, which is already available in the US, was launched quietly last week. From tomorrow, however, all traffic to Google from mobile phones in Britain, Canada, France and Germany will be directed to the new pages.Growth areaThe Silicon Valley company is targeting the mobile industry as a huge potential growth area, and has phone engineering groups based in Waterloo, Canada, and at the company's Mountain View HQ in California, as well as a rapidly expanding 80-strong team of engineers in London.Among its projects is Android, a new open source phone operating system which it hopes will be adopted by manufacturers and can challenge existing software such as Symbian, used by Nokia, and Microsoft's Windows Mobile.The market certainly has massive potential: Google estimates that there are 2 billion mobile handsets with some sort of data access, and research company D2 Mobile suggests that the worldwide mobile advertising spend could rise from £500m to more than £4bn by 2012.Burke added that Google was "looking at all options" in its quest to deliver better quality search results based on the location of the user.Wi-Fi hot spotsApple recently announced that it was combining Google's existing triangulation system – which calculates an individual's location using mobile phone masts - with a method using Wi-Fi hot spots instead of masts, created by Boston-based Skyhook Wireless.Burke would not comment on whether Google would work directly with Skyhook or come up with its own alternative, but he did say that collecting such information was "a lot easier than collecting street view data" – the images that Google uses to show street surfers pictures of major American cities."If you're going to concentrate on location you want every bit of data you can," he told the Guardian."Cell ID is one location, the address of your Wi-Fi access point is another. The end result is that we want the user to have the best possible experience, and we'll do whatever it takes to get it … to us they're just network signals and we're interested in all of them."Although so-called location-based services have long been the holy grail for the mobile industry, many companies are looking at alternative ways to deliver such information thanks to the slow uptake of handsets capable of satellite navigation.
Investors and companies in Silicon Valley do not take European internet businesses seriously, according to a leading entrepreneur.Loic Le Meur – a French businessman who recently moved from Paris to San Francisco in order to launch his latest venture, video startupSeesmic.com– said European startups were not taken seriously in Silicon Valley unless they were prepared to move wholesale to the US."The fact that San Francisco is really the centre of the internet makes it much easier: you want to deal with another company? They are a block away," he said."If you want to do that from Europe, it's much more complicated … if I had to push it a little bit I'd say that by default if you are in Europe you are not taken as seriously."Speaking in an interview for theGuardian's Tech Weekly podcast, serial entrepreneur Le Meur explained the thinking behind his decision to move Seesmic to America, and the wide range of problems faced by European dotcoms that try to take on competitors in the US.Lack of global ambitionHe pinpointed the difficulty of doing business across the Atlantic and the lack of global ambition among many non-American companies, suggesting that many European investors were too cautious."Venture capitalists in Europe tend to focus on revenues … whereas here [Silicon Valley] VCs tend to focus on community traction," he said. "It may sound a bit bubblish … but it's a very big difference."Seesmic is backed by a number of Silicon Valley companies, but its main investor is Atomico, the venture group formed by Scandinavian entrepreneurs Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, who sold their London-based internet telephony company Skype to eBay in 2005 for $2.6bn.Although there have been many internet successes based in Britain and on the continent, few companies have managed to remain independent of US control and cement their position as leading players online.Struggling to competeCompanies like Last.fm, the London-based social music website, have been sold to American buyers while others, including YouTube competitor DailyMotion, have struggled to compete with Silicon Valley rivals.A certain amount of national pride may also be at stake. Le Meur, who controversially assisted the election campaign for French president Nicolas Sarkozy, said that he was vilified in France after deciding to leave for the west coast."I got attacked on my blog a lot – I was shocked by this. I got a lot of that at the beginning, saying 'you could have helped and stayed'," he said. "Now it's better."
That's right: Qtrax told the world (and got the world + dog) to believe that it had signed deals with the four major music labels for its peer-to-peer ad-supported music distribution deal. Reuters carried it, and (it being a Sunday - you have to know how these things work) many of the papers picked it up, threw it across the room to whoever was unlucky enough to be working on Sunday and said "Do us 900 words on that, would you - future of music, finally legal, that sort of thing."Whichduly appeared.And now the LA Times, doing the due diligence thing, has found thatno, there were no deals. Not that it can unearth, anyhow. Hence the, oh, minor correction in the navel of that story:FOR THE RECORD: An earlier version of this story said that the four major record companies had agreed to license their digital catalogs to the online service Qtrax. That is not true of Universal Music Group, EMI Group and Warner Music Group, executives with those labels say. It is unclear as to whether there is such a deal with Sony-BMG Music entertainment. Qtrax officials insist the website has agreements with all four.Listen, they can't both be right. And since the Qtrax service isn't happening at the moment, I think I know which I'm going with.And since you're still here reading, could I just point out thatWippithas[dammit!] had an entirely legal P2P file-sharing music model,sansadvertising, since about 1999. Caution: may contain music by people you have actually heard of. And exist.(Note: I have created an "Undo" category. It seemed essential.)
Information Architects Japan, a design agency based in Tokyo, has been producing maps of the Web based on the Tokyo underground, and is looking for comments on theversion 3 beta. There is still time to add sites.It's quite a bit different, and I notice The Guardian has moved across town. The beta has the usually-annoying Snap previews, which in many cases show RSS feeds instead of home pages -- but it's hard to be too critical as iA's own site is also a victim.If you've not had the pleasure, seeWeb Trend tube map, looks like Tokyo, which was in this very spot last July 25.Thee will be versions you can print out, and iA is promising a nicely printed A0 size for your wall, if you have $50 going spare.
More than 8 million people in the UK listen to web-based radio services every week and nearly 2 million download podcasts on a weekly basis, according to a survey that suggests internet radio has hit the mainstream.Commissioned by the industry's audience research body Rajar, the Ipsos Mori survey last autumn found that more than 12 million people have listened to the radio online and 8.1 million listen every week either through live streaming or "listen again" services.Ipsos Mori found that 75% of users do not listen to less live radio as a result of listening again online, with 50% tuning into new shows as a result.The same was true of podcasting, with one-fifth of respondents saying they now listen to more live radio and nearly one-third saying they listen to new radio shows after sampling them via podcasts.Only 8% of those surveyed said they listened to less radio because of the availability of podcasts.Of the 4.3 million who have downloaded podcasts, around 1.87 million people listen to at least one podcast each week.Two-thirds of podcast listeners subscribe to their favourite shows through iTunes, with nearly half tuning in during the evening.Of these, 80% listen through their computers and 61% copy the podcasts to their MP3 players.Music and comedy are the most popular genres, with each user subscribing to more than three podcasts, on average, and listening to 53 minutes each week."This survey is very much a toe in the water," said the Rajar research director, Paul Kennedy."Although we already knew that listen again, personalised online radio and podcasting had many advocates, we knew nothing of their standing in the mainstream."This survey tells us and our subscribers, who are actively involved in these areas, more about them."Although podcasts are popular with listeners, media organisations have struggled to turn them into significant money spinners.Producers have so far focused on building an audience and encouraging listeners to get used to the podcast format.The Rajar survey indicates that a free, advertising-supported format would be accepted by most listeners, with 58% expressing interest, but less than one-third said they would subscribe to a paid-for service without adverts.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Do you upload lots of photographs to Flickr, Picasa, Webshots or even Facebook without editing or cleaning them up first? Do you like to add captions or lipstick kisses to pictures, or use them as postcards? If so, you might well likePicnik. If not, take a look anyway, so you can introduce it to friends or members of your family.Picnik is an online photo-editing program that anyone can use. It works in a web browser, so you don't need to install it, or even register to use it. All you need is Flash.Picnik is not as fast or as powerful as the photo editors that run on personal computers, including the free ones such as Paint.net for Windows. But neither does it have multiple sets of hard-to-read menus or toolsets. It works mainly through tabs, big buttons and slider controls.And if the function of a button marked Crop isn't obvious enough, holding the mouse over it pops up an explanation. In this case, it says: "Cut the edges off to improve your composition or just make it fit a given space."Even people who really can't be bothered with photo editing are catered for: there's a button marked Auto-fix that will do what it can to make your picture look better. If you don't like the result of this or any other action, there's a button marked Undo.Kisses, hearts and iconsThe Edit screen lets you perform remedial surgery on photos: you can crop them, change the colour balance and remove red eye. The Create screen lets you do your own thing. You can, for example, apply effects such as snow, convert images to black and white or sepia, posterise them, or make them look like pencil drawings. You can add text. You can add shapes such as kisses, hearts and icons for weddings or Valentine's Day. You can add frames and borders, choose rounded corners, or make your picture look like a Polaroid print.But there's a catch. Many of the special effects are premium features, and you have to pay $24.95 (£12.60) a year to use them. This has created hostility on Facebook, but there are no adverts on the Picnik site and it has to make money somehow.Picnik also provides simple ways to gather and distribute pictures. You can work on photos you've already uploaded to Flickr or Picasa, for example, or take one from your webcam. You can import them from any website. If you don't have a photo, Picnik has a Yahoo Search page, so you can look for something suitable.And when you have finished editing, simply click the tab called Save &amp; Share. This lets you choose the file type (jpg, gif, bmp, pdf etc) then save the picture to your hard drive or to another site such as Flickr, Picasa or Facebook. You can also send your picture to any email address, along with a message, or email it to a website.Picnik isn't intended to replace things like Adobe Photoshop, but it does make photo editing fun.
There are all kinds of opportunities at the moment for people who wish to flex their game development muscles. Fromindie gamestoARG competitions, there are plethora ways for budding designers to get involved.Last night over a few hands ofZombie Fluxx, my favourite board game geek Jim told me that even the non-computerised can have their fun.Loony Labs, creators of the aforementioned Fluxx and the plastic pyramid platform Treehouse are implicated in a competition to design another version of Icehouse, the hugely successful offshoot to Treehouse. Unfortunately I'm a month too late to announce submissions, but you can still be a judge. All you need are a couple of Treehouse sets and the rules to the finalists.You can get Treehouse setshereand you can find the ruleshere. The deadline for judgment is 5 February, so turn the post-dinner reality TV off and get playing!
Net Security has aninterviewwith Nitesh Dhanjani and Billy Rios, two "well-known security researchers that have recently managed to infiltrate the phishing underground." In it, "they expose the tactics and tools that phishers use, illustrate what happens when your confidential information gets stolen, discuss how phishers communicate and even how they phish each other."To skip to the conclusion, in case you don't get that far, Dhanjani points out that the real problem is the use of static identifiers, of which credit cards and PINs are the most familiar example. We know they aren't good enough, but they arecheaper for the banks. He says:We aren't going to solve the problem of online PII (Personally Identifiable Information) and identify theft just by writing even more secure code (although it certainly helps), or by continuing to play whack-a-mole with phishers. The system of relying on static identifiers to commit financial transactions needs to be rethought.Commercial financial institutions such as credit card companies and banks realize that the cost of implementing a new system that does not merely rely on static identifiers is higher than the fraud committed, so they decide to accept the cost. This is the reason why the system has not changed. Unfortunately, financial institutions only take into account their cost when making this decision, but it also ends up affecting the lives of millions of people who have to pay with their identities when such fraud is committed.Of course, some banks are already usingtwo-factor authentication, especially in Germany. (Barclays was the first in he UK.) However, it'snot foolproof.
Cooper Lawrence, the author, presenter and pop psychologist who took part in Fox News' now legendary report on Mass Effect, hastold the New York Timesthat she regrets the comments she made during the segment. At the time she criticised the game for its sexual objectification of women - despite never having played it, or seen footage. From the article:I recognize that I misspoke... I really regret saying that, and now that I've seen the game and seen the sex scenes it's kind of a joke. Before the show I had asked somebody about what they had heard, and they had said it's like pornography. But it's not like pornography. I've seen episodes of 'Lost' that are more sexually explicit.Will this stop 24-hour news channels press ganging publicity-hungry 'pundits' into studio debates that they're in no way qualified to contribute to? Is the pope a traffic-accident gawking scientologist?Meanwhile Fox and EA seem to be in loggerheads over where to go next. Apparently, EA says it's sent a letter of complaint to Fox but the network hasn't replied, Fox says it has invited EA onto the same show to put across its side of the Mass Effect story, but hasn't received a response. You'd think these hulking bastions of the modern media industry could manage to establishsomekind of successful communication channel.I can't help but think, wow, if only every story on Fox News was so passionately deconstructed by its viewers.
British property search engineDothomesis expanding its scope dramatically in an attempt to take on the lucrative US market.Less than two years after being founded, Dothomes' parent company BytePlay said it was ready to launch a concerted effort to break into the American market and challenge established US rivals.Dothomes is one of the largest British property search websites, with more than 450,000 listings, and claims to have become the market leader in South Africa.The site acts much like Google, with search engine robots that trawl estate agent websites and pinpoint the information needed to create a comprehensive all-in-one listing. Unlike some of its competitors, Dothomes does not require the cooperation of estate agents to compile its database, but links back to the original listings.Credit crunchThere are a number of serious challenges facing the sector at the moment, not least fears about an impending recession that could see the property market contract. The US Federal Reserve has already been forced to slash interest rates and banks around the world are working to stave off the effects of the credit crunch.Dothomes will also face strong competition from inside the US itself. There are a number of established real estate search sites based in America, with brands such as Realtor.com, as well as a handful of Web 2.0 startups and mammoth classified advertising website Craigslist.Dothomes co-founder Artemi Krymski remains confident that the market is stuffed with potential, even if it has proved difficult in the past for British internet companies to succeed in America."We view the US as one of the biggest market opportunities," he said. "It's a rare occurrence for a UK web company to successfully tackle the US market, even more so for a startup. However, we believe that the technology we now have in place is a key differentiator and one that gives us a strong competitive edge."Imperial College graduates Krymski and co-founder Douglas de Jager have substantial coffers to dig into after securing investment last year from The Accelerator Group, Arts Alliance and Samos. Under its previous name, Extate, the website was featured in the Guardian'sTop 10 dotcoms to watch, and has also been shortlisted for other awards.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Quite frankly I'm shocked it has taken this long for someone to come out with this --Hot or Notfor websites," saysparislemon.Created by Technorati founder David Sifry, the site [http://webhotornot.com/] is about as barebones as they come - there isn't even an 'About' page yet. All you get is a screenshot of a site and below that a scale of 1 to 10 of how "hot" it is. If you've ever used the actual Hot or Not site before, it's exactly the same. Once you vote, you are taken to a new site's screenshot to vote on while the last one you just voted on has it's "official rating" updated in the upper left hand corner. Best of all, you don't have to register to vote (it's not even an option).On his blog,Dave Sifrybills it as "a fun game to play with your friends when you've got a few minutes to waste".I guess people are going to judge by appearance, given that they won't actually have used the vast majority of the sites.I don't expect it will attract the 33 million photos and 13 billion votes of Hotornot, but it will amuse a few geeks....
Best selling game of 2007 anyone? Halo 3? Assassin's Creed? FIFA '08? Eternal Sonata? Nope, that honour goes to Call of Duty 4. The excellent first person shooter hassold over 7 million copiesworldwide since the November launch. And who would honestly have predicted that? Sure CoD is a big "brand" but surely I wasn't the only one who thought the move from WW2 to the present day would leave us with a derivativeGRAW-style shooter? But from the opening set piece on the sinking ship - and especially during the stealth level in Chernobyl - it was clear that Call of Duty 4 was far more varied, and interesting, than expected. Oh, and the online - all RPG-style levelling up - was excellent too, despite a few early hiccups on the PS3. Roll on CoD 5 then. But what about best selling game of 2008? Anyone care to bet against GTA IV?
In the bars on the Croisette, champagne flows less freely this year, and corporate credit cards are wielded with unusual restraint. Music executives massing in Cannes for their annual conference this week are worried about piracy and about falling sales.But they believe they may have found a secret weapon in the battle - giving away all of their songs for free.Radiohead blazed the trail when they offered their album In Rainbows on the internet last year for whatever price punters were willing to pay - an average of £2.90 as it turned out.Now a host of new services, with the backing of major labels, are promising to revolutionise how music is distributed by offering millions of tracks, from much-hyped wannabes to established acts such as U2, for nothing.Competing for attention at the Midem trade show, the services promise a global jukebox, paying for the free music by attracting advertising. Meanwhile, some acts are queueing up to swap their deals with labels for agreements with big advertisers which would further blur the line between bands and brands.The move into a free service is a sea change for an industry which spent years fighting through the courts with companies offering free internet downloading and sharing of songs.Radiohead's experiment was hailed a success when, after the album got a conventional release on paid-for CD, it went to No 1. EMI's new chief Guy Hands is angry that the band had to leave the label in order to carry out their experiment, and he cites it as the sort of thinking that could save the industry.Now, after a 10% revenue slump in 2007, with rising digital profits failing to compensate for declining CD sales, labels are ready to embrace new models.Yesterday's most high-profile launch, attended by artists including Radio 2 favourite James Blunt, was hosted by Qtrax."We want to bring free music into a legal environment," said chief executive Allan Klepfisz. "People don't want to be illegal, but they do want free music."Illegal file-sharing can be made redundant by offering a legitimate alternative, he believed - a report by trade body IFPI said that despite a 40% rise in digital sales, for every legitimate download there are 20 illegal ones.Launched today in nine countries, including the UK, Qtrax claims to offer more than 25m tracks, from all official releases by just about every major artist to so-called grey releases such as live bootlegs and alternate versions.It claimed songs would be culled from the same peer-to-peer networks such as LimeWire and Gnutella that brought the industry to its knees, but filtered so viruses and spoof tracks are eradicated. Every time a song is downloaded by a user, they will be shown targeted advertising, and technology will ensure labels, publishers and artists are paid.Advertisers include Burger King, Virgin Media, Ford, and H&amp;M.Users will not be able to burn downloaded songs to a CD but Klepfisz promised the service would be compatible with Apple's iPod from April 15. That is likely to provoke a backlash from Apple, which will seek to make Qtrax incompatible to protect its iTunes download store.Other similar examples include We7.com, backed by singer Peter Gabriel. It offers about 80,000 free downloads, supported by 10-second adverts.Blunt said artists were more open to new revenue models. "I find it amazing we should let people steal in the first place. But the music industry is in the condition it's in, and we have to try and find new ways."Ric Salmon, former head of A&amp;R at Warner Music, has brought music industry and advertising executives to launch Harvest Entertainment.He plans to match artists with brands in an "open and transparent" relationship, believing that the former no longer feel they are selling out by getting into bed with companies.He said he was in talks with 14 artists and would announce deals for two multi-million selling UK names in the next two months. The brands will fund recording costs, allowing the artist to retain most of the rights.In return, the firms could put their name to tours, use them in advertising and work on exclusive internet, mobile phone and marketing promotions.A string of big acts have shaken the labels by experimenting with new revenue models. In 2005 Bob Dylan released an album, Live at the Gaslight 1962, exclusively through Starbucks - a move that the coffee chain expanded last year to include free digital downloads from acts such as Joss Stone, Paul McCartney, Dave Matthews and Annie Lennox.Madonna signed with concert promoter Live Nation in a $120m (£59m) deal, and Prince boosted live ticket sales by giving his latest album away free with a newspaper.Free musicQtrax.com- Launches today with a catalogue said to be of more than 25m songs. Users will be able to download for free but must watch streamed ads and can't burn songs to CD or, at least initially, transfer them to their iPod.We7.com- Backed by former Genesis frontman and internet visionary Peter Gabriel, it secured another &pound;3m in funding last week. Free downloads are supported by 10-second audio ads attached to the song.Imeem.com- Following two years of negotiation, the US social networking site became the first to agree deals with all four major labels in December. Users can watch any music video or listen to any song within the site. Its UK launch will be later this year.MySpace.com- One of the first, and still most popular, social networking sites with music at its core.Facebook.com- Applications such as iLike allow users to listen to and recommend music within the confines of the site.Last.fm- Recently signed a licensing deal with all four major labels and indies to allow any track to be listened to up to three times.
Subaru Impreza&pound;14,995Miles per gallon:37.7Seats:5Good for:old boysBad for:game boysThe Subaru Impreza is not an interesting car. Take a look at it: the word 'bland' drags itself into your mind. In fact, it's so ordinary it may not even register as 'bland' - it could just be a blank. It looks like so many other cars out there. It could be a 'pre-gym' Vauxhall Astra, or maybe a Seat Altea which has started to melt. But the Impreza has a back story which animates it not because of what it is but because of what it was. Just as Samantha Cameron's ankle tattoo or Alan Johnson's tales of childhood deprivation inform our opinion of them, making them seem so much more than what they appear, so the Impreza carries with it some history.In its last incarnation, with its electric-blue livery, gold alloys, eye-catching spoiler and gaping air intake bulging out of its bonnet, the Impreza was the barely legal performance car of choice for young men who lived in distressed denim and boasted immaculately groomed cheeks which made you wonder if you could give your beard a Brazilian. The Impreza had a cult following: it had street attitude and a menacing exhaust note that vibrated the double-glazing of your mother-in-law's suburban home. It was the binge-drinking teen of the tarmac.Well, that's all gone. Now there's no spoiler, no gold alloys, no monstrous air-hoodie, no 'phat' pipes and, I'm sure, no cult following - that evaporated more quickly than Chris de Burgh clears a dance floor.The only hint of the car that went before, the dolphin ankle tattoo as it were, is the ignition button. Push it, and for a second the Impreza coughs metallically, just as it used to, but then the efficient 2-litre engine comes to life and the fleeting image of a flame-snorting road hog fades like a dream to leave you sitting in a perfectly ordinary hatchback.The people at Subaru are quick to point out that this commercially orientated Impreza has plenty to recommend it. They want to compete more directly with rivals such as the Honda Civic, VW Golf and Mazda 3 while offering the added safety and traction advantage of symmetrical all-wheel drive. And in Japan - where the new Impreza was recently unveiled - sales did go up 150 per cent. So clearly there are people out there prepared to give this reformed bad boy the benefit of the doubt.And yes, this new model is roomier than the last and has improved fuel economy. Also its unique 'Subaglue' all-wheel drive system ensures the car hugs the road's contours like a wet nightie - you may have seen the Imprezas being moved about the country clinging to the underside of their transporters. Though it's the kind of boast that's impossible to test, so we'll have to take their word for it. It did cope admirably with all the mini roundabouts I threw in its path.For die-hard performance junkies, Subaru is launching a 155mph 2.5 WRX STI in the spring which will once again feature the much-loved mighty air-intake. The rest of the line-up, though, will have to content itself with trading on former glories.martin.love@observer.co.uk
AP has a nice twisty-turny story,Photo Clues Lead to Camera's Owner, about how the photos on a Canon digital camera left in the back of a New York cab enabled people to track down the owner.
Not really anything that's surprising about this, but still, Amazon has posted a press release that says:Amazon to Begin International Rollout of Amazon MP3 in 2008.After the puffery, it says:The company is not disclosing a specific launch timeline for individual Amazon international websites.There are "individual Amazon international websites" in the UK, France and Germany, amongother places. That's a welcome start, but hardly amounts to global domination.
When mobile phone makers added cameras to the menu, they could not have been aware of the full impact. For instance, they allowed people trapped in the tube on July 7 2005 to provide images that would have been impossible before. Now the technology has progressed to the point of giving our phones high-quality video - and introduced us to the joys of "moblogging".The jump from text-based blogging to "vlogging" (video blogging) came thanks to the introduction of inexpensive webcams, broadband and video-sharing sites such as YouTube. Now, more powerful mobile phones and faster wireless data rates have allowed vloggers to go mobile. New phones can take almost DVD-quality video, and next-generation data networks can send high quality (albeit not high-definition) video.Sony-Ericsson's K-series and Nokia's N-series have a reputation for taking great stills, and these days they take very respectable video, too. LG is also improving its multimedia image with its touch-screen Viewty.Along with image quality, shot stabilisation has made dramatic strides in the last few years - essential when trying to take steady video with one of the latest featherweight phones.Once you've taken your mobile footage, the next stage is to find a place to post it online. Moblog:UK (moblog.co.uk) has long provided an excellent service that's free for the basic package. Beyond that, you'll need to pay a subscription to allow you to upload higher quality video. Nokia's Lifeblog (nokia.com/lifeblog) service provides a simple and inexpensive way to moblog.Most blogging and video sharing services offer special mobile uploading features, while posting your videos has been made even easier with mobile applications like ShoZu, that allow you to post to multiple sites with a few clicks.The biggest sticking point remains the data networks and the cost - spotty 3G coverage and slow networks still frustrate mobloggers. Owners of WiFi-enabled phones often wait until they are near a hotspot to upload their video. And although data charges have come down, international data roaming charges are still outrageous. But, as more mobile operators offer faster networks and flat-rate data plans, moblogging will become faster, easier and cheaper.The best phones to film withWhile true camcorder quality is rare among mobile phones, there are a few that are worth your attention. Keep an eye out for large pixel counts and plenty of storage.The Nokia N93i has been around for a while, but there's a reason for its longevity. If it were a camcorder, the N93i's video performance would be impressive; for a mobile phone, it's astonishing. With a 3.2-megapixel imaging sensor and 50MB of memory, it's built to shoot video and, thanks to the inclusion of a cut-down version of Adobe Premiere Elements, you'll be able to cut and splice your footage to create a polished final movie.If the N93i is the best performing videophone around, the Nokia N95 comes a close second. It actually has a better videomaking spec, with more memory and a higher pixel count. Were it not for the painfully short battery life this would be the cream of mobile movie-makers.While the name is regrettable, it has to be said that the LG KU990 Viewty is impressive. One of the select few phones on the market that can match the Nokia N95's pixel count, LG's touchscreen model is primarily a good-looking phone , but beneath its sleak exterior is a 5.1-megapixel image sensor, 170MB of internal memory and internet capabilities, making it ideal for the instant shoot-and-share tasks that make video phones so popular.Built around imaging technology derived from the Cybershot range of digital stills cameras, Sony's new 5-megapixel Sony Ericsson K850i offers video calling, recording, streaming and playback, not to mention a battery life that marks it out from the rest of the pack. With 40MB of built-in memory, not to mention the supplied 512MB memory card, you'll be able to store and share reasonably sized clips as opposed the usual 10-second gag reels.Jamie Ewbank
Can you suggest an MP3 player that's compatible with Windows Vista? The cheaper the better, as it's only for the gym.Since the launch of the new Microsoft operating system last year, plenty of manufacturers have discovered compatibility problems: even Microsoft's own Zune music player has had some issues. The kinks are generally being ironed out, so the first step is to check whether there are updates available to your MP3 player's built-in software (known as firmware) before splashing out. A quick Google search should help. Otherwise the 1GB Sansa Express from Sandisk, about &pound;25, promises to work with Vista.Now audio cassettes and decks are becoming obsolete, is there any technology that will allow me to transfer my wonderful old cassettes on to a hard drive?The simplest way to capture your tapes is to run a line from your tape deck to your computer and record the sound coming into it: you can even use the headphone jack if you need to. There are gadgets that claim to make the process pain-free, but the real problem is that the quality of the audio won't be very high. For a guide on how to do it, go to the productivity website Lifehacker:icanhaz.com/tape.
The basic story is pretty simple. Top Apple iPhone salesman Steve Jobs claimed at Macworld Expo that he'd sold 4 million of the things, while AT&amp;T said it had registered 2 million iPhones. What happened to the other 2 million? Financial analysts such as Bernstein's Toni Sacconaghi and Piper Jaffray's Gene Munster were soon on the case, and Eric Savitz has provided a good summary of the story so far at Barron's:Apple: More On The Missing iPhones.The problem is that nobody knows (apart from Apple, possibly) how many iPhones have been sold in Europe, how many are sitting on store shelves, and how many have been unlocked. Clearly there are lots of iPhones in use in China and other countries that are not on AT&amp;T's network, but how many?Analysts are interested because of the "Apple tax": the network operators who supply iPhones pay Apple a monthly fee beyond the price their users have already paid for the unsubsidized phone. These payments are factored into the predicted profit figures that underpin Apple's share price. As Savitz says:Munster himself has previously estimated that Apple gets $18 a month for every iPhone user that signs up. That comes to $432 over the course of the required two-year contract. If you use Munster's figure of 838,000 phones sold but unlocked, and multiply by $432, that is $362 million in lost revenue.The other worry for analysts is whether the wheels are coming off the iPhone bandwagon. This has been fed by unconfirmed rumours such as one in Taiwan's DigiTimes,Apple lowers iPhone shipment projection for fiscal 2Q08, says paper, based on a story in the Chinese-language Economic Daily News.It has certainly reminded them that when Apple says it has shipped an iPhone, that means "shipped to an AT&amp;T, O2 or other warehouse," not necessarily "sold to an active iPhone user".Apple's share price peaked at around $200 in the run-up to Macworld Expo and has since plunged to around $130. Speculators who expected to make a quick buck based on Steve Jobs making some exciting announcements in his keynote speech are, as they say, under water.
I am in the jungle, filming in the heart of Amazonia. Not much room in my backpack for mobile phones, game consoles or laptops but just enough for a pair of compact cameras with which to attempt to capture the nuanced colourations of the red howler monkey, the pink river dolphin, the scarlet mosquito bite and the purple leech gash. I have a Sony Cybershot DSC-T200 and a Casio EX-S880, two cameras crammed to point of madness with the latest innovations in digital photography.Compact cameras have arrived at That Stage. They work very well. Resolution is high. We have swiftly leapt from two to three to five to eight to 12 megapixels. Memory cards are cheap and contain far more capacity than could ever be sanely used. I slipped an 8GB stick into the Cybershot without thinking. No matter how many photos I take, they will rattle around in that cavern of memory like a pea in a cathedral. So we can take more pictures than ever before. We can lodge them on more photosharing sites than are necessary to store the sum of human knowledge.But there is a problem for Canon, Nikon, Pentax, Fuji, Panasonic, Leica, Olympia, Casio, Sony, Kodak and the rest: why should anyone keep buying new kit? Just about everybody who needs a camera has one. What is wrong with that Ixus I bought three years ago? That old Pentax Optio will see me through to my old age, won't it? No! No, you crazed enemy of freedom, you wild-eyed anti-capitalist, you deranged luddite. Haven't you heard of Face Detection Technology? Smile Capture? Best Shot Automatic YouTube Uploading?This is what I mean by That Stage. The manufacturers are now running round in a frenzy inventing more and more zany capabilities and over-specific presets (Candlelight, Fireworks, Baby, Street Scene and so on) in an attempt to persuade us that we must have a new model.The 8.1 megapixel Casio Exilim is a well-designed camera, slim as a reed and, in the version I was sent, a perky red colour. The stickers that deface the otherwise attractive object trumpet "YouTube Capture Mode" and "Face Detection". The former is a Windows only capability. You install a YouTube uploader on to your PC, attach the camera when it has shot some footage in the "YouTube Best Shot" mode and the software does the rest. If you have never uploaded a movie to YouTube before, please do not think you need a special uploader. Uploading is the simplest thing in the world. This can be proved by observing that the kind of people who do it most are often barely sentient. So a YouTube uploader you do not need.Face Detection? This is the new sine qua non. Select it and the camera automatically senses one or more human faces and bounds them in a rectangle. When you shoot, the areas in the rectangles are given exposure and focus priority. Fine if they're all more or less on the same focal plane, in which case all you would have to do is point at one face, half depress the shooting button as usual and then reframe with your finger still down. That has been a feature of autofocus cameras for at least 15 years. The Sony Cybershot (also 8.1 MP) offers face recognition and Smile Detection. When a detected face smiles, the shutter automatically fires, for up to six shots. The Casio ripostes not with Smile Detection, but with Family First. You photograph your family, the camera stores their face, recognises it the next time you shoot and prioritises them in a group of disparate, non-family faces. This "technology" was developed in Japan, so whether it thinks western faces are all the same I haven't had the patience to discover. These extras are batty and pointless.The Sony has a touchscreen display, which works well. It also outputs via an HD cable to your new flat screen TV. The Casio uses a bothersome charging cradle. They are good cameras, but stuffed with insane, desperate, and unnecessary nonsense which is in danger of compromising that simplicity of use which is what attracts people to compact digitals in the first place. If you need a new camera, either will suit you. I prefer the Casio, it's neater, prettier and doesn't use expensive memory sticks, but it is virtually a tie.
I am in the jungle, filming in the heart of Amazonia. Not much room in my backpack for mobile phones, game consoles or laptops but just enough for a pair of compact cameras with which to attempt to capture the nuanced colourations of the red howler monkey, the pink river dolphin, the scarlet mosquito bite and the purple leech gash. I have a Sony Cybershot DSC-T200 and a Casio EX-S880, two cameras crammed to point of madness with the latest innovations in digital photography.Compact cameras have arrived at That Stage. They work very well. Resolution is high. We have swiftly leapt from two to three to five to eight to 12 megapixels. Memory cards are cheap and contain far more capacity than could ever be sanely used. I slipped an 8GB stick into the Cybershot without thinking. No matter how many photos I take, they will rattle around in that cavern of memory like a pea in a cathedral. So we can take more pictures than ever before. We can lodge them on more photosharing sites than are necessary to store the sum of human knowledge.But there is a problem for Canon, Nikon, Pentax, Fuji, Panasonic, Leica, Olympia, Casio, Sony, Kodak and the rest: why should anyone keep buying new kit? Just about everybody who needs a camera has one. What is wrong with that Ixus I bought three years ago? That old Pentax Optio will see me through to my old age, won't it? No! No, you crazed enemy of freedom, you wild-eyed anti-capitalist, you deranged luddite. Haven't you heard of Face Detection Technology? Smile Capture? Best Shot Automatic YouTube Uploading?This is what I mean by That Stage. The manufacturers are now running round in a frenzy inventing more and more zany capabilities and over-specific presets (Candlelight, Fireworks, Baby, Street Scene and so on) in an attempt to persuade us that we must have a new model.The 8.1 megapixel Casio Exilim is a well-designed camera, slim as a reed and, in the version I was sent, a perky red colour. The stickers that deface the otherwise attractive object trumpet "YouTube Capture Mode" and "Face Detection". The former is a Windows only capability. You install a YouTube uploader on to your PC, attach the camera when it has shot some footage in the "YouTube Best Shot" mode and the software does the rest. If you have never uploaded a movie to YouTube before, please do not think you need a special uploader. Uploading is the simplest thing in the world. This can be proved by observing that the kind of people who do it most are often barely sentient. So a YouTube uploader you do not need.Face Detection? This is the new sine qua non. Select it and the camera automatically senses one or more human faces and bounds them in a rectangle. When you shoot, the areas in the rectangles are given exposure and focus priority. Fine if they're all more or less on the same focal plane, in which case all you would have to do is point at one face, half depress the shooting button as usual and then reframe with your finger still down. That has been a feature of autofocus cameras for at least 15 years. The Sony Cybershot (also 8.1 MP) offers face recognition and Smile Detection. When a detected face smiles, the shutter automatically fires, for up to six shots. The Casio ripostes not with Smile Detection, but with Family First. You photograph your family, the camera stores their face, recognises it the next time you shoot and prioritises them in a group of disparate, non-family faces. This "technology" was developed in Japan, so whether it thinks western faces are all the same I haven't had the patience to discover. These extras are batty and pointless.The Sony has a touchscreen display, which works well. It also outputs via an HD cable to your new flat screen TV. The Casio uses a bothersome charging cradle. They are good cameras, but stuffed with insane, desperate, and unnecessary nonsense which is in danger of compromising that simplicity of use which is what attracts people to compact digitals in the first place. If you need a new camera, either will suit you. I prefer the Casio, it's neater, prettier and doesn't use expensive memory sticks, but it is virtually a tie.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
Siemens, Europe's biggest technology group, is in talks with the securities and exchange commission, the US market regulator, and the department of justice on a settlement of the long-running bribery scandal that could have brought a record multibillion dollar fine.Gerhard Cromme, Siemens chairman, told 10,000 shareholders at the annual meeting yesterday in a crammed Olympiahalle that negotiations would begin next month with the aim of reaching "a comprehensive and fair settlement". Estimates of any fine range from $2bn to $5bn.As internal and external investigations pointed to the involvement of former senior executives in the scandal and future damages claims by Siemens, Cromme appealed for SEC leniency regarding "prosecution and punishment" given the group's cooperation during the extensive inquiries. The chairman said the discussions could last several months as his aides said both sides expected a settlement.Siemens, listed in New York, has annual sales approaching &euro;15bn (&pound;11.2bn) in the US, which it fears could be at risk because the SEC could propose its exclusion from public contracts. Under pressure from shareholders to de-list, Joe Kaeser, finance director, said there were no such plans.The breakthrough with the SEC and DOJ follows an employee amnesty launched in November under which about 40 workers had come forward - in effect blowing the whistle on senior managers and executives.The chairman and Peter L&ouml;scher, chief executive, linked the breakthrough to the establishment of a new management board in November, including the appointment of US lawyer Peter Solmssen as compliance director. Cromme said new information had come on almost a daily basis, with a picture showing "more clearly what happened and who was responsible". New facts would emerge in the coming weeks. The amnesty ends this month and, L&ouml;scher said, explicitly excludes former directors.The scandal, stretching back over several years, involved "systematic bribery" of public officials via slush funds to win contracts in more than 20 countries and has cost Siemens at least &euro;1.6bn, according to new figures given by L&ouml;scher. He refused to comment on reports that prosecutors had uncovered a &euro;140m slush fund in the healthcare divison. The scale of the investigations, conducted by US lawyers Debevoise &amp; Plimpton and Deloitte Touche, indicates that several former senior executives could face criminal prosecution.The lawyers told Cromme on January 16, in a letter posted on the Siemens website, that they had "significant new information and leads pertaining to individuals who in the past several years served on the managing board." They refused to identify individuals.Demanding more information, an array of shareholders said Siemens had become a byword for corruption, not innovation. "Who is responsible? Why don't the former senior managers own up to what they knew?" said one. "Werner von Siemens, who founded a company renowned for its honour and integrity for 160 years, would be turning in his grave," said another.The Siemens supervisory board urged the restless shareholders, on the advice of Debevoise, to postpone any decision on the traditional move to "ratify" the actions of the previous executive board - and of Heinrich von Pierer, the former chief executive and chairman, who stepped down last year because of the scandal. He denied any personal involvement.The moves came as Siemens boosted investor confidence by reporting a 16% jump in first-quarter profits to &euro;1.72bn. Sales in the three months to December 31 last year leapt 10% to &euro;18.45bn and orders 9% to &euro;24.2bn - well above expectations. L&ouml;scher, who said he expected no direct fallout from the US sub-prime crisis, confirmed his outlook for the full year of sales growing twice as fast as global GDP and operating profit increasing at least twice as fast as sales.
MondayUndertow for freeBattlefield gets free and funTuesdayGet cookingMobile games: 2007 was good, 2008 will be betterGriefers demystifiedXbox 360 failures: the inside story?PS3 round-upWednesdayWoW hits 10 millionSo simpleIs this the most idiotic videogame debate of all time?ThursdayNintendo Euro sales figuresSometimes they come backFridayBurnout Paradise, Turok and The Club - first impressionsLa Chouette d'OrYour questions for Insomniac
Photograph: GettyThe IFPI - the International Federation of Phonographic Industries - is the global music industry organisation whose very name tells you how long ago progress overtook it. On Thursday it published itsdigital music report for 2008, which says boldly that "the spread of unlicensed music on ISP networks is choking revenues to record companies and investment in artists, despite a healthy increase in digital sales in 2007, up approximately 40% on the previous year". (If you're wondering, those sales were $2.9bn (£1.45bn) for the year, including ringtones.)The IFPI's solution? Sort it out at the internet service provider level. "ISP cooperation, via systematic disconnection of infringers and the use of filtering technologies, is the most effective way copyright theft can be controlled. Independent estimates say up to 80 per cent of ISP traffic comprises distribution of copyright-infringing files."You know what I say? Damn right. Let's get ISPs to stop copyright infringement. But, um, music people? Better form an orderly queue. You think you were the first to suffer from your content getting ripped off and spread to the four corners of the earth? Get to the back of the line, bud. There's a few people ahead of you.Let me introduce, first, the newspaper industry. We were probably among the very first to realise that the digital medium would be incredibly important in the future, and so we put lots of our content online. Well, more than just the content - almost every newspaper also has blogs, and reader comments, and pieces by journalists that don't appear in the print edition (such as this one).Article sharingAnd you know what? Peoplecopythem. They copy-and-pasteentire articlesfrom online newspapers to blog sites or to their own computer and they don't pay a thing. Then they read them or "share" them with other people who they might not even have met. I guarantee you that the minute this piece goes onto the Guardian site, a zillion spam blogs will copy its precis and put it on their sites, pretending it's their own. It's choking our investment in new journalism, believe me.In the past 10 years, hundreds - probably thousands - of journalists have been thrown out of jobs as newspapers and magazines have downsized. Don't give me all that guff about a structural change in the industry, or tell me thatthe magazine Business 2.0 closedbecause it didn't give people enough celebrity exposés. No, we the print newspaper industry demand that ISPs stop people sharing our content over the internet. In fact, why not a "reading tax" on ISPs? The more of its customers visit a newspaper site, the more tax it should pay.Next, pornography. You know, there used to be tons of top-shelf magazines, all earning a comfortable living. Then you know what? The damninternetcame along and at a stroke destroyed their business model, in which shifty-gazed commuters had to go into insalubrious shops to get "content". Now there are loads of internet sites (Google reliably tells me) where you can get free amateur porn - exactly the same sort of stuff that people used to pay for! It'sshocking(and what's more, there are no unsightly staples in the middle of the pictures).Unlicensed pornography trading has put paid to some of the best-known names in the industry. Name any porn magazine that isn't 75% thinner now and filled with ads in the back for internet sites. This cannot be allowed to go on. Once again, ISPs bear a heavy responsibility for propelling big porn empires and small corner shops with dimly lit corners - not to mention the makers of high shelves - into penury.Broken central lockingNext up are motor mechanics. I know - you're wondering how people swap cars over the internet? Tch! Don't be so literal. What we're talking about is people swapping information, the very lifeblood of the motor mechanic. Because remember, these are people whose income depends on being the only ones in a locality who have the time and knowledge to fix cars. Newsgroups - those discussion forums that pre-date pretty much everything that happened after 1999 - are the prime offenders. Take this example of someone brazenly offering afix for broken central locking in a Vauxhall Zafira. Shameless! Any ISP should be embarrassed to even let it pass over its modems: quite simply, it's taking the food from someone's mouth.You want me to carry on? There's needlepoint, which in 2000 was revealed to be reeling from an assault by grandmothers and others sending each other needlepoint patterns via email. Oh, the humanity! And of course there are games companies like Nintendo, which had to suffer peopleswapping their consoles' ROMsover the net. You can imagine how damaged Nintendo was by that. It's never been the same. It crawled away to sob in a hole and close up shop - am I right?So before the IFPI gets ISPs to start inspecting the packets passing through their routers for music, they'd better sort it out first so that ISPs can see and stop it when someone is copying newspaper articles, or pornographic content, or reading suspiciously helpful newsgroups, or sending a needlepoint pattern that they might not have invented, or downloading a ROM sequence for a now-outdated console. Then we'll be ready to listen to the music industry.Alternatively, of course, we could try to adapt to the world as it is, rather than dreaming of what it used to be. But hell, where are the headlines in that?
I did briefly flirt with the idea of creating a category here called "Undo". For the news media is hardly covering itself with glory at the moment: the "married twins" who don't seem to have existed (or possibly do.. hell) and the norovirus epidemic that wasn't.And now: the cyberwar attack on Estonia by enraged Russians. Last May wereportedthatA three-week wave of massive cyber-attacks on the small Baltic country of Estonia, the first known incidence of such an assault on a state, is causing alarm across the western alliance, with Nato urgently examining the offensive and its implications....Nato has dispatched some of its top cyber-terrorism experts to [Estonia's capital[] Tallinn to investigate and to help the Estonians beef up their electronic defences."This is an operational security issue, something we're taking very seriously," said an official at Nato headquarters in Brussels. "It goes to the heart of the alliance's modus operandi."Well, in that case one has to say that downsizing has hit warfare. For the latest on that attack is that it was done by one kid. In his bedroom. InEstonia. And he'sEstonianer, perhaps Russian. (I await a definitive parsing of his name.)According to InfoWorld, a 20-year-old Estonian student has been fined for the attacks:Dmitri Galushkevich used his home PC to launched a denial-of-service attack that knocked down the Web site for the political party of Estonia's prime minister for several days, said Gerrit Maesalu, spokesman for the Northeast District Prosecutor's Office in Tallinn, Estonia's capital. Galushkevich must pay 17,500 kroons (about £800).They could put it onto his student loan, maybe. That'll teach him.Galushkevich is the only person who has been convicted since the cyberattack in April and May 2007 crippled the Web sites of banks, schools, and government agencies...."He [Galushkevich] wanted to show that he was against the removal of this bronze statue," Maesalu. "At the moment, we don't have any other suspects."However - to try to alleviate the egg now being wiped off faces - the prosecutor did leave the door open slightly for everyone not to have been completely OTT on this:police are still trying to find others who may have been involved in the attacks, although the investigation is complicated since the attackers are likely outside Estonia, Maesalu said.In retrospect, it makes some of thecomments to the news blog postof the day about this (and the post itself, to be fair) look sensible.Rule 1 of any suitably dramatic but not-very-well-sourced story: apply Occam's Razor. In the case of cyberwarfare, seek someone probably too young to use a razor of any sort.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Earlier this month I asked you for questions to fire at Epic Games co-founder Mark Rein. He took the time to respond to those questions via our comments section and I'm also postingmyinterview with him next week.In the meantime, I've now secured another exclusive interview - this time with Mike Acton the engine director at Insomniac games. The Resistance Fall of Man and Ratchet and Clank developer builds its own proprietary game technologies and instead of licensing them to third parties, shares elements for free via the R&amp;D section of its website.I'll be talking to Mike about the team's development philosophy and their plans for the future. They've told me that they'll have to be cagey about Resistance 2 so if you have specific questions about that game, leave those for another time.But if you'd like to knowanythingabout cutting-edge development for next-gen consoles, leave a question or two in the comments section below.
Scientists have developed a "face averaging" technique which dramatically improves the success rate of computer face-recognition systems and may be used to streamline airport security, solve crimes captured on CCTV - and find celebrity lookalikes.Using the new technique boosted the performance of a widely used face recognition software package from 54% accuracy to 100%, University of Glasgow researchers said yesterday in a paper published in Science.The creator, Rob Jenkins, said the idea was based on the fact that people are able to recognise familiar faces much better than new ones. "If I just show you two photographs and say, 'is this the same person as that?', we are actually pretty bad at that. We are actually much worse than we think we are unless we are familiar with the face," he said.However, we are much better at recognising the faces of people we know. By making an average of 10 images of the same person his software is able to eliminate variation from, for example, different lighting or camera angles."These things affect the image a great deal but they don't tell you anything about who it is," he said. "It is like you are extracting the essence of that person's face."Automatic systems would be very useful for recognising wanted criminals automatically on CCTV or for making check-in at airports more streamlined, but at present they typically make too many mistakes except under very controlled conditions.Jenkins and his colleague Professor Mike Burton tested the averaging approach using FaceVACS, a system that is being tested at Sydney airport.The website MyHeritage.com uses the software in a celebrity lookalike service. Surfers submit images of themselves to the site, which matches them to the nearest celebrity picture on its database of more than 31,000 photographs. Jenkins and Burton submitted images of 459 celebrities they knew were on the database. The system matched them to the correct celebrity 54% of the time. When the pair created average celebrity faces from 10 images and resubmitted them to the website, the software was correct 100% of the time. "That's the first time anyone's reported anything like that level of accuracy on such a variable set of images," said Jenkins.To make the test even tougher, they created averages using only those images that the software had been unable to match in the first test. In this test the software recognised the averaged faces correctly 80% of the time. "We have fixed the baseline at zero, so any improvement we can attribute just to the averaging process," he said.Jenkins said his approach did not compete with current technology. "One thing I really like about this approach is we are proposing a technique, not a device," he said. "We are saying, you can keep the same machines, but if you can change the input you can radically improve their performance."
Last Saturday morning, the BBC's Saturday Live programme had a story onLa Chouette d'Or, aMasquerade-style treasure hunt that's been going in France for a whopping 14 years.Buried somewhere in the French countryside by "Max Valentin" (he acts under a pseudonym) who was working for a communications company at the time is a golden owl. Like last year'sPerplex City, those on the trace must solve riddles, puzzles and find clues to find the bejewelled booty.Saturday Liveinterviewed the creator (around the 33rd minute) who humbly and rather embarrassedly admitted that the extraordinary delay in the hunt's resolution bothers him:I'm not proud of it. I would have preferred if someone had found it in two or three years...I wonder how it hasn't been found. It's incredible!For goodness sake, there are only 11 clues (with the 12th hidden)! How hard can it be?!Players have taken all kinds of sideways measures trying to find this object d'art, from tracking down the whereabouts of a dog named Dracula whose owner accidentally crossed paths with "Max" when he was burying the owl to offering him 1,300,000 francs for extra clues. Some slightly deranged players have smashed up concrete and burned down chapels thinking the owl was buried underneath them. Not recommended.The owl is still buried somewhere in France. It's 100km from the seaside. If you fancy your chances, start the searchhere. Max really wants the thing to be found, and soon.I expect the creators of the newTorchwood ARGaren't eager for the same fate.Listen again to the programmehere.
I'm going to frag your networkAt last - a network interface for the Doom generation. Called L3dgeworld (gr00vy spelling), it's a network mapping and control application that uses the Quake engine. Frag those hackers!That'll beat the phishersYou can't remember your password. Well, you can, but not the password for this account. Was it your cat's maiden name or your maiden aunt's cat's name you used for the Swiss bank account? (Thanks, Anton Hecht - who directed..)Of course antimatter mattersA short and educational video about the search for antimatter - like the truth, it's out there. (Thanks, Tara Shears.)Come on - tell us your great tech videos..
The post Christmas gaming lull ended this week with the postie throwingBurnout Paradise, Turok andThe Clubthrough my letterbox. Only one of those - Burnout - is released today. And the most surprising news, considering the tedious demo, is that Burnout Paradise is really enjoyable. Not since the similarly free-roaming Crackdown have I had so much fun just mucking around in a game. Driving around the gorgeously depicted environments is entertaining enough and there are so many distractions that the lack of instant event restarts is nowhere near as annoying as feared. But for me online is the way to really experience Burnout Paradise. It's easy to set up on the 360 - supposedly even easier on the PS3, which has to be a first - and gives the game that glorious Crackdown feel of a living breathing city. But while players can drive around doing their own thing the game really comes into its own when they work together. The game gives you a stack of challenges depending on how many players are in the game - up to 8. Challenges so far have included having skidding around a fountain, with players yardage combined, and a similarly collaborative ramp jumping session. Yup, once again co-op proves itself as the future of online.Historically I've never been a huge fan of Burnout. Sure, it was fun crashing cars while on a 10 min caffeine buzz but I always felt I was missing the point somewhere. But Burnout Paradise feels like a complete game. Purists may miss the more ordered chaos of before though.The other two titles have received less time in the Howson 360 and so it's a bit too early for impressions. But my initial 3-4 hours ofTurokhave been remarkably unexciting. Some pretty Jurassic Park-style vistas have been blemished by annoying controls and a feeling that I've seen it all before. Sure, hacking at dinosaurs with a knife is enjoyable but there are far too many moments - at least in the early parts of the game - that involveQTE-stylepad pummeling. The tediously derivative Gears of War/Unreal style character design doesn't help either. Turok is by no means terrible but I have a feeling it will be joining Blacksite, Timeshift and Jericho in the 360's growing collection of B-list shooters.The Club is more intriguing. A story free slice of (third person) shooting, the game sticks you in 3-4 minute long levels and asks you to blast your way to a different challenge, normally time or score based. The game isn't out till the 8th Feb so it will be hard to check out the online - clearly key to the game - but an initial play last night suggests The Club offers an almost Xbox Live arcade level of dip in/dip out action. More on this soon.Burnout Paradise then - tempted?
Moving to VistaI have a new laptop running Windows Vista and want to transfer files and programs from my present PC, which runs XP SP2. I assume that a cable will be necessary to connect the two machines. Should I run both machines for a while to familiarise myself with Vista? I also intend staying with my current ISP and understand that I will need some help from them to enable the service on my new laptop.Geoff CadmanJS:There are several programs traditionally used to migrate between PCs. The main ones include Eisenworld's Aloha Bob PC Relocator Ultra Control (which can move programs) and Detto's cheaper IntelliMover (which can't). Microsoft helped by adding a Files and Settings Transfer Wizard to the System Tools folder in Windows XP.Today, your best bet is Vista's built-in Windows Easy Transfer, which is based on Aloha Bob. However, to move programs, you will also need to download the Windows Easy Transfer Companion (Beta) from Microsoft (tinyurl.com/3yupab). The Vista team has produced a step-by-step guide to using WET (tinyurl.com/2gfvjg), while WindowsNetworking.comprovides a walkthrough with many more screen grabs (tinyurl.com/qhjsj). Note that some programs, such as antivirus software and firewalls, should not or cannot be moved.Windows Easy Transfer and other products can transfer files via various cables, a network or by writing the data to an external hard drive or a CD. Some companies now market USB cables to do the job, such as Belkin's Easy Transfer Cable for Windows Vista. Microsoft allows suppliers to include its transfer software on a CD.I don't think Vista requires much familiarisation for XP users, since you can handle the unfamiliar bits by using the numerous built-in help routines. Also, if there are elements you don't like, you can often revert to a more XP-like way of doing things by selecting Classic mode. CNet TV has a short video, Make Windows Vista look like XP (tinyurl.com/3clw6n). For forward-looking users, the same CNet reporter has done Turn XP into Vista for free (tinyurl.com/28mr7y).Vista does not require any setting up for an internet connection, and ISP software is best avoided: just plug into a standard Ethernet router. If you have the misfortune to use a USB modem, it would be better to junk it. Vista always prefers to use the latest IPv6 version of the Internet Protocol, but if that causes problems, you can set it to prefer IPv4 (tinyurl.com/2a69jl,tinyurl.com/2h6tev).Moving to LeopardI have a 1.6Ghz PowerMac G5 running Mac OS 10.3.9, with 250MB of memory. I am tempted to upgrade to Tiger or Leopard because of the extra advantages with iPhoto and email.Peter MedhurstJS:The new iLife 08 (which includes iPhoto) requires OS X 10.4.9 (Tiger) or later, and that's a paid upgrade, so you might as well buy Leopard (10.5.x) for about &pound;80. That includes email, but you will have to pay for iLife (about &pound;55). You will also need more memory, and adding a gigabyte or more would speed up your PC. Go to the Crucial website (crucial.com/uk/mac), which will analyse your Mac and suggest memory upgrades: you can still buy the chips somewhere else if you want, though I've been happy with Crucial upgrades. But bear in mind that Apple has moved to Intel chips, so PowerPC-based systems like yours are on the way out.Ad blockingI am a disabled oldie who is now unable to tolerate certain sorts of screen movement, flashing lights, etc. My BT Yahoo! mailbox has an advert for an (otherwise admirable) cancer charity which persistently flashes down to obscure my emails. Is there any way of cutting this stuff out?Theresa Levell ClarkeJS:There are two simple solutions to this. First, you could switch to the Firefox 2 browser and install AdBlock Plus (adblockplus.org/en/installation) extension, which will cut out the ads .Second, you could switch to Gmail, which doesn't have flashing adverts and also works well with Internet Explorer. I'd suggest you do both.Backed up againAfter a disastrous data loss, I'm using an external hard drive to back up all my data. Is there software, preferably free, that will only copy new files? I've looked through the Ask Jack site but can't find an obviously similar query!Steve BallantyneJS:Search Ask Jack for Centred System's Second Copy (centered.com), at $29.95 (&pound;15). An excellent alternative is Karen's Replicator (tinyurl.com/cnta), which is free for personal use. Acronis True Image 11 Home (tinyurl.com/5hh5v) is worth a look too - it's good at copying an entire PC and has a "just testing" mode with roll-back features. It's good value at &pound;27.48 (Amazon.co.uk).Backchat&#183;Is it time to replace a five-year-old PC? On the Ask Jack blog, Alcib commented: "The thing to worry about is the hard drive. The older it gets, the more religious you have to be about backups." (tinyurl.com/3c7jus)&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Open and shut case?I would disagree with some aspects of this article (Security breakdown, January 17), but I've always wondered how long the goodwill and openness of the vulnerability/disclosure community with vendors would last.corqspy.orgMoney better spentMichael Cross is quite right in his thesis - the government and the regulator have ignored those who, for the past  few years, have been pointing with increasing urgency to the looming gap between the underlying need and the studied lack of provision (We need vision for next-generation broadband, January 17).However, while it's usual to present that gap in terms of a social divide, there is another concern that is arguably much more important. Unless UK businesses can get access to real, affordable, reliable broadband, where and when they want it, our economy will suffer in comparison with our competitors. But we still lack a national policy.The cost of a national fibre access network has been estimated at &pound;15bn; a sum of the same order as the cost of Crossrail or the Olympics. Yet the long-term public good resulting from a fibre network would be immeasurably greater than either of those projects.David Harrington, Communications Managers AssociationScrabbling for a resultHasbro/Mattel dropped the ball (Newly Asked Questions, January 17). Some other random Indian guys picked it up. Now, these Scrabulous developers (who invested who knows how many hours) might have to take down one of Facebook's coolest applications. Sure, these developers are making some ad revenue money based on a game with a marketing plan long financed by Hasbro ... but surely Hasbro can pay these guys some R&amp;D money for striking oil where they weren't even drilling.vbernal.blogspot.comMeasuring a Macbook AirYou report that "Steve Jobs has unveiled the Macbook Air, which is just three quarters of an inch deep". Now, I'm nearly 30 and I have no concept of what three quarters of an inch is. Perhaps it might be better to use 1.94cm, as Apple's website does. Or "just under 2cm". We went metric in the 70s!Jennifer Marshall,BirminghamPeace, love and LinuxI've been wondering when something like this was going to happen - actually, I was thinking it would have been one of the Nordic countries (Can Linux finally unite Korea?, January 17).The power of an entire country moving to a free Linux OS will have an enormous effect on the Windows platform.deancollinsblog.blogspot.comPeace, love, and Linux? Maybe. Maybe not. But it's very cool to see the two governments collaborating on IT, if little else.blogs.cnet.comThe right answersWhat licence you can obtain from OPSI [the Office of Public Sector Information] for PSI [public sector information] depends on two things. 1) Whether the information was collected as part of core government activities and 2) whether you are a commercial entity (Free Our Data, January 17). The licence is only freely reusable if the answers are yes and no.wwmm.ch.cam.ac.uk/blogs/downingFishier chipsI raised an eyebrow when I received an unexpected reminder of my pin for a defective credit card. I share Matt Langley's concern (Letters, January 10). The banks and credit card suppliers need to improve their security procedures and stop blaming customers every time something goes wrong.Tim Joslin,Cambridge&#183;Read all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Last week the greatest gamer the contemporary world has ever seen played his final move. Bobby Fischer, king of chess before computers changed the rules, met his checkmate on Thursday after three decades of chess - and personal - infamy.The obituaries described his escape into the chess board as an effort to remain sane. Front-page articles implied that the game's simple rules and clear boundaries offered a safe and predictable space in which Fischer could operate. But as soon as this walled garden was threatened - by the media eager to watch this maestro play, by politicos placing preposterous diplomatic outcomes on the balance of his most famous win, by the onslaught of artificial intelligence programs hellbent on outwitting the champion - he checked out of the chess game and made for the hills of eccentricity.Since Fischer's noted win in 1972, things have changed. Videogames in particular are no longer refuges with simple rules; today's creators design products that encourage players actively to tear down boundaries and to bend the plethora of rules. New games that rely on social involvement and user-generated content are as dependent upon socially decreed codes of decency as they are on the efforts of the gamemakers. Game rules now have as many exceptions as the English language, designed to cope with the needs of a diverse and demanding audience.As player freedoms open up, the rules become more unwieldy and the nature of "game" is thrown into flux. Fischer's reported attempts to avoid these by losing himself in the black and white world of two moves forward and one move down means that he would be as likely to immerse himself in the rule miasma of such products as return to the country of his birth (or, indeed, as it would to welcome him with open arms).There are champions in the modern computer game world, but comparisons would be pointless. Celebrated first person shooter player Johnathan "Fatal1ty" Wendel is the soldier on the front line compared to the chess star's tactical general in the war room. The nature of contemporary videogame competition has left the careful consideration of the chess world behind; the fast-paced Quake3 makes better viewing for the post-MTV generation.Fischer showed what made him a great games player: adaptability, calm under pressure, the ability to juggle multiple problems while at the same time making moves towards the ultimate goal. But there are few such refuges in the contemporary gaming world; they increasingly seek to reflect the reality which they ultimately are escaping.
If you were up to no good in the London open air last winter, start working up excuses: you might be on the web. This week, a company launches an online map of central London which includes aerial photography at four times the resolution of existing online maps: the equivalent of looking down from the 10th floor.The map, from192.com, publishes aerial photography at a resolution of 4cm for London and 12.5cm for the rest of the UK. In the right conditions, images at this resolution are enough to identify individuals - a step that existing online mapping ventures such as Google Earth and Microsoft's Virtual Earth have so far been careful to avoid.Alastair Crawford, 192's chief executive, makes no apologies for the possibilities: "We're considering holding a competition. We want to challenge people to find out how much naughty stuff is happening. If you're having an affair in London, you'd better be careful!"The mapping venture is likely to heat up the debate about the extent to which information about individuals is available on the web - especially as 192.com, which specialises in providing data about individuals gleaned from official sources has announced plans to attach estimated ages to every person in its database of 27 million Britons.Getting on the mapThe prospect is likely to alarm privacy campaigners. Dr David Wood, of the Surveillance Studies Network at Newcastle University, says he is worried by the power of such systems. "When you combine detailed mapping with demographic data, consumer data and particularly things like credit ratings, you end up with very powerful tools."Crawford says he is simply presenting data that is already available, often in a less secure setting than through his website.The London map images, which combine aerial photographs shot over 20 hours last year with data licensed from Ordnance Survey's digital map of Great Britain, are strikingly more detailed than existing services, especially when individuals appear in oblique views. At present, coverage extends from Hyde Park in the centre of London to Dartford Bridge in the east, and Finsbury Park in the north of the capital to Tooting Broadway in the south. The west of London is unavailable because of flight restrictions around Heathrow.The plan to add estimated ages to its listings will help people look up old friends, says Crawford, especially when they have a common name. "Most people seeking an individual have a rough idea how old the person is. Addresses are very variable, but age stays with you for your whole life."The estimated age bands are modelled on data gleaned from a sample of the population using what the company calls "complex mathematical algorithms".Several clues are already in the public domain, Crawford says. One starting point is the database of 4 million directors held at Companies House. This is a public record listing dates of birth as well as addresses. From national demographic statistics of age differences between married couples, it is then possible to estimate the likely age of the director's spouse.Another source is the electoral roll, which has an annually updated list of 17-year-olds. If a 17-year-old lives with two people of the same surname already listed in the register, they are probably aged between 40 and 60.Another clue is forename: all other factors being equal, Elsie Jones is probably from a different generation than Kylie Jones. Even house prices, again on public record, can provide a clue: two people of the same name living in a &pound;2m property are probably older than two living in a &pound;200,000 one. All these can be cross-checked with the average age for the postcode area, which is contained in census data.Crawford says there is nothing new about using information in this way; all the software does is open it up to the non-expert. "It gives that knowledge without having to be clever," he says. "Our anticipation is it will help people get connected."Crawford says he has taken advice from the information commissioner's office. "We're producing a product as responsible as it can be. 192 provides transparency. It's a safer place for data than the local library. We require users to register with their credit card details and put them through a vigorous verification. We log all IP [internet] addresses, we know what you looked at and we keep a log. If someone is going to abuse personal data, the last place you would get it from is 192.com." But, he admits, "where I think there will be more fuss is when women have been hiding for many years how old they are. But we've always allowed people to have control of data: if anyone wants to correct it, we'll do it free of charge." The data is also not provided for mass unsolicited marketing, he adds.Who's watching you?What about stalkers, or worse? "It's not like the movies where killers pick a victim from the phone book. In the real world, the stalker is almost always somebody who already knows where you are."But with public concern about the safety of personal data rising, the directory is likely to come under fire. Crawford says anyone worried about personal data abuse should start with sites such as Facebook: "It's grossly irresponsible for social networking sites to canvass dates of birth, and publish them."
I'm going to frag your networkAt last - a network interface for the Doom generation. Called L3dgeworld (gr00vy spelling), it's a network mapping and control application that uses the Quake engine. Frag those hackers!tinyurl.com/2vcyw5That'll beat the phishersYou can't remember your password. Well, you can, but not the password for this account. Was it your cat's maiden name or your maiden aunt's cat's name you used for the Swiss bank account?tinyurl.com/34uvkrOf course antimatter mattersA short and educational video about the search for antimatter - like the truth, it's out there. (Thanks, Tara Shears.)tinyurl.com/2fx4uw&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
In a previous incarnation this package was deemed by Steve Jobs so necessary to Apple's survival that he got Bill Gates to pledge publicly that Microsoft would continue developing the Mac version, to make the corporations happy.So is Office still necessary? It depends which one; Microsoft now offers three versions. Most people will get the Home and Student edition (SRP &pound;99.99) which includes everything you need - Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Entourage (the Mac version of Outlook) and Messenger. The Office for Mac Suite (SRP &pound;349.99, upgrade version &pound;199.99) adds Exchange support and support for Apple's Automator scripting system.The deluxe version, Office For Mac Special Media Edition, costs &pound;449.99 (SRP, upgrade &pound;299.99). This includes Microsoft Expression Media, a comprehensive if not intuitive package to manage your digital assets such as photos, audio and video files. Oh, but: Access freaks, there is no version of the database tool for Mac users in any of the versions.The revamped interface integrates seamlessly with the shiny look of Apple's new version of OSX, Leopard. The new suite defaults to the Open XML formats first seen in Office 2007, with options to save documents in the old-skool formats for compatibility with people still running 2004's version (or earlier) of the suite. (Then again, Leopard's free TextEdit app can open and save the new format too.)The document ribbon atop the screen uses the new layout from the Windows flavour, presenting a huge set of tools in an intuitive and manageable fashion that makes it easy - well, easy-ish - to find what you're looking for.Entourage has acquired a "My Day" widget, which floats on the screen, gets in the way and is an ugly purple. Unfortunately, it still hasn't acquired any way to sync its calendar with the outside world, such as Yahoo! or Google calendars - something you can do using small third-party apps in the Outlook world. You can sync with Apple's iCal, but it's a fiddly process (tinyurl.com/2thcnx), and doing an upgrade install to Office for Mac 2004 can lose all your mailing rules (tinyurl.com/3xotfc).Excel now supports something like 17bn cells, which should be enough for anyone. (Is that a saying within Microsoft?) Expression Media does some of the stuff that Adobe's Lightroom does, but Lightroom does it better, and Apple's (free) iPhoto can handle my photos. Messenger is there for teenagers, though they might prefer a multi-signon program like Adium. In all, an attractive upgrade, but not a must-have unless you need Exchange; and no use at all if you need Access.Pros:Revamped interface; competitive price for the home and student editionCons:My Day widget, no Accessmicrosoft.com/mac
There's a widely accepted view that the genome is the computer program of life, and genes the software subroutines that code from DNA via RNA to proteins; and that like computers, when the software goes wrong bad things happen.But biologists building computer models for testing drugs or pinning down the causes of disease say these metaphors are past their sell-by date. Instead, they're using computer models to try to see what effect different genes really have on our bodies. A pioneer in this field, Professor Denis Noble, co-director of computational physiology at Oxford University, has spent 47 years developing biological models. As a medical student in 1960 he developed the first viable mathematical model of a working heart cell, showing how it was possible to reproduce the heart's rhythm by modelling the changing electrical potential within it. Today, his heart cell models are so accurate that pharmaceutical companies use them to test for the effects of drugs on cardiac arrhythmia.And the model shows effects you might not expect. For example, in Noble's heart cell model, if you remove the pacemaker gene protein - first discovered in 1997 - which generates 80% of the heart's electrical current, you might expect that the heart would stop or go haywire. In fact there is almost no change. "The system is so robust that other mechanisms - 40 or 50 other proteins - ensure that if one fails the others can take over. It is beautifully failsafe," Noble says. "Nor can you conclude that if knocking out a gene has no observable effect it's not involved in a particular body function."Telltale heartIt takes all night on an 18-processor computer to simulate one second of a complete beating heart, reconstructing the function down to the cellular level, so Noble is looking forward to having access to a 10-petaflop supercomputer - the equivalent to about 5,000 consumer PCs - being developed by Fujitsu. The machine is being designed to run simulations of complete human organ models in real time, including a whole organ heart model to be provided by Noble and his collaborators. Other teams are building multi-level computer models of all the other human organs as part of the Human Physiome Project (tinyurl.com/2feb72).Roche is one of the many pharmaceutical companies working with computer models from university groups such as Noble's, as well as using commercial mathematical modelling tools from companies such as MathWorks and Entelos. Dr Cristiano Migliorini, a modelling expert at Roche, suggests that biologists proposing new theories will soon submit computer models with their papers so that other scientists can re-use this knowledge: "If someone publishes a good paper on a low-level mechanism in the liver, for instance, it would great to be able to slot that software into a larger scale, higher-level liver model."Noble, meanwhile, has distilled his findings into "10 Commandments of Systems Biology" (see panel). This list, in his paper in last October's issue of the Journal of Experimental Physiology (tinyurl.com/2xstcc), challenges popular perceptions about genes. Genes, Noble says, cannot be assigned specific functions; DNA is not sole transmitter of inheritance; and there is no "genetic program". In fact there is no "program" at any level, including the brain.Noble questions the "dogma of genetic determinism". The idea that it's rarely correct to attribute a function solely to one gene seems at odds with the headlines about discoveries of cancer genes, pacemaker genes, depression genes and so forth. But as he explains: "The first function a gene is found to be involved in is rarely, if ever, the only one and may not be the most important one. The only unambiguous labelling of genes is in terms of the protein they code for."The body's information doesn't only come from our genes, he argues: "There is also feedback to the genome from the cells, the tissues, the body as a whole and even from the environment. Genetic coding only tells us which protein a gene will make, it doesn't define how much of it."The discovery of higher-level mechanisms that adjust how much protein a gene makes is a persuasive argument for a more integrated understanding of biology. In the heart, for example, Noble says, "the ionic currents are so finely balanced during the slow phases of pacemaker activity that it is inconceivable that nature arrives at the correct expression and activity level without some kind of feedback control". However "at present, we do not know the mechanism for this". His money is on some form of gene marking (known as epigenetics) that controls gene expression and function during development.DNA isn't the sole transmitter of inheritance because we also inherit the rest of the contents of our mother's egg cell. "The information in the egg cell is vast," he says. "It's not just a messy soup, but highly structured with lipids, mitochondria, microtubules and lots of small molecules arranged in cellular compartments, much of which isn't coded for by genes."Noble's views on inheritance are not mainstream. Professor Marc Kirschner, chair of systems biology at Harvard Medical School and an admirer of Noble's work, says that while he can see Noble's point, it's likely to cause confusion. "I think there is a danger in stating that in such strong terms," Kirschner says. But he agrees that rather than describe the genome as a software program, we should think of it more like a database or library of information inside each cell that the cell can access.The idea of a program doesn't fit with how the body works, Noble says. "If there is some program that, for instance, determines cardiac rhythm, it is not a separate [controlling] thing, it is the interaction between the cell proteins and the cell's electrical potential. It's not simply a genetic program - the rhythm is created at the level of the cell as a whole. If you break the cell, you no longer have cardiac rhythm."Don't blame the genesOne could argue that Noble's 10 Commandments are changing our perceptions rather than the facts, and yet the furore created by the geneticist James Watson's comments last year about the relationship between genes, intelligence and race shows that perception matters.Noble says that Watson's remarks were an example of the "tendency of some biologists to imagine that phenomena at a higher level are simply correlated with the molecular structure of the genome and the proteins". He adds: "It is a deeply flawed understanding because of the two-way interaction between organisms and the environment. It's not dealing with all the facts and deals with those we do have in a very partial way."Kirschner, although agreeing with the general thrust of Noble's views that this is the century of "putting it together again", sounds a note of caution. "While many biologists recognise a need to take environment and systems thinking into account, they find it easy to follow the DNA paradigm because it has been, and continues to be, so productive," he says. "It would be a mistake to pit these two against each other. They are different ways to a common goal and of course we systems biologists make continuous use of reductionist methods and analysis."So if you think you're just like a computer, it's time for a metaphor upgrade. And no, you can't blame absolutely everything on your genes.Denis Noble's 10 biology commandments1.Biological functionality  is multi-level2.Transmission of information  is not one-way from the genes3.DNA is not the sole transmitter  of inheritance4.The theory of biological relativity means there is no privileged level of  causality5.Geneontology ("naming") will fail without higher-level insight; the only unambiguous labelling of genes is by the protein they code for6.There is no genetic "program"7.There are no programs at any level8.There are no programs in the brain9.The self is not an object10.A genuine "theory of biology" does not yet exist - there are many more to be discovered
Innovation by designOur new Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills is seeking views before publishing its Science and Innovation Strategy in the spring.dius.dialoguebydesign.netOnline refugeThe E-Victims Organisation has launched a web site to help "victims of online crime and other incidents" such as data theft and sexual harassment.e-victims.orgCouch potato taxAn environmental alliance in New Mexico is proposing a 1% sales tax on TVs and videogames to fund programmes to "help get American kids back outdoors".tinyurl.com/33stjyThe Facebook effectSocial networking costs the UK economy almost &pound;6.5bn a year in lost productivity, according to a survey.infosec.co.ukOverflow firewallComodo is offering a free "memory firewall" claimed to prevent over 90% of buffer overflow attacks on Windows.comodo.comChristians, awake!HarperCollins's Mission Praise is now offering its hymnbooks, sheet music and audio files to online subscribers.missionpraise.com/press_releaseBionic eyesResearchers at the University of Washington in Seattle have developed a prototype contact lens that includes an electronic circuit, reports CNet.tinyurl.com/34u2vdBT Vision adds Xbox 360BT is to offer all its broadband customers the opportunity to watch TV via the Xbox 360 games console.tinyurl.com/29fwpg
Buzz! The Schools QuizPS2, &pound;24.99 (&pound;39.99 with 4 buzzers), Cert 3+Sony, 4/5This new addition to the Buzz! series offers edutainment at its best. Moulded by Key Stage 2 teachers to test children's curriculum knowledge, general Buzz! enthusiasts shouldn't dismiss this, as the gameplay follows the winning format and is just as enjoyable - albeit a tad simpler - for all. Quizzes can be set up with different ages (7-11) and topics in mind, but if played at its highest level, and with all topics from maths and science to religion and languages enabled, you'll find it's an enjoyable general knowledge game. The competitor in you will come out, and with rounds such as Fastest Finger, where speed is of the essence, and Top Rank, where you need to put answers into the correct order, you'll discover it's another great Buzz! title simply backed up with additional educational benefits. This game is a great way for both teachers and parents to make learning fun, and to become more involved in the learning process. Pit your knowledge against your children if you dare.Keri AllanGhost SquadWii, &pound;29.99, cert 16+Sega, 3/5Console conversions of coin-op games always create a good first impression, since they don't need to be fed with coins. And the Wii seems particularly well suited to arcade shooting games like Ghost Squad, thanks to the Wii Remote (indeed, a Wii Zapper would be a good investment if you like such games). A purist, while admitting that Ghost Squad is fun, would scoff at the cheesy dialogue, although the occasional chance to choose your path and the presence of passages of varied gameplay (such as knife and fistfights, bomb-defusing and sniping) add interest. Up to four people can also work co-operatively through the missions. However, Ghost Squad is unforgivably short, with a mere three missions - when you complete one, you then must do it all again, only on a higher difficulty level. Cheap and fun, but also too basic and insubstantial. Not exactly a must-buy.Steve BoxerGeometry Wars: GalaxiesDS, &pound;19.99, cert 3+Kuju/Sierra, 4/5Geometry Wars is an old-school shoot-em-up where the usual aliens have been replaced by geometric shapes. It harkens back to the vector-graphic games of yore, with the added benefit of being able to cram more of these simple enemies onscreen without the DS's teeny processor grinding to a halt. Each stage consists of between three and nine planets which must be cleared of shapes, gathering any upgrades before they disappear. Use them to beef up your ship or build defences and prepare for the next wave. It's little more than Asteroids 08, to be honest, but in small doses it's still surprisingly addictive.Mike Anderiesz
We were welcomed to this year's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas by women wearing LCDs on their chests. They were promoting IBM, but inside the whole show was also dominated by flat screens. TVs are getting bigger and thinner at a tremendous rate. In this case, "big" extended to Panasonic's 150in (380cm) monster, while "thin" included a Sony OLED (organic light-emitting diode) screen just 3mm thick.Panasonic's 150in plasma screen was an amazing sight, displaying 9 megapixels (4,096 x 2,160), which is about four times the resolution of high-definition TV. It's around 12ft long and 8ft high, more suitable for public displays and micro-cinema installations than home use. However, Panasonic said it had sold "quite a few" of last year's 103in version to individuals.Panasonic also showed some little 50in-sets that were just under an inch thick, which makes plasma more attractive in the wall-hanging stakes. The company's new "double efficiency" plasma technology also uses less power and halves the weight of the sets - to 22kg in this case. Bob Raikes, managing director of Meko Ltd, said I should reverse my view that plasma was being swamped by LCD. He reckons Panasonic's plasma is still improving and will prosper like Sony's Trinitron design, which sold to people who wanted better picture quality.Meanwhile Sony is trying to replicate the Trinitron effect with its own new technology, OLED. Sony actually put its XEL-1 11-inch OLED TV on sale during CES, though the $2,499 price proved a bit much for most people. Still, the screen was strikingly brilliant - Sony claims a contrast ratio of 1m:1 - and, incredibly, only 3mm thin. That's about the same as the two or three credit cards you will need to rub together to afford one.Sony also showed a prototype 27-inch OLED TV - to see it is to lust after it - but did not have the technology to itself. Korea's Samsung also showed 14in and 31in prototype OLED screens. However, many people have doubts about whether these sets can be mass-produced at reasonable prices, and how long the screens will last. Suffice it to say, OLED is not about to replace LCD.Having a final breakfast with fellow journalists, someone asked what CES 2008 had all been about. My suggestion: smaller bezels. TV manufacturers are designing sets that are bigger, thinner and have smaller surrounds. Less than an inch is the new cool. The aspiration is to become just like a poster. You can't roll a TV up yet. But they're working on that as well.
