More than 8m people have downloaded US startupFiftyThree'sPaperapp for iPad since its release in March 2012. Designed as a tool for creating and sharing sketches, diagrams and notes, Apple gave it an iPad App of the Year prize at the end of last year.In 2013, FiftyThree has been taking Paper's digital charms into the physical world. Earlier this year, it createda customised version of the app for the Fashion Rules exhibitionat Kensington Palace in London, helping visitors design their own dresses while gazing at real royal frocks.Today, it's launching another partnership, withMoleskine, whose physical notebooks, journals and other products have been finding similar favour within the design community and beyond to Paper.Their joint project is calledBook, and involves Paper users choosing 15 pages of their sketches to turn into a printed book, with Moleskine handling the production ("handmade in the UK" apparently) and distribution. At $40 per book, they're not cheap, but that's no surprise given Moleskine's brand.The creative community may jump on Book first, but FiftyThree chief executive Georg Petschnigg says Paper is more than just a tool for designers. "We receive a lot of emails and notes from entrepreneurs, scientists, engineers, fashion designers right through to patients in hospitals and kids," he says."If you look at the creative professionals market: that core of people who get paid to create content, in the United States that's about 950,000 people. The moment you get eight million downloads, you know you're well beyond that."Book is all about the details, from its "sustainable" matte paper and fold-out pages through to the size of those pages, which have been designed to match the 4:3 aspect ratio of an iPad screen. It's also the result of several years of discussions between FiftyThree and Moleskine about a potential partnership."We were trying to understand why people are still using paper, so we thought let's talk to the experts. And what we very quickly realised is that they're about amazing creativity: they have such a deep appreciation and admiration for the creative process," says Petschnigg."They don't just produce notebooks, a Moleskine is 'a book yet to be written'. I loved that attitude. They've had a profound impact on how I viewed the work I was doing, and how we were looking at creating for others. When we launched Paper, there was undeniably a nod to Moleskine in the product."That cross between digital and physical isn't an isolated one. Moleskine already has a partnership with Evernote to store people's jottings in its notebooks, there's a spate of startups turning Instagram snaps into printed products, and a growing number of children's apps aiming to spark physical crafting as well as digital play.Petschnigg sees the appeal. "At some point, digital becomes exhaustive," he says. "The limits of materials and resources can be a very good force to say this is it, the 15th spread, even if you have created hundreds of pages digitally. When you're gifting to someone, what print is really good for is that it's a scarce resource, and it should remain a scarce resource."Petschnigg is just as animated about the Fashion Rules exhibition in London, enthusing about the way it changed the role of staff there, who explained Paper's app to visitors and helped them use it."Their function wasn't to make people step away from the displays, it was to give them an iPad and get them to engage," he says. "It's a wonderful change: that glass wall between the artefact and the visitor got removed."The Fashion Rules exhibition at Kensington PalaceThere have been complaints from some parts of the creative world about the surge in digital creativity apps, from music-making and DJing through to drawing and photography: that these apps convince people they have a talent that they don't really have, or in some way make them respect the craft of professionals in these disciplines less.It's not something I buy into at all: even though I've improved my photography and (woeful) DJing skills through using Instagram and Traktor DJ, using those apps has if anything increased my respect for pro photographers and DJs: the more I do, the more I appreciate the gap to real craft.Petschnigg is aware of the debates, and suggests that democratising creative tools is a valuable thing. "The truth of the matter is that photos are better now, because people can practise much more. The quality of photography has increased because people can get those proverbial 10,000 hours of practice much more easily," he says."It's like learning to read when books were scarce. When people didn't have books, it was impossible for them to become literate. The minute books were there, and affordable, with newspapers too, the population became better at it. They could practise."Paper has some intriguing potential for children, too. Not as a replacement for physical drawing and painting, but to complement it. Petschnigg hopes that parents and children will be interested in Book for its potential to create physical books together.The thought reminded me of a recentwonderful post on the Busy Mockingbird blog, where artist Mica Angela Hendricks (initially reluctantly) let her four year-old daughter start adding to some of her in-progress sketches."In sharing my artwork and allowing our daughter to be an equal in our collaborations, I helped solidify her confidence, which is way more precious than any doodle I could have done," wrote Hendricks.Petschnigg saw that blog post too. "With those artworks, even the child's drawing was really sophisticated: the lines were really precise in comparison to what you would expect. It was clear that they were focused in that activity, which had something to do with their environment," he says."When adults sit at the table and have a very animated conversation, children who are there will get animated too. They'll reflect that. And similarly, when children are given great tools, they'll do great work."What else is next for FiftyThree? The company is clearly thinking hard about its next moves for Paper, and while the broad areas are logical, the details are under wraps for now.Petschnigg politely deflects a question about FiftyThree's plans for the Paper community – "we're looking at the world of online as a place where ideas can come together, and we'll certainly keep working on that project" – as well as the company's hardware plans.Hardware? In June this year,FiftyThree raised $15m of Series A funding, and explicitly outlined ambitions for "moving beyond touch and into the physical world of accessories" – drawing on its team's hardware experience within Microsoft (Kinect, Xbox and the never-launched Courier) and Sonos.And now? "From FiftyThree's perspective, we're always looking at opportunities where we can remove the barriers to creation, and when you look at our input devices, touch has taken us very far," says Petschnigg."But we really think there are many more opportunities to make creating on digital devices easier. We should have a follow-on conversation to this once we have something to talk about…"The Paper app has been downloaded more than 8m times on iPadOne last topic: business models. Paper is a free download, then charges via in-app purchases for additional tools (Sketch, Color, Mixer, Write and Outline cost £1.49 apiece, or are bundled into a £4.99 Essentials pack).The day before this interview, another iOS developer – Instapaper creator Marco Arment –published a blog postclaiming that "the market for paid-up-front apps appealing to mass consumers is gone… paid-up-front iOS apps had a great run, but it's over. Time to make other plans".There's a heated debate raging about the impact free-to-play business models are having on mobile games, but outside that, Paper seems one of the better examples of in-app purchases being used well. Petschnigg says FiftyThree put a lot of thought into their use before launch."People can pay us for our work. That's a clear signal that they like the tools, and that they work. And that is a sustainable model that allows us to offer more tools," he says. "But something people underestimate from an app designer's perspective is that the in-app purchase model allows you to offer an a la carte product rather than an all-in product."He draws on examples from a past job working in Microsoft's Office division. "There's a reason why for Office 98 versus 2003 versus 2007, Microsoft would have to add so much functionality with it: it had to convince people to pay up front for a new version of Office each time," he says."Also you can never take something away if you charge people upfront for the product, and that leads to bloat. So when it came to starting FiftyThree and working on Paper, we were not really enthused about the pay-upfront model. But we took the in-app experience very seriously, and designed for it from the very beginning."The sentiment in Arment's blog post – and elsewhere in the app development community – suggests in-app purchases are already becoming the dominant business model for apps aimed at "mass consumers". But Petschnigg adds that it's still early days for IAP compared to the established business models that it's disrupting."If you look at Office, it does close to $9bn of revenues every quarter. And we haven't seen a Halo-sized title on iOS yet for games, in terms of a billion-dollar launch Apple has paid out $10bn to iOS developers since 2008, but that's what Office makes in a quarter and a half," says Petschnigg."That to me signals we're in the complete early stages of this. That's extremely exciting and motivating for us: we're starting to write a future, so what should that future look like?"
If there’s anyone who would know about staying under the government’s radar, it’s John McAfee.That might be why the controversial programmer’s return to the world of IT is a device designed for making personal encrypted networks – perfect for keeping users’ business away from the NSA.McAfee made a public appearance at theC2SV conferencein San Jose to reveal his new company, Future Tense, and its first product – a small piece of hardware called D-Central.The device can be dropped in a pocket or a bag, creates a localised wireless network, designed to exist on a &quot;lower scale&quot; than the internet.D-Central can either be set in a private mode, which provides encryption for all users but leaves them mutually identifiable, or a public mode, allowing users to make files available to the public while still maintaining anonymity.“TheNSA helped create every single encryption algorithm that we use, and therefore can get access to anything they want,”McAfee told the conference.“I&apos;m 68 years old and if you can just give me any small amount of information about yourself, I promise you within three days, I can turn on the camera on your computer at home and watch you do whatever you&apos;re doing.”He claimed that users could request any file, which would then automatically download once a user with that file joined the network.“If you’re on a college campus, you’ll probably get responses within a quarter of a second,&quot; he said.With no unique identifier for the devices, the recipient would not know who had provided the file, and the sender wouldn’t know who received it.McAfee confirmed that there is a road map to launch. “We have the design in place … I would say we are six months out from the first prototype,” he said.In 2012 the anti-virus pioneer, who founded McAfee Associates in 1987 before leaving the company in 1994, fled his home in Belize after police attempted to interview him as a “person of interest” following the murder of a neighbour.After making it to nearby Guatemala, he was arrested and eventually deported to the US.•Why did McAfee have to flee Guatemala in the first place?
BitTorrent, the company which maintains the popular peer-to-peer downloading protocol, has announced an entry into the world of secure communications.With the launch of the alpha version of BitTorrent Private Chat, users are able to use a similar version of the distributed network that enables fast (and frequently illegal) downloads of large files in order to chat privately and securely.The product is currently in private alpha, an early pre-release stage of development, and BitTorrent is keeping quiet about the technology behind it, but the company has confirmed that it will work in a similar way to its BitTorrent Sync product.Sync allows users to keep files up-to-date over multiple computers using a distributed network. Files to be shared are broken into small chunks, encrypted, and sent to many pre-selected devices. From there, they can be re-downloaded by other computers, even before the full file exists on machine other than the source.If the encryption implementation is secure, distributed chat offers potential. By avoiding a centralised server, Private Chat reduces the ease of large-scale government interception. But hiding the metadata of the messages,which encryption pioneer Phil Zimmermann warnedcan be almost as important as the content, is a harder programming challenge.Users can apply to be part of the private alpha on the BitTorrent website.• This story has been amended to clarify that BitTorrent Chat is not built on BitTorrent Sync.•Why should you use a private chat client? Silent Circle&apos;s Mike Janke warns that email is &quot;fundamentally broken&quot;.
Siri, the iPhone&apos;s voice control system, is at the root of a new iPhone lockscreen vulnerability which grants full access to the phone application.The hack, demonstrated by Israeli security researcher Dany Lisiansky, involves the use of Apple&apos;s voice-controlled digital assistant Siri on an iPhone&apos;s lockscreen. Siri can be used to initiate a FaceTime call allowing hackers to invoke a security glitch in the iOS 7 software to access the phone app.The hack requires two phones: the one to be hacked is used to initiate a call over Apple&apos;s Facetime system, which the receiving phone answers and then ends. That then leads via a series of actions on the first phone to the phone app. An attacker can then see a user&apos;s call history, contacts, and initiate answerphone calls. They can make calls, and send emails by initiating a &quot;send contact&quot; message and then altering it.Pulling contacts and sending messages&quot;This isn&apos;t quite as serious as some of the other iPhone security flaws that have been exposed in the past, because it doesn&apos;t grant access to other apps apart from the phone app,&quot; said Graham Cluley, an independent expert on IT security.An iPhone security flaw in Apple's Siri allows access to private data including call history and voicemail, and allows hackers to send text messages, emails and make phone calls.Deactivate SiriiPhone users can protect themselves from this latest vulnerability by deactivating Siri access on the lockscreen – found in the Settings app under the Passcode lock screen.Apple did not respond to a request for comment before publication. The company previously released a patch for another lockscreen security found in the initial release of iOS 7within six days.Questions about Siri&apos;s securitywere raisedright from its launch in October 2011, because when active from the lockscreen it allows actions such as accessing calendars and sending emails even while the iPhone is locked.Cluley says: &quot;It just seems crazy that locking your phone doesn&apos;t entirely lock it down.&quot;A feature that enables access to any function of the phone while locked should not be enabled by default. It shows Apple&apos;s focus is on features rather than security.&quot;Security flaw whack-a-moleHackers have discovered security flaws in almost every major iOS release, including in theinitial release of iOS 7, whichallowed access to private dataincluding photos, email, Twitter and Flicker accounts.&quot;It&apos;s like Apple&apos;s playing security flaw whack-a-mole right now,&quot; Cluley said.&quot;A phone&apos;s operating software is very complex, involving many millions of lines of code, but it&apos;s because Apple&apos;s iOS garners much more attention than other platforms that these flaws are found.&quot;Hackers everywhere are having fun and gaining kudos for finding these flaws – Apple should be hiring these guys to test its software,&quot; Cluley concluded.• Apple&apos;siPhone 5S fingerprint sensor was spoofedwithin days of its release by Germany&apos;s Chaos Computer Club – though nobody has yet shown whether fingerprint data can be extracted from the phone.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung's ChatON tops 100 million users, threatens BBM &gt;&gt; CNET UKThat compares with around 75m users on BBM, which is due to join ChatON on Android any time soon, possibly leading to a resurgence for the BlackBerry app. Over 100 million people, mainly in Japan and the Far East, use Line. The big daddy in messaging is WhatsApp, however, with roughly 300m users.It's not quite comparing like with like, however. Those are the big numbers that each service likes to boast about, but some, such as BBM and WhatsApp, count daily users, whereas ChatON is measuring registered users. It doesn't say how many use it every day.Commenters on the post are registered, but don't seem to use it. "Would delete it if I could," says one. Signups are much easier to get than users.Yahoo recycles emails addresses: users find security surprises &gt;&gt; Information WeekNeil Harris, a software executive, also signed up for a recycled Yahoo ID. A Yahoo user for many years, Harris wanted a new username that was easier to remember than the one he currently had.On the first day he logged into the account, he found that Yahoo merged his former account with the new one, giving him one inbox that funneled emails from both accounts. That wouldn't have been a problem, Harris said, if it weren't for the misdirected emails he suddenly started receiving."I immediately got email addressed to the [former] account owner and the nature of them made me uncomfortable," Harris said in an interview, noting that a number of emails were from men looking to meet up with a woman.In the following weeks, Harris was sent emails from department stores, including emailed receipts from recent purchases at Nordstrom. He also received timecards that detailed mileage reimbursements and included the former account holder's name and address."It seemed odd to me that this email was coming from all over. It's clear that while the owner supposedly hadn't logged in in a while, she was still actively giving out that email address," Harris said.Terrible idea, Yahoo.Update: Gartner tells IT shops that it's 'game over' for BlackBerry &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Gartner recommends that our [BlackBerry enterprise] clients take no more than six months to consider and implement alternatives to BlackBerry," said Gartner analyst Bill Menezes in an email interview on Friday. "We're emphasizing that all clients should immediately ensure they have backup mobile data management plans and are at least testing alternative devices to BlackBerry."Menezes said a full Gartner report with three recommended courses of action will be delivered soon to Gartner clients that use BlackBerry Enterprise Service servers and/or BlackBerry smartphones.Pretty dramatic for an analyst company to say something so baldly. BlackBerryrespondedthat it is "steadfast" in its mission to deliver "the most secure and powerful mobile management solutions and smartphones to our customers".Apple's new licensing for apps gives it a huge enterprise advantage &gt;&gt; CITEworldApple's new licensing mechanism brings the traditional enterprise licensing paradigm to iOS devices and apps.Although administrators select and purchase apps through the VPP version of the App Store, apps are no longer distributed using redemption codes. Instead, the VPP store records the apps (and quantities) purchased by an organization. MDM APIs allow mobile management solutions to invite users to enroll their devices into the licensing program. As they do, administrators gain the ability to assign apps to enrolled user devices or to allow users to select apps through an enterprise app store. An administrator can then purchase additional licenses if needed.When the apps are loaded on employee devices they also become part of the user's personal App Store purchase history, allowing users to install them on other devices that are tied to their Apple ID. Essentially they behave the way App Store purchases have always behaved. When a user leaves the company, the mobile management solution can use those same APIs to revoke the license from that user.Helsingin Sanomat on Stephen Elop &gt;&gt; My Nokia BlogThe article [in the Finnish paper] stated that the strategy work [considering whether to keep Symbian or what to do otherwise] was open and thorough. Elop made the last call for WP and according to colleagues did not show personal preference towards WP. Board approved.Nokia couldn't have multi-OS strategy since they didn't have enough software competence.Meego phones are now "unicorns", as the Polish man using one on the flight to Geneva remarked to me the other day.Web Search interest: MySpace, Bebo, Orkut, Tuenti, Friendster - Worldwide, 2004 - present &gt;&gt; Google TrendsThey're dead, Jim. Social networks don't have a guaranteed life, or even lifespan (and MySpace's comeback looks pretty flat here).Sony's lost generation risks push to restore Walkman mojo &gt;&gt; BloombergHemmed in by a fourth and record annual loss of $4.6 billion, one of Kazuo Hirai's first acts as new president last year was to put 10,000 more jobs on the block, bringing losses to almost 60,000 since 2003."They're pushing out engineers like some kind of bargain sale," said Onoue. "It's a huge mistake. You need good people to make good products."The brain drain threatens Hirai's mission to resuscitate the iconic brand that gave us compact discs, Trinitron color TVs and the Walkman, Sony's game-changing 1979 portable music player. It's also given a leg-up to rivals such as LG, its South Korean big brother, Samsung Electronics, and Taipei-based Hon Hai Precision Industry (owner of Foxconn)."There's nobody in top management who understands how damaging the technology drain is," said Yasunori Tateishi, whose 2011 book "Goodbye Our Sony" was his ninth charting the company's 15-year course from Asia's most-valuable maker of consumer gadgets to an also-ran with a price tag one-10th that of Samsung's. "Where do these people go after they leave?"Open source steganography tools &gt;&gt; Jonathan CrookstonSteganography (the art of hiding messages in other messages) is back to being a topic of interest on account of the recent revelation that the U.S. NSA (National Security Agency) has back doors into some of the United States' largest online service providers (i.e. Microsoft, Apple, Google, AOL, YouTube (Google), PalTalk, and others) and can tap users' data on those services without a warrant.Because  of this, I thought it might be appropriate to start a list of open source steganography tools for those who find this topic fascinating.Or, indeed, useful.Microsoft's Surface to be under revenue microscope &gt;&gt; ComputerworldAmong the KPIs [Key Performance Indicators] that Microsoft's promised to provide will be the quarterly revenue from sales of the Surface and the accessories that accompany the tablets, such as the keyboard covers and the upcoming docking station."Starting in Q1 we will report quarterly the revenue derived from our Surface products and related accessories," said Chris Suh, manager of Microsoft's investor relations, in the call last week.Microsoft's first quarter for its 2014 fiscal year ends Sept. 30, and is equivalent to the calendar's third quarter. The company will release the quarter's numbers on 24 October.Previously generated $853m between October 2013 to end of June 2013, and a writeoff of $900m.Samsung: We don't region-lock our phones (apart from when you first activate them) &gt;&gt; GigaomThis story isn't over. Here's a comment from this story:What seems particularly incomprehensible to me is that Samsung is rolling out the region lock to all those Galaxy variants upgrading to Kitkat which currently have no such restriction. If those who are already activated can already use other region's SIMs what purpose could applying the region lock serve in the KitKat update? Seems consumer unfriendly and regrettable if Samsung is now intent on introducing regional whitelists of MCCs in all Samsung radio firmware as part of its ongoing mobile strategy.So these phones are region-locked, unless you don't unlock them in the region where you buy them. Or if you put a different region's SIM in, in which case the locking will reassert itself.And it's completely unclear what Samsung is trying to achieve through this. They grey market can't have been that big, and it'saddingthis locking to existing devices.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.GTA Online: Everything you need to knowIt may be online by the time you read this but just in case, CVG has done a little post on the imminent arrival of GTA Online:Players can work together in co-op missions, take part in "ambient activity" or play more traditional game modes. As Rockstar puts it: "Go on your own or round up your friends to explore the open world together - catch a movie, go mountain biking, hit the shooting range and much more. Want to test the law? Knock over a convenience store, take down a gang or rob an armored truck for easy cash and Reputation."This is probably going to be a lot of fun.Killzone dev Guerrilla confirms work on new IP has begun | Eurogamer.netEric Boltjes, a lead designer on Killzone: Shadow Fall has told Eurogamer that the Dutch developer is ready to start on a new IP:"I can be true about it, yes. That's definitely what's happening right now. I can't tell you what we're thinking of but yes," he said."As a studio we do want to branch out, and we have started work on a new IP, something completely different to Killzone. I don't want to say anything about it right now, but as a studio we do want to keep it fresh."It's going to be a science fiction-based THIRD-person shooter!New Kinect can understand two people talking at the same time | PolygonPhil Harrison hosted an Xbox One event during the Eurogamer Expo and this snippet of Kinect info came up:This second iteration of Kinect can both hear and understand two people speaking at once, and additionally is able to see whether their mouths are moving in a dark room, said new technology lead developer Nick Burton during the session.The new Kinect sensor can detect 25 joints between six different people, as well as recognize who is using the controller, estimate heart rates and map faces to 1,400 points.Oh and apparently it definitely is NOT recording and uploading your conversations. Harrison probably wanted to add something along the lines of "Because, seriously, who wants to hear that stuff?" but couldn't because of PR.My Defining Moment as a Football Manager | IGNMan starts Football Manager game on a train; draws crowd of like-minded fans:Then he started to offer advice. In between matches he would suggest young players to scout and stars who would fit my team's play style. During games he'd spot weak points in my formations, suggest substitutions and talk in depth about opposition strategy and my training schedules. Much to my bemusement, he had even taken to cheering my goals. For any other game I'd hate having a backseat gamer like this, but something struck me; he had essentially become my assistant manager.A nice little story about footballing solidarity – and the lack of personal space on trains.Ian Livingstone leaves Eidos | GamesIndustry InternationalThe video game veteran is leaving his role as Eidos head after over 20 years at the company. Before that he was at Domark, and before that running Games Workshop and writing the brilliant Fighting Fantasy game books.Livingstone will continue in the games business with investments and mentoring in the mobile and online space, as well as continue with his projects The Livingstone Foundation and the Next Gen Skills campaign.While at Eidos - which was bought by Square Enix in 2009 - Livingstone has had a hand in the launch of multiple IP including Tomb Raider, Thief, Deus Ex, Hitman and Legacy of Kain."Every industry has pioneers and legends, words which can be used too casually, but not in the case of Ian, who should be an inspiration to everyone making games all over the world," offered Phil Rogers, CEO of Square ENix US and Europe. "Without his creativity and vision, names like Games Workshop, Fighting Fantasy and Tomb Raider might never have been."I've known Ian for many years – he was effectively my boss when I was a writer and tester at Big Red Software many years ago. Secretly, I think he's leaving so that he can spend more time with his beloved Manchester City. Whatever you do, good luck Ian.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Tuesday.
Proposals for faster wireless broadband on the UK&apos;s train network would mean that by 2019, 70% of rail passengers will benefit from speeds of up to 50 megabit per second (Mbit/s).The upgraded &quot;high-speed mobile broadband&quot; network will initially concentrate on the busiest 30% of the UK&apos;s rail network, tackling a series of &apos;not-spots&apos; along rail corridors suffering from poor or intermittent mobile phone signal.The infrastructure will be provided by the existing Network Rail (NR) communication network, which is currently involved in a five-year £1.9bn fibre upgrade to support up to 192,000 gigabit per second (Gbit/s) connections and is set to be complete in late spring 2014.The beginning of the end of poor coverage&quot;There are few things more frustrating than trying to phone a friend or access the internet, only to be thwarted by bad signal,&quot; said Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin, unveiling the plans.&quot;Be it hardworking commuters preparing for the day on their journey into work or leisure travellers making final plans for their weekend away, today’s announcement marks the beginning of the end of poor coverage on our railways,&quot; McLoughlin continued.Partnering upNetwork Rail will provide the backhaul required for the network through its existing rail communications network, which relies on masts placed at strategic points along the rails to wirelessly connect to trains.It will then partner with a customer-facing operator to provide internet services to train passengers, in a similar manner to the Virgin Media Wi-Fi offering that is currently available in London Underground stations.The wireless connection will be provided over Wi-Fi or 4G LTE, with Network Rail currently in talks with suitable partners. An official announcement is due in &quot;months not weeks&quot;, according to a Network Rail spokesperson.Will it be included in your mobile data subscription?&quot;Having solid and fast backhaul is a major issue for mobile networks, and it is therefore potentially a very important step if Network Rail can provide it. But it is just that - only potentially important at the moment - as we don&apos;t know how the consumer-facing access to the train-based internet will be handled,&quot; said John Delaney, associate vice president for mobile devices research firm IDC.&quot;From a customer&apos;s point of view the big question is whether train broadband access will be included as part of their existing mobile data subscriptions, like the Virgin Media Wi-Fi network in TfL&apos;s Tube stations,&quot; Delaney added.Not good enough&quot;We recognise that the limited availability of mobile communications on Britain’s rail network is not good enough,&quot; said a Network Rail spokesperson. &quot;We believe that Network Rail is best placed to help resolve this in a way that does not impact on the safe operation of the railway.&quot;Current mobile broadband provisions on trains are restricted due to a connection speed limit of 2.5Mbit/s to which each train can connect, which then has to be shared between train passengers meaning streaming services like Netflix and catch-up TV are not supported.• HS2, the government&apos;s controversial high-speed rail route between London and Birmingham, could alsocarry fibre optic cablesand improve the UK&apos;s broadband.
Do you ever wonder about the first person to join Facebook after you? Probably not, unless you and a friend clicked the sign-up button at the same microsecond, in some weird social-network-based ritual, you&apos;ve likely never met the person.Nor have you ever seen the face of the thousandth person to join the site, or the ten thousandth, the millionth or the billionth.But once you&apos;re given the opportunity to find those people, it can all get strangely compelling.That&apos;s what&apos;s weirdly compelling aboutthe Faces of Facebook, a new app which uses the site&apos;s API to deliver, ostensibly, every profile pic on the site in one gigantic wall of colour.The site was created byNatalia Rojas, a US-based creative technologist, and doesn&apos;t actually show every user at once, of course. A conservative estimate of the size of every profile picture on the site is 30 terabytes (that&apos;s 30Kb per picture multiplied by a billion users), and downloading that over the fastest residential connection in the UK would take a little over a week.But if you hover your mouse over the shining pixels making up the backdrop of the site, it tells you the user number you&apos;re hovering over. If you zoom in from there, you can see that user&apos;s profile pic, as well as those of the hundred or so next to them on the wall of faces.Zoom to the top left, and you&apos;ll see Mark Zuckerberg at pride of place with user number one. Zoom to the bottom left, and you&apos;ll find (apparently) the most recent person to sign up to the site – though they don&apos;t retain that title for long, as the big number in the centre keeps incessantly ticking up.Spend enough time zooming in and out, in fact, and you can see every arbitrary milestone you care to think of.And if you hook the app up to your own Facebook profile, you can see where you come in the rankings, and finally meet your digital neighbour. Mine was a pleasant-looking chap with a German-sounding surname.However, we&apos;re unlikely to learn anything useful about the extent to which Facebook&apos;s signups have slowed down, or what proportion of users have abandoned the site.And sadly, the site is struggling to cope with the number of people trying to reach it at the moment, having gone from a niche art project to a worldwide success in a little over two days. But when it comes back, see who you can find.
Founded: 2003Employees: 730Based: Espoo, FinlandUsers:Over a billionFunding: $42mRevenue: €152mBetween Bieber and ObamaMikko Setälä, the executive vice president of Angry Birds developer Rovio, stands out in a room of some of Europe’s top venture capitalists. When he takes the stage, to argue why his company is the most exciting in the continent, he is wearing a bright red hoodie with the face of Red Bird from his company’s hit game Angry Birds emblazoned on the front.If it takes confidence to so brazenly flout the accepted uniform of the entrepreneurs and the money men, it takes even more to open a presentation with the claim that Rovio is “the entertainment company of this millennium”. But over the next few minutes, Setälä does a good job of backing that claim up.Angry Birds, the company’s flagship franchise (it has others, including a take on 1993’s the Incredible Machine called Amazing Alex, but none even close to the success of the birds) has done well for itself.Angry Birds Friends puts social features more to the foreThe original app is available for a dizzying array of platforms, from all of the major smartphone platforms and several of the minor ones to two generations of home consoles, two generations of portable consoles, Mac OS X, Windows and even a web app, exclusive to Google Chrome. It has spawned six sequels, including tie-ins with Star Wars and the Dreamcast movie Rio, and a spin-off, Bad Piggies.Setälä’s not shy about that success, citing Justin Bieber and “a couple of royalties” as fans, nor about the increasingly outlandish promotional stunts the company’s pulled off for the game.“Justin Bieber has more followers [on Twitter] than us, but we have more than Obama… we&apos;ve been in space with our birds.” He even points out that the game is available in North Korea – “It&apos;s a pirated version, but we are there. I don&apos;t think we&apos;re suing them. At least, not locally.”Animated birdsBut the real support for the claim of millennial-spanning success comes from everything that Rovio does outside of its core competency. The company has licensed 500 partners to use the angry birds on 30,000 products –Amazon alone stocks over 10,000 of them, in categories as diverse as grocery (Angry Birds gums, soft drinks and napkins) and DIY &amp; tools (Angry Birds Duck Tape and torches).Carpet-bombing the world with licences for products has the effect of turning the franchise into a cultural phenomenon almost through osmosis; Candy Crush Sagarivals the original Angry Birdswhen it comes to downloads, but someone who has never played the game may well not recognise the first thing from it. No such luck with the birds.Angry Birds Star Wars: may the sheer force of licensing be with youSetälä draws comparisons with another company which grew from a new, limited form to become a powerhouse: Disney. Angry Birds is their Steamboat Willie, and Rovio wants to be the Disney of the third millenium.But Disney didn’t create Mickey Mouse and then pump out black and white short films for the next 90 years, and Rovio has similar intentions for proliferation. At one end, that involves using the hard-earned brand awareness to move into new areas – not through licensees, but directly.In 2016, Angry Birds is becoming a movie. A bona-fide animated feature film, developed by some of Hollywood’s top talent, including David Maisel, the executive who ushered Marvel’s cinematic universe into existence, and Simpsons’ writer Jon Vitti, will be released on 1 July that year, just in time for the independence day weekend.At the same time, the company is going to be using the platform it’s already got to deliver more than just games. Rovio recently launched Angry Birds Toons, offering animated shorts through the same app which has been downloaded a billion times. Setälä says it scratches the same itch as the game itself, aiming to be “very consumable when you have a little free time”.Trojan horseMore important than the Toons themselves are the delivery platform. By re-engineering an app which was downloaded to play as a casual game into a video store (a not inconsiderable technical challenge, according to Setälä), Rovio suddenly finds itself in possession of an install base to rival the biggest players in the business.Rovio has extended into physical playground spaces which encourage books and activities alongside digital contentAnd it isn’t just Angry Birds which is being delivered through the platform. “It can be other people&apos;s content,” says Setälä, in front of a slide which shows Fox’s Percy Jackson &amp; The Lightning Thief and Pixar’s Planes flanking Angry Birds. With no partnership announced, those picture choices are probably just illustrative, but what they illustrate is ambition.Diversifying is important. Although the Angry Birds game is universal in its appeal – the average player is a middle-aged woman, Setälä says – the characters themselves are clearly aimed at children. That’s a lucrative audience, but also a fickle one. They can get bored and move on, leaving previously valuable franchises wasted and useless. By delivering other people’s content as well as their own, Rovio hedges against that risk.That doesn’t mean, however, that it is planning for the death of the birds. Instead, the target is the longevity of Mickey or Hello Kitty, which has been making money since 1974. And Setälä firmly believes the key to that goal is nothing more than quality. “Delight the people”, he says, and the rest will follow.Cat and mouse – and birds?Mickey Mouse had an inauspicious start. Walt Disney’s first two shorts ­featuring the character failed to find a distributor, so it wasn’t until 1928’s Steamboat Willie was released that audiences first clapped eyes on the mouse. More than 70 years later, the character was worth $5.8bn (£3.6bn) a year to Disney, according to Forbes magazine.It was Mickey’s move away from the silver screen that generated Disney’s riches. The first merchandise came in the 30s, including toys and watches, with the last Mickey Mouse film appearing in 1953.Hello Kitty, Rovio’s other role model, went straight down the merchandising route when the cartoon cat and a family of associated characters was launched in Japan in 1974. The brand first appeared on a coin purse as it made its debut focused on the children’s market, branching into stickers, stationery , greetings cards and a cartoon TV series. But it has also moved into the adult consumer market, with the Hello Kitty image emblazoned on electric guitars, wine and even an A330 passenger jet. Hello Kitty is owned by Japanese company Sanrio and rivals Mickey Mouse in value, earning around $5bn a year.• The Guardian is media partner to theInvestor Allstarsevent. Read thefull list of winnersannounced on 25 September and find out whyZoopla took the awardfor the best European investor-backed company.• Read all ourInvestors Allstars coverage.Investor Allstars 2013
We didn't get too long at Eurogame Expo this year, just rushing in for a few hours of play on Friday afternoon. Thankfully, that was long enough to head over to the indie arcade and sample several of the typically fascinating projects on show.Here, then, are five titles I've never seen before, but think will definitely be worth watching in the coming months...Cloud Built(Coilworks, PC)This game just looksstunning– an effervescent, sketch-like take on cell shading, that resembles a rough treatment of a graphic novel page brought to discordant life. It's essentially a fast-moving action platformer, though Swedish developerCoilworksrefers to the gameplay as 'over-the-top rocket powered parkour', which is a pretty good description. Lead character Demi is an injured war veteran now stuck in some sort of limbo-like rehabilitation, fighting mental demons while leaping from platform to platform. Players can take their own route though the aerial environment, blasting enemies with a charge-able laser and mastering the tricky controls to sneak seconds off those speedrun times.Chroma(I Am Claw, PC, Mac)Chosen by Eurogamer as its favorite game of the expo, this clever platform puzzler has you controlling a light emitting character traversing a dark gothic-industrial cavern system filled with deadly obstacles. At points in each stage, however, the player can switch to a silhouette version of the avatar, capable of traversing any of the shadows generated on the cave walls. Through the dynamic lighting system then, the trick is to cast shadowy path ways just where you need them.The work of just one coder, Mark Foster (with the help of audio designer James Dean), Chroma combines the charm and quirkiness of Fez with the light/dark mechanic of Lost in Shadow to engrossing effect. Foster mentions Metroid, Braid, Limbo, Sword and Sworcery as key influences. "Two other inspirations would be Dark Souls and Fez," he says, "both for the way they tell their stories, not by outright saying 'hey this is happening' but letting you discover pieces of the world and in your own mind try to pull everything together and work out what has happened. I really love that stuff and I think games are the perfect medium for telling stories in this way."Foster is currently working on the project in his spare time, but the buzz generated by Chroma's Expo appearance will hopefully encourage him to take the plunge full-time. As it is, we may have a long wait to see more of this minimalist treasure.Assault Android Catcus(Witch Beam, PC, Mac, Linux, Wii U PS Vita, PS4)Developed by a small bunch of ex-Sega developers in Brisbane, Australia, Assault Android is a visually spectacular top-down arena shooter, that combines the twin-stick and bullet hell blast-'em-up genres to eye-popping, finger-straining effect. You and up to three pals are desperate androids attempting to liberate a starship from attacking robot hordes. This is, of course, achieved through laser fire and not patient negotiation. The arena and mech designs are beautiful and vividly detailed, the action utterly, screen-fryingly frantic. There's also a cool gameplay dynamic that forces players to pick up battery packs to charge their android bodies, thereby thrusting them into dangerous areas of the map.Heavily influenced by shoot-em-up supremos like Cave and Treasure, with super bright aesthetics recalling late-90s Sega coin-ops, this is a scorching new indie shooter, set to claim a place alongside the likes of Geometry Wars and Super Stardust. It's out later this year on PC, Mac and Linux and early 2014 on Wii U, PS Vita and PS4. So yeah, I quite like this one.Framed(LoveShack, PC, Mac, iOS)Another Australian studio, another stylish and massively promising endeavour. Framed is essentially a block-shifting puzzler in the form of a noir-themed graphic novel. Players need to swap the frames of a comic book story into the correct order before the action starts, allowing the protagonist to reach the end of the page safely. In the sequence I played, the hero has to escape an apartment building as the cops close in. the story board shows a sequence of corridor scenes, but if they're arranged correctly, the character can sneak past the policemen, hunting him down for a murder he hasn't committed.The expressionistic visuals and silhouetted characters perfectly capture the feel of the great 1930s detective comics, and the concentration on context rather than physical action is really intriguing. The three team members behind the game have a long history in games, going all the way back to classic UK studio Bullfrog. That company's innovative verve is in evidence here. Framed is due out early next year.Master Reboot(Wales Interactive, PC, PS3, Mac)It's a familiar cyberpunk trope – a future in which humans are able to upload their souls to a sort of ontological cloud server, giving eternal access to favourite moments. But of course, it doesn't work out that way. The lead character finds themselves stranded in virtual nowhere zone, with a lifetime of memories to sort through and draw explanations from.Described as  a first-person psychological horror adventure, Master Reboot is a sort of surreal narrative odyssey, part Silent Hill, part Dear Esther. In the Expo demo, players have to navigate from what looks like a crash site on a desert island into the Soul Cloud matrix. From there, you access a series of playable memories that have been nightmarishly warped. In one, you have to escape the fuselage of a plane while a glowing-eyed air cabin crew member lurches toward you down the aisle.At first, the project was just two people, Wales Interactive co-founder David Banner and game design student Sarah Crossman. "I've known Sarah for years, in fact I used to be her lecturer when I guested on the local games course in between making games professionally," explains Banner. "The idea was spawned when a teary Sarah came to me for advice after one of the projects she was working on fell through. I've always thought that in the future it would be science fact rather than science fiction that we would be able save our personalities, consciousness and memories digitally. Sarah took the premise and visualised it, named it and began writing a script."Details are vague at the moment, but Master Reboot is creepily atmospheric and has that disquieting, woozy sense of place that Chinese Room brought to Dear Esther. The survival horror spirit lives on.
Among cries of &quot;we love you&quot; from the crowd,Microsoft&apos;s outgoing chief executive Steve Ballmer made his last company-wide speech in a torrent of emotion.&quot;It&apos;s not about one person,&quot; said Ballmer. &quot;It&apos;s about this company – a company that&apos;s important, forward thinking, innovative, ethical, and hires great people.&quot;Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive gave a final emotional farewell to Microsoft employees at an internal meetingNot his choiceBallmer hinted in the memo for his abrupt leaving announcement, and in subsequent interviews, that the timing for his exit wasn&apos;t his choice. Asked if it was a sudden decision in aninterview with ZDNet, Ballmer said: &quot;I would say for me, yeah, I&apos;ve thought about it for a long time, but the timing became more clear to me over the course of the last few months.&quot;Picking(I&apos;ve Had) The Time of My Lifeas his sign-off song, Ballmer choked back the tears to tell the equally emotional audience, &quot;Microsoft is like a fourth child for me. Children leave the home, but I guess in this case I&apos;m leaving the home.&quot;His emotional reaction and speech again suggest that Ballmer&apos;s Microsoft exit isn&apos;t of his own volition, although this isn&apos;t the first time Ballmer has had emotional outpourings on stage.At an internal Microsoft event, Ballmer wasfamously seenpumped up, sweaty and skipping around the stage, screaming, yelping and shouting &quot;I love this company!&quot;, while performing bizarre dance moves.Steve Ballmer's famous 'monkey-man' display at an internal Microsoft conferenceAfter 13 years at the topBallmer announced in a memo on27 August 2013that after 13 years at the top of Microsoft he would be stepping down within 12 months, giving Microsoft time to find a suitable successor.A small Microsoft committee, which includes Bill Gates as chairman of the board, has been tasked with finding the successor, consideringboth internal and external candidates, including Steven Elop, who is currently set to become an executive vice-president in Microsoft&apos;s devices division following the company&apos;sacquisition of Nokia.Employee number 30Steve Ballmerjoined Microsoft in 1980 to become its 30th employee after sharing a dormitory hall with Bill Gates at Harvard university, and succeeded the company&apos;s founder to become Microsoft&apos;s chief executive in 2000.Under his reign Microsoft launched successful products includingWindowsXP and theXbox360, growing the company to be worth $78bn and employing more than 100,000 people.Microsoft&apos;s share price then stagnated, haemorrhaging more than half its market value in the past decade, resulting in criticism of Ballmer and calls from investors including David Einhorn, of the hedge fund Greenlight Capital,who said in 2011that Ballmer should &quot;give someone else a chance&quot; and that &quot;his continued presence is the biggest overhang on Microsoft&apos;s stock&quot;.• A Microsoft committee is currently evaluating candidates to succeed Steve Ballmer as Microsoft&apos;s chief executive,with the contenders includingStephen Elop, Steven Sinofsky and Satya Nadella. Ford chief executiveAlan Mulallyhas also been rumoured to be under consideration.
Google is back in the firing line over its tax affairs after the giant internet firm revealed it paid only £11.6m to the Treasury last year, despite generating $5.5bn (£3.4bn) of business in the UK.Margaret Hodge, the chairwoman of the Commons public accounts committee who earlier this year accused Google of breaking its company motto of "don't be evil" said it had once again shown contempt for its customers and UK taxpayers.Google's complex tax arrangements, under which sales are booked in Ireland but revenues funnelled to a subsidiary in the tax haven of Bermuda, help the group pay minimal tax on the billions it earns outside the US.Google UK said in its latest accounts that it earned pre-tax profits of £37m on a turnover of £506m. But the company's most recent annual report revealed that the UK accounted for 11% of its global revenues, worth $55bn in 2012.The disparity is achieved because the company books its sales in Ireland – although this does not generate a significant revenue boost for Dublin: the internet search company's accounts show that last year it paid €19m (£15.9m) tax to the Irish exchequer despite the Irish subsidiary handling the €15.5bn of revenues generated last year in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.MPs have criticised Google for designating Ireland as its official sales base and branded the company's tax structure "deeply unconvincing".The influential public accounts committee concluded that Google's Irish employees simply processed the bills, after hearing evidence from a former employee turned whistleblower who lifted the lid on what he described as Google's "immoral" tax schemes. Hodge said yesterday that Google had once again "demonstrated contempt for its customers and for the UK taxpayer who supports its business in all sorts of ways".She added that the company "continues to use highly contrived arrangements to avoid paying its fair share of corporation tax in this country, and it continues to be allowed to get away with it".The MP accused the government and HM Revenue &amp; Customs of failing to crack down on tax avoidance despite repeated pledges. "It's not good enough to say this is a global problem and we're dealing with it on the world stage. HMRC has got to get its own act together and start properly challenging the tax arrangements of these big multinational companies."A spokesman for Google said it was only right that the majority of its tax should be paid in the US, and argued the company made a significant contribution to the UK through investment and jobs. "Like most multinationals, we pay the bulk of our £1.2bn corporate tax bill where our business originated, in our case the US."But the company's accounts filed in Dublin reveal the phenomenal growth of Google's advertising revenues across Europe, with turnover more than doubling from €6.7bn in the last five years. Last year's figure of €15.5bn was up €3bn from 2011. The accounts also show a sharp jump in profits from about €20m to €152m between 2011 and 2012 after four years of profits remaining in double figures.While this is significantly up year on year, Google slashed its tax exposure by charging €10.9bn in "administrative expenses", reducing a gross profit of €11bn to its operating profit of €152m.The "administrative expenses" charge includes a royalty fee that the Google parent group charges its European operation for use of its brand. For the first time the company explained that this is calculated in direct relation to the company's turn­over. The amount of royalties payable is always slightly below the amount that the company makes in gross profit.In its most explicit explanation of the structure of royalties yet, a note on page 3 of Google Ireland's accounts says that the 2012 administrative expense is partly because of "an increase in the royalties paid as a result of a net increase in the turnover and operated expenses on which the royalty is based".Google said its increased turnover was "from an increase in the number of paid clicks through Google's advertising programme and, to a lesser extent, an increase in the average cost-per-click paid by its advertisers".
Candy Crush Saga is one of the most popular mobile games in the world. Now it may be fuelling its publisher King's ambitions to go public.The UK-based company is expected to file for an initial public offering (IPO) in the US shortly, keeping its pre-IPO documents secret under the same US financial rules that Twitter is using for its IPO.TheTelegraph,New York TimesandFinancial Timesall cite sources close to the company in their reports on King's IPO filing, with the NYT claiming that Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse and JPMorgan Chase are working with the company on the IPO.The terms of the US Jobs Act enable companies with less than $1bn of annual revenue to file their pre-IPO documents in secret, before publishing them three weeks before their "roadshow" for potential investors.King declined to comment when contacted by The Guardian about the current speculation, but earlier this month appointed a new chief financial officer – Hope Cochran – who has relevant experience from her previous company Clearwire's IPO in 2007.King has more than 150 games available across its own website, Facebook and mobile devices, which it says are currently being played more than 1bn times a day.The company was founded in 2003, and initially focused on its own casual games portal. Then known as King.com, its first peak came in 2009, when it reported revenues of €36.51m and a net profit of €2.97m.However, its performance then slipped, with revenues falling to €35.1m in 2010 and then €29.98m in 2011, while net profits narrowed to €664k then €278k in the same period. The company has yet to file its 2012 accounts with Companies House in the UK.Facebook, and then mobile, have fuelled its meteoric growth since, with King going from 1bn monthly gameplays across its website and Facebook in October 2011 to 1bn daily gameplays across those plus mobile devices now.King released its first mobile game, Bubble Witch Saga, in July 2012, but it was the launch of Candy Crush Saga's mobile version in November 2012 that sparked its sharpest growth.In January 2013, the company said it had 70m monthly active players across all platforms. By mid-May, it had 70mdailyactive players, and that has since grown to 100m. Candy Crush Saga was being played 55m times a day on mobile devices in January, but that figure now stands at 700m.The company launched another mobile game, Pet Rescue Saga, in June 2013, and is preparing to release another, Papa Pear Saga.  King currently has 550 staff, with offices in London, Barcelona, Bucharest, Malta, Malmo, San Francisco and Stockholm.Candy Crush SagaA multi-billion dollar IPO would fuel further expansion, but there are risks – not least the fact that Candy Crush Saga's mobile version accounts for 70% of King's total daily gameplays.There is also another high-profile IPO of a social games company to act as a warning. Zynga raised $1bn when it went public in December 2011 with shares costing $10, but its stock is currently trading at $3.78, with founding CEO Mark Pincus having been replaced by former Microsoft executive Don Mattrick.Part of Zynga's downfall was its failure to translate its dominance on Facebook to the mobile app stores of Apple and Google. King has better form on that score:analytics firm Distimo estimatesthat Candy Crush Saga was the second top grossing app on iOS globally in August, and top on Android.But the company has yet to prove that it can hit similar heights with its other games. "As a games company, we need to keep it fresh and keep innovating. Games are all about new concepts," its head of global studios Tommy Palmtold The Guardian in September.The company has already been expanding globally, releasing Candy Crush Saga on the popular Kakao mobile social gaming network in South Korea in September. Another possibility for future growth would be a move into gambling through real-money skill games.In June 2013, King formed a new company called MidasPlayer (Skills) Limited, with CEO Riccardo Zacconi, chief legal officer Robert Miller and chief operations officer Stephane Kurgan its three directors.If King's IPO is a success, it may pave the way for other mobile games companies to follow suit. Rovio (of Angry Birds fame), Supercell (Clash of Clans, Hay Day) and Kabam (Kingdoms of Camelot, The Hobbit) would be the most likely candidates.
Apple’s attempt to defend its third party developers from patent trolls has been thrown out of court by an East Texas judge, ending two years of litigation between the company and litigious patent-holders Lodsys.Judge Rodney Gilstrap threw out Apple’s attempt to prevent Lodsys from suing small developers without considering the motion, having allowed the patent-holders to settle all cases, a move which rendered Apple’s claim moot.In 2011, Lodsys began offering out-of-court settlements to small developers whom it alleged had infringed one of the many patents it holds, which it claims cover the concept of in-app purchasing.Those demands were small enough (at 0.575% of revenue) and the costs of litigation high enough that most app developers didn’t fight back in court, ensuring that Lodsys never ran the risk of its patents being invalidated.Apple saw those lawsuits as a threat to its developmental ecosystem, and brought a legal challenge against the company. It had licensed the patents itself, from their previous owner, a company called Intellectual Ventures, under terms which, Apple claimed, gave it permission to offer licensed products and services to customers and partners.The computer giant’s most recent motion in the case, filed on 18 September, argues that “Lodsys’s purpose is to buy time in which it can continue to hold up iOS-based app developers for settlements of claims that Lodsys knows it has no right to assert”.Apple also claims that “judicial economy” is served by allowing its case to be heard, because a victory by it would prevent the rest of the cases from going ahead, thus “reducing the potential burden… of countless claims against Apple iOS-based app developers”.In June,the White House announced that it was actively taking on the problem of patent trolls, formally known as “non-practising entities”, corporations which own patents to inventions they do not manufacture.The American executive offered a package of measures including increased transparency as to who owns patents, tighter requirements to explain how a patent accomplishes its task when filing, and “providing [consumers and businesses] with better legal protection against liability for a product being used off-the-shelf and solely for its intended use”.That last recommendation requires congressional support to pass, and has seen little progress since it was proposed.Apple’s loss against Lodsys is the second hit the company has taken over patents in a weekend.A German court has ruledthat a patent on touchscreen photo managing is invalid because Steve Jobs had demonstrated the invention in action before the patent had been filed.The patent is one of a family on the bouncing effects in iOS, but when Jobs demonstrated it on stage in 2007, it had not yet been filed. In the US, inventors have time between making an invention public and having to file the patent, but no such protection exists in Germany.As a result, Apple’s own demonstration was used as prior art, proving that the innovation existed before a patent was filed on it.• This article was amended on 2 October 2013 to clarify that Intellectual Ventures is not the parent company of Lodsys
Tesco&apos;s budget &quot;Hudl&quot; tablet, whichwas announced last week, is now on sale in 1,000 of Tesco&apos;s supermarkets and itsonline storesfor £119.The Hudl tablet comes in four colours – black, blue, purple and red – and runs version 4.2 of Google&apos;s familiar Android software on a 7in high-definition screen, with 16GB of built-in storage and a 1.5GHz quad-core processor.It faces stiff competition from the US technology giants, with Amazon&apos;s £99Kindle Fireand Google&apos;s £199 Nexus 7 tablet.&quot;The tablet market is unbelievably competitive with extremely narrow margins, but that&apos;s something Tesco is used to,&quot; said Ben Wood, mobile analyst with research firm CCS Insight,talking to the Guardian.The full Android experienceIt provides instant access to Tesco&apos;s online stores and services, including online grocery shopping and its on-demand video stores provided by the Blinkbox streaming media service.The Hudl also has access to Google&apos;s Play Store and the full Android platform including the ability to run any of the 850,000 standard Android apps, meaning users could bypass Tesco&apos;s apps and services in favour of alternatives from the Play Store.Fresh, clean and responsiveGuardian technology reporter Samuel Gibbs gets his hands on Tesco's new Hudl tablet at the Rainmaking Loft in central London. The 7 in Android tablet comes in four colours, costs &pound;119 and is pre-installed with a range of Tesco shopping and media services and access to Google PlayOurhands-on experiencewith the Tesco tablet at theHudl launchshowed it to be fresh, clean and responsive. The tablet is solidly built, with a clear and sharp screen that makes website and book text easily legible and videos crisp and colourful.The Hudl costs £119 through Tesco Direct or in-store, but can also be bought for £60 worth of Tesco Clubcard loyalty vouchers using Tesco&apos;s &quot;Clubcard Booster&quot; scheme.• On 25 September Amazon announced an update to its affordable customised Android tablet, the Kindle Fire, with newKindle Fire HDX models.
Apple&apos;s recent seeming obsession with Rick Astley has extended to Siri, its voice control software – with probably the strangest answer to &quot;what is today going to be like&quot; you&apos;ll ever get.Asdiscovered by gadget blog TUAW, asking Siri the question &quot;what is today going to be like?&quot; produces the Wikipedia entry for Rick Astley&apos;s cult 1987 track Never Gonna Give You Up.&quot;Rickrolling&quot;as it became known, is an internet phenomenon that started in 2007. Victims typically click on a seemingly newsworthy link – only to find it links to YouTube videos of Rick Astley&apos;s famous track.Why Siri attempts to rickroll anyone who wants to find out what the day is going to be like is unknown. It&apos;s possible that the Wikipedia entry was just used as a placeholder for a weather and calendar service that failed to be switched over before being released to the public.However, Apple has recently used Rick Astley&apos;s track in a screenshot fora support articlefor its new Control Centre feature in iOS 7, suggesting it could be a joke being played by an Apple engineer.Apple's Siri 'rickrolling' users with a Rick Astley Wikipedia entry to the question 'what is today going to be like?'. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/ApplePro-machine propagandaThis isn&apos;t the first time Siri has produced odd or controversial responses to questions.In May 2012, Siri was caught proclaiming that theNokia Lumia 900 was the &quot;best phone ever&quot;, thanks to a data query passed to Wolfram Alpha, which collated review ratings of the Nokia Windows Phone and declared it the highest rated, and therefore the &quot;best phone ever&quot;.Siri has also some curiously humorous &quot;pro-machine propaganda&quot; answers to questions about films. When asked about The Terminator, Siri replied in October 2012 that it was &quot;oh, just more misunderstood cyborgs getting fried to a crisp,&quot; which is sure to be comforting to those worried about the rise of machines to enslave human kind.Other aspects of Siri&apos;s pseudo-human personality haven&apos;t been quite as well received, however. Siri was also drawn out on the controversial topic of abortion in December 2011, when itrefused to answer questionsdue to Apple&apos;s &quot;unintentional omissions&quot;.In June 2013, one young developerhacked Twitter&apos;s video-sharing tool Vineto plant a rickroll – and managed to break the platform&apos;s 6 second video limit.By August 2010, Never Gonna Give You Up had reached 39m views on YouTube – yet Astley himself had reportedly seen only$12 in royaltiesbecause he did not own the publishing rights.• On 18 September Apple released its iOS 7 update for iPhones and iPads, causing adoubling of UK and German internet traffic.• After asecurity flawthat allowed access to private data on a locked phone was discovered, Applereleased an iOS 7 updateto patch the vulnerability.
Twitter is thought to be planning to reveal the details of its initial public offering this week, after it filed the necessary documents confidentially with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 12 September.By making use of theAmerican Jobs Act, the company was able to file its draft S-1 form in secret since it has revenue of under $1bn.The act was designed to make it quicker and easier for companies to go public, removing obstacles such as as the requirement to submit a public prospectus months before shares actually go on sale.The early September announcement was not required by the act, anda leak to business website Quartzclaimed that the filing had actually happened two months earlier, in July.That means it will make its IPO filing public this week, and likely begin trading before the US Thanksgiving holiday in late November.Twitter will be hoping to avoid the problems that afflicted the last major web IPO –Facebook. The company filed its draft prospectus in public over three months before it eventually hit the markets in May 2012, but flotation day was beset by technical difficulties.Concerns about Facebook&apos;s readiness for the consumer shift to mobile saw its value drop dramatically from $45 per share on the first day of trading, but it took until August 2013 for its value to return to that level.•Twitter revealed how Breaking Badviewers felt about the ending...
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 27 September 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Fifa 14 (3+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (38)PC (0)Wii (0)12 (1)Grand Theft Auto V (18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)23 (6)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)144 (2)Pro Evolution Soccer 2014 (3+)PS3 (64)Xbox 360 (32)PC (4)25 (3)The Last Of Us (18+)PS3 (100)156 (8)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (41)Wii (31)PS3 (20)Wii U (5)67 (5)Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Blacklist (18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (37)Wii U (2)PC (2)68 (4)Saints Row IV (18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (33)69 (7)Diablo III (16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (37)PC (4)810 (16)Rayman Legends (7+)Xbox 360 (34)Wii U (29)PS3 (28)Vita (9)511 (12)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II (18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (37)PC (4)Wii U (1)4512 (10)Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix (12+)PS3 (100)313 (11)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (18)Wii (17)3DS (11)6414 (13)Grand Theft Auto IV (18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)6515 (15)Max Payne 3 (18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)PC (0)2716 (17)Need For Speed Most Wanted (7+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (36)Vita (17)Wii U (1)4217 (–)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (37)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (21)3DS (4)3518 (9)Aliens: Colonial Marines (18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (39)PC (4)1019 (–)Tomb Raider (18+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (45)PC (2)2820 (–)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (100)14UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Sony's PS4 tops Xbox One as gamers' holiday choice: Reuters/Ipsos poll | ReutersA Reuters/Ipsos poll has discovered that US consumers are looking forward more to PS4 than Xbox One:Asked about their interest in dedicated game devices, 26 percent of 1,297 people surveyed online last week say they are likely to purchase the new PlayStation 4 when available, versus 15 percent opting for the Xbox One.The rift widens among those below the age of 40. Of that group of 408 people, 41 percent picked Sony's PS4 versus 27 percent for Microsoft's Xbox One, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted from Sept 23 to Sept 27.Meanwhile, US superstar games analyst has also weighed in on the subject,prophesising that PS4 will outsell Xbox Onein the opening weeks. And he's never wrong, of course.Nintendo teams up with Tesco for Wii U fight backNintendo is embarking on a huge publicity campaign to make consumers aware of the Wii U:The company admitted to MCV that too many people are unaware that Wii U is a new console, and will embark on a giant campaign to educate parents and kids – particularly Wii owners.Nintendo has booked in-store space at Tesco, will send a five page leaflet to 300,000 Tesco customers that bought a Wii but have yet to buy another console, and even give away vouchers offering money-off games.That is on top of TV ads for all its big franchises – including Mario, Donkey Kong and Zelda, which will run 'continuously from half-term to Christmas'. There will also be national press advertorials, major online activity, plus a huge out-of-home promotional tour aimed at reaching 115,500 shoppers.Will this turn things around? Nintendo has usually done well out of its mainstream advertising – the celebrity-crammed ads for the Wii and DS were successful. Although those products had a much clearer set of selling points. And they had games, of course. Let's not forget that.Creating Naya's Quest was a 'playful process' of discovery | PolygonHey, it's the game from Super Hexagon creator, Terry Cavanagh:Naya's Quest is a browser-based isometric platformer that requires players to solve puzzles by manipulating their surroundings with a strange device. Cavanagh said that the game's most frustrating aspect isn't actually its puzzles. Instead, it's the game's lives system, which knocks players back a room every time they fail.Love the fact that the visuals remind me of C64 ball-rolling puzzler, Spindizzy.Microsoft and Creative England reveal £250,000 investment fund | GamesIndustry InternationalMicrosoft and Creative England have today revealed a new initiative to hand out up to £25,000 to ten startup development companies working in the mobile and tablet sectors.Supported by the Regional Growth Fund, the Greenshoots programme encourages developers to push their game out on all platforms, not just Windows 8 and Windows Phone.Crucially, developers will only be asked to pay back the investment when they are making money from their game.Developers can find out more atthe official site.The Future Is 4K and It's the PC Not Next-Gen Leading the Charge - GameSpot.comBoth the next-gen consoles support 4K resolution – but they don't do it as well as PCs apparently. Although even PCs find... oh just read this bit:Rendering the 8 million pixels of a 4K set in real time is a tough challenge, even for the most powerful of PCs. And it's made all the more difficult by how 4K monitors currently work. Rather than one giant monitor, they are actually two 1920 x 2160 panels stitched together, so clever software from the likes of Nvidia and ATI is needed to prevent any noticeable vertical tearing or artefacts between the two panels. There were some problems in the very early days of 4K, but the latest set of drivers from both companies seem to have ironed out most of the issues.4K: if you absolutely, positively can't deal with blurry old HD for one second longer.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Most desktop 3D printers aren&apos;t small or portable, but a new LumiFold claims to be both – a compact and affordable crowdfunded 3D printer available for $400 (£247).3D printers, such as theMakerbotandUltimakercost upwards of $1,000 and operate similar to inkjet printers laying down each layer by squirting a polymer down on the object from a nozzle, the LumiFold 3D prints using light.The LumiFold 3D printer is small and compact enough to fit in a backpack.Easily fit in a backpackThe LumiFold is made from an aluminium frame that folds down small enough to easily fit into a backpack and can print objects up to 90mm cubed, using pretty much anything as a polymer vat, including simple plastic cups.The printer itself can be battery operated, but you&apos;ll need to supply your own computer – Windows at first with Mac OS X, iPhone and iPad support coming at a later date – as well as a projector.The designers claim it&apos;s the smallest foldable 3D printer available, with a printing resolution of 0.01mm, and consumes just 5W in operation, although that will be dependent on your projector and computer.TheLumiFoldis currently looking for support on Indiegogo for upwards of $15, with a $400 pledge securing you a full set of LumiFold parts for building your own photo-activated resin-based 3D printer.Printing using lightUsing a small tub of photo-activated liquid polymer and a DLP projector, the LumiFold prints usingphotopolymerisation, where each layer of the object is hardened and fixed into position by exposure to UV light from the projector mounted above the vat.A tray then moves downwards in small increments, exposing the next layer of the object to light, laying down layer upon layer until the object is fully rendered.A UV sensor on the LumiFold detects the intensity of the UV light emitted from the projector, allowing the open source software to automatically calculate the length of exposure time required to set each layer.The LumiFold 3D printer uses light to build layer upon layer of an object.Why it might not workThe problem with the LumiFold is that you have to bring your own projector, which keeps the cost of the printer down, but it also means that it&apos;s not entirely self-reliant.The photo-reactive polymer is also not as common as the polymers used for extrusion 3D printing and costs around $149 per litre, which is currently around three times the price of extrusion materials.Why it might take offHowever, the LumiFold is affordable, at about half the price of even the cheapest desktop extrusion 3D printers, and is small enough to be truly portable.It&apos;s also very easy to set up, connecting and being ready to go in minutes from storage, and it allows you to recycle an old projector into something useful.The LumiFold could make a good first-time-buyer&apos;s 3D printer, should be simple to use, and could be great for the occasional prototyping project.Overall: a four-star rating.
Phil Zimmermann, the creator of the email encryption softwarePGP, has warned that anyone who uses consumer email services needs to be aware of the threats of exposing their metadata to eavesdroppers.Zimmermann created the &quot;Pretty Good Privacy&quot; software in 1991, providing a more secure alternative to consumer email and file transfer that is encrypted.Speaking exclusively to the Guardian, he said his assessment of security threats has changed radically since he created the software 22 years ago.“When I developed PGP, all I wanted to do was to protect the content of the message,” said Zimmermann, who is now the president and co-founder of secure communications firm Silent Circle.“I didn&apos;t think that it was even doable to protect the email message headers. And still don&apos;t, at least if you want to comply with email protocols.“So what&apos;s happened more recently is just that everyone has become aware that metadata is becoming increasingly important – that the message headers mean a lot.”The risks associated with exposing metadata to potential eavesdroppers was highlighted when the Guardian revealed that the National Security Agency had been collecting data about phone calls from Verizon. The US government insisted that that data was not private, but in aggregateit can build a detailed picture of people’s lives.Zimmermann argues that unprotected metadata isn’t just dangerous in aggregate. “You&apos;re a journalist for the Guardian,&quot; he told this reporter. &quot;You know that the Guardian sometimes writes stories that are of great interest to intelligence agencies. Well, what if the intelligence agencies want to see if a journalist at the Guardian is talking to a particular sensitive source?”“You don&apos;t have to do a lot of data mining for that. All you have to do is find that so-and-so, some government employee, is talking to some journalist at the Guardian. Then somebody&apos;s in a heap of trouble.”That risk also led Zimmermann to develop a new feature for his Silent Phone app, encrypting conversations earlier in the call process. Dubbed &quot;tunnelling&quot;, the feature hides the knowledge of who is talking to who from any eavesdroppers. Zimmermann had the idea for the feature “quite a few months before the Edward Snowden revelations”, but its upcoming release will be timely.Where PGP flaws are becoming clearer with time, Zimmermann argues that the core technology holds up just as well. “The first thing I did [after the Guardian published Snowden’s leaks] was review my own designs.&quot;I haven&apos;t seen anything in the Snowden revelations that suggests that PGP or the stuff we do now is weak in any way.”• Is theNSA losing its battleagainst the agents of openness?
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA chart-by-chart breakdown of illegal downloading in the UK &gt;&gt; The Daily DotThe comprehensive36-page studyis well worth the read. But in the mean time, here's a breakdown of some of the "key findings" discovered by the authors.Half of internet users don't pay for any content online; more than 80% say they don't (that's right, don't) consume illegal content. Perhaps the 35% who don't pay but haven't consumed illegal content watch iPlayer.Judge tosses Apple motion, allows patent troll Lodsys to continue rampage &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaSeveral companies that have been directly threatened by Lodsys have gone ahead and counter-sued. The 13th lawsuit directly challenging Lodsys patents was filed last week by Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia. Lodsys had demanded Stewart pay $20,000—$5,000 for each of its iPad apps. Instead,Stewart sued Lodsysin Wisconsin, where Lodsys CEO Mark Small lives. (Lodsys' official office, like so many patent-holding companies, is just an office suite in Marshall, Texas.)More immediately though, the consolidated Lodsys case that Apple is now out of is still going to trial.Depressing, but Lodsys - suspected of being tied to patent super-owner Intellectual Ventures - seems to have a sort of patent golden ticket which is applicable to lots of current uses.[APK Teardown / what's really new] Gmail 4.6: ads are coming to Gmail for Android… and more &gt;&gt; Android PoliceArtem Russakovskii:The most significant under-the-hood and probably not active yet addition to Gmail 4.6 is ads. Yup, ads are most definitely coming to Gmail for Android which managed to stay ad-free all this time, unlike its web counterpart.If you remember, Gmail on the web contains multiple ads along with the new format that looks like email messages in the Promotions folder. I'm not sure exactly what kind of ads we're going to get here - whether it'll be just the ones that look like emails or more generic ones - but here are multiple references to ads that I've found during the teardown. You be the judge.Commenters on the post don't seem enchanted by the idea of the ads.The problem with home automation's Internet Of Things (IoT) &gt;&gt; ForbesPatrick Moorhead:The challenge with all these products comes in aggregate when consumers start buying a lot of them. What if the consumer bought a Nest thermostat, Kwikset door lock, Phillips Hue lighting, Lutron light switch, a Sonos audio system, and a bunch of Belkin wireless plugs? First, the consumer would have six different apps to setup, learn and use that all look and feel different.  Additionally, there aren't easy ways to make the devices work as one system if you wanted to trigger an event after an event. What if I wanted my outdoor lights to turn on after the garage door unlocks?  That's not going to happen because it requires two separate apps.A growing market's growing pains.EU bureaucrats want to force Apple to adopt micro-USB adapter &gt;&gt; TUAW - The Unofficial Apple WeblogThis isn't the first time the European Union has sought to impose a charger standard on manufactures. In 2009, the Commission reached a voluntary agreement with 10 mobile phone manufacturers to adopt the micro-USB charge and sync interface as the industry standard. Apple signed the agreement, a Memorandum of Understanding, but has not replaced its 30-pin or 8-pin chargers.Thursday's vote means this formerly voluntary agreement is no longer voluntary. For Apple, with proprietary chargers that factor into the optimization of the iPhone design, this law raises some troubling concerns. Apple already sells iPhone micro-USB adaptors, and perhaps it could start including them with new iPhones as a workaround.Apple's iOS 7 includes a surprise: a ticket to the next generation of the internet &gt;&gt; QuartzMulti-path TCP allows your phone to send data by whatever way it's connected to the internet, whether that's Wi-Fi, 3G or ethernet (say, if it were running on a laptop connected to the internet via a cable). And if you want to activate it,says one of the researchers who built multi-path TCP, you have only to use Apple's voice command software, Siri.This is the first time that this new means of connecting to the internet has appeared in a commercial product. That it showed up in Apple's software and not Google's shows that Apple's technical chops are substantial, even when the company isn't highlighting what it's up to.Seems (from the linked post) that you have to turn Siri off and on again to activate MPTCP. No mention at all of it from Apple on its site.Technology in the America's Cup: Against all odds &gt;&gt; The EconomistTwo days later when racing resumed on Race Day Five the Oracle boat looked different with a much shorter bowsprit. Other less obvious modifications had also been made both to the foils and the wing, all approved as being within the rules by the race committee. Crunching the vast amount of data collected during races (about 3,000 variables are recorded ten times a second), closely analysing the performance of the rival boat and testing the effectiveness of apparently tiny adjustments on virtual models run through a supercomputer, mathematicians and designers had been working night and day to make the boat faster. And they had.For the first time, miraculously, Oracle succeeded in outpacing Team New Zealand upwind, the latter very nearly capsizing after a furious tacking battle.Big money, big data, big win.How BlackBerry blew it &gt;&gt; The Globe and MailCanada's national paper has a huge investigation, opening with a board meeting late in 2012:[Chief marketing officer Frank] Boulben and [chief operating officer Kristian] Tear had dismissively told [co-founder Mike] Lazaridis that the market for keyboard-equipped mobile phones – RIM's signature offering – was dead.In the board meeting, Mr. Lazaridis pointed to a BlackBerry with a keyboard. "I get this," he said. "It's clearly differentiated." Then he pointed to a touchscreen phone. "I don't get this."To turn away from a product that had always done well with corporate customers, and focus on selling yet another all-touch smartphone in a market crowded with them, was a huge mistake, Mr. Lazaridis warned his fellow directors. Some of them agreed.The boardroom confrontation was a telling moment in the downfall of Research In Motion.Heins (and Lazaridis) turned down the idea of BBM going cross-platform in March 2012. Lazaridis gives an interview as part of the article. In short: too slow, and too split between old and new.Apple vs Android: How tech tribalism is ruining the web &gt;&gt; TechRepublicSeb Janacek:Back in 2005 I wrote an article for silicon.com that criticised the online manner of Mac users who hurled abuse at journalists and anyone who found fault with Apple (stillavailable from ZDNet).Back then I was embarrassed by the vitriol that fellow Mac users were pouring out in online fora frequented by IT decision makers in business - the very people they were trying to influence to resolve their insecurity and resentment about Apple's minority market position.The rise of open source in the late nineties led to another wave of 'enthusiasts' who bombarded silicon.com with abusive comments if a journalist dared question any aspect of Linux. Some of the abuse we got at silicon.com bordered on threatening.Fast forward 10 years and now we have a band of Android supporters who deride Apple and its 'ignorant', herd-following customers. So how have we got to this current firestorm between Android and Apple fans?(Thanks #ChallengingViews for the link.)BlackBerry: A CEO Who Never Showed Up &gt;&gt; SlideshareFive very brutal slides from Bob Egan.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Hey there, it's Monday! What could be better?!
It was 4am on Thursday when Paull Taylor turned on BBC News to be greeted with a BT spokesman making grand promises about superfast broadband in rural areas. The telecoms man was insisting his firm had not "exploited" £1.2bn of public funds – anaccusation made by the Public Accounts Committee this week– and promising that most country-dwelling Britons would receive 2MB broadband by 2015. Despite the early hour, the 20-year-old electrician was lucid enough to provide a pithy response:"Bollocks. Absolute bollocks. He said the process was 'transparent'. 'Thoroughly transparent'. And yet we ask them whether they're going to get a cable to our house and they reply saying 'oh, we can't tell you'. Anyway, two megs is rubbish. Absolutely naff. Meaningless. You can't do anything with two megs."Paull and his family live by a creek in the reclaimed marshland of Holderness, East Yorkshire, 10 miles south-east of Hull and six miles away from a main road. "No way are they going to dig a trench to lay fibre optic cable to our house, but they won't admit it," said Paull, as his dad, Simon, nodded enthusiastic agreement. "East Riding council have just given BT £14m to improve broadband provision in our area, but we understand we won't see any of that," said Simon, a moustachioed eccentric with bright eyes and big ideas.Luckily, the Taylors predicted this at least a year ago and decided to take matters into their own hands. Fed up with waiting 20 minutes to download any email with an attachment, and cheesed off with not being able to stream the BBC's iPlayer, Paull and his dad came up with an idea.They bought an off-the-shelf radio transmitter and receiver for about £80 and, along with a neighbour, persuaded St Andrew's, their local church in the village of Paull (where the young man got the unusual spelling of his name), to let them install the equipment on top of the bell tower.After tapping into a nearby fibre optic cable, they were able to equip the church with a galloping internet connection. The church soon exploited this to turn their ad-hoc coffee shop into a cyber cafe. Suddenly 100 people were coming through the church doors each weekend, compared to perhaps 10 (on a good day) sitting through the Sunday sermon. "We have to find new ways to make ourselves relevant in this day and age if we want to stay open," said one church member.Thus began the not-for-profit Hubb project. "Hubb because our postcode begins HU, and also because we want the church to become the hub of the community," explained Simon, not a God-fearing man himself.The enterprising Hubb trio, all unpaid volunteers, made leaflets to give to parishioners proclaiming: "Let there be wifi!" (An earlier draft was deemed too edgy, declaring: "And on the eighth day God made broadband – and it was fast".) A pilot began while the men waited for planning permission from the diocese for the equipment to be installed permanently on the roof.A rudimentary broadband network began to take shape as locals agreed to have wireless radio equipment attached to their chimney breasts which received signal from St Andrew's. They were delighted with the results – especially the chap who'd bought a £1,000 smart TV two years earlier which was all but useless until the Taylors came along. Two weeks ago, planning permission was granted and last Saturday the service went public.Debbie and Lynne Easton, living in the nearby hamlet of Sunk Island, signed up straight away. They claim Talk Talk used to charge them £20 a month for a broadband connection which only worked between 8.15am and 8.45am – if they were lucky. "We tried a dongle," said Lynne, "but we could only get that to work occasionally, by sticking stuff to the windows, putting one leg in the air and if the wind was blowing the right way from Grimsby." They paid the Hubb team £50 set-up costs and say they are happy to fork out £25 a month for reliable broadband which enables the family to Skype friends in Canada and stream music and video.News of the Taylors' technical wizardry has spread 17 miles south-east from Paull to the village of Easington, where Simon on Friday climbed the vertiginous steps of a pigeon poo-encrusted church tower to fit radio equipment in another pilot scheme. This pretty coastal settlement is home to some of the most high-tech and fiercely guarded technology in the country, at the Easington gas terminal, which collects gas via the North Sea pipeline. Pylons provide the site with tip-top communication facilities, which somehow do not extend to the village, where most locals can't get a mobile signal, let alone decent broadband provision. "Very frustrating," said Ian Rutter, warden of the All Saints church, who is hoping the Hubb set-up can be replicated in his parish.It's a problem replicated all over the less populated parts of the country, said Tim Farron, MP for Westmorland and Lonsdale in Cumbria: "Every day I get a phone call or a letter from a constituent who is dealing with internet access that is non-existent. It makes it difficult for people to access services or run a business. Decent broadband is key to creating more well paid jobs and more investment and at the moment BT and the government's broadband roll out is failing rural areas. Even many of those areas that are supposedly getting support are only going to get 2MBps download speed and less than 1MBps upload – this is completely inadequate; we need broadband infrastructure that is future proof, not a sticking plaster."
For developers going to the Blackberry Jam Asia 2013 conference the one thing on their minds wouldn't have been what they would see there, but whether the event would be actually on when they arrived in Hong Kong.This is after all the mobile device platform that's selling so badly that even one of Blackberry's main electronics suppliersis considering dumping it.Queues weren't a problem for registering for BlackBerry Jam AsiaCuriously, a large number of people queuing up for their free Blackberry Dev Alpha device at the conference entrance told me they were not developers. That didn't seem to stop them from enjoying their new gadgets however - which came with a conference attached.And attending the conference was cheap: the regular rate was a mere US$149, or US$99 if you had registered before 30 August.Certainly, even the most wildly optimistic developer couldn't have missed the backdrop of hugelosses for Blackberry with ensuing staff cutsas well as the pending sale of the company - and more importantly, the announcement by the company that it will be getting out of the consumer device market altogether.A group of Indonesian developers in the shuttle from the airport laughed sanguinely at the prospect of arriving at an empty conference hall after the flight from Jakarta, but collectively reckoned that while things were looking bad at the moment, there was still a glimmer of hope for Blackberry.However, if developers expected a pep talk from Thorsten Heins, the Blackberry chief executive whose job it is stem the decline and to return the Canadian company to something resembling its former glory, they were sorely disappointed. Heins stayed away from Blackberry Jam Asia 2013."He is not attending unfortunately – probably a bit busy right now," a Blackberry spokesperson said.A BlackBerry Dev Alpha device for $50 - plus a free conference? DealHong Kong without the bustleUnlike its bustling, busy host city Hong Kong, Blackberry Jam Asia 2013 turned out to be a leisurely affair. There were no throngs or queues to anything, and the keynote hall was at the most two-thirds full.A Blackberry spokesperson reckoned around a thousand had registered, but didn't have a figure of how many actually showed up. Certainly, Blackberry Jam Asia 2013 seemed thin on developer presence. The showcase comprised two official Blackberry stands for gaming and enterprise apps, an app advertising sales vendor and official merchandise.That was it though. No large third-party app developers had stalls, and the breakout technical sessions were sparsely attended.On stage at the keynote,Nguyen Longdemonstrated hisSayit voice recognition app, which is similar to Apple's Siri personal assistant - but more flexible.SayIt is the work of Nguyen alone, which is even more impressive considering it does voice search in 17 languages and can translate from English in 25 different tongues.The demo went down well with the audience, but Nguyen took some of wind out of his own sails by announcing that SayIt was on sale at a steep 60% discount,the second time since July.Giant Chinese micro-blogging service Sina Weibo showed off its free Blackberry client and Indonesian developers Omega Mediatama the Kereta Api train ticket booking app; the Vietnamese and Indonesian developers claimed they made good money out of their apps, and the Sina Weibo client is apparently very popular in China despite Blackberry having next to no market presence in that country.Free devices, monetary guarantees and generally lowered barriers of entry for developers haven't helped set Blackberry's BB10 platform on fire however, with revenuesmore than halving in the Asia-Pacific region.Asia-Pacific was, until the most recent quarter, a growth area for sales - but now they're down.Apps for the many, from the fewContinuing on the theme of popularity and success, Alec Saunders, vice president of Blackberry's developer relations, tried to fire up the audience by claiming there were now more than 131,000 apps for BB10 alone in Blackberry World.What's more, Asia-Pacific developers account for some 37% of all BB10 apps in Blackberry World, according to Saunders. That would be around 48,500 of the 131,000 total currently.Alec Saunders of BlackBerry on stageA spokesperson for Blackberry said the controversial and prolific Hong Kong based S4BB Ltd, whichaccounts for around a third of all apps in Blackberry World, was not included in that numberBut at a media session later the same day, Saunders admitted that S4BB accounts for a quarter of all BB10 apps in Blackberry World, or around 32,750 of the total – leaving just 15,750 apps from other Asia-Pacific developers.  S4BB has over 48,000 apps in Blackberry World; most are city guides and audiobooks, sourced from public material.This is fine, a flustered Saunders said. S4BB has built a "template application" and the apps are not junk, he claimed."They make a lot of them – more power to them," Saunders said. "I looked at the applications, and you know what? Those provide value," he said.A scout around for S4BB at Blackberry Jam Asia 2013 failed to turn up a representative for the company. Other developers spoken to at the event smiled at the mention of S4BB, but wouldn't say say anything harsher about the Hong Kong software house than "they probably don't need any more publicity."Saunders and his team of 123 has toured the world, handing out over 45,000 free Blackberry phones to developers and promised to that people would make US$10,000 by building BB10 apps – if not, Blackberry would make up the difference.These probably were a powerful incentive in low-income nations around Asia, and Saunders believes over half of developers have uploaded an app to the Blackberry World store.Easier, cheaper.. HTML5?The company has also worked to make development of BB10 apps easier and cheaper, Saunders said, by following standards such as C and C++ for the programming language and HTML5 for application presentation.The disappointing amount of revenue from a mere 3.7m devices does not mean Blackberry is about to quit the retail end of the device market, because the corporate bring your own device (BYOD) trend is too important, a spokesperson for the company said.However, the spokesperson did not explain how it intends to succeed with BYOD when clearly few people want Blackberry devices.One person who thinks Blackberry will still have a future was Marcus Tan, the Singapore-based managing director for Asia-Pacific of Smaato, a global advertising exchange for apps.Smaato has been selected by Blackberry to be its official partner to hook up developers and app publishers with advertising networks and to provide features such as in-app ads.Tan thinks providing revenue streams beyond straight app sales will help make the Blackberry platform more popular with developers, but admits that it is late to the game with the advertising and monetising features, which other mobile platforms have had for years now.Other mobile platforms – that is, Apple iOS and Google Android – is where the action is for the developers at Blackberry Jam Asia, with many saying they work across all three platforms.Focusing on competing platforms isn't exclusive to Blackberry developers either, but to the Canadians as well.The Secure Workspace solution that allows Android and Apple i-Devices to be managed with the Blackberry Enterprise Server 10 was heavily touted at the event, a feature that the company's senior director of enterprise developers and tech partnerships joking said was "good job security."The Canadian handset maker tried very hard to convince the audience at the Blackberry Jam Asia 2013 event that it was headed towards success after past mistakes.Judging by the empty conference centre early the second day, developers didn't quite get the message.Juha Saarinen travelled to Blackberry Jam Asia 2013 courtesy of Blackberry.
Price £14,990MPG 62.8Top speed 112mphClose your eyes and imagineFiat's perky 500. Cute isn't it? Mmmm… OK, wake up. It's the adorable city car that revolutionised urban motoring with its unmatched combination of retro chic, metrosexual attention to dinky detailing and honest practicality. By updating its classic Cinquecento – that miniature darling of the 50s – so brilliantly, a&nbsp;relieved Fiat found itself with a mighty bestseller on its hands. Its first in years, decades even.But in the time since the 500 first arrived, the trendy urbanites who bought it have grown up and started families (their ironic facial hair is now grey and their thick-rimmed glasses no longer merely for fashion). This means they need something bigger to scoot the brood around town. Hold on a&nbsp;moment, thought Fiat's designers, we know just what's needed: a bigger small car. They took their diminutive masterpiece and "larged" it. So, in an act of automotive torture, they took the innocent 500 and stretched it and pulled it and inflated it and distended it until, finally, their lumbering, bloated mutant hobbled off the production line like one of Cinderella's ugly sisters. From the brightest of templates Fiat had managed to create a Frankencar.Inside job: the cheerful interior of the 500L.The bulging500 gained an L(standing for Large and Loathsome) and lost almost everything else that was charming about it. Beyond the badge on the bonnet there seems to be no genetic link.But here is the thing: Fiat has great form when it comes to designing plug-ugly cars. The originalMultiplawas so hideous it was described by one critic as a&nbsp;"strangulated hernia  on wheels" when it first slithered on to the street, but its unorthodox 3-plus-3 seating plan, high driving position and short, wide body made it a slow-burning hit and one of my favourite cars of all time. There's  a Y-reg for sale at the end of my street at the moment for £1,100 and I am sorely tempted to buy it.Over the course of the week I&nbsp;spent with the 500L (we nicknamed her Ugly Betty), I began to wonder if Fiat was on to something: had it deliberately made its car stand-out goofy? In a&nbsp;world of anodyne anonymity, there is definitely a place for the unlovely, the teeth-grindingly gruesome. If you don't believe me you clearly haven't seen the line-up for the world's ugliest dog title for 2013.Sitting inside the compact MPV persuaded me that perhaps Fiat does know what it's up to. It feels like you are at the wheel of a tiny, trendy bus. There is usable space and innovation everywhere: the rear seats slide, hinge and flip down; the passenger seat folds flat to complete a single-bed of a loading bay; the double-shelved boot is massive and can be fitted with two extra seats; the dashboard features a Uconnect "infotainment" system including  a Dr&nbsp;Dre Beats Audio stereo system; and there is even a built-in Lavazza coffee machine (really) if you so wish. The fascia can be given a soft-touch surface or finished in suede.Various engines are available. I&nbsp;drove the biggest of the lot, a&nbsp;105bhp 1.6-litre turbodiesel. It's noisy, unapologetic and crazily economical. Fiat isn't taking itself seriously, and neither should we. Betty is chubby, fun and up-for-it.  So, as Morrissey famously sang: "You're the one for me, fatty."Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukand follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Here come Cony and Brown, to a phone near you. Line, the Japanese messaging and voice over internet protocol (VoIP) app, which has grown almost three times faster than Facebook did following its creation, is planning to knock Skype off its perch at the top of the smartphone&nbsp;communications market, using a bear and a rabbit to seduce European consumers.Line has stickers and mobile games that feature cute animal characters.Best known for its stickers featuring cartoon characters, including Brown the bear and Cony the rabbit, Line has already conquered Asia, with 50 million users signing up in the 12 months following its launch in 2011. Facebook took three years to get 58 million.The characters can be used to decorate messages, in addition to the usual emojis and emoticons. Some are free, but thousands of other "premium" sets, such as Disney or Pixar characters, can be added for £1.49 each.The company, now with 230 million users, recently added football clubs FC Barcelona and Real Madrid and tennis world number two Rafael Nadal to its growing list of official accounts. Users can follow updates and interact with the sports stars in real time during "on-air mode", when the accounts can read and respond to messages.During this month's US Open, Nadal sent messages and pictures with Line updating friends on his progress to becoming champion. "Getting out the hotel to Flushing Meadows … waiting for no rain in order to play!" he said in the first week. A few victories later, his account sent a picture of Nadal being interviewed on TV and said: "Press conference after pass semi-finals! Waiting for Monday's match!"After winning the tournament, Nadal sent a message thanking Line for all its support and used the opportunity to celebrate the win by offering friends his new stickers. It is no surprise that Spain now has more than 10 million Line users.Launched as a basic messenger to guarantee easy interaction, Line has gradually added more functions, including a Facebook-style timeline, to distinguish itself from rival communications apps, and has successfully branched into the games market. Its camera app, with "beauty" editing functions to smooth appearances, already has 50 million downloads and last week the company added a video feature, enabling users to take up to 10-second clips.Reports last month by Credit Suisse in Tokyo said it expects subscriber growth to continue next year, given the continuing rise in global smartphone sales. Analyst Taewon Kim said: "It all began in Japan, but in recent quarters Line has been breaking ground in multiple overseas markets, with many of its apps posting well within the top 10 gross rankings. Line's Japan revenue per subscriber is higher than Facebook's in North America."Friends and colleagues Mai Saito, Maki Shoji and Yoko Katsuki are typical among Tokyo's young professionals who all use Line to communicate."The best thing is that it's free," said Maki. "Then you can see if the person you have sent a message to has read it – so your husband can't pretend he hasn't! It's easy to use, and you can make group chats as well where you message several friends and one person replying is seen by everyone. I nearly always use it to phone people now rather than my network provider, because the connection is so good."Yoko said: "Some of the stickers are very comical – characters tearing their hair out or hugging each other, dancing, anything really – so it's a great way to express your emotions better than just text."On the firm's entry into the mobile gaming market, analyst Kim said: "In markets where Line has been a popular or dominant messenger, Line character games have proved to be top-grossing games as well."The app, available on all major mobile  platforms, including iOS, Android and Windows Phone, racked up 5 million users in India just three weeks after it launched in July. In a country with 180&nbsp;million smartphone users, the potential for significant growth is huge. Whether "cute" translates into sizeable market share in the UK and US, however, is something Mark Zuckerberg and others will be keeping a close eye on.
Bertolt Meyer, the academic known as "the bionic man", said yesterday that scientists and engineers should not be allowed to launch some technological advances on the open market without a prior ethical debate.Meyer, a key speaker at the firstFutureFestevent in east London this weekend, has had a cutting-edge £40,000 artificial lower arm and hand since 2009. Talking to an audience in Shoreditch town hall, he asked whether the public ought to let the laws of supply and demand decide how the human race moves towards a probable "bionic" future; a time where the bodies of those with access and money can be enhanced and augmented. "We are reaching the point where people with artificial limbs may have an advantage. It they start to appeal to everyone, a mass market will develop," he said.Engineers on the frontline of research are not always prepared to think through the impact of their work and the ethical dilemmas involved, he argued.Speaking to theObserverlater, Meyer said he felt the business world would be "arrogant and naive" if it continued to assume that commercial interests could solve the world's problems on their own: "These issues have to be decided by law makers, but public debate like this helps to set people thinking. It is only high-level political bodies that will have the authority to put laws into place. They have to work out how we are going to regulate the market."Meyer added that in some parts of the world cosmetic surgery has already created a new norm for the rich. "Ethicists are thinking about these things already, of course, but they don't really have a public voice." But he added: "I certainly don't think all these innovations are necessarily negative, though."Meyer's documentary,How to Build a Bionic Man, was shown on Channel 4 in February and will be aired in America next month. It looks at the advanced prosthetic limbs that will soon become available, at a cost, and also at prototypes of artificial organs, including implantable lungs and plastic kidneys, that are not rejected by the host body.The Paralympic Games in 2012 raised the profile of high-performance disability and the question of the unfair advantages technology can create. Meyer wondered if a backlash is coming, and talked about his pride in his hi-tech arm. It has given him new confidence, he said, whereas his previous prosthesis "oozed 1970s" and made him feel ashamed.Meyer also queried the implications of the recent story of the 14-year-old British boy Matthew James who, like Meyer, was born with dysmelia, the rare condition that means one of his arms stops at the elbow. Turned down by the NHS, he wrote to Mercedes, his favourite Formula One team, and offered to display their logo on a new state-of-the-art prosthesis if they would help him pay for it. Mercedes contributed  £30,000 but did not take up his offer of advertising space."I think this is a terrible story, not a good one," said Meyer. "We can't leave everything to individual entrepreneurship. 'Hunger? Oh yes, there's an app, or a business plan for that!' Ethical questions are on the very bottom of large corporations' to-do lists. We cannot leave these issues to businesses alone."FutureFest is an event organised byNesta(the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts) andcurated by Pat Kane, the Scottish musician and social activist. Kane, introducing the weekend, asked visitors to think of the festival as "a kind of Glastonbury for the mid-century".The authorNick Harkaway, first to speak to the crowd, said it was unfortunate that the habit of looking to the future with hope had fallen off in the last few decades. The demise of the 1960s concept of the space age, along with the gratuitous division of the arts and the sciences, had disillusioned many. "We haven't talked optimistically about the future for a while, but we can be fairly sure that next year will be twice as "changey" as this year, and that will increase exponentially from now on."To address this accelerating rate of change theOxford Martin School, a research think tank at Oxford University, is running a series of debates as part of the festival this weekend. Other foward-thinking attractions include the concept of a future city of glass, a giant singing conch and an interactive performance that promises to "Xhume" great thinkers of the past to learn what they think about where humanity is heading.Underneath the speakers and their audiences, inside the tunnels of the town hall's basement, engineers and scientists are showcasing technological developments, while in one subterranean corner a series of notional objects that might prove to be among the leading scientific developments of the next 50 years are on display. Among them is the "Micromort", a handheld device "created in 2032" for assessing risk based on the analysis of data, including blood pressure, sweat and other physical manifestations of stress. Alongside it is a disaster kit, supposedly developed in Tehran in 2020, that allows medics on the scene of a natural disaster or epidemic to locate and talk to each other as they treat the injured. Next door is evidence of an initiative called The Braid Collective, by which artists all over the world are able to support each other's practice through crowd-funding. The more far-flung reaches of technology include a late 21st-century design for turning down the temperature on Venus.
In a sense, the very title of theTokyo Game Showmight be construed as a misnomer. The conference actually takes place in the cavernous halls of Chiba's Makuhari Messe convention centre, more than an hour's travelling time from the neon and skyscrapers of Japan's capital. But this year, with Sony and Microsoft going head to head, it seems apt that the city that attracted no less than Godzilla's attention should, in name at least, host two gaming behemoths before their new consoles launch in November.Sony, at its home fixture, chose to make the most of the event and the record number of more than a quarter of a million people who attended. An intriguing opening was the demonstration of the new PlayStation app, which will go live in November. Designed to operate on Android or iOS devices, it will allow players to connect by sharing invitations and content but also act as a second screen, similar to the Wii U tablet or Xbox SmartGlass, not only to enhance the play on the console but also to access different forms of gameplay. It looked like fun, but, as always, how it is developed will be crucial.Hardware rumours about the PlayStation 4 were also cleared up, with confirmation that the PS4 camera, which will not ship with the device (keeping the price down), will allow voice and gesture controls to be used. How it will work in gaming terms seems yet to be determined. Sharing game footage through HDMI will also be made available in the future, which will be popular with gamers who post action online, but for the throngs ofotaku(geeks) and costumed players it was the new software that proved irresistible.Dead Rising 3: looking enjoyable in co-op mode.The decision to allow an inexpensive upgrade to purchasers of the PS3 versions ofAssassin's Creed IV: Black Flag,Battlefield 4,Call of Duty: GhostsandWatch Dogs(all drawing crowds at the show stand) for the next-gen iterations will doubtless be popular and contribute to the 5m PS4s the company expects to sell by the end of the financial year. More intriguing was the company's reiteration of its dedication to indie developers, visualised in the press conference by a large pixelated heart. It was ably demonstrated in a hands-on withHohokum(out 2014), a non-linear visual feast, at once relaxing and playful, that draws the player in with its explorative gameplay. Sony is convinced that indie titles can sell consoles and certainly it should be admired for trying.Hohokumis unlikely to attract headlines but is as pleasing an alternative to staring down the sights of an assault rifle as might be imagined.Elsewhere of interest to UK gamers was the unveiling of the new slimline PS Vita, a lighter upgrade (release in Britain to be confirmed) and the PS Vita TV (currently to be released in Japan only). This phone-size device runs Vita, PSP and PS1 games via a DualShock controller on a TV, but will also stream PS4 or Vita games to a different TV on a home network.Microsoft's show was more low key, although its display offering Japanese fans hands-on experience of many next-gen titles for the first time did good business. With theXbox Onesuffering from changes in philosophy earlier in the year, the focus here was firmly on software, and outside the already announced big-hitters such asFifa 14andCall of Dutythere was new gameplay on show forCrimson Dragon, which appears to be ticking all the right boxes for fans of on-rails dragon shooters, and also forDead Rising 3, the latter looking particularly riotous and enjoyable in co-op mode.Xbox One is go: visitors get hands-on experience at the Tokyo Game Show. Photograph: Yoshikazu Tsuno/ AFP/ Getty ImagesWhile both were impressive, what caught many attendees' attention wasDark Dreams Don't Die(or D4), an episodic adventure game exclusive to the Xbox One from Hidetaka Suehiro, (popularly known as Swery65) who madeDeadly Premonition. Here was the innovation and experimentation the new generation deserves. Controlled by Kinect (although also playable via a controller) using a point-and-click and voice-activation method, this is a stylistically unique, bizarre game and although unlikely to crack the mainstream, it suggested a willingness to take these consoles somewhere new. Proving that, pummelled by the noise of dozens of franchises all competing to offer variations on themes well-trodden that could, no doubt, be heard back in Tokyo itself, sometimes there really is something to be said for staying on the margins.Best in showDeep Down(PS4) Hugely atmospheric dungeon-based action adventure. There's hacking and slashing and some poking too if the demo level was anything to go by, but most importantly it looks fabulous, genuinely next-gen and will be free to play on release.Hohokum(PS4) Why guide a curious snake creature to release a little character who then rides its tail while endeavouring to collect a pine cone-like item? So the character can be deposited and turn the pine cone into a kite, of course. All of which with no instruction or purpose. Glorious.Space Qube(App) This simple space shooter allows you to design your own vehicle through manipulation of a simple pixel grid, so anything at all can be the spacecraft – and they can then be 3D-printed into a hard copy, too.Lightning Returns: Final Fantasy XIII(PS3, Xbox 360) An open and explorable world coupled to a more action-based battle system and some outstanding new costumes for protagonist Lightning look like a winning combination in this third and final entry in the Final Fantasy XIII canon.Dead Rising 3(Xbox One) Much bludgeoning but little wit resulted in a less than enthusiastic response for the zombie-basher earlier in the year, but closer inspection reveals the inventive humour and consequently the game's playability has risen from the dead before launch.
When Steve Jobs was still with us, many commentators – yours truly included – used to complain about the "reality distortion field" that surrounded Apple's charismatic leader. Those in attendance when Jobs launched the devices and services (iPod, iTunes, OS X, iMac, MacBook, iPhone and iPad) that blew such huge holes in the business models of established industries told of events that were more like religious revival meetings than corporate press conferences. As Apple's dominance grew, the man who led it came to be seen as a unique combination of visionary, guru, saint and mogul.But then mortality intervened and His Steveness passed away. The reality distortion field persisted, however, though now in reverse. It led people to conclude that the death of the magician would inevitably lead to the end of the magic that made Apple the most valuable company in the world. In comparison to Jobs his successor, Tim Cook, was seen as charismatically challenged. And while we could expect Apple to thrive for a little longer, it was only because Cook would be unveiling innovations that were in the works when Jobs was alive. After that, the well would surely run dry.It was against this background that the hapless Cookunveiled the new iPhoneson 10 September. He announced a cheaper model (the 5c), the more upmarket 5s and a new version of Apple's mobile operating system (iOS 7). Although the event was accompanied by the usual hoopla, the overall media reaction wasa barely stifled yawn. Sure, the 5c came in bright colours and was a bit cheaper, but it wasn't cheap enough to break into the lower end of the market.And although the 5s came with a more powerful processor, a motion-sensing chip and a significantly better camera, it was really just more of the same. Well, except for the fact that it had a fingerprint sensor for user authentication. And as for iOS 7, well, the only really interesting thing about it was that it now had flat icons rather than the faux-3D ones of iOS 6. It all went to show (so the narrative implied) that Apple had lost its mojo.As a case study in how a media narrative can miss the point, this one would be hard to beat. So here's an alternative one. What Apple did on 10 September was to release the first operational 64-bit hardware and software ever seen in a mobile device. The number of bits is important, because every mobile processor up to this has been a 32-bit chip, which means in essence that it can only address 4GB of working memory. This has hitherto been enough for mobile devices (and indeed most desktop machines) but it's not enough for more powerful computers. So the really intriguing questions raised by the iPhone 5s's A7 processor, with its ability to address colossal amounts of memory, are: why is it there? And what clues does it give as to what Apple is planning next?Given that what Apple thinks today, the rest of the industry thinks next year, the answers to these questions will be interesting. (Readers with long memories will recall that Apple was the first to drop floppy disks, internal modems, CD/DVD drives and laptop hard drives, and that on each occasion the omissions were greeted by howls of derision from the industry, followed rapidly by shamefaced adoption.)In the same vein, most of the media coverage of iOS 7 focused on the radically different "look and feel" of the user interface, the sparseness and minimality of which was widely attributed toJony Ive, who is now in overall charge of both hardware and software design at Apple. This is fair enough: after all, for most people, the most important aspect of a device is its user interface. Is the thing easier to use after the latest "upgrade"? The answer for iOS 7 seems to be a qualified "yes".But for geeks, two things about iOS 7 stand out. One is the fact that Apple could completely rewrite a complex operating system for a 64-bit environment – and ship it in a relatively bug-free state, on time. The other is the way iOS 7 solves a problem that has been bugging internet engineers for years – how to ensure that if one mode of connecting to the network fails, your device can seamlessly switch to another mode. The solution is calledmulti-path TCPand – guess what? – iOS 7 has it. But you'd have to read a lot of media coverage of the iPhone launch to learn that. Those who think that Apple has peaked ought to think again.
I enjoy dropping off my boy at nursery in a different brand spanking new car every week, seeing the other dads thinking, WTF? Yeah, you know what, I like a change, I say, don't want to get stuck in a rut with my wheels. I did come clean with one of them, put him out of his misery. Yeah, I am him, I said,theSam Wollaston. Said he could do a photo if he wanted, so&nbsp;long as it didn't end up all over social media. He declined, though. Did that thing of pretending not to know who I was that sometimes comes out of jealousy.He did, however, have the good grace to say it sounded like a nice job. Yes, it is nice, thank you, Mr Pushchair Pusher. It's not easy, though, writing about cars for a&nbsp;magazine that isn't primarily a&nbsp;motoring magazine, and whose readership doesn't necessarily have petrol flowing through its veins. Take this car. I could go on about its 218bhp and 258lb ft of torque, its multi-link rear axle, its six-speed DSG transmission, etc. But you, the reader, would probably yawn and go straight off to the gardening pages or&nbsp;something.All you really need to know is that&nbsp;it's Skoda's hot hatch, based on the same platform as theGolf GTIand with the same two-litre turbocharged engine. Goes like stink,&nbsp;in other words – for a Skoda,&nbsp;at&nbsp;least – though without quite&nbsp;the joy or dynamism of the Golf. But,&nbsp;being a Skoda, it's considerably cheaper.My role here is more about humanising it, though: to talk about what sort of person it might suit. So I'm thinking this one is for the slightly more mature man, rather than your average hot hatch hoon. (Or&nbsp;woman, of course, but I'll stick with the former, given that I am one,&nbsp;of&nbsp;sorts.)He now has a family, requires more doors, and more space in the back seat and in the boot, for family paraphernalia, such as buggies (only&nbsp;losers push pushchairs. Real men put them in the back of their cars). He finds that, since procreating, he's not nearly as flush as he was, so he requires value, for which poshness will have to be sacrificed. He wants a car that is civilised, practical, that will mainly be used for shopping and the school run, and is happy to pootle, not too hard on the speed bumps. But he's not quite ready to give up on life: there's an ember of fire left in his (increasing) belly, ready to flare up, from time to time.The Octavia vRS is a car for someone who is a grown-up, then, with a hint of a paunch, but young at heart. Sensible but fun, caring but exciting underneath. Unflashy, discreet, modest. I found it suited me very well. Next!Skoda Octavia vRSPrice£24,380Top speed152mphAcceleration0-60mph in 6.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption(manufacturer's figure)44.1mpgCO2emissions149g/kmEcorating6/10Cool rating7/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe genius of Infinity Blade was that it gave you the feeling of defending against crushing sword blows before unleashing devastating flurries of your own, and somehow managed to make it all seem heroic and mighty on an iPhone screen. That same impression of gigantic foes and clanging steel remains; it's just the game surrounding it that's got a bit carried away, adding potion crafting, more dungeons and tiresome in-app purchases despite already having charged you a fiver. Bigger is not always better.
Games out this week includeArmored Core: Verdict Day(PS3, Xbox), the 20th walking tank simulator in a series that's almost impenetrable to those not already inculcated into the complex and bitterly hard ways of perambulating armoured vehicles.Fifa 14(Xbox, PS2, PS3, Wii, PC, PSP, 3DS, Vita) is the annual milking of Electronic Arts' cash cow, with lightly augmented features that put more daylight between it and Pro Evolution Soccer.Inazuma Eleven 3: Bomb BlastandLightning Bolt(3DS) turn football into an RPG, letting you gradually build up your team of spiky-haired cartoon players, earning special moves and upgrades as you work your way up the league, andTrain Simulator 2014(PC) lets a special kind of PC owner experience life in the cabin of trains travelling the new Hamburg to Hanover route, while revelling in its minor graphicalimprovements.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYour introduction to GTA V's Rottweiler, Chop, sees him start sniffing out an enemy before breaking off to have sex with a stray dog. Chop is useful, but lacks discipline. iFruit, the mobile app based on the game's iPhone parody, lets you train him (which makes him more obedient in-game) by using a Tamagotchi-like mini-game. It does make you wonder how the relentless demands of a virtual pet were ever considered fun. Chop is a royal pain in the arse, continually in need of food, drink and turd clearance, and shows no gratitude. iFruit also lets you customise cars and number plates, use Lifeinvader – the game's wry Facebook mockery – and buy GTA merchandise.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewFrom its cheesy pop-rock theme music to its manga visuals, Disgaea is a franchise that's as Japanese as Okonomiyaki. But look past the squeaky voices, appalling dialogue and deeply peculiar plot, and there's a turn-based strategy RPG with a level of complexity that's scarce. Interlocking systems of weapon skills, character affinities, terrain bonuses and interactions between heroes as they attack create a tactical depth that's initially stupefying. This outing simplifies some of its systems from previous instalments, but there are still hundreds of hours' worth of character levelling and artful combat in which to totally lose yourself.
France's data-protection watchdog warned on Friday that it will impose sanctions against Google, after the company missed a three-month deadline to adjust its privacy policy.TheCommission nationale de l'informatique et des libertés (CNIL)said it had initiated procedures to fine Google after it failed to meet a deadline to alter its latest policy on how it collects and uses data. The agency said that on the final day before the deadline, Google contested the request, "notably the applicability of the French data-protection law to the services used by residents in France".The fine, of up to €150,000 ($203,100) is trifling by Google's standards – the search giant made $10.7bn in profits in 2012. But the fine comes as data-protection agencies in Britain, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands are investigating Google's privacy policy. The company is also facing pressure to adjust its privacy policy in the US.In March 2012,Google changed its privacy policy in Europeto combine those from more than 60 services, including Gmail, Google+ and YouTube, into one. The move consolidated information collected across the services and consumer groups expressed concern that users might not want the information from those services to be connected.CNIL said in June that Google's new privacy policy was a violation of the 1978 French data-protection act. The agency asked Google to provide clearer information about its privacy policy and to modify its data-collection tools.In a statement on Friday, a Google spokeswoman said: "Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to create simpler, more effective services. We have engaged fully with the CNIL throughout this process, and we'll continue to do so going forward."The French regulator's move comes in a week when a US judge ruled that Google may violate wiretap laws when it scans the e-mails of non-Gmail users. The ruling will allowa class action lawsuit against the company, backed by privacy advocates, to move forward.Judge Lucy Koh also ruled that Google's privacy agreements were less than explicit. "A reasonable Gmail user who read the Privacy Policies would not have necessarily understood that her e-mails were being intercepted to create user profiles or to provide targeted advertisements," she wrote.
Britain has been accused of trying to impede data protection reforms that would make it more difficult for spy agencies to get hold of material online.The European parliament is planning to vote on a new, unified law for EU member states in the next few weeks, but activists fear Britain is deliberately obstructing the path to new legislation.Speaking at aninternational conference on data protection in Warsawon Thursday, the UK information commissioner, Christopher Graham, said the first draft of the proposed regulation was "too dirigiste". Britain was "not interested in regulation that is a to-do list".The first draft of the new general data protection regulation was presented on 25 January 2012. Following the revelations about the extent of US and British surveillance from Edward Snowden, one German commissioner said there was an urgent need for regulation.However, the British view is that the disclosures have merely highlighted how differently European countries feel about online privacy, which will make it harder to reach any compromise."The Snowden revelations have showed us how important it is that we reach a compromise," said Peter Schaar, Germany's federal commissioner for data protection and freedom of information. "There is a real need for an international regulatory framework. For once, the Americans are as concerned about this as we are in Germany."But a British source said "data protection law used to be a Rubik's cube", and after Snowden it had become "a Rubik's cube on steroids".The standoff between Britain and other EU countries has several dimensions. Broadly, there is nervousness in the British government about a new piece of legislation that would transfer more power from Westminster to Brussels. More specifically, there is a disagreement over enforcement. Britain's view is that by not leaving any room for discretion, controllers will be forced to fine even small transgressions, for example by inexperienced startups."If you have inflexible regulation, you overclaim and lose authority. Less is more," said Graham at the conference.Other European countries are seen to favour a stricter punitive system, which would set out clear guidelines. This month in Brussels, the EU commission's director for fundamental rights and citizenship,Paul Nemitz, had implicitly criticised Britain for "bickering and wanting changes"to the guidelines.As well as the disagreement over data protection regulation, European states are at odds over the future of "Safe Harbor", a policy agreement established between the US department of commerce and the European Union in November 2000 which enables companies to transfer data between the two countries irrespective of different security standards.In the wake of the Snowden disclosures, Viviane Reding, the European commission's vice-president, said: "The Safe Harbor agreement may not be so safe after all," and she ordered an assessment of the deal by the end of the year.In July, German data commissioners called on Angela Merkel to suspend Safe Harbor, though at the Warsaw conference this week Germany seemed to row back from such demands, asking merely for reform of the programme.Other countries in the EU, including Britain, see Safe Harbor as a useful mechanism by which to boost European regulation with tough US jurisdiction."What keeps Google awake at night," said one source, "is European regulation and FTC [federal trade committee] enforcement."Data protection activists hope that Europe will use the pending revision of Safe Harbor and the negotiations over a new EU-US trade deal as a bargaining tool. But they fear the momentum gained by the Snowden revelations is being lost.• The standfirst on this story was amended on 27 September 2013 to remove an incorrect reference to the UK information officer
Gamers hoping to hear word of the extremely delayed Half Life 3 were disappointed today, after the third of Valve’s three announcements this week was a controller for its game service Steam.On Monday, Valve announced SteamOS, an operating system based on the open-source Linux system, but tweaked with a focus on gaming.On Wednesday, the company confirmed that it was entering the hardware business with its Steam Machines. Looking to the power of threes, many hoped that the much anticipated Half Life 3, the follow-up to 2007’s Half Life 2: Episode Two, would be confirmed.Instead, the company has announced a controller for the Steam Machines. “We realised early on that our goals required a new kind of input technology - one that could bridge the gap from the desk to the living room without compromises,” Valve says in its announcement. “So we spent a year experimenting with new approaches to input and we now believe we’ve arrived at something worth sharing and testing with you.”The control features two touchpads, replacing the left and right joysticks of more traditional controllers, and also has a touchscreen in its centre.As well as the input devices, Valve emphasises the output on the controllers, building on the rumble features of earlier controllers. Adopting the industry buzzword “haptic feedback”, the announcement claims it “provides a vital channel of information to the player - delivering in-game information about speed, boundaries, thresholds, textures, action confirmations, or any other events about which game designers want players to be aware.”The Steam Controller will work with any version of Steam – Mac, Windows, Linux or Steam OS – and it will be released in 2014. No price has been announced.
Apple's new mobile operating system for the iPhone and iPad, iOS 7, is stark and minimal, yet dynamic. It makes frequent use of zoom and slide animations; the home screen boasts parallax, with icons apparently floating above subtly animating wallpaper. And it's making people sick.Triggers and symptoms vary, but TidePoolmobile app developer Jenni Leder'sexperience is not uncommon. A self-professed power-user, she frequently switches apps; but on iOS 7, this has caused headaches and feelings associated with motion sickness. "I now have to close my eyes or cover the screen during transitions, which is ridiculous," she told The Guardian, adding that there's nowhere to hide: "It's not apps that affect me, but accessing them. Tap a folder and the view zooms in. Tap an app and it's like flying through the icon and landing in that app's micro world — and I'm getting dizzy on the journey there."This wasn't the case under iOS 6. That system wasn't devoid of triggers (full-screen slide transitions being fairly common), but zooming was minimal and parallax was absent, as were gamified animation effects such as subtly shifting and sliding balloons in Messages.The same minimal effect is true of stock Android and Windows Phone, which lack triggering animations and effects as dynamic and aggressive as those in iOS 7.Jump upThe severity of the jump from iOS 6 to iOS 7 means some organisations dealing with such motion-sickness problems are recommending that people with such conditions don't upgrade their iOS devices. A number of affected users have reportedly switched iPhones that had already been upgraded to iOS 7 for models running iOS 6.Reactions to screen-based systems — especially those utilising 3D effects — aren't new. Cynthia Ryan, executive director of theVestibular Disorders Association, says 3D effects can cause "intense nausea, dizziness and vertigo", sometimes from general vision problems, but also from visual-vestibular conflict. She added symptoms "manifest more severely if a viewer already has a disorder of the vestibular system".The vestibular system is what gives us our sense of balance and sense of spatial awareness; it's dependent on three mutually orthogonal fluid-filled canals in the inner ear. But when the vestibular system and visual system come into conflict, the effect can be distressing.John Golding, professor of applied psychology at the University of Westminster, says visually-induced motion-sickness often arises from "the induction of perceived self-motion while at the same time the vestibular system and somatosensory systems signal that the body is in fact static".The number affected is hard to pin down. Golding says that "visually induced motion sickness" has "affected a relatively small proportion" - less than 5% -  of the population, compared with other stimuli such as from boats (sea sickness), cars/coaches (car sickness), etc. But prevalence may be much higher in some clinical grpoups with vestibular disease."Ryan says: "These symptoms manifest even more severely if a viewer already has a disorder of the vestibular system. An estimated 69 million US adults aged 40 and over — 35% of all Americans — experience vestibular system dysfunction."Dizzying changeSimilar symptoms can also arise from neurological conditions that cause central dizziness.Matt Gemmell, an independent iOS developer, thought it made sense that those with such conditions "would find some parts of the new iOS 7 interface uncomfortable or disorienting," because it "makes more extensive use of animations — and those animations are more pronounced".The problem for those suffering is twofold: first, many other people refuse to believe a problem exists; secondly, there's no fix. "We're often contacted by people affected by moving images on screens, but people are affected in different ways — what's a problem for one person may not be for another," explained Natasha Harrington-Benton, director of theMénière's Society, a UK charity for peopel with disorders causing dizziness or balance disorders. "But these disorders can be extremely debilitating, despite there being no visible symptoms".Marissa Christina, a podcaster and writer about hidden disabilities, suggests there was a "lack of awareness" about such issues: "The words 'dizziness' and 'vertigo' don't strike fear into people, but those living with severe cases are in ongoing angst awaiting the next unwarranted attack".The lack of a solution is the bigger problem. Apple provides a "Reduce Motion" option within the iOS 7 Settings app, but it is poorly labelled; it merely disables the parallax effect, but doesn't stop zooming or sliding. Apple did not respond to requests for comment for this article. Which for now, leaves affected people on their own.Golding's suggestions to those affected include to "rest often", avoid situations which reduce peripheral visual clues which give the correct information the person is static (in other words, don't hold your iPad to your nose), or "just not use the device". Those might suit some, but aren't practical if you're reliant on mobile devices.Blind spotWhat's surprising is Apple's apparent blind spot regarding balance and related concerns. Gemmell said: "Apple is more committed to accessibility than any other platform provider I know of." This is borne out by the software's otherwise plentiful aids for people with vision, hearing and motor-control issues.However, technology writer Kirk McElhearn quesions whether Apple isignoring people with vision and balance problems. He told the Guardian: "If Apple wants to truly cater to users with disabilities, it must look more closely at which features cause difficulties, make more effort to listen to users who find them hard to use, and enable them to be more comfortable".Christina said Apple should start by acknowledging the issue and "initiating an open dialog with those affected, developers, and Apple's own accessibility team". The company must, she said, "narrow in on what's adversely affecting people and ensure features can be disabled".Gemmell says he is "sure suitable options to more comprehensively disable motion will be forthcoming". In the meantime, he recommended those affected send an email to accessibility@apple.com, succinctly stating which animations are problematic and requesting the means to disable them.Playing a partIn the meantime, developers can also do their part. With app creators often following Apple's lead, it's perhaps inevitable the short-term will see yet more animation in iOS 7. Gemmell urges developers to "consider all categories and ability levels of user, and design interfaces judiciously"; they should enable users to disable anything that "could be annoying or intrusive", and UI effects should "have a useful function, such as showing context, hinting about functionality, or demonstrating transition, rather than being purely decorative".With the latest update to the popular calculator appPCalc, developer James Thomson has recognised the accessibility concerns, and provided the option to "remove full-screen transitions throughout the app".But he says= he'd sooner see Apple add this at system level, :so individual developers don't have to". Gemmell hopes Apple and developers alike would react accordingly regarding animations and transitions, simply because it's the right thing to do: "Accessibility affects everyone, and devices should be usable in all situations, by as many people as possible. Designing for accessibility levels the playing field, and increases the utility of devices for everybody."
Mailbox, a popular iOS app for managing Gmail inboxes, is stripping Javascript from all emails it forwards after the discovery of a security hole.The company said it was doing this because an independent security researcher, Michele Spagnuolo, disclosed on Wednesday that the applicationexecuted any Javascript contained in the body of HTML emails."This is bad for security and privacy," Spagnuolo wrote, "because it allows advanced spam techniques, tracking of user actions, hijacking the user by just opening an email, and potentially much worse things, especially for jailbroken devices." Jailbroken devices have used security bypasses to install and run apps that have not been downloaded from Apple's App Store.After Spagnuolo's disclosure,Mailbox respondedthat "the real risks presented by running Javascript within Mailbox are extremely limited thanks to how iOS is designed."Mailbox, recently bought by the cloud synchronisation company Dropbox, has more than a million users and provides a proxy service to Google's mail servers. It lets users delete email with a single swipe, or reschedule or filter emails more effectively than can be done with Google's own service.But it has raised security concerns for some corporations because it requires the user in effect to authorise third-party access to Google's service.The distinction between jailbroken devices – those on which users have installed software unauthorised by Apple – and what Spanuolo calls "vanilla iOS devices" is important. By default, Apple "sandboxes" applications, preventing them from having too much interaction with each other. That limits the risk presented by Javascript.But Spanulolo argues that it isn't completely eradicated. "The sandboxing model, as [with] everything where it comes to security, is not perfect," he wrote on his blog. "There is a history of sandbox bypass exploits… After all, this has happened in the past. I am thinking of Pwn2Own 2010, where Vincenzo Iozzo and Weinmann exploited a vulnerability in MobileSafari to silently transmit the SMS database to a remote server."Mailbox's developers said in a blog post that despite the low risk on iOS, "we implemented a process that strips javascript from messages before delivering them to mobile devices. This feature is now live on Mailbox servers and filtering new mail. This will be particularly important as we develop for other platforms, where javascript vulnerabilities could be more of an issue."Even without stripping Javascript from messages, questions were raised over whether it was a vulnerability at all. "Almost every web page, like almost every email, is in HTML, and web sites are packed with Javascript - in fact, Javascript was developed to jazz up HTML, and the modern web simply wouldn't work without it,"wrotePaul Ducklin of security research firm Sophos. "But no-one is reporting Javascript as a vulnerability to the browser makers."Ducklin argues that there are strong reasons, both technological and mental, why email should be treated differently. His colleague Mark Stockley noted that "email is reading something on your computer whereas using the web is more like reading something on somebody else's computer… I think the underlying mental models are very different."Additionally, "scripts are limited to reading data from, and sending data to, the same source as the page they're running in," writes Ducklin. "By this restriction, for example, scripts on your favourite social networking site can't see or use the session cookies set by your webmail client; data uploaded via a page on a technical support site can't inadvertently be sent somewhere else; and so forth. But how would you decide the 'same origin' for an email you'd received?"Spagnuolo raised similar questions over another Mailbox policy, under which it automatically loaded external images. Doing so can be exploited by senders, who can use such tiny 1x1 "web bugs" to discover whether their messages have been read, and who by. The tactic is used both by legitimate emailers and spammers trying to verify email addresses. However turning off the feature renders many emails difficult to read.Mailbox no longer loads external images.• This article was amended on 28 September 2013. As the result of an editing error, an earlier version included an incorrect description of Mailbox's access to Google. This has been removed.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Radioplayer (Free)This app comes from UK consortium Radioplayer, which is aggregating live streams, catch-up shows and podcasts from a range of British radio stations, including the BBC and commercial radio alike. This is its tablet app offering streams and recommendations of programmes you might like, as a new addition to the existing iPhone version.iPadFIFA 14 (Free)Expect a bit of controversy around this: FIFA has gone freemium. The latest mobile version of EA's football game is free to play, with the payments coming to unlock all the single-player modes, and for packs of players in the Ultimate Team mode. Otherwise, it's business as usual: slick action, thousands of licensed players, and an inventive approach to controlling your team using the touchscreen.iPhone / iPadTempo Smart Calendar (Free)Out in the US for a while, this calendar app has now crossed the Atlantic, so Brits can have a try. It's the latest app with designs on replacing Apple's default calendar, "like having your own personal assistant prepare you for what's next" from contacting people you're about to meet and dialling in to conference calls to providing directions, opening documents and browsing people's LinkedIn profiles.iPhoneColor Uncovered (Free)Launched by San Francisco's Exploratorium museum, this digital book explores colour in various interactive ways: "How is Monet like a honeybee? What color is a whisper? Why is it so hard to find your car in a lamp-lit parking lot?" And so on. It's fascinating for adults as well as children, and a good way to prime yourself for a visit to the real museum.iPadPocket Trains (Free)Games developer NimbleBit won plenty of fans with the excellent Pocket Planes, which got you to run your own airline. That game was made after a similar trains game was abandoned, but the company has since had a second crack at it, with this app as the result. It's very fun: run your railroads, ferrying cargo and collecting parts to build new trains.iPhone / iPadPotholer (Free)What's true Britishness? It's getting red-faced with anger at a nearby pothole and vowing to report it to the council, but never quite getting round to it. So Potholer may be the most patriotic app this week, in terms of solving that problem through technology. It monitors your route as you drive, and "logs dangerous potholes to a public database" when you drive over one.iPhoneOlympus Dictation for iPhone (Free)I used to have an Olympus dictation gadget to record interviews as a journalist, but it's one of the devices that's been crowded out by my smartphone and apps. On the 'if you can't beat 'em, join 'em' principle, Olympus has just released its first dictation app. This enables you to record, attach photos and then send recordings via email.Update:the app is out, but is getting a proper release with all its features in October.iPhoneShadowrun Returns (£6.99)Shadowrun started life as a tabletop roleplaying game, but a Kickstarter campaign in 2012 raised $1.8m to turn it into a PC and tablet game. The latter is available now: an impressive-looking cyberpunk/fantasy RPG promising more than 12 hours of gameplay that throws elves, trolls and dwarves into the year 2054.iPadSensory Spaces - By Mew and B&amp;O PLAY (Free)This is very fun if you're a fan of Danish band Mew (and perhaps a good introduction to them if you're new to their work). Produced with hi-fi firm Bang &amp; Olufsen, it gets you listening to three "sound spaces" with sounds from the band's new song, moving your device to hone in on each one. At the end, you unlock the song and get to play with it on the touchscreen.iPhone / iPad123D Creature Show (Free)Aside from its characters being slightly nightmarish, this is fun. It's the work of Autodesk showing off its 3D animation technology: the characters can be posed by dragging their limbs and features, then photographed on your real-world background. Artist Adam Beamish is the creator of the characters, and the theory is that people will be inspired to use the separate 123D Creature app to make their own.iPhoneHorrible Histories Magazine (Free)Children love CBBC TV show Horrible Histories, and rightly so: it's a marvellously-gruesome take on historical figures, perfectly pitched for its young audience. Now its official magazine has been digitised for Apple's Newsstand, with issues available to buy, as well as subscriptions.iPhone / iPadCotracks (£2.99)If you're interested in iPad music-making, Cotracks is well worth a look. Developed by Finnish startup Futucraft, it's a "collaborative music studio" where up to four people at once can gather round an iPad and manipulate loops and samples together, exporting the results as individual clips or as one piece.iPadTurn Taker (£1.99)This app is for children with autism, down syndrome and other special needs: a "social story" that helps them learn about taking turns and sharing. The idea is to ensure they don't get isolated at school or in social situations with other children, with a friendly, easy-to-understand story.iPhone / iPadPod Wrangler - Podcasts Made Easy (Free)Apple's own Podcasts has infamously mixed reviews on the App Store, but there are a number of alternatives for subscribing to and listening to podcasts. Pod Wrangler is the latest, promising to remove "all the fuss and complexity of enjoying podcasts", downloading them int he background. An in-app purchase unlocks additional features.iPhoneFacetune for iPad (£2.49)Photo-manipulation app Facetune has been popular on iPhone, but now it's been upsized for iPad too. Promising "magazine-level portraits", it boils down some of the professionals' Photoshop tools into an app for everyone, with simple controls to tweak smiles, skin, eyes and hair.iPadHippo Shower Time! (£1.99)Few app store opening lines are better than "It isn't easy cleaning a dirty hippo with a cold shower". That's the high-concept pitch for this children's app from Wombi, which involves turning different showerheads on and off in order to clean said dirty hippo. The twist is that it's designed for several people to play at once, taking turns to spray while hoping their showerhead won't be the one that goes cold.iPhone / iPadThe Last Hunt (Free)This is billed as "the first made-for-tablet story that challenges the conventions of the tablet reading experience", and although a number of other developers and authors have tried this kind of thing, it's an interesting addition. You scroll through the text as animations and photographs appear, with the actual content focusing on photographer Alexi Hobbs' grandfather's last hunting expedition.iPadgMusic 2 (£1.49)gMusic was one of the first third-party apps to help iOS users access the Google Play music service. This is an all-new version "recreated especially for iOS 7 and Google Play All Access" – the latter being Google's Spotify-style streaming music service. The app lets you access your cloud locker of music plus the wider All Access catalogue, including the ability to edit playlists and stream music via AirPlay to a TV or speakers.iPhone / iPadSky Live - Stargazing Forecast (£0.69)This is the work of developer Vito Technology, which made the excellent Star Walk stargazing app. This is in the same area, in that it provides stargazing conditions for your current location to help you plan your night-time sky-spotting activities, as well as letting you know what you can expect to see, and showing off photos from other users.iPhonePixel This! (Free)If you've played Nintendo's Picross games, you'll know about the format of picross puzzles (if not, they involve solving pixelly puzzles by marking squares as full or empty). This is a neat and fun addition to the genre for iOS, with 60 free puzzles and 60 more available as in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
A US ban on the use of electronic devices in-flight below 10,000 feet could be lifted as soon as 2014, which would mean you could use your tablet, ereader or laptop throughout the entire flight.A 28-person advisory committee is set to recommend the removal of the ban in a report that will be delivered to the FAA on Monday, industry officials familiar with the deliberationstold the AP.&quot;The FAA recognises consumers are intensely interested in the use of personal electronics aboard aircraft; that is why we tasked a government-industry group to examine the safety issues and the feasibility of changing the current restrictions,&quot; theFAA said in a statement in June.The committee was set up and partially staffed by the FAA, and therefore it is widely expected that the FAA will implement most, if not all, of the recommendations.Which devices will I be able to use on flights?The report is set to recommend that most electronic devices can be used, although some might still need to be switched to ‘airplane mode’ with their mobile network connectivity disabled.Passengers should be able to use devices such as Wi-Fi-only tablets, Kindles, portable games consoles, laptop computers, and digital music players throughout the flight, below the 10,000 feet altitude cap that’s currently in place.Is it dangerous?Modern planes are insulated against electromagnetic interference, which means the general consensus, before the full report is published, is that theuse of low-powered devices is safe.One of the primary reasons why the FAA&apos;s expert advisers appear to have recommended the policy change is at least partlybecause so many passengers flout the rules currently, and seemingly without consequence.Why did they think it might be dangerous?The ban over the use of electronic devices in-flight has often been attributed to the possibility of electronic interference with flight equipment in the modern an era of fly-by-wire planes, which control flight systems using electronic signals rather than physical movement of connect cables.Another often cited reason for the ban is the possibility that electronic devices such as Kindles, tablets and laptops could turn into projectiles within the cabin if the plane experiences turbulence - though that should also apply to books and other non-electronic devices too, of course.What can I still not use?Mobile phones with the mobile network radio switched on. A mobile phone searching for a network operator emits higher energy radio waves than one that’s connecting to a device over Bluetooth or to a network via Wi-Fi, and therefore they are considered more likely to cause electromagnetic interference.However, the use of a devices that can connect to mobile phone networks in-flight is not solely governed by the FAA in the US. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the American communications regulator, also needs to authorise the use of mobile phones on aeroplanes and their connections to the terrestrial phone networks.The worry is that fast-moving planes overhead with mobile phones connecting to ground-based infrastructure could cause unnecessary strain on terrestrial networks.What do the British authorities say?Right now, the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) is “waiting for the full report to be published” by the FAA before making any recommendations, said a CAA spokesperson talking to the Guardian.“The issue obviously affects international aviation, and we are looking forward to reading the FAA’s recommendations. It is, however, only talking about low-emission devices like Kindles and Wi-Fi tablets, not cellularly connected devices like phones,” the spokesperson continued.When asked how long a response from the CAA could take to the report and begin any implementation, should the CAA agree with the FAA’s committee’s findings, the CAA said it would take “months, not years.”• From August 2012: &quot;Why do I have to switch off my Kindle for takeoff and landing?&quot;• In May 2012, French president François Hollande&apos;s plane was forced to land after being struck by lightning, butshould you be worried about lightning while flying?
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).FIFA 14 (Free)Expect a bit of controversy around this: FIFA has gone freemium. The latest mobile version of EA's football game is free to play, with the payments coming to unlock all the single-player modes, and for packs of players in the Ultimate Team mode. Otherwise, it's business as usual: slick action, thousands of licensed players, and an inventive approach to controlling your team using the touchscreen.Toca Builders (£0.99)Lots of children love Minecraft. Lots of slightly younger children love apps by developer Toca Boca. This, then, should be a winner: an app inspired by Minecraft from Toca Boca. It involves building... well, building anything you like using coloured blocks, helped by six robot characters – each with their own building, decorating or destroying ability.Radioplayer Tablet (Free)This app comes from UK consortium Radioplayer, which is aggregating live streams, catch-up shows and podcasts from a range of British radio stations, including the BBC and commercial radio alike. This is its tablet app – a separate smartphone version is available – offering streams and recommendations of programmes you might like.Pocket Trains (Free)Games developer NimbleBit won plenty of fans with the excellent Pocket Planes, which got you to run your own airline. That game was made after a similar trains game was abandoned, but the company has since had a second crack at it, with this app as the result. It's very fun: run your railroads, ferrying cargo and collecting parts to build new trains.Peppa Pig's Sports Day (£2.99)There have been lots of naughty fake-Peppa apps launching (and then getting removed) on the Google Play store. This one's the real deal though, from developer P2 Games. It's based on Peppa and her schoolmates' sports day, with mini-games based on racing, jumping, cycling and making ice cream.Humble Mobile Bundle 2 (Up to you)Not one app, but the Humble Bundle is always worth breaking this roundup's format for. This is the second Android-focused collection of games with a pay-what-you-want pricing model: you choose how much to pay, and how it should be allocated between the games and two charities. The four basic games are Star Command, Time Surfer, Punch Quest and Bloons TD 5. Pay more than the average ($4.50 at the time of writing) and you get Ravensword: Shadowlands and Carmageddon thrown in too.Giant Boulder of Death (Free)If you've ever played the Katamari games on console or mobile, you'll find some familiar features in this new game from Adult Swim, which runs (well, rolls) with the "great big ball squashing things" formula. Here, you're trying to roll over animals, cars and entire villages, with more than 70 objects to smash and 60 goals to achieve.RealPlayer Cloud (Free)Only RealNetworks knows why its new videos-in-the-cloud app is currently restricted to the US. If you're there, though, it offers a way to store your videos on the RealPlayer servers then watch them on a range of devices, from smartphones and tablets through to TVs and computers. RealPlayer will adjust the videos for screen size, bandwidth and device type before playing them.Kingdom Rush Frontiers (£1.91)Tower defence game Kingdom Rush deservedly won lots of fans, and its sequel is just as worth a play. This time, your attackers include "dragons, man-eating plants, and ghastly denizens of the underworld" – more than 40 enemies in total, with new towers and heroes to battle them with.Pivvot (£1.93)Pivvot is a breath of fresh air in mobile gaming: a minimalist game of "strategic avoidance" that demands quick reflexes and... Well, quick reflexes is really the main thing. It's entirely different, and yet born of a similar ethos to the critically acclaimed Super Hexagon, as you guide a ball along a line while memorising patterns.Dead on Arrival 2 (Free)It's been, ooh, days since the last big zombies game on Android. Thank heavens for Dead on Arrival 2, which ensures that the undead continue to get a high profile on mobile devices. This suitably gruesome action game adds a strategic aspect in the way you allocate the virtual Z-Bucks currency.Hippo Shower Time (£2.49)Few Google Play store opening lines are better than "It isn't easy cleaning a dirty hippo with a cold shower". That's the high-concept pitch for this children's app from Wombi, which involves turning different showerheads on and off in order to clean said dirty hippo. The twist is that it's designed for several people to play at once, taking turns to spray while hoping their showerhead won't be the one that goes cold.Sheep Happens (Free)A good week for animal games, clearly. This is an endless-runner game set during the – wait for it – "sheepocalypse", with a classical theme that involves helping Perseus run to catch and fight Hermes, while dodging obstacles, enemies and sheep dropping out of the sky. It's the work of Kongregate, which knows a thing or two about fun casual gaming.Linqapp - Social Translation (Free)Social translation? According to the developer of this app, that involves getting "assistance from native speakers instantly and for free" when encountering a language problem abroad, including the ability to take a photo (e.g. of a street sign or menu) and then get speedy chat-window replies explaining what it means. A clever idea.Motoheroz (Free)RedLynx is a developer of distinction, having made the DrawRace and Trials HD games in the past. This is new, but building on that experience: a side-scrolling "platform racing game" where you race six vehicles over 30 tracks in solo and asynchronous multiplayer modes. It's "inspired" by WiiWare game MotoHeroz, and does a very good job of bringing its charms to smaller screens.Stoptober (Free)Stoptober? It's a campaign in the UK for people to stop smoking for 28 days, in an effort to kick the habit for the longer term. This NHS SmokeFree app accompanies the month-long campaign, promising daily support messages, progress badges, tips on dealing with cravings and photo, video and audio-sharing features to let friends know how you're getting on.Shadowrun Returns (£6.52)Shadowrun started life as a tabletop roleplaying game, but a Kickstarter campaign in 2012 raised $1.8m to turn it into a PC and tablet game. The latter is available now: an impressive-looking cyberpunk/fantasy RPG promising more than 12 hours of gameplay that throws elves, trolls and dwarves into the year 2054.Fireman Sam - Junior Cadet (£1.99)The second children's game based on a famous brand by P2 Games this week focuses on Fireman Sam. It includes six mini-games based on Sam and his Pontypandy mates: kids get to wield a hose, explore a maze, rescue cats and more. A digital sticker album adds to the fun.Kids Learn Mandarin Beginner (Free)One last children's app, this time for ambitious parents getting their kids to learn Mandarin in preparation for later working life. It teaches more than 240 words through a mixture of games, music, videos and exercises, with one lesson available in the initial free download, and another 11 available to buy as in-app purchases.Guns'n'Glory Zombies (Free)Okay, more zombies. Except these ones aren't lurking in graveyards in the middle of the night, but rather are roaming beaches and other sunny locations, with your job being to battle them using "four girls and a pug".That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
BlackBerry's revenues have halved in three months,  with the Canadian smartphone maker now in a tailspin after the failure of its January relaunch.FollowingMonday's agreement in principle to be taken private by the Canadian hedge fund Fairfax, BlackBerry said on Friday that revenues had fallen to $1.57bn in the August quarter, from $3bn in June.BlackBerry'snew generation BB10 handsets have left consumers cold, and the company said on Friday it had booked a $934m charge on unsold units of the all touchscreen Z10 smartphone, on which chief executive Thorsten Heins had pinned hopes of a recovery.The sharp decline of BlackBerry's balance sheet, which includes a $965m loss for the quarter, is partly explained by accounting changes: the group is no longer recognising revenue from phones sold into networks and retailers, but waiting until consumers have bought the handsets before counting them as purchased.In the last quarter, the company recognised hardware revenue from just 3.7m smartphones, most of them older,  BB7 devices; this compares with the6.5m units of Apple's two latest models that analysts estimate consumers paid for last weekend.Heins said: "We are very disappointed with our operational and financial results this quarter and have announced a series of major changes to address the competitive hardware environment and our cost structure. We understand how some of the activities we are going through create uncertainty, but we remain a financially strong company, with $2.6bn in cash and no debt. We are focused on our targeted markets, and are committed to completing our transition quickly in order to establish a more focused and efficient company."Revenues in North America fell to $414m, from $761m in the previous quarter. In the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, they fell from to $686m from $1.3bn. Latin America has more than halved, to $196m, and Asia Pacific is down by a similar measure, to $277m.A year ago, Blackberry could count on over $1bn a quarter from Europe, and in Asia its income was still growing. Now Heins has signalled a retrenchment from the consumer market, so that the company can concentrate on government and corporate clients, butindustry watchers are speculating that the business may have to close its manufacturing arm, auction its patents, and concentrate on software and secure servers.The company is up for sale but only one buyer has so far emerged. Fairfax, which has a 10% stake in Blackberry, has offered to take the company private at $9 a share, but has yet to raise the money to fund the deal. Investor scepticism means shares are trading at a discount to the offer, closing on Thursday at $7.95. Confirmation of BlackBerry's second-quarter numbers, which were pre-released last week, sent shares above $8 in pre-market trading.
Founded: 2011Employees: 15Based: LondonUsers: 4,125Funding: £2.6m, currently raising a further £5mRevenue: £533,000 in 2011, £1.6m in 2012, and on track for £4.5m in 2013&apos;Nobody likes to be ripped off&apos;Chartered private jets are not a market which most people would associate with the words “savings”. But for Clive Jackson, founder and chief executive of Victor, that’s exactly what it needs.“Nobody likes to be ripped off,” he says at the Allstars Challenge, where his company is one of seven competing for the title of Europe’s most exciting investor-backed startup. “The way that private jet charter is sold is unregulated. This is not financial services.“So there is no regulation about the amount of commission you can take, there is no regulation about the disclosure that you have to make as to how much commission you’re adding on or creaming off, and in fact there is no disclosure or obligation to say that you cannot get commission from the client and then commission from the supplier.”Fly Victor customers pay between 5% and 10% commission. Photograph: George HallAgainst that background, Victor’s transparency seems almost radical. If buyers complete their purchase online, the site takes a flat commission of no more than 5% over the cost of the jet charter, rising to 10% if they want a full concierge service. That’s all made “absolutely clear upfront to the customer,” Jackson adds.But the heart of Victor isn’t its transparency: instead, it’s the completely open marketplace in chartered jets – a first in such a closed market. “Not only can you see the supplier, you can see how many suppliers are available to offer their asset, their jet, to fly from A to B at any point in time. If there’s an awful lot of them, you’d expect to pay a keen price, and if there’s a few, you’d expect to pay a premium.”There’s a way to make some of that premium back, however. Customers can also use the marketplace to resell tickets on the plane’s return journey, for a 70/30 split with Victor. You&apos;d be forgiven for not being totally au fait with the mechanics of chartering private jets, but a booking typically includes the cost of getting the jet back to its home port. If you aren’t on it, that can get expensive.Conversion rate of 42%As a business proposition, Fly Victor certainly seems successful. Jackson said that 42% of genuine quotes result in a booking, and 50% of those bookings result in return bookings within 90 days. “I haven’t seen that in any element of e-commerce before,” says Jackson, a veteran of digital marketing agency Global Beach, and he’s right. On travel sites, the typical conversion rate – the proportion of visitors who make a purchase – is in the single digits. Even for a titan like Amazon, the rate is thought to be around 4% to 8%.As a “disgruntled jet charterer” himself, Jackson knows his market. He has the calm, self-assured you might expect of someone used to reclining in the luxury leather recliners of private jets, and even when presenting the sort of figures which would have most tech chief executives jumping on tables, he can talk to the “ultra high net worth individuals” in their own language.Fly Victor claims that 42% of quotes made online convert into sales. Photograph: Ken Lambert/APThe motivation for the business came when trying to visit his home in Mallorca. The island is well served by low-cost airlines flying from major British airports, but for those wanting a more luxurious experience, there are few options. So Jackson set up flyingmajorca.com, to try and co-ordinate with other jet charterers on the island. By the end of 2010, the destinations had expanded well beyond one island, and a name change was due.Jackson invested £1.1m in the newly christened Victor himself, and the company has since raised a further £1.5m. It is now securing series A funding, aiming at investment of £5m.That’s enabled the company to make some strong hires. George Berkowski, the head of product for London-based cab-hire app Hailo, is joining Victor’s advisory board as the head of product development for three days a week. Steffen Fries, who spent five years at NetJets, a business jets operator, is also joining the advisory board as senior vice-president of international.Next: a white-label jet charter productWhat of the future? The company’s next big aim is to roll out a white-label product, enabling jet owners themselves to quickly and easily take bookings from their customers. A quarter of the market still works in this direct manner, cutting out the broker later altogether. But at the moment, that business is normally done with a fax and a chequebook, providing ample scope for modernisation.That white-label product could go even further. The brokers themselves – the very business Victor is hoping to disrupt – are a potential target. Frequently no more modernised than the operators, they work at a very different scale.While the average operator manages just 3.4 planes, the broker industry aggregates up much more. “Are we going to allow our booking engine to be used by brokers? Potentially the answer is yes … because if we do it, we&apos;re targeting a business worth £2.5bn a year.”The one question left is the name. “Victor” is famously part of the Nato phonetic alphabet, but that isn’t the whole story. “I wanted a name, first of all, that would work in 23 different languages and mean the same thing. And effectively Victor, ‘victorious’ means that… Victor, to me, really personifies the type of member that’s using our service.”• The Guardian is media partner to theInvestor Allstarsevent. Read thefull list of winnersannounced on 25 September and find out whyZoopla took the awardfor the best European investor-backed company.• Read all ourInvestors Allstars coverage.Investor Allstars 2013
Marking Google&apos;s 15th birthday, Hummingbird is thebiggest change to the inner workingsof the world&apos;s most popular search engine sinceGoogle&apos;s &quot;Caffeine&quot; update in 2010, which sped up Google&apos;s indexing of sites and delivery of search results.The Hummingbird update focuses more onGoogle&apos;s Knowledge Graph– an encyclopaedia of about 570m concepts and relationships that allows Google to anticipate facts and figures you might want to know about your search term.New engine with old partsHummingbird isn&apos;t an overhaul that Google search users will instantly notice, however.&quot;In general, Hummingbird – Google says – is a new engine built on both existing and new parts, organised in a way to especially serve the search demands of today, rather than one created for the needs of 10 years ago, with the technologies back then,&quot; said Danny Sullivan of the search blogSearch Engine Land.It will benefit those using more modern forms of search, such asconversational or voice search, where you ask Google a question rather than typing keywords into the search box.&quot;The goal is that pages matching the meaning do better, rather than pages matching just a few words.&quot;Google said that Hummingbird is paying more attention to each word in a query, ensuring that the whole query – the whole sentence or conversation or meaning – is taken into account, rather than particular words,&quot; said Sullivan.But will it really work?Unfortunately, it&apos;s very difficult to do before and after comparisons, especially as Google has pushed out the Hummingbird update over the last month without any public announcements.For the moment we only have Google&apos;s word that Hummingbird will make a difference, although it gave a few examples of searches that could benefit from the new algorithm.For instance, a search for &quot;acid reflux prescription&quot; pre-Hummingbird produced sites with lists of drugs, but now brings up search results with more information about acid reflux treatment in general.Likewise, a search for &quot;pizza hut calories per slice&quot; now links the answer directly from Pizza Hut.It’s a smart move, but there’s a long way to go“Apps are the biggest long-term threat to Google’s current search-based business model – people turn to apps for information on discrete services like flights rather than search,” said Ian Maude, a search analyst at Enders Analysis.Google Now– Google’s personal digital assistant that uses context, location and knowledge of the user’s habits to preempt requests for information like flights, your daily commute and film times – has been one of Google’s attempts to fight the silos of individual apps and keep you within the Google search ecosystem. That all helps Google maintain its estimated 53% market share of internet advertising.Google Now relies on Knowledge Graph, as well as natural language interpretation, which were both boosted by the Hummingbird update.“Hummingbird doesn’t replace keyword search, it augments it, speeding up the process of search using natural language processes that understands conversational search or speech – it’s a smart move, but there’s clearly a long way to go.“Right now, when I search for trains to Warwickshire, I get a list of search results for train operator websites, but I don’t yet get times for the next trains pulled into fact boxes by Google,” said Maude.• Not everything is so straightforward in Google land, as Google&apos;s chat protocols Hangouts and Talk, suffered aprivacy issue on the 26 Septemberthat saw instant messages routed to unintended recipients.
The latest "oh, this must be true because we read it somewhere" is that "Apple is going to share its fingerprint database collected by the iPhone 5s with the National Security Agency". Reality check: the article claiming this comes from a right-wing "satire" site. Why are people confused? Because the satire's badly executed.A lot of people read it but didn't realise that the satire site was a satire site. (I've had at least one email pointing excitedly to it, and not ironically.) This isn't surprising, because the thing about satire is that you either have to lay it on with a trowel, or get so close to the bone (eg The Thick Of It) that it's indistinguishable from painful reality. It's easy to do badly. And the site in question, National Report, does itreallybadly. It's like Fox News, but with the jokes and facts taken out.Even so, you'd hope people who read such "stories" might think a bit. Or that they might even look at other headlines on the site, and wonder if a site which has a story headlined "Apple iPhone 5s Fingerprint Data To Be Shared With NSA" but also has one headlined "Packers Embarrassing Loss to Bengals Linked To Green Bay Bridge Collapse" and "Taurus Firearms Company Introduces The New Trayvon PK-10 or 'Perp-Killer'" is entirely serious. (It isn't actually funny, especially the latter headline; if you're easily offended, don't read the story that goes with it. But that's another matter.)Let's recap what we do know about the iPhone 5s's fingerprint system.• First: Apple says the iPhone 5sdoesn'tstore a "fingerprint database". Its "Touch ID" stores a cryptographically hashed mathematical representation of the pattern of each finger that you choose to register on it. You don't register any fingerprints at all if you don't want to.Reversing the cryptographic hash to produce a facsimile of the original fingerprint may be impossible, depending on how good the encryption is. Even if the NSA has somehow gotten in and weakened the encryption used (something it has done elsewhere), that doesn't make reversing the hash trivial - just less slow.• Second, Apple says that the data is stored in a "secure enclave" within the A7 chip on the phone. There doesn't seem to be any way to get that hash out; if you input a hashed print into the "enclave", you can get out a yes/no answer for whether it matches any stored hashes. But there's no way yet known to reverse from the hashed representation to anything like your original fingerprint. (The Chaos Computer Club, and also Lookout Security, havemanaged to spoof the Touch ID systemby lifting a fingerprint from a glass surface, making a high-resolution copy and then pasting that on their finger. That means they've broken into the system, but not that they've got the data out.)• Third, the NSA willalreadyhave access to your fingerprints if you're an American citizen of driving age with a car (you provide fingerprints for a driving licence) or if you're a foreign citizen who has visited the US. The FBI also maintains a database of fingerprints in the US. Neither needs to reverse them out of phones.• Fourth, if the NSA or FBI or other law enforcement agency wanted to know the ownership of a phone, it could do it much more easily than by reversing a cryptographically hashed representation of the owner's fingerprint (even assuming that it's possible) simply by subpoenaing operator records for the SIM and IMEI (unique device number) associated with the phone. Those would tell it where the owner had been, and when and where they had made phones calls. (Remember the Verizon metadata, which kicked all this off? It's that.) Remember The Wire? No fingerprint hashes involved. Lots of phones and pagers, though.• Fifth, while Apple hasn't said that the fingerprint system is totally secure (it puts the chance of a random unregistered fingerprint unlocking the device at 1 in 50,000, which is five times better than a four-digit PIN), it has emphasised that the data doesn't go off the device, isn't backed up, isn't synchronised to iCloud.Ithasn'tsaid that itwon'tgive it to the NSA. But then, none of the big technology companies (Microsoft, Google, Apple, etc) wants to say the NSA-word in talking about new devices or services, because that attracts the question of "so how much did you sharebefore?", which quickly turns into a "Have you stopped beating your wife and sharing the video with the NSA?" type of inquisition.Saying "it stays on the device" is their best option here. That's not a guarantee that if the US authorities seize a device, and for some reason want to be able to reverse-engineer the fingerprints, that Apple won't be obliged to work with them. But reversing cryptographic hashes is hard; US police havealready complained about the difficulty of doing it on earlier Apple devices, and there's no reason to think the "enclave" will be any less secure.Now, to details. The article at National Review claims to quote someone called "Tim Richardson" who it says is "District Manager of Apple's North America Marketing Department" as saying"Absolutely the databases will be merged. This whole 'fingerprint scan' idea originated from someone in our Government. They just didn't expect to be outed by Snowden."Fact: there's no such person working for Apple in any role. And it doesn't have a "North America Marketing Department".Wait, there's more:"He went onto [sic] explain that the NSA and FBI have been compiling a special database for over a year now to use with the new Apple technology. Fingerprints from all over the nation. Cold cases. Fugitives of the law. Missing persons."As pointed out above, the FBI has a lovely big fingerprint database, and the NSA can easily find out where people have been if it wants to.Of course the clue that it's satire - or "satire" - comes in the HILARIOUS quote at the end, quoting "an Apple user we spoke with": "I like the idea of easily being able to unlock my Apple device with a fingerprint. But I also shouldn't have to worry about being tied to a string of murders I commuted [sic - we think they mean "committed"] in the 70's… That's not America and that's not freedom."Yes, hilarious. Also, complete nonsense. Yet we've seen it quoted on other sites. Remember, it's good to keep an open mind, but not so much that the wind blows through it.(If you're wondering, the links above to National Review all use rel=nofollow.)Other stories in this occasional series:•No, Samsung did not pay its $1bn fine to Apple in nickels•No, Bruce Willis isn't suing Apple over iTunes rights
Over  a decade ago, the Grand Theft Auto juggernaut hit hard. In a post-Columbine, post-9/11 world, its playground of violence undercut with sharp critiques of American consumerism and hypocrisy quantified an important protest against moral panic, deftly skewering the nation's tendency to blame new technology – particularly video games – for social ills.The recently-launched Grand Theft Auto V cost upwards of $250m (£155m) to develop and market, and its investment in a realistic universe of unprecedented scale paid off: the franchise brought in a billion dollars in its first 48 hours on the market.It's a bit like the corporatisation of punk rock: What does the traditional industry's most mammoth juggernaut have left to say on behalf of society's easy targets? Its casual violence, lazy misogyny and lavish attention to what an empowered young male demographic finds funny no longer seem in step with the edgy rebelliousness that brought the franchise to international dominance. At worst, GTA V now looks a lot like a reinforcement of the same status quo that constrains the video game industry's prominent and expensive console retail business.Genuine transgression occurs at the fringes of art, and the same is luckily still true in gamings' independent scene. One of my favourite releases this year is Lucas Pope'sPapers, Please, where you play as a border control officer for a dark fictional nation called Arstotzka.Inside the bleak, detail-intensive and challenging work of document processing is a fascinating essay on nationalism and the fundamental conflict between freedom and security. Among many other things, the game allows you the option to perform nude body-scans on frail refugees if you think it might prevent terrorism, and in so doing, forces you to think about the human cost of bureaucracy by creating empathy with all its living components.Independent designer Merritt Kopas describes her recent gameHUGPUNXas a "a fluoro-pink queer urban hugging simulator". It's a direct descendant ofPUNKSNOTDEAD, a joyfully violent, neon-drenched primal scream made by a developer called mooosh in just 12 hours – except Kopas' "cutie aesthetic" reinterpretation – where you prettify the game's world by embracing people and kittens – acts as an interrogation of traditional testosterone-fueled death fantasies.At the turn of the new millennium, online gameSiSSYFiGHT 2000cast players as awful little playground girls in battle, at a time when non-sexualised female characters in video games were even more of a rarity than they are now. The fully-customisable avatars could be represented through a palette of unnatural colours and often looked subversively grotesque. Players also had the incredibly-uncommon option of creating androgynous avatars. Thanks to Kickstarter, SiSSYFiGHT is set to be revived in HTML5 as an open-source game on modern servers and mobile devices, with passionate volunteers stepping up to lead the grassroots community around the game.There are countless others: Molleindustria's Paolo Pedercini, who describes himself as more interested in examining "forms of violence and oppression that are somewhat invisible," releasedBest Amendmentearlier this year, "in an attempt to come to terms with games' obsession with guns."Molleindustria also created iPhone titlePhone Story, where players lead developing world children in coltan mining and try to catch plummeting Foxconn workers – a satire on the incredible global cost of gadget fetishism. It was apparently too subversive for Apple, who banned it from its App Store in 2011, just four days after launch (it can still be downloaded on Android devices).Zach Gage's 2009 gamelose/loseexperimented with real-life consequences within a video game – it spawns aliens based on actual files on the player's computer, and killing them destroys the player's own actual data. The aliens never actually attack, an interesting statement on motivation and consequences, and if the player touches an alien, the game itself is deleted from the player's computer.Ohnoproblems'Sabbatis a gleefully-monstrous, choice-intensive satanic ritual simulator delivered only in text; its opening act is to greet the player as "witchdumpling", and ask about their genitalia. It's made inTwine, a free and simple game-making tool that has widely democratised self-expression in game creation, earning it particular favour among historically-under-represented communities – for some of these new creators, including women, gay people and minorities, raising their voice in the games space at all is itself a rebellion.The medium of interactive entertainment still has the incredible potential to create a broad palette of meaningful provocation, social dialogue and the thrill of pure rebellious mayhem. You just have to know where to look for it.
