Star Wars Episode VII is due to be released in December 2015 as the first new film in the series sinceDisney bought Star Wars producer Lucasfilmin October 2012.In the meantime, there’sStar Wars Rebels, a new animated TV series set in the Star Wars universe, airing on the Disney XD channel and aimed at children – although a fair few adults are likely to be tuning in too.Star Wars Rebels’ showrunner is Dave Filoni, a young fan of the original films who grew up to work with George Lucas on Lucasfilm’s Star Wars: The Clone Wars animated TV series and film.“One thing he felt was important was that we would never treat any content like animation as any lesser than the films that he made,” said Filoni in a keynote speech at the MIPJunior television industry conference in Cannes this weekend.One key aim for Star Wars Rebels is to attract a new generation of children to the franchise, with a new set of characters rather than the familiar faces from the six films to date.“It has to have a broad reach of characters: you can’t just rely on Luke and Leia,” said Filoni. “We have to give each new generation of kids a new generation of characters to follow.” He added that Star Wars Rebels aims to bring back some of “the funny” from the original trilogy that was missing from The Clone Wars.Action sequences are just as important to Star Wars Rebels as they were to those original films, although the inspirations for those in the new series vary.Some episodes, like one where the heroes steal a TIE Fighter, were inspired by Filoni’s childhood games with Star Wars toys. “When I was a kid, I had a TIE Fighter that I’d put the good guys in, because it was so cool,” he said, adding that he hopes Star Wars Rebels will inspire similar real-world play now.“It goes to show why I think it’s so important that we distribute these stories and get them out there, that kids are inspired: they role-play Star Wars and play with figures,” he said. “Maybe we’re grooming the next director of Star Wars. It’s possible!”Star Wars Rebels showrunner Dave Filoni speaking at MIPJunior.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianSome other action sequences are inspired less by Star Wars, and more by another famous film franchise, though. “A lot of our action is actually inspired by Indiana Jones,” said Filoni. “Indy will inform the audience right off the bat ‘here’s a problem, here’s how I’m gonna solve it’, but then other two or three problems emerge that he didn’t foresee... and that’s what drives the tension.”There are other thematic links between the original Star Wars trilogy – episodes IV, V and VI since the prequels were released between 1999 and 2005 – and the Star Wars Rebels show though.Filoni said that once again, the heroes often “don’t really know what they’re doing”, and often run away from enemies rather than take them on, at least until the time is right – matching the exploits of Luke, Han Solo and co in the original films. “The only time they come face to face with Darth Vader in The Empire Strikes Back, they’re quickly captured and have to sit down and have dinner with him!” he said.One important change for Star Wars as a franchise is that from now on, all TV shows, games, books and comics based on its universewill be part of its “canon”– unlike what was called the “Expanded Universe” in the past – and overseen by a new “story group” formed within Lucasfilm to ensure new storylines are connected.“Now I have talks with the people doing the spin-offs, I’m in collaboration with the guys doing video games, so I know what’s going on in several different fronts,” said Filoni. “In this day and age, something fans love is when they see something on television, and it’s reflected in the movie, then they play a game of it, and it all fits together... and Star Wars is this big continuous thing.”That opens the way for characters who prove popular in one part of the Star Wars universe – like Star Wars Rebels – to appear or at least be referenced in the upcoming new films. “I’d say there’s always a chance. Given that it’s all one big universe, you never know,” he said.“I would say it has to make sense for the time period. Episode 7 is quite a long time after the time period I’m in... But the excitement of generating Star Wars content for people is it’s going to be more connected than it’s ever been, and that opens up exciting opportunities.”Filoni’s role on Star Wars Rebels may be showrunner, but he stressed that he’s also there as an enthusiastic fan, keen to pass on his passion to children who aren’t familiar even with the prequel films, let alone the original movies.“I want kids watching Star Wars all the time,” he said. “I want them to be obsessed with Star Wars. Because I was!”•Star Wars meets Clash of Clans in Star Wars: Commander game
The Romans had a phrase for it:Ars est celare artem. That is: “The art is to conceal the art.” When you’re doing something really difficult in public with the intent of gaining attention, don’t let on how difficult it is to do. You don’t hear guitarists saying “OK, this riff is really hard” ahead of the hit song. Actors don’t say “it’s hell learning these lines, watch this” before they appear as Hamlet. That’s because people generally don’t want to know how difficult it is to do something; they want to see the results. This came to mind as I considered the contrast betweenGoogle Glassandthe Apple Watch. Here are two giants of the technology industry, with respected worldwide brands; they vie for top position among the best-known and most-valued technology brands. And they’re both moving into the wearable technology space. Google is doing it with the emphasis on technology. It began the marketing for Glass with a video that appearedout of nowhere in April 2012, promising all sorts of wonders from this as-yet unseen product: you’d walk around the city, find appropriate books via cues in your vision, get prompts about subway delays, talk to happy, smiling people.It became more visible in dribs and drabs (let nobody doubt Google’s ability to find technology bloggers’ G-spot) over the next year, with a triumphant appearance to open Google I/O when a team of skydivers wearing Glass broadcast the experience live to a thrilled, seated audience. The year after, Google co-founder Sergey Brin railed at theTed audience about the tyranny of smartphones. They were “emasculating”, he said (leading to a near-global reaction of “huh?”). Whereas Glass just got out of the way. Didn’t it? That sounded great – until people tried Glass, and everyone else noticed the really obvious camera/screen combo on the front, and the general geekiness of those wearing it; and those wearing it noticed that it was pretty useful, but that once you’d got past saying “I’m wearing Glass!” that there wasn’t much to say. (Rory Cellan-Jones, the BBC’s technology correspondent, did a six-week deep dive of wearing Glass almost constantly, andconcluded by calling it a “fascinating failure”, saying that “it lacks the sheer usefulness that would make it a must-have device for the mass market”.)Glass is technology, being forced towards people on the basis that, because it’s technology, they’ll want it. So far, the evidence is: no, they don’t. At which point we turn to the Apple Watch. Not, you’ll note, “smartwatch” or even “iWatch”; Apple isn’t classing it with the iPod, iPhone, iMac or iPad through its nomenclature. Instead, it’s using a familiar format to introduce something that might be remarkably different. Yet unlike Google’s initial marketing, Apple has pretty much said nothing about what its watch will do. Apart from run apps. Having briefly tried one on, I can say that it’s light, doesn’t look ugly, and that it offers subtle taps on your wrist for different sorts of notifications, as well as having a bright screen.So where’s the art? What’s the relevance of the Latin quote? I think it’s that Glass doesn’t conceal its workings, or complication, sufficiently. Of course, you say – it’s worn on the face, so how do you conceal that? For a start, it could have been symmetrical. Glass’s defiant asymmetry draws attention to the camera/screen over the wearer’s right eye; it really is the guitarist who says: “This riff took ages!” Good design would withdraw into the background; it might not look like normal spectacles, but wouldn’t look like a mechanical spider mated with a pair of glasses.For all that Glass packs in – lots of marvellous technology – it doesn’t try to hide it. The Apple Watch, by contrast, tucks probably as much in, but tries instead to hide that inside a fashion item – for watches are that, just like belts, ties, necklaces or earrings – or glasses. Fail to hide the technology, and you sacrifice wearability, and hence popularity. Google Glasshas been available for sale to anyone in the UK since June; I’d say it’s a safe bet that Apple’s watch will have sold more in a month than Google Glass has since its inception. Why? Because it doesn’t try to be technology. It tries to be wearable. The art of selling technology is to hide the technology. Even a Roman could have told you that.
Q I’ve heard public Wi-Fi is insecure. How do I improve my safety when using it? Sophie via emailA With the rise of smartphones, tablets and laptops, it has become increasingly common to use public Wi-Fi without thinking about security and privacy. Most people don’t understand how easily data can be intercepted. Wi-Fi networks that don’t have passwords don’t encrypt data, so it is relatively easy using freely available software to view information being sent to the website, and back to you. You can protect yourself by routing your data through a “virtual private network” (VPN), a secure “tunnel” that operates over a public network. Your connection to the network is encrypted, along with all your data.VPNs are used by companies so employees can remotely access files while staying secure. The technology is also available to you and me through online organisations. Among the best I’ve found areHideMyAssandCloak. HideMyAss works with Apple, Windows and Android devices. Cloak is aimed at Apple users. HideMyAss offers an unlimited service for $11.52 a month if you pay monthly, $8.33 a month if you pay six-monthly, and $6.55 a month for annual membership.Q The mail app on my iPhone 4S stopped fetching mail from one of my two Googlemail accounts. I’ve checked and re-input the settings, restarted my phone etc – basically Ican only access the account online.Any idea why?Nicola via emailA This is a problem that’s caught me out a few times over the last couple of years as email fetch settings are not saved inside the area for the individual account, but in a separate place inside settings. The fetch/pull email settings are rather confusingly placed in a separate menu inside your iPhone’s settings. If you open the settings app, select “Mail, Contacts, Calendars”, then choose “Fetch new data” — you will see options to set how often your device will fetch data as well as which accounts should use fetch in the first place.When setting up fetch for emails, I would recommend using the least frequent setting that you can, as it can be a drain on your battery life.Q I’ve ordered aniPhone 6and am wondering what to do with my old 4S. I was thinking of keeping it to track my runson Nike+ and Strava – the 6 is probably too big to strap to my arm and would be safer and drier at home. So I need a data-only sim for it. The cheapest Vodafone one is £10. I already have a Vodafone contract, a data plan for my iPad and a BT broadband contract. Is there an offer that allows you to bundle all this data/call time together, using one number and multiple devices? Ian via emailA Sim cards were designed to be swappable, so the cheapest solution would be to swap the cards in the devices, and use a nano to micro sim adaptor (available for a few pounds from Amazon, etc) to fit the sim into the larger socket of the iPhone 4S. If you do want a second sim, GiffGaff’s Goodybags don’t tie you into a contract, and you can get 1GB of data for £10, or 3GB for £12 (depending on the data usage of Strava/Nike+ and your frequency of use).Sadly for those of us with multiple devices, there are not any plans or services in the UK for using one number across all your devices.Q I would like to update to iOS 8 but have heard that it can break file syncing applications. Is this true and how can I fix it? Andreas via emailA IOS 8 and OS X Yosemite both introduce a new form of syncing for apps called iCloud Drive, however because Yosemite has not been released yet, enabling it at the moment will break sync between the two.Fortunately, however, Apple lets you choose if you want to enable iCloud Drive while updating to iOS 8 or the beta of Yosemite. Just select “Not right now” during the set up process. For those who have already enabled iCloud Drive by accident, many applications also support Dropbox syncing, and it works well as a fallback option. The free plan is probably good enough until Yosemite is released, although they do now offer 1TB of storage for $10/month.Q I have aSamsung Galaxy Taband was wondering how to copy the pictures I’ve taken with it ontomy laptop.Jim via emailA The easiest way to transfer photos and videos from any Android device is using a USB cable. Plug the cable into your device and computer; then when prompted, select “connect device as mass storage”.Tap “mount” and it will appear on your computer as a removable disk/USB stick. Finally, navigate to the “DCIM” folder, you should be able to copy the photos to your computer harddrive. Although slightly tedious, it can be done pretty quickly, and saves you installing any special software.
Raleigh Chopper: £200, weight 15kg, gears 6The Raleigh ChopperThe iconic Chopper is back! First launched on a grateful nation in 1969, few other bikes are capable of reducing middle-aged people to such a state of nostalgic goo. In those early heady days it cost just £32, and the asymmetric wheels (20in and 16in), banana-shaped padded backrest, three-speed gear shift fixed to the top tube (remember the way the red pointer used to click through the gears?) and those awesome ape-hanger handlebars were enough to turn all of us into easy riders. Now it costs a lot more, but it’s gained three gears and a set of reliable V-brakes. It also comes with eye-catching flame decals. The backrest could do with being a little more generous, but other than that the Chopper is the same as the bike we always dreamed of waking up to on Christmas morning. In red, please, Santa (halfords.com).Fred’s Lady Model 1: £260, weight 18kg, gears 0Fred’s Lady Model 1Photograph: PRThree years ago, after visiting Uganda and being impressed by the simple, sturdy and elegant bikes that are still so ubiquitous all across East Africa, Tom Davenport and Jonny Coppel decided to set up their own company and sell the old-school bicycles here in the UK – and so Fred’s Bicycles was born. They offer two models – one for ladies in duck-egg blue and one for gents in racing green. Both are steel framed and fully comply with the EU’s cycling regulations. They’re blessed with V-brakes, a chrome bell, retro cream tyres, a comfy seat , posh leather handlebar grips and rubbery pedals. They chose the name Fred after discovering it’s a derogatory term used by serious cyclists to describe hopeless amateurs. But who wants to be a pro anyway? Wear tartan and a smug smile (fredsbicycles.co.uk).Nolobi: £270, weight 9.8kg, gears 0Nolobi bikePhotograph: prNolobi is a bicycle company based in Hackney, London. Yes, hipsterville. So it’s beards, sleeve tattoos and a fixation with almond milk. But they do know their bikes. They build great-quality fixed-gear or single-speed bikes at reasonable rates and in an array of wacky colours. The bikes have featherweight aluminium frames. So they’re bright and light. I found it perfect for ducking and diving through the city’s choked streets. Shop online and if you don’t see what you want among the dozens of frame colours and wheel sets, you can pay another £20 and design your own. The bikes are sent out boxed but not quite fully assembled. If you aren’t handy with a spanner, your local bike shop will give it the once-over. Nolobi claims you’ll pay no more than £10-£15 for that. The bikes all come with a full one-year guarantee (nolobi.com).Qwic N7.1: £1,895, weight 23.9kg, gears Shimano Nexus 7-speed hubQwic N7.1For cycling purists, electric bikes are unmentionable atrocities, the transport of choice for cheats, slobs and the feeble minded. But that’s only because the purists haven’t had a go on one. The new generation of electric bikes is clean, comfortable, low-maintenance and efficient. Qwic, for instance, is a company set up by two students of Holland’s Delft University of Technology. They’ve taken the traditional Dutch bike, with all its qualities of endurance and reliability, and attached a neat anti-friction hub motor driven by a battery fitted to the rear rack. It’ll do 15mph and assist you on the hills – you can choose the level of power it contributes. An overnight charge will give you about 60 miles. This model comes with leather handles and saddle, an enclosed chain, concealed wiring and integrated lights. It’s a sweat-saving ride you’ll grow to depend on (qwicgb.com).Norco Sight Alloy 7 1.5 650B: £2,000, weight 14.5kg, gears Shimano SLX 20-speedNorco Sight Alloy 7 15 650B 2014 mountain bikeIf you’re new to mountain biking, you’ll find the slang bewildering. MTBers seem to spend a lot of time working on their “whips”, switching out their “650Bs” and grinding on their “granny rings”. This new model from Norco, for instance, has a soft rear end, a low BB and a slack head! In plain English that means it has full suspension, a low centre of gravity and a riding position that doesn’t tip you forward at an aggressive angle. The “front sus” will take the shoulder and wrist pain out of the lumps and bumps, while the “rear sus” (as oppose to “hardtail”) means your own rear end won’t end up black and blue. The bike has larger-size wheels (650Bs) which give superb grip – going up or down. The price tag is high, but Norco bikes boast an incredible spec. However this bike will not double as a city runaround. It’s too heavy and too big. Save it for wild weekends in the country (evanscycles.com).Be safe, be seenProviz Reflect 360 jacketWith the dark evenings comes the chance to really shine! Some cyclists are a bit slap dash about being visible – and some seem to go a bit overboard with flashing lights. Anybody who commutes up the Walworth Road in south London will have seen “helmet head” – a cyclist with at least 50 lights stuck all over his helmet. But there is an easier way to be seen. TheREFLECT360 cycling jacket from Provizis the world’s first to be designed using a 100% reflective outer-shell. By day it looks a rather cool pearly grey, by night it comes alive. It’s been constructed with multiple vents – front, shoulder/back and under arm – so it isn’t too sweaty. Open the front zipper vents and you’ll get a decent “through-flow”. The jacket also has an inside chest pocket and large lower back pocket to store an extra layer or a map. It’s comfortable, warm, waterproof and astonisghingy visible – it’s the best £75 you’ll spend this winter. For more details, go toprovizsports.comEmail Martin at martin.love@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Disney’s toy-driven action adventure game returns with a Marvel theme, bringing Spider-Man, the Avengers and Guardians of the Galaxy romps along with numerous enhancements. The basic starter pack grants access to the Avengers adventure with three toy heroes; more need to be purchased to gain access to other characters and Marvel worlds. It’s a good package.Skill trees offer more meaningful progression and balance the tougher difficulty and semi-permanent character death in this new edition. But even on the easy setting, younger players will find themselves restarting checkpoints to progress.Elsewhere, the game-creator toy box mode has been vastly improved. A streamlined interface, automated generation of landscapes and support for every character old and new ensure game-making is fun and accessible. It has to be said that this is not the cheapest video game for families, but there’s a lot of value here in the play-set adventures and toy box creativity.
Microsoft’s open-world driving title changes gear,leaving Colorado behindin favour of a Mediterranean setting.Forza Horizon 2has also shifted its demographic targets, with the focus now on racing rather than edgy car culture and the age rating dropped from aPegi 12to Pegi 3.Younger, new fans will find much to enjoy: both the environments and the cars quickly impress. Even before hitting the start line, the fully explorable rolling hills, fields and ocean vistas of France and Italy are as alive as the streets ofGrand Theft Auto. The familiar hotchpotch race structure returns, with events slowly unlocking entry to new areas. This time around there is also a greater sense of travel as scenic road trips show off the environmental weather effects and day-night cycles on the way to the next venue.None of these novelties, however, can disguise the fact thatForza Horizon 2is still very much about cars and racing. About 200 vehicles offer an impressive choice to suit most tastes, from beginners to experts – proving that, despite the changes, the core game is present and correct.
Many a title on the App Store has tried and failed to combine gaming with education, so it’s a joy to discover a release that seamlessly blends the two.Twelve a Dozen is best described as a maths-platformer, which puts you in control of 12, an inhabitant of Dozenopolis intent on discovering the cause of a recent numerical cataclysm. Aided by a floating decimal point – Dot – who acts as guide and narrator, you traverse the landscape in the typical bouncing fashion.The added twist is the maths-based puzzles that must be completed – using stray “numbles” to add, subtract, multiply and divide from 12’s value to gain access to fresh areas. In addition, some numbers bestow powers, such as the five that allows your character to swim.The maths becomes increasingly testing, but the charming visuals and narrative style mean the educational benefits enhance the gameplay rather than the other way around.
So playful that four young children can button-bash their way to happiness. So technical it sits alongsideStreet Fighter IVat international fighting game tournaments. So informative it serves as a comprehensive museum for Nintendo’s rich 125-year history – theSuper Smash Brosseries appeals to a broad spectrum of people.The 3DS version arrives complete with the phenomenal production values for which the series is celebrated. The variety in the 49 playable characters is superb, from Mega Man and Wii Fit Trainer to your own fully customisable Mii Fighter. Meanwhile, the portable game raids Nintendo’s handheld back catalogue to inspire its plentiful array of stages and there are a wealth of modes, from the platforming Smash Run to countless mini games and a surprisingly workable online mode. Put simply, this is a miraculous package and a carnival of excitement that no 3DS owner should be without.
Twenty years ago this week, a software developer in California ushered in a new era in how we communicate. His name isDave Winerand on 7 October 1994 he published his firstblog post. He called it Davenet then, and he’s been writing it most days since then. In the process, he has become one of the internet’s elders, as eminent in his way asVint Cerf,Dave Clark,Doc Searls,Lawrence Lessig,Dave Weinbergeror evenTim Berners-Lee.When you read his blog,Scripting News– as I have been doing for 20 years – you’ll understand why, because he’s such a rare combination of talents and virtues. He’s technically a very gifted software developer, for example. Many years ago he wrote one of the smartest programs that ever ran on the Apple II, the IBM PC and the first Apple Mac – an outliner calledThinkTank, which changed the way many of us thought about the process of writing. After that, Winer wrote the first proper blogging software, invented podcasting and was one of the developers ofRSS, the automated syndication system that constitutes the hidden wiring of the blogosphere. And he’s still innovating, still pushing the envelope, still writing great software.Technical virtuosity is not what makes Winer one of the world’s great bloggers, however. Equally important is that he is a clear thinker and writer, someone who is politically engaged, holds strong opinions and believes in engaging in discussion with those who disagree with him. And yet the strange thing is that this opinionated, smart guy is also sensitive: he gets hurt when people write disparagingly about him, but he also expresses that hurt in a philosophical way.Blogging pioneer Dave Winer.“In 20 years of blogging and developing software for blogging,” he writes in a reflective post about his career, “you meet a lot of people, and some of them do share love with you. To me that was always the wonder of blogging. I remember very clearly, in 1999 or 2000, looking at a blogroll and seeing dozens of names, mostly people I had never heard of, all of whom had blogs. It was at that moment that I realised that it had worked. But I was in for a rude shock when I clicked the links, they were all talking about me, and they didn’t like me! Oy.“It’s hard to accept, when you’re expecting accolades, to find that the accolades come in the form of rotten tomatoes, hurled at maximum velocity, at your virtual body parts. But there it is. People express love in weird ways. I was once at a workshop in northern California, experiencing the same thing in realspace. I lamented, but was told later that I was the most loved person in the room. Go figure.”In the two decades since Dave Winer more or less invented the genre, blogging has been through the usual internet hype cycle: lauded breathlessly as the new, new thing; rapidly taken up until it reaches a peak after which boredom sets in and the quest for the next new thing begins. At the moment the crazes are microblogging – twittering – and ephemeral communications such as Snapchat, but these too will pass.And when they do, people will suddenly rediscover that some of the most interesting writing, thinking and discussion in the world still goes on in the wilds of the blogosphere, far away from the big-name media brands and online publications. They will rediscoverCrooked Timber, or the astonishingBecker-Posner blog, in which a Nobel laureate and a distinguished American judge exchange beautifully crafted arguments about big subjects on a daily basis. Or they will visitLight Blue Touchpaperto find out what Cambridge’s computer security researchers are thinking about, orFreedom to Tinkerin which their counterparts in Princeton are doing the same. And if they tire of that, they can always visitLarry Lessig’s blogto follow his campaign against corruption in US political life, orDoc Searl’s amazing weblogin which he manages to write interestingly on just about anything. And so on and so on.It would be absurd to claim that this cornucopia of riches is all down to Dave Winer, but when the history of the web is written, his name will be up there in lights, because he was the guy who showed what blogging could do. And I, for one, hope that he will still be doing it in 2034.
ITV’s remake of classic TV show Thunderbirds received its first public screening today at the MIPJunior television industry conference in Cannes.Thunderbirds Are Go! blends modern computer-generated animation technology with traditional live-action models, with Rosamund Pike providing the voice of Lady Penelope.The new show will air in 2015 as 26 episodes, with a cast also including Fonejacker’s Kayvan Novak and Game of Thrones’ Thomas Brodie-Sangster, with the original voice of Parker, David Graham, reprising his role.ITV Studios is working with New Zealand-based Pukeko Pictures and Lord of the Rings special effects studio Weta Workshop on the new series, which will debut exactly 50 years after the original.“It’s a lament of mine that due to 3D filmmaking and the advent of CGI, miniatures are beginning to be lost from the world,” said Richard Taylor, executive producer and co-owner of Pukeko Pictures and Weta Workshop, before the premiere. “But I knew that I wanted to make a remake of Thunderbirds with miniatures, paying homage to the original show.”The stakes are high for the new project, after a live-action film in 2003 that received a poor response from critics and fans alike, including Thunderbirds creator Gerry Anderson, whofamously described itas “the biggest load of crap I have ever seen in my life”.ITV Studios’ Giles Ridge, executive producer on Thunderbirds Are Go!, said before the premiere that the company has worked hard to ensure the new series does not meet a similar response.“One of the biggest challenges of a remake is finding the right balance between refreshing the series for a new audience of children, and keeping the DNA of the original that made it special in the first place. And I really hope that we’ve done that well,” said Ridge.And have they? Based on the evidence of the episode shown at MIPJunior, even the most sceptical fans of the original show won’t be tempted to describe Thunderbirds Are Go! as crap.The plot sees the Tracys exploring a disused mine showing a worrying radiation levels, where – and you may want to sit down for this revelation – they get more than they bargained for.The set pieces are very good: from Thunderbirds 1 and 2 blasting out of Tracy Island and screaming across the ocean to Scott Tracy being whirled around by a killer robot.The little touches are noticeable too though: some nifty Minority Report-style computer visualisations back at base, with nods to the show’s history – the first “F.A.B.” comes about five minutes in – without feeling overly shackled by it.Judging by the episode shown in Cannes, the decision to combine computer animation and real model sets has paid off.If you’re not a fan of the squeakily-clean, shiny CG animation in many modern children’s shows, you’ll appreciate the look of Thunderbirds Are Go! – from the glistening rocks in the mine to the dust clouds kicked up above by the hovering Thunderbird 1.Not everything was revealed in the premiere, of course: no Lady Penelope or Parker, for example, and only two of the Thunderbirds vehicles. The impact of new characters – Kayo and Colonel Casey are the ones announced so far by ITV – will also have to wait until the show debuts.Still, the premiere bodes well for the new series. However, the critical audience for Thunderbirds Are Go! isn’t people old enough to remember the original, but the new generation of children its remake is aimed at.They’ll be able to deliver their verdict in 2015, when the series airs.•Danger Mouse remake sees some males returning as females
Exclusively for those who pre-orderedAlien: Isolation(and inevitably for everyone else too in a couple of months’ time) there isCrew Expendable, a downloadable extra that lets you play a scenario aboard the Nostromo, the doomed spaceship in Alien. Playing as Ripley, Parker or Dallas, you need to navigate the half-dark, flickering interior of the ship in an attempt to lure the alien into an airlock and flush it into the icy vacuum of space. Those who pre-ordered from certain shops also getLast Survivor, which puts you in Ripley’s probably extremely sweaty space boots as she hops on to the escape shuttle for one last claustrophobic scuffle with the alien. Original actors including Sigourney Weaver, Tom Skerritt and Veronica Cartwright reconvened to do the voice acting, and with the mood perfectly recreated in the game’s engine, it’s like an interactive little extra helping of Ridley Scott’s original Alien.
Marooned on a remote space station with a gaggle of crazed survivors, politely murderous androids and a single adult xenomorph, your task is simply to survive. Like The Last Of Us, Isolation involves scavenging and hiding, nursing your precious few bullets for when they really matter, and spending the rest of your time cowering underneath desks or in air vents. The oppressive atmosphere and wonderfully retro-futuristic technology are ripped straight from the first Alien film. It’s a masterclass in tense, desperate survival horror.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKSuper Smash Bros, 3DSTaking place on amusingly familiar backdrops, Super Smash Bros is a game of ludicrous cartoon violence perpetrated by and on Nintendo’s beloved characters, from Mario to pink cloud thing Kirby, by way of the Wii Fit Trainer, Zelda and guest stars Pac-Man and Sonic The Hedgehog. You can also create new fighters using Mii Maker, imbuing them with skills and equipping them with weaponry culled from every game imaginable, exploding Pokéballs joining a Steel Diver submarine gun. Its chaotic brawls work surprisingly well on the small screen.Nintendo, £26.64-£39.99Driveclub, PS4Whereas a racing game such as Forza Horizon 2 just wants you to be silly in fast cars, cutting corners and ploughing across farmers’ fields, Driveclub is more traditional in its demands, confining you to tracks and penalising you for veering off them, as well as encouraging players to use teamwork when racing. Its rather clinical handling model suffers from an inability to turn off driving aids, and while its social features are solid, there are much better driving games out there.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £49.99
The woman with the blue hair atGrizedale forestseemed confident, at least. “Little kids do it,” she said, handing over a map and pointing out the mountain bike trial with her pen. “You guys will be fine.”I’d been mountain biking precisely once before, on the trails in Clayton Vale behind Manchester’s velodrome. But, like a chef who thinks they can make a soufflé because they can boil an egg, I figured I’d mastered the basics.I remembered the Manc trails were colour-coded like ski slopes. We’d just stick to the easy hues and we’d be fine. Only problem was, Grizedale doesn’t do breezy greens, or even medium blues. Just theNorth Face trail, which, we soon found out, is code red. In other words: really rather dastardly and far beyond the capability of two rank amateurs, incorporating 10 miles of rock-strewn, single-track paths, up, down and around the western edge of the forest, complete with perilous drop-offs, wiggly wooden “boardwalk” sections and bends so tight I almost always lost my bottle.I’d used up all my swear words within the first five minutes. I couldn’t blame my bike. TheGT Karakoram Eliteis a nippy, lightweight aluminium-framed hardtail designed and priced exactly for newbies like me. With Rockshox XC28 suspension forks and super-reactive hydraulic disc brakes, it did everything I needed it to, which mostly was to brake frequently and suddenly. I’m used to calliper-controlled rim brakes on my road bike, which have a slight delay whenever it’s raining. Why more racers don’t have disc brakes, I don’t know. They are vastly superior and not nearly as badly affected by mud or rain, which is lucky, because the Lake District had been suffering a wet patch prior to our arrival.The GT has big (29in) wheels, good for bumpy terrain and fast becoming the standard size in the MTB world. They were fitted out with grippyContinental Race Kingtyres, which I prayed would not let me down in the forest after my pump fell out of my pocket and into the bracken.The GT’s triple triangle geometry, which has a smaller rear triangle than your average frame, made for a stiffer ride that still soaked up all of the rocks I plucked up the courage to ride it over. As a roadie, I am used to dodging obstacles. Ploughing through them does not come naturally and I usually ended up putting my foot down, like a little kid learning how to ride without stabilisers. I don’t think that’s quite what the blue-haired woman had in mind.• Follow Helen onTwitter.GT Women’s Karakoram Elite 29er 2014Price£699.99Front suspension forkRockshox XC28 TK with 100mm of travelBrakesAvid DB1 hydraulic disc brakesGearsShimano 27-speedTyresContinental Race KingFrameAluminium hydroformed speed metal 29er frame
The chief executive of Microsoft has apologised to his staff after saying that women should not ask for a pay rise and should have “faith in the system” instead.Satya Nadella, who took charge of Microsoft in February,told a conference to celebrate women in technologythat females could rely on “good karma” inside their business to obtain a wage rise.His gaffe came in a response to a question from academic and Microsoft board member Maria Klawe about women’s pay, which is a hot issue in a tech industry heavily dominated by men.Klawe told the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing event that she disagreed with her boss’s response, triggering cheers from the audience and a Twitter storm against Nadella online.The Microsoft chief executive, who succeeded Steve Ballmer but has spent 22 years at the tech giant, later sent an apologetic email to all his employees saying he had got it all wrong.“I was interviewed on stage by Maria Klawe at the Grace Hopper Conference – I encourage you to watch the video,” he explained. “Toward the end of the interview, Maria asked me what advice I would offer women who are not comfortable asking for pay raises. I answered that question completely wrong.“Without a doubt I wholeheartedly support programmes at Microsoft and in the industry that bring more women into technology and close the pay gap. I believe men and women should get equal pay for equal work. And when it comes to career advice on getting a raise when you think it’s deserved, Maria’s advice was the right advice. If you think you deserve a raise, you should just ask.”At the meeting in Phoenix, Arizona, he had struck a different note when asked about women and wages: “It’s not really about asking for the raise, but knowing and having faith that the system will actually give you the right raises as you go along. Because that’s good karma. It’ll come back because somebody’s going to know that’s the kind of person that I want to trust,” he said.The comments were particularly inflammatory because only last week Microsoft reported that less than 30% of its 100,000-strong global workforce is female. That 70/30 ratio is regarded as fairly standard among other technology companies such as Google, Facebook and Yahoo.Research by the American Association of University Women, published last year, revealed that women were overall paid 78% of what equally qualified men received, although some data suggest the pay gap is less in the tech sector.The firestorm around Nadella’s comments comes as Microsoft is already struggling to maintain its position at the cutting edge of the tech industry, having seen a dramatic fall in its market share. That decline forced its founder and first chief executive, Bill Gates,to come back and spend more time around the company. A piece in the current edition of Vanity Fair on Microsoft is headlined The Empire Reboots, although it quotes a recent blog post entitled “The Irrelevance of Microsoft” by a Silicon Valley analyst.
Google is expected to release its new flagship Nexus Android smartphone later this month, which the Guardian understands will be a super-sized “phablet” device with a 5.9in screen.The new smartphone will be made by Motorola under the Nexus brand according to people familiar with the matter, confirmed by separate peopletalking to the Wall Street Journal. The phone will be sold by Google direct to customers through the Google Play Store as well as via mobile phone stores and other retailers.The phone follows the popular 5in Nexus 5 smartphone, which was released at the end of October 2013. The Nexus 6, as it has been called in previous leaks, is designed to push Google into the rising “phablet” trend with smartphones that are a cross between a phone and a tablet with screens bigger than 5.5in.First Motorola NexusThe new Nexus will be the first made by Motorola, which Google is selling to China’s Lenovo. Previous Nexus devices, which also include tablets, have been made by HTC, Asus and Samsung, as well as LG, which made the previous two generations of Google’s popular smartphone, the Nexus 4 and 5.Phablets are increasingly popular, becoming the mainstay of phones bought in Asia and steadily gaining ground in Europe and the US.One third of the 279.4m smartphonesthat shipped in the first quarter of 2014 had screens larger than 5in, according to data from research firm Canalys. The data shows that 32% of phones in the US had screens larger than 5in while they made up 27% of shipments in Europe.By comparison, the larger-screened smartphones made up 43% of all shipments in Asia-Pacific and 39% in China.Samsung established the phablet category of devices in 2011 with the 5.3in Galaxy Note, which also had a stylus. Subsequent Galaxy Note models have increased in screen size, while other manufacturers have launched phablets, including LG and most recently Apple, which launched the iPhone 6 Plus with a 5.5in screen in September.Google will hope that the Nexus 6, nicknamed Shamu after the SeaWorld killer whale, will compete with rivals from Apple and Microsoft’s Nokia, while pushing its Android software in the larger format phones.•Samsung unveils Galaxy Note Edge phablet with a screen that bends around the side•Nokia Lumia 1520 review: bigger is better for Windows Phone•Apple iPhone 6 Plus: it’s a very big phone and it feels great - reviews•Samsung Galaxy Note 3 review - is it a tablet, or a phone?
Whether your fitness goal is weight loss, running an ultramarathon, or mastering the perfect downward dog, there’s an app for every form of exercise out there. Your smartphone is increasingly a handy-sized personal trainer, barking orders from your pocket with the same guilt-inducing frequency as your gym instructor, although at least the price tag is considerably lower. In fact, many top apps are free, though premium upgrades or subscription-based services which offer more personalised training plans or tracking are also plentiful.It is this geo-tracking ability on smartphones that has changed the game. Gone are the days of the mail-order pedometer. Apps now monitor your daily activity with a reasonably high degree of accuracy, from how far you have walked to what speed your cycle to work peaked at. Many of these are also now integrating into Apple’s Health app to build up a broader picture.Apps aren’t just for logging the miles, though – they also often provide incentives in the form of gaming-style rewards, or provide ideas for mixing up a tired-old routine. A warning: I started with the Couch to 5k app two years ago and now I’m preparing for my second marathon. Fitness can be addictive1. Endomondo (free, but you can also get a premium membership with additional features)Photograph: ObserverOne of the huge number of running apps,Endomondouses community features and challenges to encourage you to stick with it. You can gloat away merrily post-run on all your social accounts, or use it as a simple tracker to calculate distance and pace. It can also connect and sync to other fitness-tracking devices, such as Garmin sports watches.2. Moves (free)Photograph: ObserverA simple and free app that helps you track your daily movement – whether you ran, walked, cycled or sat on your bottom all day.Movesrequires almost no effort on your part. There’s no need to enter data or wear a movement tracker – just carry your phone with you and monitor your progress (or lack thereof).3. Garmin Fit (free, or £1.49 a month with LiveTrack subscription)Photograph: ObserverThefree versionallows simple run, cycle or walk tracking, uploaded to Garmin’s excellent Connect service for storage and analysis. With a LiveTrack subscription, friends or family can follow your every move, with live map and stats – ideal for following you in a marathon, or knowing someone has an eye on you on nervous solo outings.4. MyFitnessPal (free)Photograph: ObserverIdeal if you are trying to monitor your weight, or take a more holistic approach to fitness,MyFitnessPalis a calorie counter and exercise tracker. You enter what you eat but also what activity you’ve done, whether it was a gym workout, swimming or a yoga class, and it will adjust your goals accordingly.5. Strava (free)Photograph: ObserverBringing an element of competition to solo riding (both bike and run versions are available),Stravatracks you, but crucially also allows you to compete virtually with other racers over the same segment of road or path, at different times. It’s also a good way to discover new routes and rides near you.6. Couch to 5k (free)Photograph: ObserverThe gateway drug for many a newly converted running addict, theNHS’s appwill get you off the sofa and running 5km within nine weeks. Its simple step-by-step, day-by-day programme gently guides total beginners from walking to gliding around a park run.7. Fitocracy (free)Photograph: ObserverFitocracyaims to turn fitness into a game. You enter the details of your workout (the database is enormous) and it awards you points accordingly. Get to certain milestones and voilà, you get levelled up. A brilliant motivator for those with a competitive streak, with a great design and a lively community to boot.8. Yoga studio (£2.49)Photograph: ObserverMuscles that have done hard workouts need to be stretched. Thisyoga appoffers a variety of classes (35 of them) depending on your level and interest. There are specific classes for those with back problems, for instance. The poses are explained really well, and you can use your own music via other apps while you (un)bend.9. Speedo FitPhotograph: ObserverSwimming can easily become aimless without a structured routine. While you probably wouldn’t take it in the pool with you,this appallows you to set and track your goals, including your monthly total, follow specific challenges (for instance, swim the length of Loch Ness) or even just find your nearest pool.10. Interval Timer (free)Photograph: ObserverWhether you are timing a high-intensity Tabata workout, press-ups and planks or setting off on an interval run, this excellentfree appcan be customised to whatever specific intervals you need. You can use your own playlists for the workout, with handy in-app music controls.
Apple’s chief designer, Jony Ive, has criticised companies that copy Apple’s design calling it “theft” and “lazy” and certainly not “flattery”.Ive discussed life with Steve Jobs, his design team, the iPhone 6, and why it took so long to create a larger-screened smartphone, in a rareinterview with Vanity Fairat the New Establishment Summit in San Francisco on Thursday.“I’ll stand a little bit harsh, I don’t see it as flattery,” said Ive when asked about Chinese smartphone manufacturer Xiaomi, described as ‘the Apple of China’ by many. “When you’re doing something for the first time, you don’t know it’s gonna work. You spend seven or eight years working on something, and then it’s copied. I think it is really straightforward. It is theft and it is lazy. I don’t think it is OK at all.”Xiaomi, Samsung and other smartphone manufacturers have been accused of copying Apple’s designs, with long-running patent lawsuits between Apple and Samsung as well as others taking arguments to court.Samsung and Appleagreed to drop lawsuitsoutside of the US in August after cases spanned multiple countries including Germany, Britain, France, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, South Korea, Japan and Australia.This marks the first time Ive has personally struck out against alleged copiers of his work, which has seen Apple reinvented first with the original iMac and then with the iPhone and iPad line as a design-focused company.‘Many years ago we made prototypes’Ive also said that Apple had been working on larger-screened smartphones for years, having created product models and decided that larger screens were more intuitive and useful.“Many years ago we made prototypes of phones with bigger screens. They were interesting features, having a bigger screen, but the end result was a lousy product, because they were big and clunky,” Ive noted when asked why it took Apple so long to follow the trend first set by Android smartphones with screens larger than 4in around the 4.7in to 5in mark.The designer explained that it was only as technology advanced and designs could be iterated that Apple reached a point where it was happy with the size and feel of the device, insisting that “it’s very important to make the edges comfortable, to feel less wide than it really is.”•iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper•Apple iPhone 6 and 6 Plus can bend in pockets, users complain•iPhone 6 and 6 plus bending fears ‘seem overblown’
Raffia the 10-year-old camel has become the very first animal to help with Google’s mapping missions, using one of the company’sTrekker camerasto capture the landscape of theLiwa Desertin Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (UAE).Raffia and her guide took to the sand as early as 6am in the morning to ensure the best lighting conditions. The resulting film and still photographs show the desert’s rolling sand dunes, an oasis, fellow camels, scuttling sand and some gangly camera-and-camel shadows.Joyce Baz, Google’s spokesperson in the Middle East and North Africa, was keen to emphasise that Raffia’s role was not just for novelty value.“With every environment and every location, we try to customise the capture and how we do it for that part of the environment.“In the case of Liwa we fashioned it in a way so that it [the Trekker camera] goes on a camel so that it can capture imagery in the best, most authentic and least damaging way”, shetoldThe National newspaper.Raffia and her guide walk through the Liwa desert.Photograph: GoogleGoogle Street View has been a feature of Google Maps since 2007. While most images are captured with the Trekker by car, the camera has also been attached to people (to documentthe Grand CanyonandVenice),tricyclesand sentunderwater.The Liwa desert meanwhile, is one of the oldest sites in the UAE and is the historical home of the Nahyan family, the original leaders of the Abu Dhabi emirate. The Liwa Oasis is the largest oasis in the Arabian Peninsula and the location for manyBedouin settlements.Camel shadows in the Liwa desert.Photograph: GoogleTwo other locations in UAE are available on Google Street View:the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosquein Abu Dhabi and theBurj Khalifain Dubai.Baz said that Street Views have been captured from locations in Egypt, Israel and Turkey – as well as the Grand Canyon in the US and the Galapagos Islands in the Pacific Ocean – but that Google hoped to create more.“We want obviously all countries, because there is so much history and culture and heritage,” she said.“I think it’s just a matter of time before we move to the other countries in the Middle East.”•Google introduces ‘time machine’ feature in Street View
Five years is an age in mobile gaming terms, so it’s no surprise that relatively few of the smartphone games released in 2009 are still being played in 2014. That makes Words With Friends something of an oddity.It was launched by indie developer Newtoy, which was subsequently bought in 2010 for $53.3m by Zynga. Newtoy’s founders Paul and David Bettner have since moved on, but their game remains one of the bright spots for its publisher as it looks for more success on mobile.HenceNew Words With Friends, a completely new version of the game launched this week for iOS and Android, after a lengthy beta period in countries like Australia and Canada to gauge player feedback to its new features.The game itself remains the same: it’s essentially Scrabble, with players able to have a number of matches on the go at once, taking turns as often as suits them and their opponent. Games can be over in half an hour, or stretched over days and even weeks.What’s new is a Solo Play mode to play offline against an artificial opponent, to hone your skills and also kill time if friends are dragging their heels over their turns in the multiplayer matches.Also new: a Community Match feature that uses a Tinder-style swiping interface to accept or reject potential opponents from the wider Words With Friends community, browsing their photos and stats before deciding whether to request a match.That relies on another new feature – player profiles tracking stats like average word score and number of games completed – while there’s also a dictionary to look up the words that you play.“This is a really big deal for us,” Zynga’s vice president of games, Jonathan Knight, told The Guardian ahead of the new game’s release. “It’s an incredibly important title for Zynga, and this is the most significant update we’ve ever made to the game.”Who cares about an update to a five-year-old mobile game, though? Plenty of people, according to Zynga. The company isn’t currently divulging how many players Words With Friends has, but Knight refers to an active community of “millions” and highlights another stat: 55m matches in progress at any given point.There is external evidence of Words With Friends’ longevity, at least up until last year. Facebook analytics service AppData claimed that the game had 14.9 million monthly active users in January 2012 across mobile and Facebook, but that hadrisen to 22.8m by April 2013.Zynga’s number of players across all its games has been falling steadily over the last couple of years, but I suspect Words With Friends has weathered the passage of time better than a franchise like FarmVille.But this in itself brings risks when making changes to modernise a game such as Words With Friends: millions of players who’ll make their displeasure known loudly if they think the changes have ruined the game they love.“We’ve taken a while with this title, rolling it out in countries such as Canada and Australia to give people time so we could engage with that community,” said Knight. “We’re happy in Australia that we’ve got 4.5 out of five stars on the App Store with hundreds of reviews: we’re seeing that validation in those countries.”‘It’s more than just a word game – it’s a social app’Why has Words With Friends lasted five years? The fact that even an official Scrabble game didn’t seem to dent its popularity suggests that the key is the game’s community – not least the fact that lots of your Facebook friends were likely to be playing it – rather than particular gameplay intricacies.“It’s the social connections. It’s more than just a word game: it really is a social app, and a way to maintain meaningful relationships,” agreed Knight. “I’ve got aunts in Pennsylvania playing, and I get all of my news from that part of the family through them. And we’ve had people tell us they got married to people they met through the game too.”That brings another challenge: how to make money from a game based on these kinds of personal relationships. On that score, it’s interesting that while Word With Friends does use in-app purchases, in Knight’s words it’s “a business largely driven by advertisements” – more like a Facebook or Twitter than a Clash of Clans or Candy Crush Saga in that respect.Unsurprisingly, Knight thinks Words With Friends will still be going strong in five years’ time – he could hardly say otherwise, after all. “I firmly believe it’s got a long future ahead of it. It’s fundamentally like card games or chess or backgammon, which are played together as families,” he said.“New generations of players will come in, so this is a really evergreen title. And for us, there is a large audience of Words players out there, and we see more opportunities to bring word games to our audience.”This is an interesting change in strategy. Since Zynga bought Newtoy, its expansion efforts focused on the “With Friends” brand, with games including Matching With Friends, Running With Friends and Hanging With Friends.Now, it’s focusing more on the “Words” part of the original game’s title. Zynga is currently testing a new game, Words on Tour, in countries including Ireland and Singapore.It’s a travel-themed word-finding game adopting the “progression” mechanic of games such as Candy Crush Saga – think levels and three-star ratings – using a map of the world as its structure. It’s expected to launch globally soon.I wonder if Words on Tour is an attempt to try something in this genre that suits in-app purchases more than advertising, and so will be more lucrative for Zynga. If so, New Words With Friends’ importance to the company may also be as a funnel driving a decent chunk of its players towards the new game.Still, Knight says that New Words With Friends is significant on its own merits, especially if it can attract new players to what’s already one of the most well-known mobile games. “Imagine if you’re 20 years old and you get a new smartphone. Words With Friends came out a quarter of your life ago,” he said.“It has a loyal following, but with New Words we’re getting new players in. In Australia, we see that the total population of new and existing Words players is larger now than it was just a few weeks ago. That’s really exciting.”•Zynga has lost 63% of its players. Is NaturalMotion the answer?
Fifteen years old and now in its 25th series,DIY SOSis a hugely successful lifestyle television show. In each episode, the construction team secretly undertakes a building project with the help of local volunteers, usually benefiting someone in need. A quarter of that team is Mark Millar, the rambunctious joiner and project manager. He is something of a class clown, and is known for his tendency to well up during the programme’s tearjerker endings, but has a serious building career behind him, which began in Ireland more than 30 years ago.“I’ve been in construction since I was 16,” he says, recalling a time when it was a low-tech profession. “When I started I had to save up for six months to buy a Yankee screwdriver. Now I can’t remember the last time I drilled a screw in by hand.” A set of hi-tech tools is a necessity for a builder these days, he says, “or you won’t get hired”, but they are not always an unbridled blessing. “I’m not interested in gimmicks,” he says. Overall Millar feels technology has brought good things to the industry: “It makes life so much easier and faster. We expect higher standards and greater precision,” he says, and the market is constantly improving, with fellow professionals always following new developments: “Builders love new technology, they embrace it. You don’t get porn mags in the tearoom any more, you get gadget magazines.”Millar encounters the cutting edge of construction tech in his daily life, from infrared theodolites to green insulation, but his amateur counterparts, though less experienced, are no less thirsty for toys. So, with a selection of new tools laid out in his cluttered home workshop, he sets about testing their mettle. “A toolbox doesn’t have to be that thing under the stairs with the lid that keeps snapping and a couple of rusty old screwdrivers inside. I don’t see why new tech can’t be introduced into the DIY market as well.”Festool BHC 18 drill.Masonry hammer drill with vibration damping and brushless motor,toolfest.co.uk,£349Festool BHC18.Photograph: Stephen Shepherd/ObserverThis is the Rolls-Royce of drills. It’s well-balanced and they’ve cut the weight and the vibrations right down so I can even use it with one hand. When you’re drilling all day you risk getting vibration white-finger or shoulder problems, but I’d be very happy to take this on site. It’s got an SDS hammer action, for drilling into concrete or timber, and the other brilliant thing is the battery life: for a long time, cordless tools were waiting for battery technology to catch up, but the new motors are much more efficient and the batteries charge much quicker. But this is a hairy-chested, bacon-butty builder’s tool and unless you’re a very wealthy DIYer you’d be better with something less expensive. Festool make smaller drill drivers, and Bosch and Makita make brilliant products as well. There’s barely a bad drill on the market these days, but if you’re fussy, a good all-round drill should set you back a couple of hundred quid.Dewalt Inspection CameraCable-mounted, waterproof camera with handheld screen,screwfix.co.uk,£299De Walt inspection camera.Photograph: Stephen Shepherd/ObserverThis is a fantastic bit of kit, it’s very high quality. Cameras like this are really good if you’re surveying: looking for leaks, checking drains, investigating awkward places like crawl spaces and chimney flues. The unit is small and light, it’s easy to set up and the screen gives a really good picture, so if you’re curious to know what’s under the floorboards, behind units, above light-fittings it’s really nice. I’m not sure if I were a DIYer I would have room for it in the toolbox but it’s a neat, clever product.GemRed Digital Bevel BoxVery small digital protractor,axminster.co.uk,£29.95GemRed Digital bevel box.Photograph: Stephen Shepherd/ObserverThis is a bloody good bit of kit and I’d be very happy to have it in my toolbox. It’s very well made, it could take a drop, is easy to read and set, and it’s got a magnetic base to keep it steady. Knowing angles is useful if you’re setting up roof trusses, rooflights, solar panels, disability ramps or for cutting angles in timber. Some people use mobile apps to work out angles but this seems much more accurate.Bosch QuigoShines red cross on to walls for precise reference,axminster.co.uk,£41.35Bosch Quigo cross laser.Photograph: Stephen Shepherd/ObserverThis is a self-levelling laser guide, so you settle it on to a surface or a tripod and the lines it gives you are dead-on — so long as it’s roughly flat it’ll level itself. We use these a lot on the show, but you could easily use this for DIY. Before this came along, there was the spirit level. It shows we are going from a manual, hammer-and-saw building industry to a much more precise, technical one. These are used widely in the industry and I think they’re great. When you mark a room out, get all your sockets in the right place and hang your wallpaper straight, the pleasure you get is fantastic.Bosch PLR 15 laser range finderMeasures distance by shining a laserbeam up to 15m,axminster.co.uk,£41.35Bosch laser measuring device.Photograph: Stephen Shepherd/ObserverWhy wouldn’t you want a posh tape measure? Spoil yourself! I would have it around the house for so many reasons. If you want to measure something really quickly – if you’re looking round a new property for instance – you can just pull it out and bang, bang, bang, you’ve got measurements for a whole room. It takes its measurements from the back of the unit, so youcan just hold it against a wall or sit it on the floor and it gives you the distance instantly – no extra features, no messing around. It’s also useful for pricing up surfaces for flooring, wallpaper, even paint. They’re really accurate, but the only thing I find when using these is that you always find yourself slightly doubting the technology, so you end up checking with a tape measure anyway.”Black and Decker Gyro DriverVaries speed and direction according to wrist movement,amazon.co.uk,£24.95Black &amp; Decker Gyro Drive.Photograph: Stephen Shepherd/ObserverThe motion sensing technology might suit an older person, because it takes all the pressure off your wrist. That said, it tends to turn the wrong way and it’s not controllable enough for very fine tasks – you wouldn’t use it to put Chippendale furniture together. It wouldn’t stand up to heavy duty work – frankly I don’t think I’d want to use it to screw down my granny’s coffin lid in case she got out again. It’s very much a DIY product. It might come in handy for small jobs around the house, hanging pictures and such, if you kept it in your kitchen drawer. Or your sock drawer. Maybe you could mend your socks with it.
British model Daisy Lowe and her former boyfriend the actor Matt Smith have become the latest celebrities to have intimate private photos stolen and published online.Around 20 intimate photos of the couple, taken with their mobile phones before their break up in 2013, have been shared on a discussion and news-sharing site.Lowe joins a long list of celebrities targeted by hackers leaking naked photos online, including Rihanna, Rita Ora, Kate Upton, Kim Kardashian and Cat Deeley, as well as Hunger Games star Jennifer Lawrence and others.Dozens of intimate pictures of Lawrence were releasedin the first leak in September.It is thought Smith is the second male celebrity to be targeted in the recent wave of photo hacks.Smith and Lowe have not yet commented on the situation.‘It is not a scandal. It is a sex crime’Lawrencebroke her silenceon the hacking in early October saying that it was a “sex crime”.“It is not a scandal. It is a sex crime,” Lawrence toldVanity Fairin an interview. “It is a sexual violation. It’s disgusting.”Nude photos of Lawrence were allegedly stolen from the actor’s Apple iCloud account and published by hackers on the website 4chan and shared on Reddit along with naked photos of around 100 other female celebrities.Apple has denied any form of security breach, suggesting weak user names, passwords and security questions allowed the hackers to guess the combination.It is unclear whether the new images of Smith and Lowe are part of that original hack.FBI investigatingNude pictures of Nick Hogan, son of wrestler Hulk Hogan and a reality TV star in the US, were also reportedly leaked on 5 October. A fourth batch of naked celebrity photos were reportedly released on Monday.The FBI confirmed at the beginning of September that it is investigating the hacking of celebrity nude photos, including those of Lawrence.•Google threatened with $100m lawsuit over nude celebrity photos
For a decade after the launch of the original Resident Evil title in 1996, the recipe for the survival horror genre remained unchanged. Titles typically featured a small cast of terrified characters trapped in a remote building or town, with very little in the way of resources. Soon, awful things would come for them.In Shinji Mikami’s Resident Evil titles it was hideously transmogrified zombies; in the more psychological Silent Hill series from Konami, it was nightmarish shop-window dummies and Jungian beasts with pyramid heads. Whatever the monsters were, you never had quite enough time or ammo; the controls were often ridiculously unintuitive; the camera angles deliberately obtuse. Everything in the world, including the joypad itself, was your enemy.In the last 10 years, however, game design has moved on. On Xbox 360 and PS3, players became frustrated with the difficult testing nature of survival horror conventions – they were no longer prepared to struggle with aggressively dysfunctional control systems. The very fundamentals that made the original Resident Evil titles so tense and terrifying were being written out of accepted mechanics. Resident Evil 4 was a masterpiece, but Mikami designed it more as an action game than a horror experience, and subsequent titles provided pale imitations of that revised approach. Silent Hill withered; the ghostly Fatal Frame series dematerialised. Survival horror died.But now it is coming back. Due out in late October, The Evil Within is Mikami’s latest opus, a darkly gothic tale of mad scientists and haunted mansions. The lead character is detective Sebastian Castellanos, who heads to a reported disturbance at an abandoned insane asylum, only to find a squad of police officers dead and a murderous spectral force on the loose. As Castellanos investigates, he uncovers the story of a deranged young scientist named Ruvik who carried out horrific human experiments, attempting to control the thoughts and actions of his victims. The rest of the game takes place through a series of supernaturally charged environments that may be real places or figments of Ruvik’s splintered imagination. Or both.The horror survivesJudging by the sequence we played, a chapter named The Cruelest Intentions, the game seeks to exhume the traditions of the survival horror genre while making key concessions to the modern era. The level begins in the entrance hall of Ruvik’s delapidated mansion – a start point that will immediately take veteran gamers back to the original Resident Evil where the horrors of Umbrella mansion all branched from a similar start point. In the background is a huge door with multiple locks, around it a sumptuous curving staircase and several other exits. The challenge is to find the keys necessary to progress deeper into the mansion.The haunted house location, ripped straight from an MR James story, is rendered with sombre detail, all peeling paint, cobwebbed books, and decaying family portraits (in another nod to Mikami’s original horror title, some of these paintings will have to be analysed carefully to solve a specific task). It is a place where your senses must remain alert to every audio visual nuance. The doors squeal horribly as they shut behind you. Torch lights flicker, sending shadows dancing grotesquely over the walls. Things thud and murmur just out of sight.Suddenly out of nowhere the wraith-like figure of Ruvik will materialise, swooping toward you like the skull-faced angels at the close of Raiders of the Lost Ark. You can’t fight it, you must run away. The action-based controls, complete with run option, and a quiet stealth walk, allow this better then previous Resi titles, and even the environment is more amenable offering places like wardrobes, beds and tables that you can quickly slither into or under by pressing the Circle button. As in Dark Souls, players will have to work out which enemies they can fight and which they must simply avoid. It leads to a slightly deeper form of tension. It is tactical horror.This is accentuated by the addition of a new leveling up system. Throughout each environment, players can find vials of green goo which can be used to improve the physical capabilities of the lead character or his weapons, adding to damage or ammo capacity. This upgrading process takes place in a nightmarish laboratory where Castellanos straps himself into a chair and injects himself with chemicals – gorily reflecting the game’s themes of experimentation and transmogrification.The world is an enemyThe customisation section is housed within a weird safe area, accessible through mirrors located around the environment where players are sporadically able to record their progress. It’s another link back to the less forgiving era of survival horror; indeed, checkpoints are often many minutes apart, forcing a cautious approach.Continually spooked and guarded, you explore onwards, through blood-splattered corridors, and dank cellars. “In my Resident Evil titles, a lot of the scary moments were confined to the cut scenes,” says Mikami. “However, people tend to relax during cinematic sequences so it’s not as effective. With Evil Within, we don’t intend to scare people during cut-scenes, we intend to scare them during the game.”Consequently, horrible disfigured enemies jump out at you with no warning. They are tortured human monsters, their faces wracked with fury and pain. A butcher in leather apron and locked metal helmet; a demonic clown with a shotgun. There is a melee option, but this only ever pushes the monsters away temporarily – even shooting them is not enough: their bodies need to be burned (with a very limited supply of matches), to ensure they don’t come right back at you. Meanwhile, there are jump shocks everywhere; you are permanently on edge.While the original Resi titles restricted the gamer’s view via fixed, highly expressionistic camera angles, the new game creates a similar sense of tension through sound effects (distant groans, footsteps in the darkness), and by giving players a glimpse of enemies though partially opened doors or collapsed walls. There are also cruelly obscured traps that explode if the player stumbles too close. If you spot them however, you can use the stealthy creep option to tip-toe over and disarm them, stealing the parts to create various bolts for the crossbow.According to Mikami, the positioning of enemies has gone through dozens of stages of iteration – tweaked by millimetres for maximum impact, and then tweaked again. “We changed lots of things at the last minute,” he says.Evil influencesThroughout the mansion, walking into certain rooms triggers ghostly cinematic flashback sequences that show excerpts from Ruvik’s life as he transforms from a spoiled rich brat into a darkly obsessive doctor. Evidence of his ghastly life is littered around, amid the ornate furnishings – diary entries, medical equipment, abandoned experiments. Mikami has mentioned Hellraiser as an influence, but Lovecraft is here too, lurking in the shadows cast by dying gas lamps. Interestingly, there is just one game visible in his small corner office, nestling beside an opened Vanquish action figure: it is the PlayStation Vita version of Telltale’s The Walking Dead.Evil Within, then, takes the fundaments of survival horror, established in the first two Resident Evil games: the isolated characters, the jump shocks, the ornate yet eerie environments, the monstrous enemies. On top of these, however, it adds a more complex and authoritative control system, a customisation mechanic, and environments that offer both new perils and fresh escape opportunities.After four years in development, the big question is whether The Evil Within can match the enthralling brilliance of Resi 4. Mikami has certainly put everything into it. Closely overseeing his development team at Tango Gameworks, it has clearly been a tiring process. “Some new bugs were introduced late on that were ... problematic,” he says at one point, while showing off the game. “It meant a lot of redesign. Bugs are what scaremethe most.”The Evil Within is released on 14 October on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One.Shinji Mikami: the godfather of horror games
Watching sport has taken on a new dimension with the development of social media. Whether it is people closely following matchups on hashtags or people uploading questionably legal footage to be regularly shared, it is now hardly in doubt that most major sporting activity has found a home on Twitter and Facebook.It is interesting to see how this manifests itself in one of the world’s most traditional sports - golf. The Ryder Cup was played at the Gleneagles resort, in what some say is the game’s spiritual home of Scotland and many of the strict codes of the game were upheld. However, our exclusive analysis of social media content shows that the way the Ryder Cup was being viewed was anything but traditional.Were people tweeting where they should not have been?While the use of mobile phones during the event was not prohibited by competition organisers,nobody was allowed to upload any photos to social media during the event.To be precise, phones could only be used if they were kept on silent mode and calls had to be made in specified areas. Did these restrictions inhibit anyone from posting on Twitter during the competition? Probably not, but the data we collected allows us to confirm this.We used the HP Explore tool to capture all tweets and Facebook updates that were openly geotagged within the course boundaries while the matches took place.The map above shows the intensity of social media uploads from around Gleneagles over the weekend of competition. They provide a pretty good indication of the outline of the course if you take the time to zoom in, as people would have been standing on the sides of different holes to watch.Not everyone allows geolocation for their tweets but looking at past sports events we have seen that people choose to “check in” to let their friends know they are there. Given that tickets cost up to £145, it is little wonder that spectators would show off that they had got a decent view of the action.How a certain pop star sent tweets in One DirectionTracking social media during the competition, we started noticing a huge spike in mentions of the Swedish golfer Henrik Stenson on Friday morning. Although the Swede had a very good match, triumphing in the fourballs with his partner Justin Rose, it did not seem immediately obvious what was driving the attention.Then we noticed the tone of the tweets, which was evidently different from how other golfers were being mentioned. We quickly found out the source:Yessss! Get in ! Rosey and Stenson get the first point on the board for@rydercupEUROPE! Rock solid golf all day !&mdash; Niall Horan (@NiallOfficial)September 26, 2014The impact of this interaction cannot be understated as anyone who has ever encountered fans of One Direction online will probably know. We tracked just under two million posts during the competition and roughly a third of these directly attributable to Niall Horan’s interest in the Ryder Cup.One Direction always mess with the trends.While some may say this is just bringing noise rather than real social engagement, there is a positive note. The evidence seems to suggest that Horan was driving a lot of traffic from those who may not generally have taken an interest in golf.Take a look at the gender profile of those interacting with One Direction about the Ryder Cup:Around 40.6% of tweets were confirmed to have been from female users compared to just 18.9% tracked back to males.That is pretty startling when you consider that female users were responsible for just 15% of tweets we have collected that did not involve One Direction. Social media traffic around the Ryder Cup was for the most part very male dominated.Given thatboth the PGAand Golf England aretrying to drive participation of females in the sport, getting more girls to take notice cannot hurtat all.Phil Mickelson v Tom Watson: what did people think of their fallout?The end of the competition was perhaps overshadowed by the harsh words of US player Phil Mickelson,judged to have been an attack on his team captain Tom Watson.With the US already smarting from what was a convincing European victory, many in the press (and evidently Mickelson’s team) thought that the veteran players’ comments were inappropriate.However, what did social media think? We tracked over 5,000 social media mentions of the argument on Twitter, Facebook and in news stories over the course of the final day.As the chart above shows, the majority did not register any positive or negative sentiment - unsurprisingly as a lot of them were from media companies, reporting the story - but those that did leant heavily towards condemning the spat.One example was from FOX Sports analyst Robert Lusetich:Tom Watson took high road after Phil&#39;s graceless mutiny but read between the lines of &quot;We got our butts kicked&quot;. The players lost#Rydercup&mdash; Robert Lusetich (@RobertLusetich)September 28, 2014A scan of the 1,800 tweets with a negative take on the evening’s event shows that Lusetich’s tweet pretty much sums up the tone. People were annoyed with Mickelson for lashing out at his captain.This blog was made possible due to a Guardian’s use of the HP Explore customer analytics tool. While we may have hunches that something is the case, such as most people thinking Mickelson made a bad move, analysing social media on a large scale gave us some hard data to confirm that.
iCloud1.Secure the cloudTwo-step verification is one of the most effective ways of keeping your data secure. When activated, you must input both your password and a randomly generated code provided by Apple any time you make changes to your Apple ID or make purchases from a new device. To activate, sign into your Apple ID in your web-browser, click Password and Security and follow the on-screen instructions.Tip 2: Securing photos in iCloud2.Keep your nudes hiddenIf you don’t feel secure enough with your private photos on iCloud even after you’ve enabled two-step authentication, here’s how to make sure your photo stream is never uploaded to Apple’s servers in the first place. On iOS 8 go to Settings &gt; iCloud &gt; Photos and deselect “My Photo Stream” and “Photo Sharing”.3.Back it upThanks to the cloud, it’s possible to automatically backup your pictures, accounts, documents and settings when your iPhone or iPad is plugged in, locked and connected to Wi-Fi. On iOS 8 go to Settings &gt; iCloud &gt; Backup and turn on iCloud Backup. You can even delete some of your local files, such as pictures, to save space on your device.Tip 4: Switching off iCloud backup for specific apps4.Save spaceSave space by turning off backup storage on applications you rarely use or do not need backed up on the cloud. For instance, it’s important to backup your contact list, but do you really need to backup your whatsapp chat logs? On iOS 8 go to Settings &gt; iCloud &gt; Storage &gt; Manage Storage &gt; Your iPhone &gt; and select which apps you wish to backup.5.Google contacts to iCloudEasily migrate your Google contacts over to iCloud by logging in to your Gmail account, clicking the red Gmail text just above the red compose button on the left-hand side of the screen and selecting contacts. Now click the “More” button in the toolbar at the top and select “Export”. A new window will emerge, select the contacts you wish to save and export as a vCard format. Log into your iCloud account on your computer and drag and drop the exported vCard into your Contacts folder. To see these contacts on your iOS device head to Settings &gt; iCloud and ensure “Contacts” is enabled.Tip 6: Signing out of iCloud6.Go off-gridHate iCloud and everything it stands for? It’s OK, you don’t have to use it. On iOS 8 go to Settings &gt; iCloud and select Sign Out. You can still back up all of your data, except you’ll have to do it the old fashioned manual way by actually plugging your Apple device into your computer and backing up via iTunes.Google Drive7.Store any fileYou don’t just have to store specific Google files on Drive. If you download the desktop app it will create a folder in which you can drag and drop any file you like. Want to transfer a bunch of Word files, mp3s or even a video from one computer to another, but you don’t have a dongle to hand? No problem, just use Google Drive.Tip 8: Sharing documents in Google Drive8.Share your documentsGoogle Drive allows you to make your document public, private or available to a select few. Click the blue share button in the top right corner of your document and type the names of the individuals you’d like to share it with under “Share with others”. If you want to create a public link, click the small chainlink icon in the top right corner.9.Defend your DriveGoogle has it’s own two-step verification - in fact it was one of the earliest adopters of the system - and it’s a breeze to use. While logged into your Google account, click your name in the top right corner then click Account &gt; Security and under “Password” click the option to enable two-step verification before following the on-screen instructions.Tip 10: Attaching files from Google Drive10.Huge email attachmentsYou can use the power of the cloud to essentially bypass the 25MB limit that Google imposes on all Gmail accounts. After you have created both a Gmail and a Google Drive account (both are free), click the “Insert files using Drive” button at the bottom of your Gmail compose screen. Congratulations, you can now attach up to 10GB of data.11.Know your shortcutsYou may not know it, but Google Drive comes with a whole list of incredibly useful shortcuts to help speed up and streamline your experience with the software. Simply type “Ctrl+/” if you’re on a PC or “Cmd+/” if you’re on a Mac in any area of Google Drive and a black screen will pop up, listing all of the helpful commands available.Tip 12: Adding apps to Google Drive12.Apps and add-onsIf you’re not using apps and add-ons, you’re not getting the most out of Google’s cloud service. Add-ons can be found in the top bar of any drive document you are editing and apps can be found on the Chrome webstore. These additional extras add extra functionality to Google Drive, including useful must-haves like track changes or PicMonkey, a free photo editor.Dropbox13.Offline viewingSometimes you can’t always stay connected to the cloud, which means you can’t access your documents. However, if you favourite your files in Dropbox while using a mobile device, they’re not only added to a special “Favourites” folder - sort of like a bookmarks folder - but they’re also saved locally, allowing you to access them even when you can’t connect to the cloud.14.Secure your boxDropbox has its own two-step verification system that will keep potential hackers at bay. To turn it on, go to the Dropbox website, sign in, click your name in the top right corner and select “Settings”. Then navigate to “Security” and enable the option that says “Two-step verification”. Although it can initially be a nuisance, this is the best way to keep your account significantly more secure.Tip 15: Saving space in Dropbox with Selective Sync15.Save spaceDropbox’s selective sync feature allows you to save space by syncing only a list of specific files to the machine you’re working on. Click the Dropbox icon on the menu bar in the desktop version of the software, click the gear icon and navigate to Preferences &gt; Account &gt; Selective Sync &gt; Change Settings. Now select the folders you would like to sync.16.Share with anybodyDropbox allows you to share files with non-Dropbox users. To do this, sign into the Dropbox website and hover over the file or folder you wish of your choosing before clicking the chain link icon on the right of the screen. If you upgrade to Dropbox Pro you can add expiration dates as well as password protection for specific links.Tip 17: Adding more space to a Dropbox account17.Get more spaceGain an extra 17.5GB worth of storage without paying a penny! Simply head over to dropbox.com/getspace and take advantage of the options availible. For instance, for every friend you refer, you’ll get an extra 500MB, with a 16GB cap. Connecting your Twitter and Facebook accounts will also provide you with a tidy 125MB of space each.18.Self-destructing filesSpecifically advertised to work with Dropbox, Digify is a handy little tool that will cause your files to self-destruct after a certain period of time or shortly after they have been opened, à la Mission Impossible. Download the app on your phone, sign in with your Gmail account, select Dropbox at the home screen, select the file you wish to send and then select the lifespan of the file after it has been opened before finally sending it to your desired recipient.19.Find my DropboxIf you have Dropbox installed on your laptop and that laptop gets stolen or lost, there’s a good chance you can use Dropbox to approximately locate the device. If Dropbox is set to turn on when your system starts, it will log the IP address and country in which your device was opened. To access this, simply head to Dropbox.com, sign in, click your name in the top right-hand corner, select Settings &gt; Security and look under “Sessions”.OneDriveTip 20: Making cover images for OneDrive folders20.Add cover imagesIf you have pictures within a folder on OneDrive, the thumbnail of that folder will cycle through the images inside. When browsing through your documents, this feature can become confusing and annoying. If you want to assign a specific image to a folder in order to easily locate it simply open one of the folders, find your desired image, right click it and select “Add as cover” from the menu.21.Do the two-stepJust like iCloud, Google Drive and Dropbox, OneDrive has its own two-step verification option. Sign in to your Microsoft account and under Password and security info click “Edit security info”. Now click “Set up two-step verification” and follow the on-screen instructions. Yes, we keep going on about it, but it’s probably one of the most overlooked security features that everyone should have enabled.Tip 22: Restoring lost files in OneDrive22.Restore deleted filesUnlike some other cloud services, whenever you delete content with OneDrive it is placed in a recycle bin, where it will remain until you empty it, just like on a PC or Mac. So if you accidentally delete a file you can restore it by opening the bin in the lower left hand corner of OneDrive’s web interface, and selecting Right click &gt; Restore.23.Create a surveyIf you’re looking for a quick and easy way to create a shareable online survey, OneDrive’s got you covered. Sign into your account on your web-browser and click the create button in the top left-hand corner. You’ll see a whole bunch of options, but the one you’ll want is called “Excel survey” click it and follow the simple on-screen instructions.Tip 24: Camera backup on iCloud24.Auto picture uploadingAutomatically storing pictures on OneDrive with your mobile device couldn’t be easier. When you first install the app, it will ask you whether or not you want to automatically store your photos on OneDrive. However, if you didn’t get the message, tap the Settings button on the bottom right-hand corner of the app and press the button that says Camera Backup.
Driverless cars? Google has already wheeled one out. Robo-cops? Prototypes are on the scene. Love-bots?One in six people say they would have sex with an android. But how many people would want to go under the knife of a robo-surgeon?It might seem like a solution dreamed up by Aldous Huxley, but it’s already a reality. Since 2000, more than two million operations worldwide have been performed by about 3,000 da Vinci surgical robots. While each one fills a decent-sized room, their “hands” are super-small, high-precision instruments. Now researchers are racing to develop the next generation of surgical robots to help to seek and destroy cancers, set bones or even just a hold a camera during an operation.It might conjure up an image ofStar Wars’ C-3PO in scrubs, but many of these medical machines are actually closer to the robots used to build your car. “It’s not that the robots do any of the surgery themselves,” says Tony Belpaeme, professor of cognitive systems and robotics at Plymouth University. “They are instruments for the surgeons to use for keyhole surgery, as they offer greater precision than handheld tools, particularly in hard-to-access parts of the body such as close to the spinal cord, and recovery is then so much faster because the operation is so precise.”Not that a lack of automation is anything to be sniffy about; these machines still use powerful computers to carry out difficult jobs. Their lack of automation is down to the technological challenges of giving a robot the skill and judgment of a surgeon, as well as the lurking fear of legal action and even just the desirable reassurance of having an expert on hand for those awful “what-ifs”.Where the researchers are taking their cue from the seriously sexy technology of driverless cars is, for example, in the development of domestic robots for palliative care, be it helping you make a cup of tea or alerting the doctor if you skip your medication. “I don’t see any application for artificial intelligence during surgery at the moment,” says Belpaeme. “For a computer to do something intelligent, it has to be able to see what’s happening. Now that’s OK in a structured environment, but the operating theatre is just a mess to a computer and it will be very hard for it to make sensible decisions. However, I do see a role in the future for more autonomous robots giving surgeons a helping hand as an assistant during operation.”Initially, the vision behind the da Vinci robot was that a surgeon in London could operate in safety on a sick child in Liberia or a wounded soldier in Afghanistan, but financial, technological and communication worries have, for the present, put paid to such dreams. Now the promise of medical robotics lies in facilitating operations that are quicker and more accurate, meaning shorter hospital stays, greater patient turnover, lower chances of patients catching hospital superbugs and an overall saving of money. Robots in the home offer further support, keeping patients eating, moving and medicating.For surgeons, who are often backing the development of these robots, the benefits of a machine like the da Vinci system are manifold. “The natural instinct of a surgeon is to be hands on the patients, so sitting at a console staring at a screen controlling a robot does take some getting used to,” says Pardeep Kumar, consultant urological surgeon at the Royal Marsden, London, who regularly operates using the da Vinci robot. “But it is such an immersive experience that I’ve been able to carry out more operations, more quickly and successfully than I could have dreamed of. I just bumped into one of my patients being discharged three to four days after an operation using the robot, instead of the three to four weeks it would have taken in the past.”But it isn’t just about high precision. “The physical demands of surgery aren’t talked about much,” says Kumar. “As a surgeon I have vowed to keep going until I am in my mid to late fifties, but the strain on the neck, shoulders and back make it difficult to keep going for much longer than that. However, operating sitting down using a robot means I could keep going for longer than I had thought.”Sanja Dogramadzi of UWE.Photograph: Antonio Olmos/the ObserverIt isn’t just keyhole surgery that can benefit from cutting-edge tech. Sanja Dogramadzi, a reader in robotics in the department of engineering design and mathematics at the University of the West of England, is a pioneers of medical robotic technology for the operating theatre. In collaboration with Professor Roger Atkins, an orthopaedic surgeon at University Hospitals Bristol, she designed what is believed to be the first robot-assisted system to tackle the problem of complex joint fractures. For her, the attraction of medical robotics is about solving complex problems that can change lives: “Medical robotics has lots of potential to transform the quality of life of every single one of us. If you can put bones back together, then people can walk again. What’s more important than that?” For Dogramadzi, the main technological challenge is achieving accuracy while avoiding what some see as the cumbersome form of systems like the da Vinci. “We are building a modular system that consists of a number of small interlinked robots. And while each component can be accurate down to less than a millimetre or degree, the problem is, how accurate is the whole system when it is working together?”However, she too believes it could be a while before autonomous systems are admitted to theatre. “Hardware would, for example, need positional sensors and safety stops to prevent accidents,” Dogramadzi says. “The software would have to be able to work on many different levels at the same time – what the scalpel was doing, what was going on with the auxiliary staff in the operating theatre – then bring it all together to make a decision. This is a big challenge. By keeping the surgeon in the operating theatre it makes our research easier, cheaper and quicker.”But if physically constructing medical robots is difficult, the real sticking ground is the quagmire of ethics. “Who is responsible if something goes wrong? It is not always going to be one organisation. It’s going to be complicated,” says Dogramadzi.Yet while scalpel-wielding robots might alarm patients, there is evidence that, for some procedures at least, they may be cautiously welcomed. “The initial pilot study in 2013 into patients’ perceptions of using robots in foot fracture surgery was generally positive,” Dogramadzi says. But, as she points out, surgeons were clearly in the picture. “I doubt that the response would have been so positive if the robot was fully autonomous.”These are issues of huge import, yet to those at the bench it makes progress frustratingly slow. “Obviously you should not be able to go and do whatever you want,” Dogramadzi says, “but there are so many obstacles in the way of actually doing a project like this.”One that has risen to the fore in the wake of theNSA revelationsis that of privacy and security. Indeed, while home-help robots, such asMobiserv, have a beguilingly innocent face, the data they hold could make them prime targets for hackers. Autonomous surgeons, robotic pills and contraceptive chips take concerns to a whole new level.And well they might. This yeara security audit published by Essentia Health, which runs about 100 hospitals, doctor’s surgeries and pharmacies in Minnesota and neighbouring states, helped to reveal to the public how badly protected much of our current healthcare technology is. Critical equipment, such as pumps that distribute antibiotics around the body and defibrillators, were, according to the report, vulnerable to hackingwith one of the issues being the poor use of passwords and rare employment of data encryption. It was even possible to change medical records or reboot machines or reboot machines. The firewalls of surgical robots in particular were easy to take down.Despite such concerns, Dogramadzi, believes there will be a rise in robotics in many areas of medicine. “I am working now with a radiographer to see how we can use novel robotic technology to help position people during radiography,” she says. But it seems that even if questions of security and privacy can be ironed out, some procedures that will always be tackled the analogue way: “Culturally we still like to have a human there to look after you if something goes wrong, like in childbirth. We could go in that direction – but probably shouldn’t.”Say hello to your life saverThis robot, known as Molly, is a kind of animatronic nurse.Photograph: Antonio Olmos/the ObserverIt may seem hard to imagine that this robot, with its ridiculous balloon-shaped head and a tablet computer strapped to the front, might possibly mean the difference between life and death.Yet if you were elderly and unwell, or recovering from a serious operation, it just might. The robot is designed to work with you to share certain information – such as your heart rate, eating habits and even whether you have taken your medication – with your family, doctor and other carers. It can summon help if it notes unusual behaviour. And in extreme situations – say if you had a heart attack or stroke – it is planned that future models could even take control of the situation.As part of their research for the European FP7 programme, researchers at the Bristol Robotics Laboratory were, according to project leader Dr Praminda Caleb-Solly, “exploring embodiments” – an important part of how to make the domestic care robot’s interface more friendly for older adults who might not feel comfortable with technology.“Mobiserv” was a European research project on smart technology that ran from 2009 to 2013. The aim was to develop robots, smart clothing, activity recognition systems and even smart medicine bottles to assist older people to maintain active, independent lives.“What we found is that people want to be able to customise and personalise the robot by such means as changing the way it speaks, for instance giving it a cheeky character, making it hum while working and even giving it a smell,” says Caleb-Solly. But she says the negative portrayal of robots in popular culture is a problem –people may simply be alarmed by robo-helpers. “For example if you suddenly found the robot by the side of your bed in the night because you’d had a heart attack, demonstrating some degree of intelligence and taking control when you are not able to.” With more field-testing Caleb-Solly and her team hope to fine tune the robot to optimise their usefulness around the house in a range of situations.The steadiest hand in the theatreThe Freehand surgical robot could replace human assistantsPhotograph: the ObserverIt is said that a hi-fi system is only as good as its speakers. Similarly for keyhole surgery, according to Jeremy Russell, CEO of OR Productivity which includes FreeHand 2010: “An operating theatre is only as good as the person who holds the camera for the surgeon.” The FreeHand system replaces what can be a wobbly picture with a rock-steady image controlled by a camera on a scope held in the iron grip of a robotic arm. It has been estimated this robot can help to speed up operations by 10% by improving the quality of the image a surgeon sees on their monitor. The FreeHand works by giving the surgeon direct control over where the camera goes via a hands-free controller on a headband. The direction of the camera is controlled by a movement of the head, the three-speed unit is started and stopped by touching a foot pedal, and a tap on the table enables the zoom.Master stroke: a needle that can travel through the brainThis neurological robot uses a needle to remove blood-clotsPhotograph: the ObserverAccording to Robert J Webster III, director of the Medical and Electromedical Design Lab at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, the vision that unites the innovations coming out of his laboratory is simple: “To help doctors heal people more effectively by engineering better tools for them to use in doing so.”It is not surprising that Webster was attracted to solving the problem of blood clots in the brain - his father had one, though he was lucky and survived. Forty per cent of the people who develop one will go on to die from it. Webster’s team came up with a miniature robot made of a series of curved flexible tubes which allow it to navigate through delicate brain matter along a route mapped out by a doctor from a brain scan.The doctor determines how much material is to be removed and the robot’s computer-controlled needle tip does the rest. Studies have suggested that it should be able to remove up to 92% of the clot. For Webster, integrating the robot with medical imaging equipment was the greatest challenge. He says it could take between four and 10 years before we see the robot used in hospitals, depending on how quickly the technology is transferred to a commercial partner.Webster has moved on to other projects, including robots that use arms inspired by octopus tentacles and elephant trunks, enabling them to pick up and manipulate small objects more effectively.Exoskeleton gives stroke patients a handA robotic exoskeleton for the handPhotograph: Antonio Olmos/the ObserverIt might be chalky white and fairly bulky, but could transform someone’s life after a stroke has left them with no feeling in an arm or unable to grip things tightly. That is at least the hope of Dr Thomas Burton, who designed the exoskeleton during his PhD at the Bristol robotics laboratory and built it using 3D-printing technology. This makes it easier to manufacture made-to-measure exoskeletons, which have the added advantage of enabling the mechanical joints to align with each person’s natural hand joints to improve what’s called biocompatibility. The exoskeleton is controlled by a computer which receives messages from sensors when the person tries to manipulate or grasp an object – picking up a cup of tea, for example – then activates motors to create a natural grasping motion, including an opposable thumb.The aim is to give patients extra confidence to perform even basic tasks at home, as well as improving muscle tone. Now that the technology has been shown to make a real difference, the race is on to make it sleeker and suitable for anyone who needs support in everyday life.The heavily-armed surgeon designed for the front lineThe da Vinci robot at work in an operating theatrePhotograph: ncjMedia LtdWith its four arms hanging over the patient, the da Vinci Surgical System looks more like a machine out of Alien than something that belongs in an operating theatre. Yet as of the end of June Intuitive Surgical had installed 3,102 da Vinci Surgical Systems in hospitals worldwide, and more than two million surgical procedures had been performed since the system’s approval by the US Food And Drug Administration in 2000.According to Catherine Mohr, vice-president for medical research at Intuitive, the robot was “the brainchild of Darpa [Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency], who wanted a robot to work on soldiers injured in battle but didn’t want a surgeon exposed to the frontline”.With this dream on hold, the focus has shifted to minimally invasive surgery for operations on patients with, for example, heart, urinary or prostate problems. This requires rearranging the conventional operating theatre to accommodate the console at which the surgeon sits to control the robot, as well as the cart with its four arms. “A surgeon with a handheld tool can be accurate to 100 micrometres, or one tenth of a millimetre,” says Mohr. “But using da Vinci even someone untrained can be accurate to 50 micrometres.” Although the da Vinci robot has been subject to a number of lawsuits, Mohr argues that surgery is never without risk and that Intuitive Surgical was found not liable the one time a case went to trial.In the future, the da Vinci System could help the surgeon make better decisions, for example with “surgery by numbers” – where the monitor highlights target areas then helps guide the surgeon to the exact spot. But it’s unlikely to go the whole hog and end up driverless.“I would never say never about AI,” says Mohr, “but to be able to deal with the demands of an operating theatre the AI would have to learn like us, and we are simply not there yet.”Puzzling out bone fracturesA prototype of the fracture-repairing robotPhotograph: Antonio Olmos/the ObserverDr Sanja Dogramadzi loves a puzzle and Professor Roger Atkins, an orthopaedic surgeon at University Hospitals Bristol, gave her a difficult one to solve – the solution to which they will soon be testing on human cadavers.According to Dogramadzi, on a daily basis surgeons face the “difficult problem of having to solve the three-dimensional challenge of putting very small pieces of broken bones back together with two-dimensional images on their monitors: get it wrong and someone may never walk again”.First she saw it as a mathematical puzzle, then had a revelation about how her robots could come to the rescue: “All we needed to do was put robots there, then we could sort out the fracture accurately, without the need for a major incision.” The solution was two imaging systems allowing the robots to grasp pieces of bone and put them back together in the right combination. One of the imaging systems is a standard CT scan on a computer, while the other is an external positioning system much like the Kinect motion-sensing input device used on Xbox gaming computers.This tells the surgeon where the robots and their tools are in real time. For Dogramadzi it came down to “a systems integration problem of making the hardware and software work together and achieve a degree of accuracy that is better than the surgeon – or at least the same as a surgeon”. Some very small movements can even be completed by the robots independently.With this technique, Dogramadzi believes that she and Atkins have developed a unique way to repair fractures in an operating theatre, using minimally invasive robot surgery. She believes that the technology could help repair a wider range of fractures and even have non-medical uses, such as helping archaeologists to put broken vases back together.Radio-controlled contraceptiveIn the future women will no longer have to worry about taking the pill if MIT spin-out MicroCHIPs has its way. It is developing a competitively priced radio-controlled microchip-based implant, the size of a postage stamp, that will deliver a daily dose of contraception for up to 16 years.The chip is implanted under the skin in a simple outpatient procedure using local anaesthesia, and can be stopped remotely if the needs of the patient change without having to go into a clinic or hospital.Each day a small electrical charge melts an ultra-thin seal of platinum and titanium around a pinhead-sized reservoir of a hormonal contraceptive releasing a carefully controlled dose into the body.The next challenge is to make sure the implant cannot be hacked, activated or deactivated without the woman’s knowledge. One way of doing this is to make it only possible to communicate with the implant at skin level and by making sure that all communication to and from the implant is encrypted.MicroCHIPS has also developed a sensor to go with the chip which can adapt the dosage to the needs of the user on a day-by-day basisWhile research on the implant began in the 1990s, it has really gathered pace in the last few years with backing from Bill Gates, and a simple version of the implant has been successfully tested in Denmark.MicroCHIPS will be submitting a more advanced implant for pre-clinical testing in the US next year – and the device could possibly go on sale by 2018.Live-stream from smart pillThe small intestine is approximately 6.25m long and about 20mm in diameter and is incredibly hard for medicine to reach. However, researchers at Imperial College, London, think they have found the answer by developing a robotic pill which will do precisely this.The pill itself is 11mm in diameter and 30mm long, and crammed inside is a camera that can rotate through 360 degrees, a repositionable syringe with the capacity for approximately 1ml of drugs, and a retractable anchor which holds the pill in place.Like similar robot pills that are mostly used for diagnosis, after it has been swallowed the robot pill relies on the contraction and relaxation of the muscles known as peristalsis to move through the intestines.The intention is that video will be ­live-streamed from the camera on the pill so that, unlike most other camera pills, which are a bit hit-and-miss, when the operator sees that they have reached the target area, he or she can operate the anchor to hold the pill in place.“At the moment commercial camera pills are passive, but with this robotic pill you will be able to target specific regions of the small intestine,” says Stephen Woods, PhD student and head of design at surgical instrumentation manufacturers Duckworth &amp; Kent.However, there are “significant challenges” to miniaturise the new technology, Woods says, and inevitably these have caused delays although they are now mainly overcome.A further £1m–£2m will be needed to finish the project.
On the fourth night Pavle died. He was the runner, the man we sent out on scavenging missions late at night, to sneak around dark, half-ruined buildings hunting for scraps. Then I sent him to the school, where a group of wary folk with semi-automatic weapons were holed up, talking about fighting for freedom. I thought they might be friendly, that they might not mind if Pavle explored a little. I was wrong.Going by the preview build, This War of Mine is going to be a beautiful game, and a very bleak one. It is an ambitious attempt to tell human stories of civilians trapped by war, attempting to survive in combat zones. You begin play in a ruined but habitable building with three civilians – not the same three each time, and it’s likely more will be added before the game comes out later this year – each one with their own skills and abilities. Pavle the runner might be joined by Katia, a former journalist with strong negotiation skills, or Bruno, whose skill at cooking means it takes less fuel to make a meal.Those might sound like small benefits compared with combat capability or speed, but they are crucial. Resources in This War of Mine are not so much scarce as they are greatly in demand, with certain things absolutely vital for survival, and others for improving your home base, and anything that increases your bartering ability or reduces your resource consumption quickly becomes a cornerstone of your survival strategy.The game follows a familiar pattern, in the footsteps of Con Artist Games’ The Last Stand, among many others. You strengthen your base during the day, taking the opportunity to eat, sleep, build and upgrade crafting stations if you have the resources, and deal with people knocking on your door. At night, you choose what each of your survivors do – scavenge, sleep, or guard your home – and guide your scavenger through a location, hunting for items, trading and, in Pavle’s case, getting shot in the back while desperately running for the exit. Not everyone you meet is friendly.The beauty in the horrorIt is a beautiful game to look at. The view is two-dimensional, with cutaway buildings for your characters to navigate, gorgeously rendered in monochrome. There’s a lot of attention paid to how you move through areas: an upturned sofa might provide a boost up to a higher floor where the ceiling is bombed out and collapsed; occasionally, you come across paintings still intact on the walls, furniture not obliterated. It is a realistic chaos. Elements out of your line of sight are obscured with a fog of war made up of delicate lines, and the only hints of colour are red orbs emanating from the sources of sound as you investigate a building, made by rats scurrying around – or people approaching.The preview is not without its problems. There was no obvious way to save progress, which made the three crashes to desktop I experienced all the more infuriating – presumably the final game will allow you to keep your progress. Occasional moments when a character arbitrarily duplicated themselves or the oven stopped working were an annoyance, but not game-breakingly so. But the 12 days I played through were relatively clean, and felt complete, balanced and – perhaps I can’t stress this enough – beautiful to look at and absorb.This War Of Mine is reminiscent of Papers, Please: it doesn’t want you to be so overwhelmed that you can’t go on, but it’s not trying to coddle you. It’s difficult but not punishing. Both games are set in a non-existent eastern European country, and both are pushing you to learn, through their systems, what it would be like to live in these oppressive environments. They both teach you how far you’d go to survive, where you’d draw a line; Papers, Please asks you to imprison innocents, for example, while This War forces you to decide between robbing an elderly couple and going home hungry.Both games are engaging and entertaining enough to keep you on board despite the difficult subject matter. Both are, despite their bleakness, fun. (Fun is a strange word for this, I realise, but the English language lacks a better description for the way a game’s mechanics can be rewarding and engrossing.)Polish developer 11 Bit Studios is trying to create something that leaves you with a lasting, emotional understanding of what warzone survival truly entails. It’s ambitious, but so far the ideals aren’t let down by the execution: it is aiming for a very, very difficult balance, and at least in the preview, is hitting it dead on. In the early game I’ve seen so far, the designers have built something in which it’s possible to survive, but only just – you have to plan carefully and trade well, use the game’s systems to your advantage, stop exploring, limit your ambitions to surviving the next day, scavenging what you know you can find.You have to be lucky, too, but survival isn’t impossible even after a setback or two. After Pavle died – carrying the biggest haul of scrap and wood I’d yet found, materials I was planning to put towards a herb garden – my game didn’t end. Bruno and Katia, crippled with sadness, had nights where they found it hard to sleep, but they found a little hope in the meagre home comforts they managed to scavenge between them. It was possible, just about, to get through the next few nights with only two people, and eventually we found enough materials to scrape by.We never did manage to build the garden, but we did OK without it. We didn’t prosper, but we did survive.This War of Mineis released on PC and Mac this winter. Tablet and smartphone versions may follow.War games – developers find new ways to explore military conflict
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNine hard lessons from a top iPad publisher who's calling it quits &gt;&gt; Cult of MacWhen The Magazine ceases publication this December, owner Glenn Fleishman will be closing shop on an ambitious two-year experiment in digital publishing.It's not a total surprise — subscriptions were already on a downward trend when Fleishman transitioned from editor to owner of The Magazine after purchasing the publication from Marco Arment last year — and it's not a total bummer, either.In fact, Fleishman says he's feeling pretty good about stopping here: he's met his obligation to provide Kickstarter backers with their one-year subscriptions, and he's ending this fascinating experiment while it's still profitable."I'm even able to pay myself an ever-declining hourly rate for my time," said Fleishman, who spoke with Cult of Mac about what went right, what went wrong, and his feelings about pulling the plug on a project that was his full-time job for the last year and a half.The app was profitable from start to finish, and paid writers well, but subscriptions fell from 35,000 to below 10,000. An object lesson in the problems everyone has with the explosion in content: how do you keep making money, and a living, from it?Translator keyboard for iOS makes writing foreign missives a breeze &gt;&gt; TechCrunchTheTranslator Keyboardfor iOS 8 can translate what you've typed into one of 44 other languages — including French, Spanish and even Welsh. Beth annisgwyl!The app, which is the work of UK developer Steven Barnegren, is using the Microsoft Translate API to do the grunt work of turning whatever you've typed into fair foreign phrasing.So how does it work? Swiping left along the top of the keyboard brings in the language selection interface where you can specify your current language and the one you want to translate your words into.C'est magnifique!The real story of the "Football" that follows the president everywhere &gt;&gt; SmithsonianAccording to former Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara, the Football acquired its name from an early nuclear war plan code-named "Dropkick." ("Dropkick" needed a "football" in order to be put into effect.) The earliest known photograph of a military aide trailing the president with the telltale black briefcase (a modified version of a standard Zero-Halliburton model) was taken on May 10, 1963, at the Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts. Since 1963, the Football has become a staple of presidential trips, and was even photographed in Red Square in May 1988, accompanying President Ronald Reagan on a state visit to the Soviet Union. (Reagan's Soviet counterpart, Mikhail Gorbachev, was accompanied by a military aide who was clutching a very similar device, known in Russian as the chemodanchik, or "little briefcase.")Selfie Smartphones, the New Battlefield or Passing Fad? - Counterpoint Technology Market ResearchThe 'selfie' has been a huge consumer fad in the past 12 months or so. According to Google, Android users capture and share almost 93m selfies everyday which equates to roughly 200 terabytes of images captured and shared daily and that too just in the Android ecosystem.When you add iPhones and other devices, the number is going to be staggering. Globally we could end up with 150 petabytes worth selfies or 50bn selfies being captured and shared for the full year 2014. This is huge trend in the mobile industry and tje average camera megapixel resolution of the front-camera is increasing with every model refresh,Increasingly, those front cameras also have a wide-angle capability to pull in more of the scene around you. We'll know it's peaked when there's a phone with a built-in selfie stick, surely?Microsoft makes a push for Surface Pro in business with dock bundle, warranties &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaPeter Bright:The company is hoping to reassure potential buyers that it's serious about hardware and that Surface Pro will offer the kind of long-term support that corporate customers want. To that end, it's making some promises and offering some new pricing options that it thinks will appeal to corporate buyers.Keen to position the Surface Pro 3 as a laptop alternative, the company has put together a new package that bundles the Surface Pro 3 with a Type Cover keyboard and the Docking Station, with savings of up to $150 compared to buying them separately. There's also a new three-year warranty option with accidental damage protection and faster exchanges of damaged units.Microsoft also promises that these devices are forward-looking, with Type Covers, the Docking Station, and the Surface Ethernet adaptor all compatible with the next generation Surface Pro, whenever that may happen to be released.Google on its way to surpass $1 billion in revenue from India in FY15 - The Economic TimesIn the great Indian ecommerce race, the real winner is a company which isn't even on the race track — Google, the US-based search giant. The California-based company, sources said, is on its way to clocking over $1 billion (Rs 6,000 crore) in revenue from India in the year to March 2015, helped along by heavy spending by ecommerce firms.According to company filings, Google crossed Rs 3,000 crore in revenue for the year ending March 2014, up 47% from the year before. Globally, Google's revenue in 2013 was $58 billion."Marketing budgets have gone through the roof. It's highly competitive these days and whoever pays the most for a keyword wins the race," said Vasudevan T, a former head of digital marketing at Myntra who is now the CEO of online coaching company Coatom.Android One looks like a smarter and smarter move.Introducing Quip Spreadsheets &gt;&gt; Quip BlogOur vision for Quip is to reimagine the productivity suite around communication. Our products are not just for creation, but for collaboration, enabling you to interact with your team whether you're at your desk or on your phone at the airport. With Quip, you work with people, not files.We've been working on Quip Spreadsheets for a long time, iterating with a handful of our customers to design a product that captures these unique values. In the process, we came up with a completely different approach than legacy productivity suites.Quip is a document app designed specifically for spreadsheet use - rather as Google Docs (formerly Writely before it was acquired) were designed for cloud-based use.Was Nokia's Elop history's worst CEO? &gt;&gt; The RegisterAndrew Orlowski:how fair is it to blame Elop for years Nokia's years of neglect? Elop inherited a dysfunctional bureaucracy, warring factions, and a product team that took 18 months to develop a mediocre device. Nokia executives tended to overestimate its formidable brand and distribution power. And its own technological advantages in battery power and call quality were about to become much less important in the new era. Whoever took the CEO's seat in September 2010 needed to address these challenges – whatever decisions he or she would take.Nokia employed over 16,000 people in phone R&amp;D when Elop took the helm.One in three dollars spent in global phone R&amp;D was being spent by Nokia, which devoted more resources to it than Apple devoted to all its products. Yet the Finnish firm still couldn't produce a competitive device.Elop concluded Nokia's own software factory was beyond repair, and by choosing Window Phone, effectively outsourced the lot to Microsoft. (He maintained some platform development in-house: the low-cost Series 40 featurephone platform, and for a while, a Unix for midrange phones, until this too was eventually scrapped)."Plan B is to make sure Plan A is very successful," Elop told reporters in June 2011.Orlowski knows where a lot of the Symbian bodies are buried. It looks as though Nokia was unsalvageable - but Windows Phone didn't help.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Veteran corporate raider Carl Icahn has predicted that Apple shares will double to more than $200 (£124) each as he began his latest campaign to force the company into another stock buyback.Ina 4,500 word letterto Apple chief executive Tim Cook, Icahn implied that Apple should have a stock market valuation of $1.2tn as he claimed that the company should be trading at $203 per share.Apple is already the world’s most valuable company with a stock market value of just under $591bn and share price of about $100.But the billionaire investor said, in the letter entitled “Sale: Apple Shares at Half Price”, that “the market misunderstands” Apple and that it was “dramatically undervalued”.Icahn, who owns nearly 1% of Apple, said it had a cash pile worth $133bn although analysts estimate that only a fraction of this cash is held in the US.The letter began with praise of Cook, whom Icahn describes as an “ideal CEO for Apple”.He continued: “It is truly a watershed moment, with Apple poised to take market share from Google (Android) in the premium device market as iPhone 6 becomes Apple’s flagship device among a growing collection of products and services that work together to form an increasingly dominant mobile ecosystem.”He based his valuation on an analysis of Apple’s business prospects, making projections for the sale of iPhones and iPads and including launching a TV.“Televisions are a centrepiece to the modern living room and thereby a promising gateway into the home for Apple’s growing ecosystem,” Icahn said, predicting an Apple television could be on the market in 2016.He forecast that Apple would be able to sell 12m TVs for $1,500 a set in 2016. Apple has so far only launched an internet TV service.Icahn drew an analogy between the iPhone 6 and a Mercedes but said that unlike the car the phone was “affordable for the mass market” as he made a comparison with the Galaxy S5 and Note 4.“The choice between them is analogous to the choice between a Volkswagen over a Mercedes at the same price, and unlike a Mercedes, the $649 cost of an iPhone 6 is affordable for the mass market, equating to just $20 per month over a two-year period (including a $170 estimated resale value of the phone at the end of two years, excluding financing and taxes).”Icahn hadfirst admitted an interest in Applelast year when he began his campaign about the undervaluation of the company’s shares, calling for $50bn to be bought back. He had backed down in February although the company starting buying back shares in April and also split its shares, reducing the price in an attempt to tempt more investors to buy them.The shares fell from $640m to just over $90 a result of the complex share split.“You have said that the company likes to be ‘opportunistic’ when repurchasing shares and we appreciate that,” Icahn wrote in his latest letter.“With this letter we simply hope to express to you that now is a very opportunistic time to do so.“We ask you to present to the rest of the board our request for the company to make a tender offer, which would meaningfully accelerate and increase the magnitude of share repurchases.”Set up 38 years ago by the late Steve Jobs, Apple was this week namedthe world’s most valuable brand by Interbrand in its best global brands annual report.Icahn tried to play down scepticism about his motives by pledging not to sell any of his 53m shares. “To preemptively diffuse any cynical criticism that you may encounter with respect to our request, which might claim that we are requesting a tender offer with the intention of tendering our own shares, we hereby commit not to tender any of our shares if the company consummates any form of a tender offer at any price. We commit to this because we believe Apple remains dramatically undervalued,” Icahn said.Apple said: “We always appreciate hearing from our shareholders.” It has returned $74bn to shareholders in two years and expects that to rise.
Elon Musk’s ambition has finally found its limits: the billionaire technologist, who wants to banish petrol-driven cars from the earth with Tesla Motors while putting humanity on Mars with SpaceX, can’t abide flying cars.Speaking in at an event in San Francisco, Musk, who is expected to unveil the new Tesla D car later on Thursday, rejected the idea.“I’m not sure about the flying cars,” Musk told the audience at the Vanity Fair New Establishment Summit. “If the sky was full of cars flying all over the place, it would affect how things look. It would affect the skyline. And it would be noisier and there would be a greater probability of something falling on your head. Those are not good things.“On the other hand, you’d be able to go from one place to another faster,” he conceded.But he maintained that there are easier ways to gain massive improvements in travel speeds, such as moving vehicles underground to “eliminate the choke points in cities” that clog up traffic.That’s not to say that Musk shies away from the difficult solutions to getting people from A to B. In 2013, he presented an “alpha” proposal, which he called “an open source transportation concept”, for the “Hyperloop” – an ambitious attempt to link LA and San Francisco on what Musk described as “a cross between a Concorde, a railgun and an air hockey table”.The Hyperloop wasill-receivedas a concept, knocked for overstating its benefits while simultaneously belittling the more advanced proposals for a California high-speed rail system. But Musk clearly didn’t stop thinking about the possibility of changing how travel works beyond simply swapping petrol for electricity.“This may seem trite,” he told the audience, “but I honestly think tunnels should be given a lot more consideration.”Alongside the future of travel, Musk elaborated on his belief that humanity will be the architect of its own demise in the form of super-intelligent artificial intelligence.What would happen, he asked, if a supersmart machine decides that the best way to achieve its gains is to destroy humanity? Suppose an AI is set to the task of cleaning up our inboxes; what if it comes to the conclusion, Musk asked, that “the best way to get rid of spam is to get rid of humans?”Citing Oxford University professorNick Bostrom, Musk has previouslywarnedthat “we need to be super careful with AI. Potentially more dangerous than nukes.“Hope we’re not just the biological boot loader for digital superintelligence,”he added back in August, comparing humanity to the simple programs that load up the full operating system on a PC. “Unfortunately, that is increasingly probable.”In the meantime, Musk can look forward to revealing the D in Los Angeles tonight. According to analysts at Barclays Capital, the announcement is likely to entail a four-wheel drive version of the Tesla Model S, and perhaps a semi-autonomous driving system.•Elon Musk says he invested in DeepMind over ‘Terminator’ fears
PornHub’sgigantic erectionin Times Square, New York, has been mysteriously taken down.The company’s first real-life billboard – which measured 54x48 feet – came down prematurely after just a few hours late on Wednesday night.In February 2014 the Montreal-based firm launched a competition for its first non-pornographic, offline advert as part ofthe job application processto become its new creative director.The winning advert featured the slogan “All You Need is Hand” with a picture of a hand forming a heart shape. It was designed by Nuri Galver, a copywriter based in Istanbul.PornHub’s first offline advertisement.Photograph: PornHubPornHub spokesperson “Katie” announced on Twitter at 9.19pm that the advert had been taken down.There’s been no official response or explanation as to why the billboard was removed from the Square, but it is believed the DoubleTree Hilton hotel (where the billboard was sited) objected.No more Pornhub Billboard in Times Square :(pic.twitter.com/hBH3fZvkz5&mdash; Pornhub Katie (@Pornhub)October 8, 2014The “All You Need is Hand” billboard was accompanied by a video campaign, in which the Gotham Rock Opera sang the slogan to the tune of the Beatles’All You Need is Love:Other finalists in PornHub’s advert competition included the following entries:Photograph: Itamar C.Photograph: Constantine M.•Pornhub and Redtube to join go-slow protest over US threat to net neutrality
The PC market remains in the doldrums worldwide, shrinking by about 1% year-on-year to about 79m units shipped in the three months to the end of September according to new figures from research firms IDC and Gartner.The data also shows that the biggest six companies are tightening their grip on the market, taking making up a record high of more than 70% of all shipments as smaller players are squeezed out – and more consolidation is expected.Differences in the data collected by the two research firms also suggests that Taiwan-based Asus is seeing the most success in shipping 2-in-1 devices. Detachable keyboards such as the Lenovo Yoga are classed by Gartner as “ultramobiles” but by IDC as “tablets” – and so not included in its PC shipment figures.IDC put total shipments at 78.5m units, down 1.7% year-on-year;Gartner at 79.4m, down 0.5%.IDC’s classification of 2-in-1s as “tablets” means thatAsus doesn’t figure in its top five manufacturersby shipment, putting Apple in fifth place for the first time in more than 20 years, with an estimated 4.98m computers shipped.But Gartner says Asus shipped 5.77m devices in the quarter – which suggests that if it shipped fewer desktops and laptops than Apple’s 4.98m, it must have shipped at least 780,000 2-in-1 devices. “Asus has been concentrating on that segment,” said a Gartner spokesman.Dave Lindhouthaschartedthe difference between Gartner’s and IDC’s measure of Asus’s “PC” shipments, showing the growing gap between their measures – and so the rising number of 2-in-1 shipments from Asus.Chart showing the difference between Gartner and IDC measure of Asus ‘PC’ shipments - because Gartner counts 2-in-1 ‘detachable keyboard’ devices as PCs, but IDC counts them as ‘tablets’.Photograph: Info-tranHowever, the figures are not definitive; variations in how the two companies measure shipments, and differences in how companies report data to them, mean that IDC and Gartner both reckon that Lenovo, the largest PC company, shipped 15.7m PCs - even though Gartner’s figure should include the Yoga while IDC’s excludes them.Worldwide PC shipments by quarter (blue columns) and four-quarter moving average (red line). Source: IDC.Photograph: Guardian/IDCThe PC market shows little sign of overall recovery. While sales rose year-on-year in developed markets, which were the earliest to adopt PCs, they fell in emerging markets, where PC penetration is lower.Corporate buyers are still replacing PCs following the end of Windows XP’s support in April, providing an ongoing uplift for sales there: “The continued growth in the EMEA PC market reflects the end of official support for Windows XP and the need to replace older PCs,” said Ranjit Atwal, research director at Gartner.Mikako Kitagawa, principal analyst at Gartner, said: “Consumers’ attention is slowly going back to PC purchases as tablet adoption peaked with mainstream consumers. The transition from PCs to tablets has faded as tablet penetration has reached the 40-50% range.”But the ongoing slow sales in emerging markets showed that consumers there who could afford PCs were in effect satisfied – and that those without PCs would choose cheap tablets instead. “This is a one of the major reasons for the slow growth in PC shipments in the emerging market,” said Kitagawa.For smaller PC players, the major concern is that the shrinking number of PC sales means that larger players are grabbing more share – especially as businesses now purchase the majority of PCs and seek trusted sources. The sum of the top five vendors’ shipments was two-third of the market – and more than 70% including Apple – and all grew more than the industry average.That will mean further withdrawals from the market, analysts say. This year Sony sold off its PC business to a private equity company, Toshiba announced it will withdraw from selling to consumers, and Samsung pulled out of selling both Windows PCs and Chromebooks in Europe.Vizio, best known in the TV market,said in Julythat it was “rethinking” its attempt to break into the PC market; its “computing” page on its website is nowdead.Loren Loverde, of IDC’s worldwide PC tracker group, said that more would follow: “In addition to pressures like slower growth, lower prices and margins, and competition from other devices, the shift to portable PCs and the expansion in emerging markets (not just total PC volume, but more channels, growth in smaller cities and lower income segments) also leaves less room for smaller players.Loverde added: “There are some other Asian/emerging market players such as Tongfang, Positivo, Haier, LG Electronics, MSI, and Panasonic. Within desktops, vendors outside the top 10 still account for almost 40% of the market – sold through lots of smaller local vendors, value-added resellers, and assemblers. For portables that number is now less than 10%.”However desktops make up only about 40% of worldwide shipments, meaning that many small players are competing for business – which also drives down margins and sustainability.Apple’s surprise appearanceApple’s appearance in IDC’s list of the top five PC makers is not that surprising, said Loren Loverde, of IDC’s worldwide PC trackers division. While IDC and Gartner both name only the top five companies, “the difference between fifth and sixth is not always large– as in this case,” Loverde said.“PC shipments for the two vendors were also fairly close a year ago – but Apple has been growing faster, so the rank change is not so surprising from a growth perspective.”Apple also cut prices and benefited from generally higher sales growth in the US, Loverde said. “Asus was harder hit [in PC shipments] by its shift to alternate devices like tablets, including 2-in-1s and smartphones, and has essentially stabilised its PC business over the past year. Our results for the just-past quarter show Asus growing again, but still falling behind Apple.”Both IDC and Gartner say that Apple was the third-largest PC vendor in the US during the quarter, shipping almost half its worldwide total there and so benefiting from a slight uplift in sales.Motherboards: no salvationSales of motherboards – used either to build PCs or repair existing ones – have not escaped the squeeze on the PC market.The market is dominated by Asus and Gigabyte of Taiwan, which mainly produce them for companies assembling them commercially, but also sell some to hobbyists and professionals.According to Sandler Research, the market is roughly steady at about 38m units each quarter, but Asus and Gigabyte are taking a growing share of that as prices are forced down. About 40% of Gigabytes exports go to Asia, particularly China, and 40% to Europe, with the remainder going to the US.•Breaking HP up isn’t hard to do – but PC and printing arms will be left behind
YouTube star Zoella – aka British vlogger Zoe Sugg – has already seen her online success spawna book deal with Penguinand aguest-presenting slot on Radio 1. Now she’s also taking a role as digital ambassador for mental health charity Mind.The news was announced as Sugg launched her #DontPanicButton campaign to raise awareness of anxiety and panic attacks in young people. It will encourage people to wear red buttons and upload photos to social networks using the hashtag to show their support.Sugg’s large online audience – hermain YouTube channelhas more than 6.1m subscribers, while herMoreZoellachannel has 2.3m – should help the campaign reach a large number of young people.Sugg is currently one of a handful of channelschosen for a TV, print and billboard advertising campaignin the UK paid for by YouTube, which is aiming to make its most popular stars household names beyond their online success.Her new role won’t come as a surprise to Zoella’s fans, as she has spoken publicly about her own experience of panic attacks and anxiety, includinga video posted in November 2012that has been watched nearly 2.6m times, and afollow up Q&amp;A in June 2014that has more than 2m views.“I know just how isolating it can feel to experience severe anxiety. However, the overwhelming response I’ve received every time I’ve spoken out online, shows just how many young people confront it every day,” said Sugg as her Mind role was announced.“I am passionate about the need for everyone to feel ok to speak out, to talk to friends and family about what they’re going through, to ask for help. That’s why I’m thrilled to be taking on my new role as Digital Ambassador at Mind.”Mind’s chief executive Paul Farmer described Zoella as “an inspiration to many” with her willingness to talk about her battles with anxiety, adding that social media is an important channel for the charity to spread its messages.“For many, the internet and social media can be a lifeline,” said Farmer. “By connecting people with similar experiences and providing access to information and support, the online world has a significant role to play increasing awareness about mental health problems.”Zoella’s new role is part of a wider trend of popular YouTubers teaming up with charities to raise awareness and/or money.Felix Kjellberg, whose PewDiePie channel is the most popular on YouTube, hasraised more than $1mfor Charity: Water, Save the Children and St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital through online fundraising campaigns.Meanwhile, US-based YouTuber Tyler Oakley – one of Sugg’s fellow guest-presenters on Radio 1 – hasworked for several years with The Trevor Project, a charity that works with lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) young people.•YouTube’s top 100 channel views up 80% in the last year
Namco Bandai; 3DS (version tested)/PS3/WiiU/Xbox 360; £30; Pegi rating: 3+Pac-Man,voted the most recognisable video-game characterandbiggest-grossing arcade game of all time, is famous for gobbling up pellets while trying to escape ghosts in a neon blue maze. Keen retro game-players will recall how the beeps would quicken, how everything would speed up, and ghosts would be frightened when our unlikely hero chomped the flashing power pill energisers.It was the Atari 2600 version that first brought the thrill and atmosphere of the arcade into the living room. This simple and powerful game developed by Namco, which was played with a joystick, had much of the charm of the addictive original. Since then, there have been countless updates, sequels, tie-ins and re-imaginings, arguably reaching a zenith four years ago with the surprisingly innovative Pac-Man Championship Edition DX on Xbox 360 and PS3. But if that was the peak, welcome to the trough.Now, of course, it’s easy to don those nostalgia-tinted blinkers and be critical, but a year after the poor Pac-Man and the Ghostly Adventures was first released – inspired by an animated children’s television series – the second installment developed by Monkey Bar Games doesn’t rescue the brand. Instead, it reminds me of the way Sonic the Hedgehog was arguably damaged and hasn’t recovered from his transition to 3D.How do you solve a problem like Betrayus?Pac-Man 2 follows the same worryingly thin premise as the previous game. Baddie Betrayus, lord of ghosts and the Netherworld, is trying to terrorise PacWorld and releases a horde of robots and ghosts. It’s down to Pac-man and his merry friends Cylindria and Spiral to beat them beyond the Pacopolis streets.3DS players can move Pac-Man around using the circle pad, and defeat foes by either “chomping” them using the Y button, which made me chuckle, or by using their special attack with the X button. Throughout the game, power-ups are available, transforming Pac-Man and giving him new special attacks. He can also mix things up in his ice or fire suits.The set-up is given a halfhearted twist in several levels where Pac-Man switches out and you play as one of his buddies. In Spiral’s levels, for example, you engage in a series of obstacle courses. I most enjoyed playing Cyli’s stages, when you’re given the control over her pink rocket-skater, and can target and attack enemies with a blaster while flying around. Simple pleasures.Yet the majority of the game, which has you playing as Pac-Man within PacWorld, is frankly quite dull. Gameplay quickly becomes a case of pushing forward on the circle pad and mashing the Y button. The rest it seems is taken care of by the game itself. Pac-Man automatically eats his enemies so long as you comply to the above tactic of pushing forward and pressing Y. This is a game that may leave even complete newcomers wishing for a deeper experience.More frustrating is the fact that exploration is limited by invisible walls. There are no camera controls, so you can’t tilt your view to see where you’re going – especially tiresome when you try to jump to another platform. Overall, the game feels choppy and incomplete – as though a cartoon version of an iconic arcade classic has been wrenched into a quickly produced video game conversion and tossed onto the shelves in time for Christmas.And although Ghostly Adventures 2 seems primarily aimed at children who may enjoy the vibrant art style and kiddish cries that our once silent-hero yelps out, the atrocious voice acting will eventually annoyeveryone. Familiar beeps from the arcade version are heard here and there. But when our hero whoops: “yeeeah!”, “time to power up!”, “get in my belly!” and “almost too easy”, he sounds like a second-rate Barney the Dinosaur impersonator.So Pac-Man is yet to truly crack 3D visuals. The abstract and slightly chilling nature of the 2D games kept people immersed, and provided a limited but perfectly balanced environment for the maze-based action. The new generation of happy-clappy cartoon games don’t capture the slightly sinister essence of the original concept, even if you are strangely satisfied when gobbling up ghosts.In some ways, the game’s simple ambitions would not have been a problem if the recipe had been respectfully crafted. But to a modern audience spolied for choice when it comes to excellent family games, it is something of a travesty.
If you want to know the future of technology, should you ask a technological futurologist? On the one hand, it’s their job to think about What Comes Next and What It All Means in regards to devices, connectivity and the digital services that they enable.On the other hand, you might just get back a load of blather cribbed from whatever science-fiction novel they read most recently. Robot Sex! Flying Cars! Augmented Drone Shopping! An App Whose Sole Purpose Is To Send Yo To Your Friends! Oh, wait...Still, flippancy aside, futurology is fun to read, both at the time, and then a decade or more later to see how much of it was right. That’s why a new report from the Pew Research Center and Elon University calledKiller Apps in the Gigabit Ageis well worth a read.See this separate storyfor a take on its predictions for healthcare, education and societal change. But here’s an additional primer to some of the more ambitious forecasts in the report, which was compiled by asking 1,464 experts what the advent of gigabit-speed internet connections will mean for our lives.From semantic overlays to holographic co-workers...“There will be full, always-on, 360-degree environmental awareness, a semantic overlay on the real world, and full-presence massive open online courses. Plus Skype won’t break up nearly as much.”David Weinberger, Berkman Center for Internet &amp; Society“I could be writing on a ‘whiteboard’ with others, as well as seeing them standing next to me. In fact, I would be in my office in Beacon, New York, wearing an Oculus-ish headset and writing on my wall, while meeting with people from London and San Francisco.”Stowe Boyd, GigaOM Research“On the entertainment front, something like the Holodeck concept first shown in the old Star Trek series is actually within our grasp by 2025. Games, films, shopping for cars and vacations, and (of course) porn will all become immersive 3D experiences.”Kathryn Campbell, Primitive Spark“No doubt the killer app will be real-life holograms operating in real time: for instance, as doctors, as surgeons, as coworkers. It will change the workplace. Not only will it diminish the need for business travel, it will also increase competition in the labor market immensely. Whereas before you had to compete with fellow humans in the same physical area, immigrants for example, in the future you have to compete with ‘cloud immigrants’—coworkers appearing in their work as a hologram.”Marcel Bullinga, futurist“We are looking at full video lifestreaming in the near future... Lifestreaming from ultrasound to final illness (and beyond if we add intelligent bots to the life data) will be the killer app. The challenge going forward is to live a full life. No one will be able to sit around in their underwear watching TV if their lives are being streamed for current and future generations.”Laurel Papworth, social media educatorFrom reality immersion to walk-in photos...“These apps will create livingness of information. We will enter any destination like diving into water. This new submersion, due to enhanced glasses or some evolved cognitive cum visual tool, will affect both the destination and those experiencing it. We will no longer go anywhere alone, as we will be connected to everyone and everything around us. We will not think of this as a media experience, but as reality immersion while we are walking down Fifth Avenue in New York or spending an afternoon at the Palazzo Vecchio.”Barry Chudakov, Sertain Research“I see amazing potential of wearable computing to contribute a near-harmonious information-seeking environment where the analog world is enhanced and opened by the digital world. There are probably implications for sexual environments, but I’d prefer not to dwell on that.”K.G. Schneider, university librarian“Sensors everywhere—on property, on our clothes, on (and perhaps in) our bodies, all of it feeding digital information to be processed on servers or filtered and passed to the cloud. By 2025 small devices might be powered by harvested energy, in which case the possibilities expand dramatically. On the receiving end of this massive information flow will be large displays at work and in many homes through which vast quantities of information can be rapidly visualized. We have lagged in exploiting this because it is more difficult to model or demo than a simple application, but it will come.”Jonathan Grudin, Microsoft Research“Eventually it could change the way we preserve our past. In the same way that photography changed the way we could preserve our personal and collective history imagine the impact of being able to ‘walk into’ an old family photograph or video.”David Bernstein, The Bernstein Agency“Avatars to go to meetings for me in Texas, rather than me flying down. Bus tours of Istanbul on Saturday afternoon from the comfort of my living room. Playing a game of football with my cousin in Ulan Bator from the gym downtown.”David Collier-Brown, system programmer and authorFrom disaggregated education to scientific diets...“The school day will disaggregate into a number of learning sessions, some at home, some in the neighborhood, some in pairs, some in larger groups, with different kinds of facilitators.”JP Rangaswami, Salesforce.com“When it comes to education, there will be an app for every child’s learning ability or disability... Children will be learning and tracking 24/7, while sharing their experience with selected-in peers and networks.”Breanne Thomlison, BTx2 Communications“Time in school will need to radically change since the talking-head, expert teacher is less and less valuable. The role of teacher-coach will be even more important yet require a different emotional and intellectual skill set than that which most educators now possess.”Ed Lyell, a college professor of business and economics“The next big food fad, after hipster locavores, will be individualized scientific diets, based on the theory that each person’s unique genetics, locations, and activities mean that she requires a specific diet, specially formulated each day.”Judith Donath, Berkman Center for Internet and Society“The big story here is continuous health monitoring... It will be much cheaper and more convenient to have that monitoring take place outside the hospital. You will be able to purchase health-monitoring systems just like you purchase home-security systems. Indeed, the home-security system will include health monitoring as a matter of course. Robotic and remote surgery will become commonplace.”Hal Varian, chief economist, GoogleFrom 3D-printed clothes to government disruption“Wearing clothes that are tailor-made for you every day, 3D-printed at home, will also become normal, with the previous day’s clothes recycled efficiently”JP Rangaswami, Salesforce.com“Is the statue on the desk in the sitcom you are watching not available? Have it 3D printed on- demand and sent to you by drone messenger.”Evan Michelson, emerging technologies researcher“The global nature of connectivity could foster an integrated world economy, breaking down the importance of nations and governments. Foolish optimism, but perhaps we will even be able to make bureaucracy operate more effectively.”Alison Alexander, Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication“Real-time sensor networks will do for traffic congestion and fuel consumption what millions of dollars in public transportation advertising has failed to accomplish, with even late-adopting governments leveraging citizen-facing apps for better constituent service and internally-focused apps for less waste, fraud and abuse.”Bruce Mehlman, Internet Innovation Alliance“New and more complex big data streams—images, sensor data, sound files, video, natural language—will continue to challenge us, however, as there is a limit to the ability of algorithms to account for human language and behavior. As a result, we’ll need to see dramatic advances in machine-learning capability. This will invest machines with a kind of sentience, although one far removed from the dystopian vision of a William Gibson.”Susan Etlinger, Altimeter GroupYou may agree with some or all of these. You may vehemently disagree. Please do put your views in the comments section.Rather than just “these people are talking rubbish” it would be good to tease out some of the implications in what they’re saying – both positive and negative – or the reasons why their predictions may not come to pass if you’re doubtful.
A new report published by the Pew Research Center and Elon University aims to predict how the advent of gigabit-speed internet connections will affect our lives by 2025.TheKiller Apps in the Gigabit Ageresearch involved asking 1,464 “experts and internet builders” what they think humans will be doing once they have access to broadband 50-100 times faster than the average home connection now, and collating their thoughts.The report is based on the premise that just as dial-up internet access drove email and web surfing into the mainstream; and broadband internet spurred music downloads, video streaming and social networking; so gigabit-speed internet will spur a new set of technologies and services.The predictions include some familiar futurology themes: holograms and virtual reality, wearables and the internet of things, 3D printing and ever-more sophisticated artificial intelligence.However, its most interesting sections focus on the potential changes in health and education, as well as warnings about the dangers of a widening digital divide between the technology haves and have-nots.In education, the report includes predictions of blurred boundaries between real and virtual classrooms, as children make greater use of devices to learn and share that learning with their peers.“The school day will disaggregate into a number of learning sessions, some at home, some in the neighbourhood, some in pairs, some in larger groups, with different kinds of facilitators,” claimed JP Rangaswami, chief scientist for Salesforce.com.Bruce Mehlman, co-chair of the Internet Innovation Alliance, predicted an end to “one-size-fits-all broadcasting from the front of the room” teaching, while business and economics professor Ed Lyell suggested that teachers will become less talking-head experts, and more “teacher-coach” figures for their students.Healthcare is a major topic for the report, with its predictions of “continuous health monitoring” through a variety of sensors and personal devices. “Having a personal healthpod you strap yourself into daily will become normal,” suggested Rangaswami.“You will be able to purchase health-monitoring systems just like you purchase home-security systems,” claimed Google’s chief economist Hal Varian. “Indeed, the home-security system will include health monitoring as a matter of course.”“Tools will monitor us from birth and predict sickness and heal us faster. Genetics will be patented and evolve to have cures to current and new disease that will arise,” said Breanne Thomlison, president of BTx2 Communications. “People will be able to connect with others who share similar DNA and experience a personal connection to focus on prevention versus treatment.”The major concern raised by the report is over the potential widening of the digital divide between people with the fastest internet access and people with the slowest – or no access at all.“If there is a digital divide now, it will still exist in 2025. The divide’s existence will be magnified by the new killer apps—who has access and who does not, beneficiaries and those left out,” said Danny Gillane, cited in the report as an information science professional.“We may see a new class divergence between those able to access immersive media, online telepathy, human consciousness uploads, and remote computing while the poor will be left with the low-bandwidth experiences we typically use today,” added Rex Troumbley of the University of Hawaii.Some participants suggested that the digital divide could narrow, however. “We may see a lot more innovation in the developing world in the near future because they adapt to wireless mesh networks and leapfrog past countries that are hamstrung by incumbent service providers,” said David Solomonoff, of the Internet Society.The report makes space for participants who think predicting the results of increased bandwidth is a fool’s game, too.“Many, starting with Taylor and Licklider in 1968, have been able to see that networked computers would give rise to new communication media. But who could have foreseen YouTube?” said author and sociologist Howard Rheingold.“I could not have predicted Google, Facebook, Blogger, or certainly Twitter. So there’s no way I can predict what ubiquitous gigabit bandwidth will bring,” said journalist, professor and critic Jeff Jarvis. “I only know I want it.”•20 ways gigabit-speed internet access might change our lives
Tablet computers have replaced the TV in the bedroom as the must-have gadget for children, with over one-third of those aged from five to 15 owning their own tablet, says Ofcom.Studies fromthe UK’s media and telecoms regulator discovered that the proportion of children having their own tablet, instead of using a parent’s device, has increased from 19% in 2013 to 34% in 2014.Over six in ten children use a tablet at home, up 50% on 2013, while the number of children with TV sets in their bedrooms has decreased by a third in five years.Affordable alternativeTablet use has expanded for all age groups over the last couple of years, as they have become an affordable alternative to a PC and can be bought for under £100 from major high street retailers and supermarkets.Both Tesco, with itsHudl tablet, and Argos spotted the trend last year and released own brand tablets available for under £100. Tesco says it sold 750,000 Hudl tablets in the past year.Research firm eMarketer expects there to be 24.6 million tablet users in the UK in 2014, where Apple’s iPad still dominates, making up 50% of UK tablet users.The number of 5-15-year-olds using a tablet to go online has doubled to 42% in the past year, while PC use for internet access by children has decreased by 3% to 88%. PC sales have steadily decreased over the last three years, as tablets and other smart devices have grown in popularity.Beyond internet access, tablets are being used by children for a range of different activities. Games are played on tablets by 30% of children, while 20% watch live TV on their tablets and 33% watch on-demand TV.Social media, YouTube and filtersSocial media also plays a large part in internet use for older children, with 71% of 12-15 years olds having a social media profile on Facebook, Twitter or another service. But in that age range, girls are more likely to have an Instagram, SnapChat or Tumblr account than boys.YouTube attracts more boys than girls, however, who are more than twice as likely to use the Google video site.Ofcom also found that 84% of parents directly supervise their children online and 82% have defined rules about the use and access of the internet by their kids. Over half of parents also use tools to manage their child’s internet use on tablets and PCs, including internet filters, password protection and anti-virus software.Over three-quarters of parents currently feel they enough about the internet and how it works to help protect their children, but 43% feel that their kids know more about the internet than they do, rising to 62% for the 12-15 year olds.•Hudl 2: Tesco releases new larger Android tablet with parental controls
Attempts by European governments to push for tighter controls on the spread of radicalisation and terror content online are being resisted by the biggest tech companies including Facebook, Google and Twitter.A meeting held on Wednesday in Luxembourg between senior executives from the companies and EU officials heard growing concern expressed by ministers over the extent to which extremists are spreading videos and using social media accounts to try to radicalise and recruit people.But the US-owned technology companies are resisting calls to proactively prevent content being added to their systems, either by checking content before it becomes publicly visible or banning certain groups ahead of any complaints.Separately, the security services are pushing for better access to details about terror suspects’ use of social media.The European Commission said that the meeting would focus on “the challenges posed by terrorists’ use of the internet and possible responses, tools and techniques to respond to terrorist online activities, with particular regard to the development of specific counter-narrative initiatives.”The meeting came against a backdrop in whichTheresa May has been pushing in Europe for more measuresto tackle the flow of would-be jihadi fighters to Iraq and Syria.In astatementafter the meeting on Wednesday, the EC said the meeting with Google, Facebook, Twitter and Microsoft was part of a forum announced in January 2014 to “discuss the challenges posed by the terrorist propaganda on the internet” and that participants “discussed various possibilities of addressing the challenges”. They agreed to “organise joint training and awareness raising workshops of the law enforcement authorities, internet industry and civil society.”One focus is the use of the YouTube video sharing site, owned by Google, to post videos of murders by IS of hostages. Google says that it removes any “channels” used to post such content when it is alerted about them. But because its system relies on users flagging unsuitable content, rather than checking it ahead of time - a task that it says would be impossible because of the sheer volume of content being uploaded every second - it relies heavily on “trusted flaggers” to signal terrorist content.Twitter has also removed links to videos and pictures of executions carried out by IS, and closed down accounts used by people suspected of supporting terrorist activities.None of the technology companies at the meeting would discuss the outcome on the record.Of the push by security services for more access to the accounts of terror suspects, one source at a major technology company told the Guardian that after the Snowden revelations there needed to be clear lines over government access: “We agree that there needs to be a balance between user privacy and the need for the security services to seek out terrorists, and governments can require access to accounts,” said the source. “But we don’t think that mass surveillance is the right way to go about it.”
Apple is sealing up a security hole popularly used to install emulators and other software barred from its App Store.The latest beta versions of iOS 8.1, expected to be released to the public in late October, prevent users from using the bug,known as the “date trick”, to install unsigned apps straight from Safari onto their iOS devices – so-called “side loading”.In unpatched versions of iOS 8, the trick involves setting the date of a device back by at least one day, downloading the app from Safari, and then resetting the date. Doing so fools the operating system into believing that the downloaded app is signed by Apple.The trick has been put to use by developers of apps that are typically banned from the App Store, most notably emulator developers, who produce software that lets iOS users play games from older consoles on their phones and tablets.That community has reacted poorly to the change. Dario Sepulveda, a beta tester for GBA4iOS, an emulator for Nintendo’s Game Boy Advance and Game Boy Color consoles, in a blog post titled “Apple Is Slowly Killing Everything We Love”, wrote that “this was a long-time coming; we knew this would one day arrive.“I’m aware that Apple isn’t primarily at fault here (or that they are even specifically targeting the emulator community),” he continued. “Every year they grow more conscious of the smaller security holes and their mission is to perfect the system; I respect them for that.”But while the trick is widely used by emulators, it seems unlikely that they were the sole target of Apple’s patch. The company has a long history of closing up holes that have been used by customers to do install unauthorised software on their devices, going right back to 2007 when itfixed a bugin the handling of .tiff image files, which had been used to “jailbreak” iPhones, allowing users to install any software on them.The problem the company faces is that any method that can be deliberately used to install software from sources other than its App Store can also be abused to install malware. A key differentiator between Google’s approach with Android and Apple’s approach is that only the former is happy to make that trade-off –with the result that 98% of mobile malware targets Android devices.When iOS 8.1 is released, users who want to retain access to sideloaded apps may face a difficult decision as to whether to upgrade. The new version of the operating system will be required to enable Apple Pay, the company’s mobile payment system, improvements to Apple’s Maps App, and the company’s “Convergence” suite of linkages between iOS and Mac OS X.
What is Minecraft? It’s a game, obviously: one that its developer Mojang has sold nearly 54m copies of across computers, consoles and mobile devices so far.It’s a series of books published by Egmont thatsold more than 1.3m copies in the UK alonein the first eight months of 2014. It’s arange of Lego kitsthat have been selling out rapidly, as well as the source for a line of plush toys, hoodies and other productssold from Mojang’s online store.But Minecraft is also an educational tool in schools through theMinecraftEduinitiative, and the driver forBlock by Block, a partnership with the United Nations Human Settlements Programme to get young people involved in planning public urban spaces, starting with a pilot in Kenya.Minecraft is also one of YouTube’s most popular video categories – right up there with music – fuelling hugely popular channels like Stampy (the fourth biggest YouTube channel in the worldin August with 217.9m views) and The Diamond Minecart (sixth with 190.6m views).Oh, and at some point in the next 3-4 years, Minecraft will also be a movie, courtesy of adeal between Mojang and Hollywood studio Warner Brothers.It’s unsurprisingly one of the key topics for nosy questions when The Guardian interviews Mojang’s chief operating officer Vu Bui, ahead of his keynote speech this week at London’s Brand Licensing Europe conference.A Minecraft film? When’s it coming out? “I still have no idea. A long time. I’m going to guess three years, but it could be four, probably not two. 3-4 years seems to be a reasonable bet,” says Bui, stressing that the project remains in its early days of development.Mojang’s chief operating officer Vu Bui.Photograph: Lydia Winters/MojangIn February, news siteDeadline provided initial details, suggesting that the Minecraft movie would be live-action, and produced by Roy Lee and Jill Messick – Lee having previously produced The Lego Movie, which should bode well.“We were approached by so many studios, but after talking to Warner Bros, we decided that this are absolutely the team we want to work with,” says Bui. “They respect the brand, respect the IP, and want to make something that is going to be awesome, not just capitalise on the success of the game.”Is it really live-action? Who’s in it? Bui chuckles as he parries the question. “A movie takes years, especially a large-budget movie like this. It’s still in the beginning stages, and there really isn’t a clear picture yet of what this is going to be. Once there is, I’m sure we’ll share more.”He’s very clear on one point though: whatever story the Minecraft movie tells, it will just be one story among many possible, matching the way there is no single ‘right’ way to play Minecraft as a game.“We don’t want any story that we make, whether it’s a movie or a book, to create some sort of ‘this is the official Minecraft, this is how you play the game’ thing. That would discourage all the players who don’t play in that way,” says Bui. “When coming up with a story, we want to make sure it is just a story within Minecraft, as opposed tothestory within Minecraft.”There are plenty of other things to talk about when it comes to the business around Minecraft, which Bui says is still overseen by a tiny core team within Mojang – mainly art director Markus ‘Junkboy’ Toivonen and director of fun Lydia Winters. Yes, that is her job title.“Every product that exists out there officially, they have gone over pixel-by-pixel, and for the books, page-by-page. We keep all our approvals in-house – we don’t use any licensing agents – and we are very hardcore about those approvals, to make sure each product is something we believe in,” says Bui.The next Minecraft book, Blockopedia, is hexagonal.Earlier this year, Angry Birds maker Rovio revealed that47% of its income in 2013 came from its consumer products division. Minecraft products may be selling well, but for Mojang, the emphasis in its business is still firmly tilted in favour of gaming.“Licensing is a small portion of our business, and we want to keep it that way. We’re a games studio, and I don’t think that’s going to change any time soon,” says Bui.“But people do want to have something physical in their life when they’re not in front of a screen. When we make merchandise, we’re thinking about making something for the people who want it and love it, not just as a source of revenues.”Mojang’s partnership with Egmont has been positive for both companies, but particularly the latter – and the wider children’s books market.In an appearance at a conference in July, the publisher’s international CEO Rob McMenemytold the audiencethat in the UK “the children’s book market year-on-year grew by 11%” in 2013. When asked why, he gave a one-word answer: “Minecraft”.The first four Minecraft books have sold well, in part because they provide some of the tutorial content – from fighting to building – that isn’t in the game itself (even if it is available online as part of theofficial Minecraft Wiki). The next book, Blockopedia, is a hexagonal-shaped tome exploring individual blocks from the game.“We didn’t want to make standard-type annuals with graphics all over the cover and every page a Where’s Waldo? Those type of things we weren’t interested in. We wanted to make it valuable: something that people would buy and treasure, instead of simply flipping through then tossing aside,” says Bui.“If you see the initial pages before our input, and the final product, it’s literally night and day. As a book publisher, Egmont were very concerned with things like the covers: that they look like a more mature book that wouldn’t fit the target audience. But we don’t have a target audience, we don’t look to a particular demographic.“We have younger people playing on mobile up to people on their 70s and 80s playing with their grandchildren. Yes, most of our customers are skewed towards the younger ages, but people of all ages can enjoy and appreciate them. The books stand out on the shelves, and we’re proud of that.”qCraft is one example of an educational Minecraft project: a mod that teaches quantum physics.Minecraft as a brand isn’t just about commercial products. Bui is just as enthusiastic about MinecraftEdu, citing a stat that’s been circulating internally that 1m students have used it in schools.“It’s pretty exciting that a game is being used by teachers not just as a reward – do your classwork then you can play Minecraft for 15 minutes – but actually as an educational tool, with teachers developing a curriculum within the game,” he says.“It’s very interesting to think that in the future, there will be architects and city planners and all these types of people who grew up using Minecraft, and who’ll be applying those skills in ways that change the world.”The era of skyscrapers with chickens embedded in the walls beckons. But Block by Block shows the seriousness of Mojang’s intent to find out how Minecraft really can be used by people to take more of a role in urban planning: a bridge between citizens and professional architects, rather than trying to replace the latter.“We’ve got people in slum areas, many of whom have never used a computer, learning how to use Minecraft to have an input into the redesign and reconstruction of public spaces. It’s beyond being a game, to being used as a layman’s architectural tool,” says Bui.“Then the architect comes in and turns that into what can actually be built. You need that architect still! But previously there wasn’t a good way for local stakeholders to communicate with architects: they didn’t speak the same language. Now that communication can be done through Minecraft.You can’t buy official Minecraft cakes, but you can bake your own, as this Google search shows.Photograph: PRThe conversation turns back to licensing, but not the big partnerships with the likes of Lego, Egmont and Warner Bros. How about people within the Minecraft community making and sharing... well, not necessarily products, but things: from knitted toys to birthday cakes? How does Mojang work with them?“We want people to be creative, and we are working on ways to help people to that. We have something coming out soon – in the next month or so hopefully – that will clarify what people can do with the brand,” says Bui.“It’s really amazing what people are doing out there. What’s not interesting to me is when people just take our existing graphics, slap them onto another product and sell it. There’s no reason those products should be out there. But our approach has always been soft: we talk to people and say ‘hey, this isn’t cool’ or ‘hey, this would be cool if you changed it in that way...’”It will be interesting to see how those new guidelines continue this softly-softly approach to brand protection. With Mojang in the process of beingbought by Microsoft for $2.5bn, any misstep is likely to be brandished as evidence of a culture change under the new ownership, even if Microsoft has nothing to do with it.An interesting point: Bui says the guiding light behind Mojang’s policies is its desire to encourage creativity. “We get a number of emails a week asking if someone can get the licence for Minecraft birthday supplies: plates and hats and streamers,” he says.“But if you do a Google search for ‘Minecraft birthday’ you’ll see all kinds of creativity from families who went out to the store, didn’t find Minecraft stuff, and so created it themselves. Why would we want to put out the official Minecraft cake-topper then, when the game is all about creativity?“Once you put out the official one, people would buy it because it’d be easier than making it themselves. We’re more interested in what people make for themselves: it’s way more exciting for us to have people sitting together and having ideas for Minecraft parties, rather than us just selling some cheesy Minecraft products.”Stampy is the world’s fourth most popular YouTube channel.The last topic the Guardian discusses with Bui is Minecraft videos on YouTube, from the hugely-popular channels like Stampy and The Diamond Minecart to the videos uploaded by fans of all ages showing their exploits in the game.Bui says that Mojang’s approach to YouTube was defined very early on by the game’s creator, Notch, who ensured that people could use Minecraft assets, sounds and gameplay footage on YouTube without having to ask permission or share any of the resulting advertising revenues.Earlier in 2014,Nintendo was criticisedfor filing copyright claims against some YouTubers uploading “Let’s Play” videos of its games, inserting its own ads, which left the video creators unable to earn money from their work. Nintendosaid it was working on an affiliate programto share revenues with YouTubers, but its approach was still compared – often negatively – with Mojang’s hands-off policy.“We have a whole slew of people who are making their entire living just off making videos about Minecraft. Just the economics of that – how many people are making a living off this one IP – is pretty awesome,” says Bui.“That doesn’t take anything away from us, and I would say it actually adds value to Minecraft, to have people who are extremely talented and creative doing things. We’ve essentially outsourced YouTube videos to a community of millions of people, and what they come up with is more creative than anything we could make ourselves.”There are limits: Mojang’s rule is that uploading videos to YouTube is fine, but selling them on iTunes or other video-on-demand services is not – the key being whether creators are charging fans.“There’s no damage to us from YouTube. We might have some people who make content we might not agree with, but this is how the democratisation of media works. You put it out there and let the community decide,” says Bui. “If someone’s putting out rubbish, the community is not going to watch it, and it won’t rise to the top.”The sheer scale of Minecraft as a brand, a community and a cultural touchpoint means Mojang won’t always be able to avoid criticism and online backlashes over the way it manages the game.A recent controversy overhow players can and can’t make money from the Minecraft servers that they runis the latest proof of that. Even so, Bui says that Mojang’s desire to retain its focus as a games studio, as well as its respect for the community around Minecraft, will serve it well.“As I said, we want to make most of our money from selling games. We’re not here to penny-pinch the creatives out there using our property to create cool content,” he says. “We have this massive group of people creating amazing things. Why would we want to hinder that in any way?”•Minecraft: a personal story by the Guardian’s Keith Stuart•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
I bought an eight-inch Samsung Note tablet specifically to take confidential notes in meetings. It had to be quite unobtrusive, and have external SD storage, which could be removed. This machine was satisfactory initially, used with Polaris Office 4. The Polaris suite was upgraded, without my knowledge, to version 5. Then the software would not read from or write to the external SD card. I assumed it was the new version, but Polaris told me that it was the change in the Android operating system. This was confirmed by Samsung: OS 4.2 had been upgraded to 4.4, again without my knowledge.I cannot understand why upgrading should downgrade the facilities. I have tried to complain to Google, but as in the past, find it is impossible actually to communicate with them. How does one receive recompense in this circumstance, since my expensive tablet has become “unfit for use”?RL SymondsYou’re not the only one complaining: the Android 4.4 (KitKat) upgrade broke a lot of third-party apps, including paid-for apps. It would have been a PR disaster for a company that cared about public relations.There are ways to fix the problem, though I can’t guarantee that any of them will be acceptable. These include “rooting” (aka jailbreaking) the device, which may bring up a message that says you have voided your warranty There may be other implications with regard to over-the-air updates, Google apps etc.Your problem arose because the vast majority of SD cards and other external devices are formatted using Microsoft’s FAT32 file system. This is a boon because it means the same cheap card will work in thousands of PCs, phones, cameras, digital recorders and so on. The drawback is that FAT (File Allocation Table) dates back to the 1980s, and doesn’t provide for file directories with detailed access provisions.With FAT32, any app can write to any directory, so you can take a photo with a special camera app, edit it using a different app, and so on. Users love this, but it’s a security risk. Google is reducing the risk by using Android to stop apps from writing to directories they don’t own. This is already the case with internal storage, where Google uses the extfs file system from Linux. However, forcing SD cards to use extfs would probably have created even more pain and anguish.This should not have created mayhem. According to app developerMedia Monkey: “As of Android 3.0 Google introduced restrictions that prevent 3rd party applications from writing to the secondary storage location such as an SD card. Until Android 4.3, most device manufacturers did not implement this restriction … but in Android 4.4, this restriction was implemented on most devices.” Google had finally decided to get tough, but app developers should have seen it coming.As I understand it, an updated app should be able to write to its own directory on an SD card – but this isn’t the directory it’s using now. I think the workaround would go something like this. First, use a PC to copy all your files off the SD card, so you have a backup. Second, uninstall the old app and restart your device. Third, install a new version of the app written to work with KitKat. Fourth, use the PC to copy your old files to the new directory.This is subject to correction. Although I’ve been using Android for years, I don’t have anything that runs KitKat so I have not used it myself.If the latest version of Polaris still does not work the way you want, there’s a free alternative. In 2012,Google bought QuickOffice, and it started installing this by default with Android 4.4. If you haven’t got it, you can download it from the Google Play store. (Good luck, Polaris.)NB: if you uninstall an app, this will also take with it any folders it “owns”. This makes it even more important to make sure all your data is backed up.Rooting your tabletAnother option is GeekSoft’sKitKat External SD Card Patch(“Curse you, Google! Your KitKat update broke my SD card!”), which you can download from the Google Play store.GeekSoft says: “Here we are providing a FREE, SIMPLE, and Ads-free app which helps you magically restore all your previous access to external SD card. Once this patch in installed on your phone, the third-party apps can run normal as before.” But there’s a catch: “This app requires Root Access and must grant superuser permission to use. (If your device is not rooted, please Google your device model root method and apply.)“Another option is simply to change the write permissions, which I expect is what GeekSoft’s patch does. This is essentially a file-editing job that most ordinary users will not want to attempt. However, NextApp Inc has releasedSDFix: KitKat Writable MicroSD, which will do the job for you. But again, you would have to root your Samsung device.You should really be able to “roll back” an update to get back to what you had before. Apple and Microsoft usually if not always provide this option. Android devices always (in my experience) let you reset to factory condition – the Samsung Note 8 has a “backup and reset” option under Settings – but I don’t think this will restore 4.2 once you’ve installed 4.4. I suspect the only way back is to root the device and use Odin to install the correct version of the Samsung firmware downloaded from the web.This is risky, and you could end up with a “bricked” tablet. I’d avoid it if possible, and if it isn’t, look for a local expert to help.Finally, there’s the nuclear option: install an alternative, Google-free version of Android such as the open sourceCyanogenMod. This doesn’t include closed, proprietary Google apps such as Gmail, Maps and Google Play, which some privacy-aware users see as a benefit. However, it seems to be acceptable to backup these apps from the original device and then re-install them on the modded version. (Google said: “these apps aren’t open source, and that’s why they aren’t included in the Android source code repository. Unauthorized distribution of this software harms us just like it would any other business, even if it’s done with the best of intentions.”)Again, this is not something I would recommend to inexperienced users. Obviously, no one should make any changes to a rooted device unless they know how to restore the original operating system.UpdatesIn general, suppliers would like everybody to run the latest version of the operating system, but some users don’t want to make the effort, or are wary of the damage updates can cause. Silent, over-the-air (OTA) updates provide a way to move users to new versions without them having to do any work, but you are usually given a prompt that forces you to accept or postpone updates that have been downloaded. (Whether you can put them off forever is another question.)Either way, if you go to settings and find the software update entry, there should be an option for disable. Once you have done that, you should be able to force stop it and clear its cache. (In some cases, these options may be greyed out.)Whether you can get any recompense is an interesting point, but it’s a consumer rights issue that is out of my area of expertise. You have rights under the sale of goods act that apply to faults or deficiencies inherent in a product when you buy it. However, I don’t know how the law applies to “faults” that result from software updates, unless these were integral to the original purchase. For example, if you bought a phone running Android 4.2 and you were told it would run 4.4, then you would have a case if it didn’t. You would have to consult a consumer affairs or trading standards expert to see if you can make a case against the retailer, or Samsung.I don’t think Google comes into it. Google licensed a software suite to Samsung, which changed it in various ways and installed it on a device that was then sold by a retailer or carrier. You haven’t actually bought anything from Google. Also, as you know, Google doesn’t do personal customer service. With more than a billion users of a free product, it’s hard to see how it could.
The Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC has seized the trend for selfies by releasing a dedicated new handset with a front-facing camera as big and powerful as the conventional rear-facing camera.The HTC Desire Eye has a 13-megapixel camera and dual LED flash above the screen where the phone’s speaker normally sits. It is the highest resolution front-facing camera fitted to a smartphone, complete with auto-focus and 1080p video recording.“It’s a smart move by HTC to introduce the Desire Eye, given the consumer frenzy around selfie pictures,” said Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight. “The company has undoubtedly beaten others to the punch with this design and rivals will watch closely to see whether it is a capability that appeals to consumers.”‘A clever way of differentiating’Most smartphones, including the iPhone 6 and HTC One M8 have front-facing cameras that do not match the cameras on the rear of the phones, lacking auto-focus among other common camera features.Unlike HTC’shigh-end One M8, the Desire Eye is a cheaper, mid-range smartphone costing approximately £300-£400, but has specifications similar to the £550 One M8.The Eye has a 5.2in 1080p screen and the same quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 processor with 2GB of RAM as the flagship One M8. It is also waterproof to 1m for 30 minutes with a plastic body.“Beefing up the front-facing camera is a clever way of differentiating this phone from the sea of homogenous rectangular smartphones,” said Wood. “If it gets a positive reception you can almost guarantee Samsung and others will take a similar approach in 2015.”‘HTC is desperately trying to break into new categories’HTC also unveiled a 16-megapixel action camera the Re Camera, which connects to both Android phones and iPhones and features a periscope design, looking like an asthma inhaler.The Re Camera is a standalone camera with no viewfinder, but connects to an iPhone or Android phone.Photograph: HTCHTC claims the Re is the action camera for those living normal lives, not extreme sports fans who might already own the market-leading GoPro action camera.The Re Camera will cost $200 (£123) in the US and will have a tough time convincing users that they need another camera for general shots, considering most carry a smartphone with a camera.“The decision to launch the RE Camera signals HTC is desperately trying to break into new categories as competition in smartphones reaches new, uncomfortable heights,” explained Wood.HTC has struggled to differentiate itself in the increasingly competitive smartphone market dominated by Apple and Samsung. Cheaper smartphones from China are squeezing the bottom end and HTC is joined by Sony, LG and Motorola in the high-end space where Samsung and Apple dominateWhether the Desire Eye and Re Camera will sell in enough volume to help HTC climb out of its downward trajectory is unknown.•HTC One mini 2 review: selfie-camera ready for action•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star smartphoneThis article has been amended at 17:30 to remove reference to Three’s exclusivity.
Travelling abroad normally means giving up internet access or paying through the nose, but Goodspeed mobile hotspot aims to take the pain out of travelling with data by allowing you to convert a 3G signal into a wireless hotspot.TheGoodspeedcomes with nine sim slots – meaning you can switch between services from nine different countries – and an optional service plan from Uros, which sells and operates the Goodspeed service.The hotspot itself has 10 sim card slots – one is taken up by the controlling card, which stores account information and authenticates the device with the Uros servers when switched on. The others can be used for local sims in any of 60 countries.Up to nine mobile broadband sim cards can be inserted into the Goodspeed, which can be swapped out when the device is off with a choice of 60 available from Uros.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSeveral plans are available. The “Lite” plan allows up to 500MB or 1GB per day depending on the destination country to be used a day, for £13.70 at a time. It’s a fixed 24-hour cost and is only charged the days data is used. Users can also install one of their own sim cards not sold by Uros into the device, for use at home.The Pro plan costs from £8.20 a month with day passes costing £4.90 for the same up to 1GB allowance, but allows users to install as many of their own sims as there are spare slots. Business plans are also available, as is a 24-month contract costing £16.99 a month bundled with the device for no extra cost.The Goodspeedhotspot costs £198, with up to three destination sims costing an extra £12, up to five £20 and up to nine £36. Internet access is available in 60 countries across Europe, the US, Canada, Latin America, Russia, Asia and Australia.The service is straightforward. Power on the hotspot and it will identify the country it’s in and provide service, as long as a destination sim is pre-loaded. Activation can take up to a minute.Booting up the device can take a while, especially if its in a new country.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe hotpot does not support 4G, so connection speeds are restricted to 3G. In most countries that isn’t an issue, but in some built-up areas, such as central London, contention for bandwidth means getting decent service is hard without 4G.The battery lasts eight hours on a charge, depending on how good the mobile broadband signal is, and charges in four hours via micro USB. It weighs 127g and is about the size of a basic mobile phone. Up to five devices can connect via Wi-Fi to the hotspot concurrently.Setting up the hotspot is simple using a browser, while the various sim card accounts are managed via the Goodspeed website.The Goodspeed is about the size of a basic mobile phone. Here it is next to aSamsung Galaxy S5.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianVerdictThe Goodspeed works as advertised and the multiple sim support is great. But it is expensive, and as data roaming costs come down across Europe it is going to look even more expensive.For the traveller who roams beyond Europe and the US, and who doesn’t want the hassle of sourcing a local sim, this is the way forward. Some will prefer just to buy a single-sim 3G/Wi-Fi hotspot, which typically costs approximately £50 but is normally locked to one network and must be unlocked first before traveling, and source their own sims on location.The upfront costs, however, are reassuring and cost-effective for traveling outside of the local roaming zones within Europe.•Can I use a smartphone as a mobile Wi-Fi hotspot?
Some musicians may be sceptical about the merits of streaming music services like Spotify, but their popularity is growing among British music fans, according to new figures published by music industry body the BPI.It claims that the number of tracks streamed in the UK has nearly doubled year-on-year: 10.2bn in the first nine months of 2014 compared to 5.4bn at the same stage in 2013.Streaming services like Spotify, Deezer, Napster and Rdio are now streaming 300m tracks a week in the UK, added the BPI, which is also trumpeting the popularity of British artists on these services elsewhere in the world.It cites figures released by Spotify today claiming that 19% of all songs listened to on its service globally are the work of British artists, with Coldplay, One Direction, Ed Sheeran, Calvin Harris and Mumford &amp; Sons proving particularly popular.Spotify recently announced that Harris had passed 1bn streams of his music on its service, and also that Sheeran’s latest album ‘X’ notched up nearly 24m streams in the first week after it was released.“Streaming music continues to surge forward at record speed with over 10bn streams served so far this year – nearly double last year’s figure,” said BPI chief executive Geoff Taylor.“The outstanding performance of British music globally on Spotify suggests that our exceptional music heritage may position us to claim an even greater share of the world market for recorded music in a streaming era.”Are British acts over-indexing on streaming services? The BPI has previously said that British musicians currently account for one in eight albums sold worldwide, so nearly one in five streams represents an advance on that.Alongside the BPI’s announcement, the UK’s Official Charts Company revealed some stats on individual tracks that have been popular in the UK with streaming users.Clean Bandit ft. Jess Glynne’s Rather Be is currently top of its chart, having been streamed 32m times in the UK in the first nine months of 2014, putting it ahead of the 30m streams of Pharrell Williams’ Happy.The OCC recently started including streams in its calculations for the UK’s official singles chart. Ariana Grande’s Problem was the first chart-topper under the new regulations in July, with her 712k streams that week accounting for 6% of her chart placement.More recently, Meghan Trainor’s All About That Bass becamethe first song to reach the top 40 on streams alone, with 1.17m streams in a week taking it to 33rd place in the singles chart. When it went on sale the following week, the track swiftly rose to number one.The BPI’s announcement follows Spotify’s publication earlier in the week of the 2013 financial results for its UK subsidiary. Spotify Ltd’s revenues rose 42% that year to £131.4m, helping itreport a net profit of £2.6m for the year.Earlier this year, the BPI reported that in 2013, 7.4bn songs were streamed in the UK – double the total for 2012. That fuelled a41% rise in record labels’ revenues from streamingto more than £100m, accounting for more than 20% of their digital music income.•Five challenges looming for Spotify and streaming music•Spotify vs musicians: 10 things to read to understand the debate•Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube and Spotify?
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Empire reboots &gt;&gt; Vanity FairHuge in-depth profile and history of Gates, Ballmer, Nadella and Microsoft:"The worst work I did was from 2001 to 2004," says Ballmer. "And the company paid a price for bad work. I put the A-team resources on Longhorn, not on phones or browsers. All our resources were tied up on the wrong thing." Who shoulders the blame is a matter of debate, but the fact is neither Ballmer nor Gates stopped the failure from happening, even as almost everyone else saw it coming.Ballmer likes to note that the lines of authority were not clear, which is part of what makes thinking about his tenure complicated: "Before I became C.E.O., I felt pretty completely responsible for the company," Ballmer says. "And I didn't feel completely in charge until Bill left [entirely in 2008]." It is a well-known part of Microsoft history that Ballmer and Gates fought bitterly during the first year of transition. Among other things, when an engineer was displeased with Ballmer, he'd go to Gates. Some Microsoft employees from that era refer to Ballmer and Gates as "Mom and Dad," and recall that no one knew which parent was in charge.Must-read.First "cyber murder" will happen in next three months, experts claim &gt;&gt; FusionEuropol, the European Union's criminal intelligence law enforcement agency, has published their yearlyInternet Organised Crime Threat Assessment. The report outlines the different types of vulnerabilities and risks that we face from cybercrime. In their latest edition, Europol explains that the same technology used to remotely manage the temperature of your home could be used to kill you.The internet of dangerous things?Privacy vs. User Experience &gt;&gt; Dustin CurtisApple is going to realize very soon that it has made a grave mistake by positioning itself as a bastion of privacy against Google, the evil invader of everyone's secrets. The truth is that collecting information about people allows you to make significantly better products, and the more information you collect, the better products you can build. Apple can barely sync iMessage across devices because it uses an encryption system that prevents it from being able to read the actual messages. Google knows where I am right now, where I need to be for my meeting in an hour, what the traffic is like, and whether I usually take public transportation, a taxi, or drive myself. Using that information, it can tell me exactly when to leave. This isn't science fiction; it's actually happening. And Apple's hardline stance on privacy is going to leave it in Google's dust.Not that Apple doesn't use your data to tell you about meetings and travel time. But it doesn't monetise that through adverts. It monetises it through the hardware. Curtis's argument is that you have to accept "the security risk to my private information" to get the benefits. Apple's argument is that you don't.Trouble for Samsung: after its stock swoon, is the worst over? &gt;&gt; BusinessweekBernstein Research analysts predicted on Tuesday a "stabilization" in the company's smartphone business as Samsung responds better to the challenge from low-cost rivals. "Looking forward, we take comfort that Samsung is following [an] aggressor strategy in smartphones," they wrote. "Samsung will start to release more competitive products with better specs and lower prices starting in Q4 to stabilize share and begin to gain share back in the low and mid-end range."The Bernstein analysts also are sanguine about Samsung's ability to withstand the threat from Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. The Korean company's R&amp;D prowess will help Samsung produce cool designs that consumers will want, the analysts said, such as "improvements coming in the high-end with metal casings and foldable phones."Another optimist is Peter Yu of BNP Paribas (BNP:FP), who sees the coming months as crucial. Samsung "is in the middle of a costly transitional period," he wrote in a report Tuesday, with the company aiming "to run down existing phone inventory and introduce new mobile platforms."Windows 10: You've got questions, I've got answers &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott with seven (already) frequently-asked questions, including "OMG DID YOU KNOW IT HAS A KEYLOGGER??"Apple's iPhone encryption is a godsend, even if cops hate it &gt;&gt; WIREDKevin Poulsen:In amuch-discussed editorialthat ran Friday, The Washington Post sided with law enforcement. Bizarrely, the Post acknowledges backdoors are a bad idea—"a back door can and will be exploited by bad guys, too"—and then proposes one in the very next sentence: Apple and Google, the paper says, should invent a "secure golden key" that would let police decrypt a smartphone with a warrant.The paper doesn't explain why this "golden key" would be less vulnerable to abuse than any other backdoor. Maybe it's the name, which seems a product of the same branding workshop that led the Chinese government to name its Internet censorship system the "golden shield." What's not to like? Everyone loves gold!Implicit in the Post's argument is the notion that the existence of the search warrant as a legal instrument obliges Americans to make their data accessible: that weakening your crypto is a civic responsibility akin to jury duty or paying taxes. "Smartphone users must accept that they cannot be above the law if there is a valid search warrant," writes the Post.Logical fallacies ahoy.Vietnamese blog leaks iPad Air 2 pictures showing thinner chassis, Touch ID, missing mute switch &gt;&gt; 9to5MacVietnamese blog Tinhte.vnhas pictures claiming to show the design of the new iPad Air, likely a dummy unit which acts as a reasonable portrayal of the device's characteristics. Shown in white, the device is reportedley only 7 mm thin.What happens if you put it in your back pocket and drive somewhere, though?Google Plus, Circles, and your data &gt;&gt; On The OutsideAndy Wootton discovered a draft blogpost from 2011, just after the launch of Google+ (which we learnt is to continue):I've spent so much time reverse-engineering business requirements from poorly implemented IT systems so they can be re-written properly, that I think it's become an illness. I've spent my evening puzzling out how Google+ Circles work because to quote NCIS' Gibbs, "my gut tells me" that something is wrong.Trouble at the Koolaid Point &gt;&gt; Serious PonyKathy Sierra, who has (wearily) been experiencing online harassment since 2005, on how social media is now enabling and amplifying it:The hater trolls are looking for their next dopamine hit. If you don't provide it, they'll try harder. But the escalation to get a response from you? That's not even the worst escalation problem.The more dangerous social-web-fueled gamification of trolling is the unofficial troll/hate leader-board. The attacks on you are often less about scoring points against you than that they're trying to out-do one another. They're trying to out-troll, out-hate, out-awful the other trolls. That's their ultimate goal. He who does the worst wins.Which may explain the slow, steady increase in both frequency and horror of online harassment. What was mostly drive-by nasty comments in 2001 then progressed to Photoshopped images (your child on a porn image is a particularly "fun" one), and what's after images? Oh, yeah, the "beat up Anita" game. And what's left when you've done as much digital damage as you can?Real-life damage.It's an important essay, which has a simple offering for its solution: "be nice". Everyone's capable of it.Adobe ebook DRM secretly builds and transmits a dossier of your reading habits &gt;&gt; Boing BoingThe latest version of Adobe's Digital Editions, a DRM system widely used for ebooks, gathers enormous amounts of sensitive personal information about its users' reading habits and transmits them, in the clear, to Adobe.Nate Hoffelder at The Digital Reader used a network monitor to watch what Digital Editions 4 did after he installed it, and caught the software exfiltrating an unencrypted file containing an index of all the books in his library to Adobe. Adobe did not respond to Hoffelder's request for comments. Hoffelder has supplied acopy of the file that DE4 builtand transmitted from his computer. It should be pretty straightforward to replicate this on your own computer if you'd like to verify Hoffelder's findings.Hoffelder says: "Adobe is gathering data on the ebooks that have been opened, which pages were read, and in what order. All of this data, including the title, publisher, and other metadata for the book is being sent to Adobe's server in clear text."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
As BMW and Google race to getdriverless carson the road, and autonomous pods are set to be ushered onto the streets of Milton Keynes, artistDominic Wilcoxis fast forwarding to the future – 2059, to be precise, and 100 years since the original Mini, a source of his inspiration, was wheeled out. His hypothesis? That driverless cars are now commonplace.“In fact, there could well be motorways on which only driverless cars are allowed,” Wilcox explains. And with his stained-glass sleeper car, or Mini-Cathedral, he appears to have found a righteous partner for the ultra-safe freeways.Unveiled at last month’s London Design Festival, Wilcox’s vision for driverless cars is far from middle of the road. “If there are no collisions, designers will no longer be restricted by the need to include the safety equipment we see in modern-day cars,” he says. Ditching interior conventions – gone are the airbags, steering wheel and gear stick – he was free, as he puts it, to “create a living space on wheels”. The result? A glass car with a bed in it.From the mobile office to the Jacuzzi car, a sunbed on wheels to a cocktail bar, a host of ideas have come from Wilcox’s drawing board. But after embarking on a five-day crash course in traditional stained glass-making techniques to create the Durham Cathedral-inspired sleep-car, he says: “I don’t believe the technological future will only be slick, brushed aluminium, gadgety design.” The upshot is bright, bold and beautiful but you might need an eye-mask to get any kip.Dominic Wilcox’s, Variations on Normal, is out now.
