It's Friday.
Twitter has reversed their changes to the block function of their platform after a backlash against the move which allowed users to still interact with the accounts of people who had blocked them.The social media site was earlier on Friday was accused ofreducing the power of blocking peopleto simply “muting” them with their revisions. The new policy meant a blocked user could follow and interact with the person who blocked them, but notifications of the activity would be invisible to the blocker. As part of the changes a person was also no longer made aware if they had been blocked.A Twitter spokesman told media earlier on Friday that the new policy was to prevent retribution which they noticed was sometimes being carried out by people who were angry at being blocked.But they have now reverted back to the old ways.“We have decided to revert the change after receiving feedback from many users – we never want to introduce features at the cost of users feeling less safe,” said Twitter in a statement.“Any blocks you had previously instituted are still in effect.”Users had complained that the revised function left them open to the trolls and bullies they had previously used the blocking function to protect themselves against, without having to completely restrict the privacy of their own account.The original blocking function (now in place again) allows you to stop someone interacting with your account while the blocked person is logged in. Once blocked, they cannot see your tweets while using their own account. They can still log out and view any public account but can’t tweet at it or see the updates in their own Twitter feed.Twitter said reverting back to a policy where a person will be aware that they have been blocked is “not ideal” because of instances of retaliation that it may provoke.“Some users worry just as much about post-blocking retaliation as they do about pre-blocking abuse. Moving forward, we will continue to explore features designed to protect users from abuse and prevent retaliation,” read the statement.A hashtag #restoretheblock began trending in the US and Canada among users angry at the new policy.
Britain's largest mobile network EE has waded into the cost of living debate, saying if the government continues to raise spectrum fees and clamp down on mobile charges it will have to scale back plans to bring 4G mobile broadband to rural areas.EE has been leading the push into mobile broadband but chief executive Olaf Swantee has told the Guardian his company may put further investment on hold."Something has to give in terms of the investment," he said. "It will be harder for me to maintain the current rollout of 4G. We will be forced to re-evaluate our 98% coverage target for the end of next year, and sparsely populated rural areas are, as we all know, at risk the most."Politicians in Britain and Europe are helping families on squeezed incomes by making it easier to exit telecoms contracts, capping bills incurred on lost and stolen phones, stopping mobile companies charging for calls to freephone 0800 numbers and abolishing extra charges for using a phone abroad.At the same time, the government is pushing for a fourfold increase in the annual rental fees mobile networks pay for spectrum. Ofcom wants to increase EE's spectrum rent from £25m to £107m a year, as outlined in a consultation that closes next week. The company is arguing it should pay no more than two or three times more.Curbs on charges have been greeted as long overdue by consumers, but prices in Britain are lower than in Europe and America, and networks are warning that further political intervention could force them to pass the cost on to customers.Kip Meek, public policy director at EE, said: "Can we pass that on to consumers? We don't want to pass that on to consumers. That feeds right into the cost of living debate. We are very anxious to persuade Ofcom that their current licence fee proposals need to come down."EE, which controls a third of the market with 25 million customers, has brought 4G to 160 towns and cities and 70% of the population is within reach of its superfast service.While discussions continue, the introduction of 4G is likely to slow, but one investment will go ahead regardless. EE wants to go back to basics and improve voice calls. Over the coming months, £275m will be spent replacing 50% of its voice equipment, some of which is perhaps ready to be consigned to a museum."If you visit some of the antennas in the UK you will find equipment that was developed when Margaret Thatcher was prime minister," said Swantee. "Because of years of under-investment, voice has been neglected and we are going to do something about that."EE is aiming for 0.5% dropped calls and will publish its performance against that target. The average network drops 1%.If EE is successful in lobbying for lower spectrum fees, it wants to supply not just mobile but home broadband over the air in remote regions where BT will find it too expensive to lay fibre optic cables. It has just spent £1m on 12 masts in the Northern Fells area of Cumbria that connect homes at average speeds of 24 megabits per second.Swantee claims the £80m increase in his annual licence fee could pay for enough masts to bring superfast broadband to the whole of Wales. For now, the plan is to cover the rest of Cumbria and bring a signal to Bodmin Moor.Hikers will be able to Tweet, Instagram and geolocate their beast of Bodmin sightings in real time."We are going to build a network that not just the company is proud of, but the country is proud of in a country, frankly, where most of the infrastructure is not really great," said Swantee, who is originally from Holland.An Ofcom spokesperson said: "We await EE's response to Ofcom's public consultation on proposed licence fees. Mobile operators have known since 2010 that the licence fees would be revised to reflect full market value."Mid-contract price risesFrom late January, Ofcom wants to protect the public from "unfair surprises" by letting customers exit their landline, broadband and mobile contract without penalty if their provider changes the terms of their deal. All four mobile networks have imposed price rises on even fixed-term contracts. O2 most recently pushed through a 3.2% rise for 7 million customers, and Vodafone "simplified" bills by rounding them up to the nearest 50p for 10 million customers, a move branded "shocking" by Which?, the consumer group.RoamingThe European commission wants to stop mobile companies charging customers extra for using their phone abroad from 2016, saying the practice is a "cash cow" for the industry. But many holidaymakers have returned home to find astronomical bills incurred on their smartphones. This summer, 14-year-oldCasey Snookwas invoiced £3,800 by Orange for posting to Facebook while on holiday in New York.Lost and stolen phonesThe government has struck a deal with mobile companies to ensure customers do not get charged big sums for bills run up on lost or stolen phones. Vodafone, Three and EE have all signed up to the deal, but O2 is holding out for more details. As with bank cards, bills on disappeared smartphones would be capped at something like £50. The move will come too late forKaveh Lajmir, who was asked for £9,000 by Vodafone last year after his phone was lost in Barcelona.
Ministers are leading a recruitment drive for computer scientists and hackers as they try to avert a potential shortfall in the number of skilled cyber security experts over the next decade.One scheme designed to identify and encourage talented children through a hacking competition is being extended to schools across the country, while an Open University course planned for summer next year will aim to attract 200,000 students into the industry.The government is already funding apprenticeships and trainee schemes, including one at GCHQ and is also subsidising academics from Africa, Asia and America who join Cranfield University's cyber policy course.Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude – giving an update on progress on the government's two-year old cyber security strategy –  said GCHQ was increasingly looking to British small and medium-sized firms to recruit staff from and increase its cyber security expertise, recently courting experts at an event at Cheltenham racecourse.Maude said: "We need to sustain and grow the capabilities of UK cybersecurity, and it is now vital we ensure that we have young talent coming through our education system and the workplace. While the online world has grown exponentially over the last few years, our education system hasn't kept pace."He cited the town of Malvern, Worcestershire, which has developed a cluster of around 40 specialist companies, and also gave the example of one talented apprentice who had been thrown out of school. "Talent won't always be found in the usual places. Some of the brightest and best are self-taught. We have to avoid a gap in the UK's cyber defences in the years to come. There will never be a moment when we dare to say 'we are there'. This will always be a work in progress."The government wants to increase both public and business awareness of security issues. A basic cyber security standard is being developed for businesses and will be extended to government departments, Maude said.He said more than 250 companies have joined the Cyber security Information Sharing Programme (CISP) which encourages businesses to share problems and expertise in dealing with threats.Adrian Nish, analyst at BAE Systems Detica, said the company was targeted several times each day by various cyber-attacks. "We can use the profile of these attacks to defend ourselves going forward. Where CISP comes in is that by bringing details of various attacks together, we are able to build a bigger profile of what that threat looks like and are able to look at how to mitigate it."One recent example is where a company in the aerospace sector reported a compromised UK website and fed that information into CISP. It transpired it wasn't a random attack, but one perpetrated by a particular known attack group. That information could then be briefed out to other sector members and the threat picture added to."The new National Crime Agency's specialist cyber crime unit was launched in spring 2013. Detailing a recent case by the National Cyber Crime Unit, lead officer Stewart Garrick detailed how six hackers used free ads site Gumtree to harvest email addresses, planted malware on victims' machines and eventually stole online banking details. The group is thought to have earned as much as £4m from the scam but last month each member was jailed for up to seven years.Another government initiative, the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure, supports private companies managing critical services and in early 2014, the new national Computer Emergency Response Team will open to coordinate response to major cyber emergencies.The government dedicated £650m to its Cyber Security Strategy when it launched in 2011, and has committed to spend a further £210m by 2016. Maude said extra money had been allocated because, despite economic restraints, cyber security is a priority concern for the government.Maude, who said he is known as "Dr No" within Whitehall for his insistence on cutting budgets, claimed the government has saved £5.4bn in the first half of 2013, 7% less than 2012.
Big name games publishers have promised to help YouTube users after a new automated anti-theft system from Google ran amok.Thousands of “Let’s Play” YouTube videos depicting bloggers playing popular games were flagged as breaching copyright, blocking payments from adverts to the operators of some hugely popular channels.Public outrage from &quot;Let&apos;s Play&quot; YouTube channel operators, includingTheRadBradwho has nearly 2m subscribers andTetraNinjawho has some 500,000 subscribers, prompted a response from game publishers who had not willingly instigated the clampdown.Ubisoft, Capcom, Blizzard, Deep Silver and other game publishers pledged to help YouTube video bloggers whose videos contained gameplay from their games to clear the notices and regain control of advertising on their videos.“Let’s Play” videos feature screen recording of video games being played by gaming video bloggers, often with humorous or analytical commentary from the players, and have become increasingly popular within the last couple of years.Some key video game video bloggers dominating the most viewed video chart on the site.&quot;PewDiePie&quot; - a 23 year-old Swedish gamer named Felix Kjellberg, recently saw his collection of gaming videostop 50m weekly views, making them the most popular on YouTube, trumping both South Korean pop sensation Psy and boy band One Direction.But the automated system introduced by Google to police copyrighted content posted illicitly on YouTube marked some games videos as breaching the site&apos;s terms - and so blocked channels from collecting money from adverts placed on their videos, and marked it instead for copyright owners.Google&apos;s new system specifically scans channels identified as affiliates of YouTube&apos;s multi channel networks initiative – those YouTube users that sign agreements with Google and can make money from advertising on videos.&quot;We recently enabled Content ID scanning on channels identified as affiliates of Multi Channel Networks,&quot; said a YouTube spokesperson. &quot;This has resulted in new copyright claims for some users, based on policies set by the relevant content owners.&quot;Reassuring contestsA Blizzard representative took to Twitterusing the official StarCraft accountto tell Let’s Players that it was not behind the copyright claims and that it will quickly approve and remove the strikes on contested videos.Ubisofttold gaming site CVGthat it is aiming to clear any wrongly issued copyright claims within 24 hours:If you happen to be hit with claims on any of your Ubisoft content, it may be that some of the audio is being auto-matched against the music catalogue on our digital stores – it might show up as being claimed by our distributor &apos;idol&apos;. In such cases please take the following steps and we can get it cleared for you.1. Leave the video live for now.2. Send us the URL of the affected video and let us know who flagged it.3. We&apos;ll get it cleared hopefully same day.&quot;Let’s Play videos dominateDespite the support pledged by some game publishers, the legal issues surrounding the YouTube copyright claims are murky.The visual content on display within the Let’s Play videos is owned by the creators, in this case game publishers.&quot;Fair use&quot; in US law says that excerpts from copyrighted content can be re-used or reproduced by third parties as part of critique, parody or commentary. However, it is unlikely playing an entire game, despite voice overlays, would fall under the fair use umbrella, and therefore it is up to the content owners to actively permit the usage.Current copyright law demands that copyright holders actively defend or licence their copyright, or their copyright status is weakened.Some game publishers, including Deep Silver, Ubisoft and others have embraced the Let’s Play movement as an important part of their word-of-mouth marketing efforts, even going as far as providing video bloggers with advance copies of games as they do traditional games journalists.It&apos;s unclear what impact the copyright strikes will have on Let’s Players, many of whom rely on the monetisation of their videos on YouTube through adverts for income.• In December,a report showed that YouTube&apos;s advertising revenueswill rise by more than 50% to $5.6bn in 2013
Tens of thousands of homes across London have been left without phone and broadband for up to three days after suspected thieves looking for copper cut through crucial fibre-optic trunk cables.In one of the biggest recent outages in BT's network, lines went down at 11pm on Tuesday and the outage was set to last until 5pm on Friday, leaving about 37,000 Sky customers without phone or broadband.TalkTalk was also hit, with a number of customers losing their phone connections, although many calls have been rerouted. An undisclosed number of BT Broadband households were also affected.BT blamed a "malicious attack" for the outage. Cables accessed via a manhole on Capital Interchange Way in Brentford were sliced open by intruders on Wednesday night. They were thought to have been looking for copper wire, which has a high resale value on the black market. But the alleged thieves found only fibre-optic cables, which carry huge amounts of data but have no value as raw materials.A BT spokesman said: "Several engineers are on site and working round the clock to reconnect people."It is understood some areas are already back online, but the disruption has come during a peak period for online Christmas shopping, with customers unable to make purchases as they rush to meet the postal delivery deadlines.Exchanges in Stamford Hill, Dartford, Ewell, Mitcham, Wimbledon, Hampstead, Battersea, Chiswick and Beulah Hill have been affected,according to Sky. A team of 10 engineers from BT's Openreach network division is currently working to splice the cables back together in what appears to have been a crucial part of BT's core London network.Sky said in a statement: "Following a malicious attack on Openreach's network, there's currently a broadband and phone outage in parts of London. Sky and other companies are affected. Openreach engineers are working to repair the network as a matter of urgency.&nbsp; We apologise to all affected customers."
Google&apos;s executives have been getting cheap flights for their private planes due to a &quot;misunderstanding&quot; that led Google to buy fuel from from the US space agency Nasa at cut prices, according toa report from Nasa&apos;s inspector general.Now the company may have to compensate Nasa, after the report from Nasa&apos;s top lawyer noted that the arrangement had &quot;engendered a sense of unfairness and a perception of favouritism&quot;, and recommended it explore &quot;possible options to remedy this situation&quot;.Since 2007, Nasa&apos;s Ames Research Centre, the administration&apos;s home in Silicon Valley, has been leasing space in one of its aircraft hangers to H211, a private company which manages the planes owned and leased by Google execs Larry Page, Sergey Brin, and Eric Schmidt - comprising a Boeing 757 and 767, three Gulfstream 5 private jets and a Dassult alpha jet (classified by aircraft books as a &quot;light attack jet&quot;).The company bought the Dassult jet in 2008specifically so that it could fulfil the terms of its lease at Ames.Under the deal, H211 allows the Dassult jet to be borrowed by Nasa for no charge to conduct scientific research. But the company fuels all its planes for both private and Nasa-related flights with aviation fuel provided by the US Department of Defence (DoD).Flight rateWhile the DoD charges a higher rate to non-DOD entities such as Nasa and its contractors, that rate still excludes state and local taxes and other fees that H211 would have paid at local airports. The fuel was supplied for between $3.05 and $3.81 per gallon, compared to $7.01 and $7.44 per gallon at &quot;retail&quot; prices on the airport in 2012.The report finds that: &quot;A misunderstanding between Ames and DLA-Energy personnel rather than intentional misconduct led to H211 enjoying the discounted fuel rate for flights that had no NASA-related mission.&quot; The only &quot;victims&quot;, it says, are the state of California and local government which &quot;may have lost tax revenue&quot; from the fuel purchases, and any commercial supplier which missed out on profit from the fuel sales.&quot;While this arrangement did not cause a loss to Nasa or DLA-Energy, it resulted in considerable savings for H211. Specifically, we calculated that since inception of its lease H211 paid approximately $3.3m to $5.3m less for fuel supplied by DLA-Energy than it would have paid to buy fuel at market rates.&quot;Since September 2013, H211 has been paying a market rate for fuel it purchases for private flights. The difference goes to the US Treasury.Since 2009, the report says, the Alpha jet has flown more than 200 flights to collect climate data at no cost to Nasa - though the plane costs $4,500 per hour to fly according to H211, compared to costs for Nasa planes ranging between $1.800 and $6,500 per hour. The value of the &quot;free&quot; flights provided to Nasa totals $668,000 based on H211&apos;s pricing, the report says.•Google is raising an army of robots to combat Amazon&apos;s attempts to dominate the last mile of delivery.
Instagram is to step up competition against Twitter by introducing private messages that allow users to send to groups of up to 15 people.Kevin Systrom, the chief executive of Instagram, described the new Instagram Direct feature as &quot;a simple way to send photos and videos to your friends&quot;. Instagram users can access this newest feature by downloading the latest version of the app from either the Apple Appstore of Android Play Store.Users will be able to send images privately to a maximum of 15 people. Systrom said there was a limit because &quot;it&apos;s not about spamming people that you know&quot; but rather &quot;sharing moments with friends.&quot;He did however repeatedly state that this was the first version of messaging on the app and there were likely to be changes based on feedback from users. Private messages will be archived and accessible at any time.Systrom also spoke of future plans for Instagram Direct, saying that the team were thinking of allowing users to create groups for their followers around different communities.Although users will be able to receive direct messages from people they don&apos;t follow, these will appear in a &quot;pending requests&quot; section, where users can choose whether or not to accept images.This means brands will also be able to use the app to ask their followers to submit images. The Illy Instagram account, for example, might ask its followers to send images of their morning coffee, with the best image winning a competition.This is Instagram&apos;s first major announcement since they introduced a 15-second video feature, which also aimed to increase the amount of time users spend with the app. Systrom said that Instagram now has 150 million users and called the app &quot;super addictive&quot; with &quot;more than half of our users on Instagram daily&quot;.Facebook created a more seamless link between Instagram and its Messenger app in August, when it allowed Facebook users to send images from Instagram to their contacts.The move to private messaging is likely to be in response to rising interest in messaging apps such as Snapchat and Whatsapp, both of which have this year been the targets of big-name acquisitions. The formerreportedly turned down an $3bn buyout offer from Facebook, instead hoping a larger user base in early 2014 will give them a higher valuation – and the latter is said to haverebuffed a $1bn offer from Google.&quot;I think there&apos;s definitely a space for ephemerality,&quot; Systrom said today, when asked about self-deleting photos like those used by the popular Snapchat app. &quot;Instagram, though, is focussed on capturing and sharing moments. The important thing is being able to go back to them and continue the conversation.&quot;He added that reporting abusive or problematic images would remain the responsibility of users.Snapchat lets users send images or video that expire after 10 seconds, and claims it has 5 million active daily users. Messages are deleted shortly after the recipient has seen the image. Whatsapp is a much more basic service that allows users to create individual and group conversations with anybody who has the app –users sent an average of 15bn messages every day in November.A number of apps, such as InstaDM, InstaChat and InstaMessage, have been created on the back of the premise of sending private messages to Instagram contacts.But it is likely that the introduction of messaging within the Instagram app will surprise, or annoy, many who enjoy the minimal design on the app, that currently allows users to easily scroll and like their friends&apos; updates.• The advice David Cameron, Barack Obama and the Danish prime minister didn&apos;t read: theDo&apos;s and don&apos;ts of taking selfiesEvan Spiegel, the 23-year-old co-founder of Snapchat, turned down a $3bn offer from Facebook.Photograph: /flickr
If you&apos;ve spent the last two months exploring Rockstar&apos;s modern take on Los Santos courtesy of Grand Theft Auto V, here&apos;s a nostalgic road trip for you. The publisher has today released GTA: San Andreas, the classic 2004 PlayStation title that introduced us to the game&apos;s warped version of California and Nevada. Drawing inspiration from the likes of Boyz in the Hood and Menace II Society and set in early-90s, the action follows ex-gang kid Carl Johnson returning to Los Santos to find his mother murdered and his family in ruins. From here it&apos;s a typical mission-led maelstrom of tense shoot-outs, violent robberies... and trying to ride your BMX up mountains.For GTA V veterans who missed out on the PS2 era, GTA San Andreas has plenty of familiar scenic attractions including Mount Chiliad, of course, along with familiar city areas such as Downtown and the Marina. This is also game that really went to town on RPG features, providing Carl with a wealth of physical and clothing customisation options. It also allowed him to get fat if he ate too much junk food, introducing an element of body image and self-consciousness rarely seen in games – somethingI commented on the time in one of my first Guardian blog posts.Rockstar has re-mastered the visuals, adding lighting enhancements, an enriched color palette and improved character models. Apparently, iPhone 5 series and fourth gen iPads and above also get dynamic shadows and real-time environmental reflections. Furthermore, there&apos;s support for Made-for-iOS controllers, and the check point system has been updated to allow for more convenient saving.Although GTA Vice City tends to evoke the warmest reminiscences among long-term fans, GTA San Andreas is an absolute classic, it&apos;s vast, varied world inviting exploration and experimentation on a wider scale. And there were some stunning missions too. End of the Line as the best GTA set-piece ever, anyone?• GTA: San Andreas is released today on iOS for £4.99 and is coming soon to Android, Amazon Kindle and Windows Phone devices•GTA 5 review: a dazzling but monstrous parody of modern life• Grand Theft Auto 5 – inside the creative process with Dan Houser• Grand Theft Auto 5: Rockstar&apos;s Dan Houser on Los Santos and the future
Working conditions at Apple contractor Pegatron didn&apos;t lead to the death by pneumonia of a 15-year-old boy who lied to get a job there, experts sent by the company have concluded.The Taiwanese company, which assembles Apple&apos;s iPhone and iPad mini, had concluded from its own investigation that the death was not related to work as the employee had only recently joined, and because the assembly line environment should not cause a condition such as pneumonia, said Pegatron spokesman Charles Lin.But China Labor Watch, a New York-based rights group, said the worker, who died in October, had a pre-employment physical examination on 4 September which showed he was in good health. Shi Zakoun, the 15-year-old who died on 9 October, had worked there for three weeks, for more than 70 hours in each.In a statement, Apple said: &quot;Last month we sent independent medical experts from the US and China to conduct an investigation of the [Pegatron] factory. While they have found no evidence of any link to working conditions there, we realize that is of little comfort to the families who have lost their loved ones.&quot; It added: &quot;Apple has a long-standing commitment to providing a safe and healthy workplace for every worker in our supply chain, and we have a team working with Pegatron at their facility to ensure that conditions meet our high standards.&quot;Shi Zakoun had used his 21-year-old cousin&apos;s identification to apply for the job, and so the factory didn&apos;t know he was underage, said Lin.&quot;Pegatron has strict measures in place to verify workers&apos; ages before and after they are hired, and we work with health and safety experts to provide a safe working environment for each and every worker,&quot; Pegatron said in a statement.Lin said three other employee deaths this year, in March and April, were caused by various medical conditions unrelated to work at the factory.Apple received a rare piece of good news over its Chinese suppliers on Thursday when the Fair Labor Associationreleased a reportsaying that working hours at Foxconn, a major supplier which makes iPhones and iPads, now comply with its standard 60 hours per week - although it hadn&apos;t met a target on compliance with the Chinese legal limit of 36 hours&apos; overtime per employee per month.Foxconn said it needed more time to comply with that requirement.&quot;FLA&apos;s expectation is that Apple,working with Foxconn, will continue to rigorously monitor working hours to ensure that they comply with the FLA standard of 60 hours per week but also make progress toward the Chinese legal limit of 49 hours per week,&quot; FLA president and chief executive Auret van Heerden said in a statement.Washington-based FLA in March last year set a deadline of July 1 this year to comply with China&apos;s weekly limit and 36-hours-per-month overtime cap, but Foxconn said it needed more time.At that time, the FLA said some of the 170,000 employees at the factories in Longhua, Chengdu and Guanlan worked up to 80 hours of overtime per month. By May this year, the FLA said Foxconn had resolved 98% of issues raised in its initial investigation, including cutting working hours and overtime.Many Foxconn workers - migrants from other parts of China - have said they are not in favour of reduced overtime as they want to make as much money as possible in a short time.Apple has taken various measures in response to questions on whether its products are made in sweatshop-like conditions, since about a dozen suicides from 2010 at Foxconn. It commissioned the FLA report into its suppliers&apos; Chinese factories last year.China Labor Watch last weekcriticised Samsungover working conditions at one of its phone suppliers, Samkwang Science and Technology in Dongguan, China, which builds casings for the Samsung Galaxy SIII Mini handset.The organisation said that an undercover investigation found rights violations including &quot;regular verbal abuse&quot; from managers, unpaid overtime, overtime demands of up to 148 hours per month, intense workrates that had workers assembling one phone case every four seconds, and insufficient safety training.Samsung said that it is sending a team to check the factory.
Kai and Charles Huang were the co-creators of Guitar Hero, which played a pivotal role in making music games mainstream. Now they&apos;re hoping to do the same thing with fitness gaming.The brothers&apos; new company is calledBlue Goji, which takes the bespoke hardware plus game idea from Guitar Hero and applies it to people working out on cardio machines: exercise bikes, treadmills and cross-trainers.The company&apos;s first product is emerging from stealth mode today: Goji Play. It costs $99.99 and includes a pair of two-button controllers that strap onto the handles of your exercise equipment, and an activity sensor that clips onto your shorts.These connect wirelessly to a series of iPhone and iPad games which turn this data into gameplay inputs, from speed in racing gamesSuper Moto XandSpin or Diethrough to punching strength in boxing gameFisticuffs.&quot;We started Blue Goji really with the idea of trying to help people lead healthier lives. Our experience with Guitar Hero taught us that games can be very engaging, fun and immersive, and also inspire people to be more active,&quot; Kai Huang told The Guardian in an interview ahead of the product&apos;s release.&quot;We saw people getting up and leaping off their couches and tables – hopefully not getting hurt! – and we thought what if we could bring that fun factor to exercise? What if we could make an activity that was typically very boring and monotonous that people dread doing, and add that fun factor?&quot;Goji Play sits at the intersection of a few trends: the explosion in smartphone and tablet gaming, the popularity of fitness trackers like Fitbit and Nike+, and reliable wireless technology to connect the devices and controllers together.There&apos;s a serious fitness side too: as you play the various Goji Play games, it records your activity – time, distance, calories burned etc – with this data available to view in the separate Goji Play app. The company has already announced a partnership with fitness-tracking app MyFitnessPal to enable users to share data to it from Goji Play. And this being 2013, there&apos;s also gamification – badges for specific achievements – and social sharing features.&quot;That&apos;s where we&apos;re different from all the other fitness devices out there, given our background in games,&quot; said Huang. &quot;The activity trackers are less about games and more about gamification – tracking you and letting you compete against friends. We do that too, of course, but you&apos;re really playing a game.&quot;One of Goji Play's launch games, Beat Drop.Blue Goji is releasing 12 games for the launch of Goji Play, with more to follow on the App Store at regular intervals. Most have been developed in-house, but a few will come from external developers too.&quot;We&apos;ll have a variety of games: some might be very simple puzzle games that can be played over and over, and some are going to be very immersive,&quot; said Huang. &quot;Not all games are going to translate onto this platform, but on the other hand, new types of gameplay are opened up by the sensor and the controllers. Every game has a particular use for the hardware.&quot;The evolution of the games on Goji Play is going to be interesting, because the design may increasingly incorporate elements designed to spur particular bursts of activity – creating a rewarding workout, not just a rewarding game.Huang gives the example of ramps in a racing game, which people tend to approach by speeding up, or mud traps that slow the player down – in which case their natural instinct may also be to speed up.Any gym instructor will tell you that &quot;intervals&quot; training – short bursts of intense activity followed by a slightly longer period of recuperation – are a good way to use cardio equipment. The challenge of designing gameplay to achieve that effect is an intriguing one.How did Blue Goji decide on the $99 price for its hardware? Huang compares it positively to the cost of pure acivity-tracker devices, but I suspect the wider fitness sector was also a factor: $99 sounds a lot for a mobile gaming peripheral, but not so much compared to the costs of gym membership or an exercise bike for home.What about getting Blue Goji&apos;s hardware into gyms through some kind of bulk deal: so that all people need is their smartphone or tablet? &quot;It&apos;s definitely something we&apos;ve thought about,&quot; said Huang, while stressing that for now, the company is focusing on selling the hardware to people rather than gyms.How about Android-owning gamers wanting to get fit?First reports on Blue Goji earlier in 2013suggested it would work with Android at launch too, but that appears to have slipped. &quot;We don&apos;t have any plans we&apos;re ready to announce on Android, but we&apos;d certainly like to be across every platform where it makes sense,&quot; said Huang.Has his company left music behind? Not entirely: one of the Goji Play games is calledBeat Drop, a block-matching puzzle game using its own electronica soundtrack or the player&apos;s music as a key element.&quot;Music is something people already listen to when they&apos;re exercising, so we&apos;d like to incorporate that into our gameplay. Beat Drop will hopefully be one of many games that do that,&quot; said Huang, who is keen to offer games that will appeal to as varied an audience as Guitar Hero did all those years ago.&quot;You don&apos;t have to be a hardcore gamer to play: we&apos;re going to have a wide range of very, very casual games, through to what you&apos;d think of as more traditional games,&quot; he says, in answer to a question about whether fitness gaming can really go mainstream.&quot;We don&apos;t know yet, but it&apos;s certainly something that we believe has that potential.&quot;
A flight with Virgin GalacticMore than 600 wannabe astronauts have already signed up to Richard Branson&rsquo;s latest venture. After all, sometimes you just want some space to think. Avoid if you don&rsquo;t want to be stuck in a small vessel for hours withJustin Bieber for company, though.From $250,000. Also payable by Bitcoin.Photograph: Mark Greenberg/Virgin Galactic3D Printer (EOS Formiga P100)You can buy3D printed gunsand replicas of famous art works. But if you want to build an Eiffel Tower in the comfort of your own home, this printer is more than capable of doing the job.From $250,000.Tesla Model S P85The Model S is one of the most environmentally friendly (and fast) electric cars currently on the market. It&rsquo;s also connected to the internet. The P85 upgrade gives you more horsepower, 0-60mph in 4.2 seconds and the option to get a carbon fibre spoiler.From $87,000Mercedes-Benz SLS Electric DriveIf you&rsquo;re concerned about the Tesla afterbattery fires in some Model S cars, how about the SLS Electric Drive? It comes fully-fitted with make-believe engine noise and, driven well, it can give you a range of 155 miles on one charge.From &pound;350,000Transmission Audio&rsquo;s Ultimate (including amplifiers)The most expensive audio system in the world packs quite a punch, coming with 12 speakers (with 500W each) and a small army of amplifiers. Probably for the next time you invite Mick Jagger round for a personal concert.From $2,000,000Hasselblad H5D-200MS (camera body only)If you want to take pictures of your new audio system &ndash; or car &ndash; in 50 glorious megapixels, look no further than the Hasselblad H5D-200MS. The camera includes a digital spirit meter to make sure your shots are straight.From &pound;35,000SenseFly eBee DroneTheParrot AR Dronemight be a perfectly good gadget but it&rsquo;s no eBee. You can programme the eBee to take a certain flight path and land itself or pilot it yourself when it&rsquo;s in the air RC plane-style. It also packs a 16-megapixel camera and can create a 3D map after the flight.From $25,000Surface Tension Arcade TablePacman, Space Invaders and Mortal Kombat have never come in such a glossy finish. The Surface Tension Arcade Table brings a new dimension to the coffee table.&nbsp;From &pound;4,000Formula 1 Full Size Racing SimulatorThis racing simulator isn't for the faint-hearted. It has three 23in screens, an integrated speaker system and, before you can order it, your house has to be checked to make sure it can handle the power that it brings.From &pound;90,000
Once upon a time, when you bought a new games console, it wasoften possibleto play most of the games designed for the previous machine. This was a handy feature for people who didn&apos;t want to have multiple plastic boxes under their television sets, or for those who didn&apos;t own the previous device, butdidwant access to its inevitably much larger and cheaper array of games. Now however, it seems that for Sony and Microsoft, backwards compatibility, is itself a relic. Unless you have a Wii U, which steadfastly supports its successful predecessor, the present doesn&apos;t want anything to do with the past.Take a look at the sleek new PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles – neither is backwards compatible with their predecessors. You can&apos;t put a PS2 game into PS4 and expect it to work, just as your Xbox One will shrug indifferently if you slot in, say, the original Halo: Combat Evolved. There are plenty of gamers who don&apos;t care about this – they&apos;ll keep their old machines anyway. But there are clearly enough consumers whodowant backwards compatibility to becomethe targets of an internet hoax. A recent post on the notorious 4Chan forum encouraged gamers to access the developer mode on their new Xbox Ones and then enter a code that would ostensibly &quot;unlock&quot; the machine&apos;s hidden ability to play Xbox 360 titles. It didn&apos;t do that, however, it instead locked the machine into an endless reboot cycle, effectively rendering it useless. What japes!So if there&apos;s enough desire out there for backwards compatibility to warrant a hilarious internet trick, why don&apos;t the manufacturers supply it? These are expensive, technically advanced consoles, after all. How hard can it be? Well, the answer is, &quot;very hard and getting harder with every successive generation&quot;.Implement or emulateThere are effectively two ways to provide compatibility with previous consoles: through hardware implementation, or via software emulation of the old machine. In the former case, it involves actually including some of the chips from the old machine in the new machine. The Nintendo Wii, for example, was in many ways just a more powerful version of the older GameCube, so backwards compatibility was reasonably straightforward – indeed the Wii originally had GameCube controller sockets and two memory card slots. It was like a GameCube in disguise. The PlayStation 2, meanwhile, had the original PlayStation chipset built in, so it ran pretty much any PSone title – and when that chip wasn&apos;t being used for backwards compatibility it doubled as an input/output processor, which was pretty canny.&quot;What&apos;s different now is the increased complexity in hardware and software, and heat issues,&quot; says veteran coder and game designer Martin Hollis. &quot;The best way to support your old console, in terms of broadest support of all old games, is to actually include the hardware of the old system inside the new one. CPU, GPU, sound chips, ideally the whole caboodle.&quot;This works well enough when you look at the price list for components, as the old chips have become cheap enough to include without bumping the cost of the new system. Sadly though, with the high frequency clock rates (GHz), designing your board to incorporate the entire old machine is not easy or cheap, and worse, it will emit just as much heat as the old system did on it&apos;s own. Heat is a big factor with modern system designs and you do not want to add 100 watts to your output, and another jet turbine style fan.&quot;So as new hardware becomes more complex, the inclusion of older chips and processors becomes more expensive, and with margins so tight (manufacturers often make a loss on new machines anyway), it&apos;s an easy feature to jettison. Indeed, although both the original versions of the Wii and the PS3 included old feature-sets in the architecture, later versions ripped these out to cut down on costs and allow for price drops.Virtual boySo what about emulation? This involves running a program on the new console that effectively pretends to be the old machine so that it can play classic games. Nintendo, for example, offers its Virtual Console service for the Wii and 3DS which allows owners to download and play classic Super Nintendo, Game Boy and even Sega Mega Drive titles in their original form.Once again, however, the problem with emulating more recent consoles is technological advance. &quot;It was when the PS3 tried to emulate the PS2 that the increase in technology began to present problems,&quot; says developer Byron Atkinson-Jones, whose new gameBlast &apos;Emhas just been released. &quot;Like the PS1, the PS2 had a single processor but the graphics system was a lot more complex, allowing for parallel processing, which meant it could run more than one bit of code at a time. You can emulate this on the more modern processors but you have to get the timing between the true hardware-based parallel processing and the software emulated version exactly right. And that timing would also have to take into account the differences between the territory versions, i.e. a game running on PAL or NTSC. Along with other factors that might be enough to break a game.&quot;And timing is not the only issue – the increasing adaptability of the hardware itself is also causing problems. &quot;It&apos;s complexity versus schedule,&quot; says Hollis. &quot;If your emulated graphics processor is programmable (as PS3 and Xbox 360 are) that creates a huge explosion of possibilities to emulate and test – easily trillions of cases. We are talking large possibility spaces here. No way you are going to be able to emulate all the games, and do the job in a rush. If you had ten years, well maybe.&quot;The second piece of bad news is performance headroom. To emulate an old system&apos;s hardware in software you need a system which is significantly more powerful, I&apos;d say ten times more powerful is a good rule of thumb. This current generation is simply not that much more powerful than the last, especially in terms of general purpose compute. Moore&apos;s law is basically over for CPUs, and has been for around five years. That means new machines do not have the power to emulate last generation in software.&quot;Cloud saves the day?So does this mean we&apos;ll never see old games on new consoles? Of course not. Nostalgia sells, after all. Next year we&apos;ll see the launch of theGaikaiservice on PlayStation 4, which will allow gamers to live stream games over the internet from a central server. Sony hasalready promisedto make key PlayStation 3 titles playable via this platform, which removes the need for the console itself to perform the emulation. Of course, this won&apos;t let you play your old PS3 discs on your PS4, but it will at least let you re-discover (and of course, re-pay for) old classics. Meanwhile, Xbox One could theoretically perform the same service via cloud computing, butthe company has expressed doubtsthat current broadband speeds would be able to provide a playable experience.In short, backwards compatibility is becoming a complex problem for manufacturers and one they would rather push to one side, especially as only a minority of gamers seem interested. The incredibly successful launches of both the PS4 and Xbox One this November have shown that there is still huge demand for new hardware, whether it plays old games or not. And for those who don&apos;t want to let go of favourite games and treasured machines, it&apos;s likely there will be enough support for the PS3 and Xbox 360 to keep these old-timers going for at least a year.But for modern machines it seems, the past is very much a Foreign country; people do things way too differently there.• PS4 or Xbox One? A parent&apos;s guide• PlayStation 4 vs Xbox One: The next-gen consoles compared
Almost one in three Australian premises will miss out on pure fibre internet connections under the Coalition’s new NBN policy.Thestrategic review, announced today, effectively cancels the NBN rollout for almost a third of the country, with those in areas already served by hybrid fibre-coaxial (HFC) networks receiving upgrades to that network but no new fibre-optic connections.HFC networks carry data for cable TV signals as well as voice calling and internet data, and according to the review approximately 2.7m premises are already passed by Telstra and Optus’s networks, with another 700,000 premises within the geographic area.HFC connections can struggle to deliver high speeds consistently for users at busy periods, because they become congested as more people log on.The strategic review acknowledges that there is a need to upgrade the network, and suggests that by 2019 peak use of the networks will reach 4-7Mbps per user, and that expanding the existing HFC networks could deliver a user experience equivalent to 50Mbps download speed.But that is still at the bottom end of the download speed the Coalition previously promised, with no commitments made as to minimum upload speed, calling into question the use of the network for video conferencing and other applications that require stable, consistent and symmetrical connections.It fails to account for connection quality, reliability and other issues that Australia struggles with, and that fibre could alleviate, according to RMIT engineering lecturer Dr Mark Gregory.“You might be able to get 100Mbps but there are concerns about the effectiveness of those connections, and how well they will be able to carry the traffic they need to carry,” he said.The new strategy, dubbed the optimised multi-technology mix, will see 26% of premises reached by fibre to the premises (FTTP), Labor’s preferred technology.Thirty percent will receive HFC connections, and 44% will get fibre to the node (FTTN) – the slower option which relies on copper wiring to carry data from fibre connections into homes and businesses.NBN Cosaysthis approach will increase revenues, reduce costs and deliver better internet speeds more quickly to more people, but critics say the technologies used mean it will not be able to deliver the hoped-for benefits to health, education, business and entertainment.“They are selling us a technology that’s already obsolete,” said Gregory. “This is the greatest con in Australian history.”The strategic review has been completed without knowledge of the state of Telstra’s copper network on which the FTTN rollout relies.No trials of FTTN have been carried out in Australia, and the quality of Telstra’s copper remains very unclear – the unions claimit’s in a terrible state, whilethe managing director has defended it.As Gregory points out, the new plan will see the Coalition’s FTTN rollout begin in earnest one year before the next election – and if they lose, he believes it’s unlikely that Labor would continue with that plan.“Any sane government isn’t going to continue with FTTN,” he said. “One year in, the Coalition will have spent perhaps $10bn and completed perhaps 5% of their rollout, and if Labor gets back in that $10bn will have been written off.”The strategic review does hold another option for the future:an upgrade paththat would see FTTP rolled out across the country with 1Gbps download speeds for all by 2030.That would bring the NBN to the speeds and coveragepromised by Labor, and deliverable by June 2024 if the rollout proceeded under the revised outlook described today.But it would beslower, more complicated and more expensive, again.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle adds offline editing to its spreadsheet offering &gt;&gt; TIME.comOne decision Google made about this new version is unexpected: It only affects new spreadsheets you create. Old ones still show up in the old format, and can't take advantage of new features like offline editing. That complicates matters if you want to share spreadsheets with someone who isn't using the new version. (For now, you opt into the upgrade in your Google Drive settings.)The fact that Sheets now involves two different file variants will take some getting used to. Normally, one of the advantages of working with a web-based productivity tool such as this one is that you don't need to worry about file formats. For now, in Sheets, you will. But maybe Google will enable existing spreadsheets to support the new features before it flips the switch and puts everyone on the updated version.Hey big spender! Japan outspends US, continues its meteoric growth &gt;&gt; App Annie BlogThe Only Major Country Where Google Play Vies With iOS on Equal Revenue Terms:Japan bucks the platform revenue trend seen in most countries as far as platform revenue is concerned. In the last year, Google Play app revenue has caught up with iOS in Japan, compared to the rest of the world where iOS app revenue is well over double that of Google Play on an aggregate basis.An amazing statistic. Once again Japan is sui generis.Can robots write sports previews? &gt;&gt; KontraIn one millionth of the time it takes [Associated Press writer Brian] Mahoney to write one of his NBA previews, Automated Insights can generate previews for all the games not just in NBA but in all sports, anywhere on the planet, as long as there's underlying data. And in a domain like sports, there's plenty of data.Then again, if people write like robots, it's unsurprising if robots come to take over their space.More Apples, fewer BlackBerries forecast for Canberra &gt;&gt; Sydney Morning HeraldTroubled handset supplier BlackBerry had a strong install base in [Australian government agencies in] Canberra owing to its strong security pedigree, but agencies had begun branching out to iPads and iPhones and this was likely to continue, [analyst Rodney] Gedda said.The federal government published itsmobility roadmapin June. It cites improving operational efficiency and providing greater access to services among benefits of a government-wide mobility strategy.Software for managing fleets of mobile devices would be in growing demand as more agencies embraced mobile ways of working, Market Clarity founder Shara Evans added.Former PM Julia Gillard is quoted on her use of an iPad in the mobility roadmap; of course that was before all the NSA fun...The trouble with snooze buttons (and with modern sleep) &gt;&gt; The New YorkerThe difference between one's actual, socially mandated wake-up time and one's natural, biologically optimal wake-up time is something that Till Roenneberg, a professor of chronobiology at Ludwig-Maximilians University in Munich, calls "social jetlag." It's a measurement not of sleep duration but of sleep timing: Are we sleeping in the windows of time that are best for our bodies? According to Roenneberg'smost recent estimates, based on a database of more than sixty-five thousand people, approximately a third of the population suffers from extreme social jetlag—an average difference of over two hours between their natural waking time and their socially obligated one. Sixty-nine per cent suffer from a milder form, of at least one hour.Train times v. house prices: the commuter belt, on a graph &gt;&gt; Anna's blogAnna Powell-Smith:As well as crawling Rightmove listings, I've been looking at transport and house-price data. Specifically, I've scraped travel times to London by train versus house prices, to examine the theory that houses get much cheaper once you escape the commuter belt.To test this, I gathered mean journey times to London from Traintimes for every railway station in the UK, and mean asking prices for 3-bed houses near each station from Nestoria. Here's the graph of all stations, with a moving-average line added.You can find your station (if you commute to London by rail). Powell-Smith has just joined the Government Digital Service - a sort of tiger team which gets government departments to think digital. A great hire.How stolen smartphones end up in the hands of Colombian cartels &gt;&gt; Huffington PostGerry Smith:The influx of traffickers to the stolen smartphone trade was confirmed by an active Colombian police informant who spoke to HuffPost on condition he not be named, citing threats to his life. He said cartels favor high-end devices like the iPhone and the Samsung Galaxy. Many of the phones arriving here in bulk and destined for retail distribution are stolen in the United States, the informant said."When you turn on the phone," he said, "it says AT&amp;T or T-Mobile."According to the informant, the traffickers take stolen phones from the United States to an electronics market at a shopping center in downtown Bogota, where the devices are refurbished and then smuggled across borders, mostly by ground.Colombia has become so central to the global distribution network that stolen smartphones are arriving by air and sea from points as distant as Spain and Singapore. A sophisticated stealth courier industry then delivers the devices across the continent, from Brazil to Argentina.Spectrum &gt;&gt; Chrome Web StoreInstantly test your web page with different types of color vision deficiency.Color Vision Deficiency (CVD) affects people's ability to distinguish certain colors. Estimates indicate that approximately 200 million people worldwide are affected by some kind of CVD.Another great one to bookmark, or install.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Apple&apos;s iPhone 5S has been a dramatic hit in China, comprising 12% of sales there during October, says market research company Counterpoint.The result comes even before itsdeal with China Mobile, the world&apos;s largest carrier, which is expected to begin taking preorders for the phone on Thursday 12 December ahead of an official announcement of a 4G network next week.The sales boost in China propelled the 5S, the top-end iPhone which has a built-in fingerprint reader, to be the best-selling phone worldwide during October,according to Counterpoint.It also comes as separate data from analytics company Mixpanel suggests that the 5S now makes up 10% of all iPhones in use, and that the radically redesigned iOS 7 operating system has achieved a faster takeup than last year&apos;s release of iOS 6.Tom Kang, a research at Counterpoint, says that although the 5S didn&apos;t create the long queues that the release of the 4S in China did in early 2012, &quot;it definitely was more successful compared to what [the] iPhone 5 [released in December 2012] registered in terms of overall sales in a month.&quot;Neil Shah of Counterpoint said: &quot;Apple&apos;s smartphone marketshare climbed to the 12% mark in China inOctober, instantly making it the third largest smartphone player in the market – up from a modest 3% share in September.&quot;The introduction of the iPhone 5S has boosted Apple's share of smartphone sales in China. (Note that total sales volumes may vary between months, so shares should be considered on monthly basis.) Photograph: /CounterpointresearchThe abrupt jump suggests that Chinese buyers were waiting for the much-expected new models of the phone - and particularly the more expensive 5S, which is seen as a status symbol among some wealthier consumers. With a launch on China Mobile, which has more than 750m subscribers, imminent, Kang points out that it will be available on the three main carriers in the country, which between them have 391m 3G subscribers - half as many again as the total US phone market. &quot;[Having[ Apple iPhone 5s at all three carriers will for sure ignite a &apos;price war&apos; boosting the overall iPhone 5s sales in China,&quot; Kang said. &quot;This might allow Apple to even reach the No. 1 smartphone player in December or January in China.&quot;China is the world&apos;s largest smartphone market, and one of the fastest-growing. Smartphone sales there in the third quarter of 2013 totalled 87.7m, according to data supplied to the Guardian by research company IDC, with sales growth at 52% year-on-year compared to 40% for the rest of the world. Samsung was the biggest seller of smartphones in the third quarter, averaging more than 6m phones per month.Meanwhile Samsung&apos;s share in China headed upwards, helped by price discounting and the release of the Galaxy Note 3. Peter Richardson of Counterpoint said that rapid sales of the Note 3 made it the fifth best-selling device for the month worldwide.Phone sales rankings for China in October 2013 show Apple's iPhone 5S selling well - though Samsung's Note 3 has also risen strongly. Photograph: /CounterpointresearchMeanwhile separate data from the analytics company Mixpanel suggests that the iPhone 5S now makes up 10% of all iPhone in use. The iPhone 5C, which has been less popular despite its slightly lower price point, makes up 3.4% of the iPhones in use.Because Mixpanel provides data in the form of ratios, it&apos;s impossible to know whether the number of iPhones in use has fallen, stayed the same or grown - though data from ComScore, another research company, suggests that the number of iPhone users in the US has grown by 2.7m in the past three months, suggesting continual growth in general iPhone ownership.Mixpanel suggests that iPhone 5S use is now at 10% of iPhones, against 3.4% for the iPhone 5C. Photograph: /PR/MixpanelMixpanel&apos;s data also says that iOS 7 is now used on 78.3% of devices. Its figures show iOS 6 being used on 18.8% of devices, and earlier versions on 2.9%.Though Mixpanel&apos;s public data only goes back to April, other analytics reports by another analystics network, Chitika, from the same time last yearsay that iOS 6 had a 72.8% uptakeat that time.A posting by Chitika says that its own data shows iOS 7 &quot;surpassing those of [iOS 6]&quot;, based on the OS being run by devices connecting to its systems.However the apparent rapid rise is a ratio, and might not necessarily indicate that old devices are being updated. As well as releasing the iPhone 5S and 5C, Apple also refreshed its iPad line with the iPad Air and iPad mini, and if those - which have iOS 7 installed already - have been bought and activated in large enough numbers they could raise the numbers of iOS 7 devices recorded by Chitika and Mixpanel.Chitika says that owners of older iPads appear to be less keen to upgrade then iPhone owners, perhaps because they do not get features such as the AirDrop file exchange.&quot;While still-active legacy devices make it unlikely for iOS 7 adoption to substantially surpass the nearly 90% adoption rate of iOS 6, the latest operating system will likely reach that point in a much quicker timeframe than its forerunner,&quot; Chitika comments.
It's Thursday.
The Coalition government has massively revised its plan for the National Broadband Network, breaking a promise to complete the first stage by 2016, after a strategic review found cost blowouts and poor management.Under the new Coalition plan, the NBN will be completed with a mix of technologies containing just 26% fibre to the home, will cost almost $12bn more to complete and will take four years longer than promised by the Coalition before the election.The revision follows the results of a scathing strategic review of the current financial and construction position of the network by the Coalition-appointed management of NBN Co.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, said the Coalition’s election policy was based on the assumption that NBN Co would meet its own forecasts, but the review marked the end of “heroic forecasts”.“Our [election] policy was written without access to experts and information within the NBN Co and we assumed they would be further ahead than they were,” Turnbull said.Labor immediately released an NBN Co review given to the Coalition government on 20 September, which advised the Coalition would be unlikely to achieve its promised speed of 25Mbps due to various contractual and technological obligations faced by the network.“It shows that Malcolm Turnbull’s second-rate network will not cut it,” Labor’s communications’ spokesman Jason Clare said.However Turnbull ridiculed the review, saying the former management had not managed to get any forecasts right under Labor.The Coalition has revised its own projected costs of the NBN from $29.5bn promised during the election campaign to $41bn, though the minister committed to limiting its equity investment in NBN Co to $29.5bn. The rest will be funded by debt.The government has appointed a panel of experts to conduct an independent cost-benefit analysis of broadband and a review of the regulatory arrangements for the NBN. It will be chaired by former treasury secretary and businessman Michael Vertigan, with director of the Australian Industry Group Alison Deans, economist and NBN critic Henry Ergas and regulatory consultant, telecommunications expert and economist, Tony Shaw.The panel has been established to provide independent advice on the economic and social costs and benefits of different broadband technologies.The NBN was announced by the Rudd government in 2009 and the corporate plan predicted the network would have passed 1.1m homes by 30 September this year.According to the review released on Thursday, the NBN had passed 227,483 homes by that date, of which 153,977 can be connected.The review found the network would take four years longer (until 2020) to complete under the Coalition’s revised multi-technology plan, but under Labor’s fibre to the premises plan, the NBN would not be finished until 2024.Turnbull said the review found the NBN was in a “fundamentally worse position” than Labor had disclosed, with construction behind time, financial returns overestimated by $13bn to 2021, a lack of infrastructure experience in NBN Co staff, a “corrosive internal culture” and lack of commercial rigour.The Labor model being rolled out is 100% fibre. The Coalition’s new model, now described as a Multi-Technology Mix (MTM), will include 26% fibre to the premises (FTTP), 44% fibre to the node (FTTN) and 30% hybrid fibre coaxial (HFC), which uses both optical fibre and coaxial cable for the delivery of pay TV, internet and voice services.“I have always said fibre is great technology but it takes a lot of time and costs a lot of money,” Turnbull said.The minister said the increase in internet demand did not necessarily mean a lot more speed was required, as suggested by supporters of the FTTP model to every home.“Just because people take up more services on the internet doesn’t mean they necessarily need a lot more speed,” Turnbull said.“There has been a correlation between increased demand to increased line speed. While there is a connection, it’s not linear connection.”NBN Co executive chairman Ziggy Switkowski said the bottom line of the review was that an alternative to the existing model could be delivered sooner and cheaper. The new chief was critical of the culture inside NBN Co, describing decision-making as decentralised and not co-ordinated.“The biggest issue is a commendable and tenacious commitment to the [original] corporate plan but a failure to recognise reality is moving so far away, then a failure to take action,” he said.Switkowski said the new model would be a mix of existing technology as well as other future technology platforms that may emerge and resembles the architecture of systems in other advanced economies.“Our calculations confirm that it is economically more efficient to upgrade over time than to build a future-proof network in a field where fast-changing technology is the norm,” Switkowski said.But Clare said under the Coalition’s plan, capacity would be met as soon as it was built.“Three years ago Tony Abbott said Malcolm Turnbull’s job was to demolish the NBN,” said Clare. “Then they promised to keep the NBN. This issue is a bit like Medicare. The government knows it’s too popular to destroy but they are doing almost everything they can here to destroy it, which means we are getting a second-rate NBN.”NBN: how the two parties compare&nbsp;
YouTube's advertising revenues will rise by more than 50% to $5.6bn in 2013, according to a report that confirms the threat posed by the internet to traditional TV ads.The report by eMarketer claims that YouTube has become such a draw for advertisers that it will account for 11% of advertising revenues at Google, YouTube's parent. The eMarketer estimate tops previous predictions. In May, Morgan Stanley predicted that YouTube's gross revenues would reach $4bn in 2013, while Barclays suggested a likely figure of $3.6bn.Google has not revealed YouTube's earnings, but eMarketer research suggests that the search engine got a bargain when it paid $1.65bn for the site in 2006. However, YouTube does not keep all the advertising revenue and must pay a share to advertising partners and providers of content. Google's public statistics for YouTube include the fact that the service attracts 1 billion people watching more than 6bn hours of video a month, with 80% of its traffic coming from outside the US, and 40% of its viewing time happening on mobile devices. Advertisers are keen to buy slots on YouTube because of its young audience, who prefer to watch TV programmes through their computers, tablets and mobile phones rather than conventional televisions.
Sporting events, dead celebrities and, perhaps inevitably, One Direction, dominated the national debate in Britain last year, at least on the social network Twitter, which has revealed the 10 most tweeted about topics of 2013.Analysing tweets from 15 million active users, Twitter said Manchester United's 2-1 defeat by Real Madrid triggered the year's biggest tweeting frenzy, with fans sharing their disbelief as the club was knocked out of the champions league on 5 March. Football generated seven of the 10 busiest periods on Twitter through the year."Sport lends itself well to these frenzied moments when fans are sitting on their sofa at home and reach for the phone to talk about what just happened," said Lewis Wiltshire, Twitter's UK director of media partnerships.After the tweets wishing everyone a happy new year in second place, Andy Murray's victory as the first male British singles winner at Wimbledon in 77 years created the third biggest moment on Twitter, as witnesses shared their collective disbelief and joy over the sporting milestone. One of the few music highlights in the list was Mumford and Sons' closing out of the Glastonbury festival with the Beatles classic With a Little Help From My Friends, which caused a ruckus on Twitter as fans and detractors argued about the choice of song.Death also featured heavily in the collective conversation this year. Britons took to Twitter to remember the passing of former poet laureate Seamus Heaney, author Iain Banks, Lady Thatcher and James Gandolfini, who was best known for his leading role in the Sopranos. The recent death of former South African president Nelson Mandela caused an outpouring of emotion and mourning around the world, reflected on Twitter.The world's most popular and retweeted message of the year goes to Glee actor Lea Michele, thanking fans for their support over the death of her co-star Cory Monteith with 408,000 retweets. Fast and Furious star Paul Walker's shock death also invoked 400,000 retweets.The birth in July of Prince George accounted for one of the year's biggest wave of tweets in Britain, and the prize for the most global retweets is claimed by the heart-throbs of One Direction, who accounted for three of the top five most retweeted messages. A picture of a sleeping Harry Styles tweeted by bandmate Zayn Malik was retweeted 344,000 times, while Malik's further tweet thanking fans for their best wishes on his engagement was retweeted 336,000 times by fans.But it was the band's lower profile Niall Horan who apparently captured the world's imagination with the insightful blast "Yesss! I'm 20! Wohooo ! No more teens!", which was retweeted no less than 375,000 times. A modern classic, in 140 characters.
Detectives from the Met's cybercrime unit investigating the theft of £1m from two banks using malicious software to access customer accounts have arrested four people from what they say is an organised criminal gang and seized £80,000 and a live grenade.The arrests and seizures followed raids on properties in Enfield and Islington, in north London, on Tuesday morning. Two 31-year-old men, a 27-year-old woman and a 24-year-old woman were arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud, conspiracy to launder money and possession of an explosive.Detectives from the force's new cybercrime unit (MPCCU),launched in October, carried out the operation after a number of customers downloaded malware (malicious software) on to their computers after opening emails claiming to be from their bank.This led to a total of £1m being siphoned off from their bank accounts and transferred to a series of other accounts, to be laundered and withdrawn as cash, Scotland Yard said.Detective Chief Inspector Jason Tunn, from MPCCU, said: "These arrests by the Met's cybercrime unit follow an investigation into what we suspect is an international and organised crime targeting a number of bank customers in London and across the UK. The victims have been hoodwinked by malware-carrying emails purporting to be from their banks, and subsequently had money taken from their accounts."Officers also recovered a number of computers, smartphones and other media devices, as well as luxury goods, including designer jewellery, in the co-ordinated raids on a residential address in Stadium Mews, Islington, and another in Bowes Road, Enfield, at 7am on Tuesday. The grenade was found at the Enfield address and was secured before being removed.The men are currently in custody at a central London police station, Scotland Yard said, while the women have been bailed to return on a date early next year.Officers have served restraint requests to several banks for a number of accounts linked to the investigation to be frozen.The National Audit Office estimates that cybercrime costs Britain an estimated £18bn to £27bn every year.
Legendary rock gods Led Zeppelin are to bring a whole lotta love to an entirely new audience after agreeing an exclusive deal with Spotify, which will now include the band&apos;s full back catalogue and a new, free mobile service.Marking Led Zeppelin&apos;s first agreement with a streaming service, the deal is something of a coup for Spotify. The deal was announced as part of a major expansion for the music service, which now offers a free version of its service on mobile and tablet as well as desktop, and has launched in 20 new countries including Peru, Chile and even Malta in its battle to reach a more mainstream audience.Announcing the new &quot;shuffle play&quot; service in New York on Wednesday, Spotify said the new feature for its mobile apps will allow users to stream songs for free supported by adverts in a similar manner to its desktop service. Users can choose any artist on Spotify to hear their entire catalogue in shuffle mode, and they can also select a personal playlist or one curated by Spotify editors and the community.Unlike competing “radio” products, Spotify users can shuffle the entire back catalogue of a particular artist. Paying subscribers already get an advert-free version, but this extends the service to mobile - an increasingly popular way of accessing music online.Spotify founder Daniel Ek confirmed the service will give users access to the entire 20m-strong Spotify catalogue for free using playlists. &quot;Nearly half of mobile listening, if not more, is people listening to their own curated playlists,&quot; said Ek. &quot;With shuffle play, you can now play any of your playlists for free. Spotify&apos;s new mobile experience is music for anyone and the best experience and access in the history of music.”Nearly 45 years after Led Zeppelin released their eponymous debut album, the band&apos;s entire Swan Song/Atlantic catalogue will be released in the next few days. Spotify has been courting established artists for some time, with Metallica’s Lars Ulrich famously buddying up with Spotify investor Sean Parker on-stage at the announcement of his band’s exclusive deal in December 2012.The pair had been at loggerheads in the days when Parker was co-founder of the original Napster filesharing service. Since Metallica added its back catalogue to Spotify, the band’s most popular track, Nothing Else Matters, streamed more than 9.1m times, while Enter Sandman has notched up 9m streams.“What does it say about the age of music subscribers?&quot; said Mark Mulligan, co-founder of media industry consulting firm MIDiA. &quot;Aging rockers like Metallica and now Led Zeppelin show Spotify is courting older users, those which aren’t necessarily early adopters and therefore aren’t streaming users.&quot;Mulligan said that exclusives like this, where one artist or band only releases their music on one streaming service, were likely a short-term strategy, as it would be in their best interest to ensure their music can be streamed by as many fans as possible on different services.“What we’re likely to see is a move to time-release window exclusivities, where an album or track is available for a week in one place before general availability. Something Daft Punk recently saw success with an iTunes week-long exclusive,” he said.Spotify already faces competition from other mobile personal-radio services, including Last.fm and Blinkbox in the UK, as well as Pandora in the US. The latter has 72.4m active users, with 80% of its listening happening in mobile and connected devices. Apple’s iTunes Radio, which attracted 20m users in its first month in the US, is also in this space, while Spotify’s direct rivals Deezer, Rdio and the UK-only Bloom.fm also blend free personal radio with full “on-demand” access for paying subscribers.The Swedish company hopes its free personal radio on mobile will act as a gateway to its premium subscription service, although it could also spark new criticism from musicians, who receive smaller payouts for streams of their songs by free users than by paying subscribers.Spotify recently released numbers and analysis of plays, showing that a single play of a track would earn rightsholders between $0.006 and $0.0084, although this was averaging out free and paid streams.Spotify says it has paid $500m to music industry rightsholders in 2013, and more than $1bn in total since its launch in 2008. However, criticism of its business model has been led by musicians like Thom Yorke, who has attacked the business models of digital music services for trying to be gatekeepers for music, and in October dismissed Spotify as the &quot;last desperate fart of a dying corpse&quot;.
Huge numbers of apps in both Apple&apos;s and Google&apos;s app stores have been targeted for hacking, with financial apps on Android particularly vulnerable, according to new research.In significant numbers of cases, apps have been hacked and uploaded to third-party stores or Google Play either to capture credentials from users, or to operate maliciously, or to defraud the app&apos;s creator by removing adware elements.&quot;Hacked apps are showing up in a lot of different storefronts, such as Cydia, in a decrypted state, so by definition the software has been hacked,&quot; said Kevin Morgan, chief technology officer of Arxan, an app security company. &quot;There are multiple examples where there has been some tampering with the original code.&quot;Financial apps are a particular concern because users trust them with essential data such as bank account numbers and passwords. Arxan says it found that 23% of its sample of iOS financial apps had been hacked and reposted - and 53% of Android financial apps.Android users can download apps from third-party stores via setting on their device, whereas iOS users have to &quot;jailbreak&quot; their device - that is, use a hacking attack to give themselves the equivalent of &quot;root&quot; privileges for installing software. At present there are no jailbreaks for iOS 7, released in September.But even Google&apos;s official Play store can be a source of malware and hacked apps. In September BlackBerry had tohalt the rollout of its BBM app for Androidbecause a hacked version placed in the Play store before the official one had been downloaded more than a million times.Similarly, it is easy for people to put a &quot;Bank of America&quot; app onto Google Play which simply uses freely available information about the bank - and fool users, Morgan warned.&quot;Google Play isn&apos;t a vetted app store - it tends to have a lot of cruft,&quot; said Morgan. &quot;Whereas in the Apple Store you&apos;re almost certain to see just legitimate apps. Hacked code isn&apos;t a significant problem in Apple&apos;s App Store.&quot; Apple vets all apps before allowing them onto its App Store, where Google will remove apps only after they appear if there are complaints about them or if they are detected as having malware. Both platforms have a &quot;kill switch&quot; which can retrospectively delete malicious installed apps from phones.Arxan, based in Bethesda, Maryland, offers a security system for apps which makes it harder to tamper with them, and can enable them to try to detect tampering - and prevent execution if it is found.Picking a fightIn its second annual report on thestate of security in the app economy, it says: &quot;Our research yields consistent findings [with last year] of 100% of the top paid Android apps are subject to hacking. This consistency from last year clearly underlines that Android is the more insecure operating system.&quot;How does that square with Eric Schmidt&apos;s claim in October that Android is more secure than Apple&apos;s iOS - a statement which at the timeelicited laughter from executives attending the Gartner symposium?&quot;I&apos;m not sure I want to pick a fight with Eric Schmidt,&quot; said Morgan. &quot;His argument is a technical point-by-point one&quot; - though Schmidt did not give a detailed explanation of his claim to the audience in October, preferring to say that Android undergoes &quot;real-world testing&quot; through its huge user base.Morgan explained: &quot;from the basis of the app marketplace, the fact remains that there&apos;s a lot more modified code there than on Apple&apos;s store. There are fraudulent, malware-infested apps based on original code or built from scratch in Google Play.&quot;Arxan also noted that &quot;hackers can more readily target a fragmented, and open Android ecosystem to insert malware into the Google Play store.&quot; It points toGoogle&apos;s own platform data, which shows that at the beginning of December 24.1% of devices accessing Google Play were running Android 2.3 &quot;Gingerbread&quot;, released in December 2010, and 18.6% running version Android 4.0.x, released in October 2011.Follow the money&quot;This lack of standardisation leads to greater insecurity on this platform,&quot; Anxar says in its report, prepared in September, when Gingerbread and ICS devices made up 52.4% of devices accessing Google Play. &quot;Specifically, the majority of Android devices will not be able to receive new security measures provided by Google, which results in users being vulnerable to even known threats.&quot;While the proportion of devices running older versions of Android has fallen since the report was prepared, the absolute number is likely to have stayed almost unchanged.&quot;Hackers will always follow the flow of money, and will focus on the platform with the most users,&quot; the report adds. &quot;A recent mobile malware study by Junpier substantiates this by reporting that 92% of malware was created for Android, and malware on iOS was not noticeable.&quot;Arxan&apos;s analysis found that third-party stores are a significant source of hacked apps. Its research found hacked versions of all of the top 100 paid apps for Android, and 56% of the top 100 paid apps for Apple&apos;s iOS either on the main store or third-party sites.In the main, free apps are the most targeted: 73% of free Android apps had been modified and either reposted to Google Play or to other app stores
Bitcoin does not need to replace normal currency in order to have a future, according to an expert on digital currencies from professional services firm Ernst &amp; Young.Speaking at an event in London, Roger Willis, who has been following bitcoin since its inception in 2009, described myths around the currency, one of which was its position as a replacement for &quot;fiat&quot; money.&quot;Fiat currency is essentially currency the government decrees to be legal tender,&quot; Willis says. &quot;Bitcoin wasn&apos;t really developed to be a replacement for fiat currency. You see a lot of people talking about how bitcoin is going to take over, or how bitcoin doesn&apos;t have the properties that lend to it being used widely.&quot;But it was really developed to be used in ecommerce and for micro transactions. It wasn&apos;t really to replace our sterling, our us dollars, and our euros.&quot;With that in mind, the future risks for the currency take on a different shape. Currently, many critics are concerned with problems like price volatility and the deflationary nature of bitcoin. There will only ever be 21m bitcoins, and that has led some to fear that the currency will have a &quot;deflationary&quot; element in the future, leading to each unit getting comparatively more valuable over time.Deflation is often blamed for the &quot;lost decade&quot; in Japan, and an Ernst and Young spokeswoman stressed that the company adheres to the mainstream economic view that mild positive inflation is best for a national currency. But when it comes to using bitcoin as an ecommerce tool, deflation isn&apos;t necessarily problematic.Instead, Willis highlighted problems of speed and fraud control as the most pressing priorities for bitcoin. In order to prevent fraud, the bitcoin network &quot;confirms&quot; transactions every 10 minutes.&quot;One of the weaknesses with bitcoin is you generally have to wait for five to six transaction confirmations before you&apos;re sure that the money hasn&apos;t been &apos;double spent&apos;, and that can take up to 40 or 50 minutes,&quot; Willis says.Some establishments have already decided that speed is worth the risk. For instance, the Pembury Tavern, a pub in Hackney, London, which takes bitcoin, accepts unconfirmed transactions as payment. But not every retailer can afford to do that – particularly if they are selling goods more expensive than beer.Overall, Ernst and Young &quot;have a balanced view&quot; on bitcoin, according to Colin Pickard, a financial services director at the company.&quot;There are definite possible gains, in terms of lowered transaction costs, but there are some significant negatives, in terms of accountability and how to deal with anonymous users and how to regulate in the market.&quot;A great number of companies that are operating today that don&apos;t think of themselves as financial institutions will have to be regulated and treated a lot more like financial institutions are today. But we aren&apos;t positive or negative on bitcoin itself.&quot;•Apple&apos;s fear that Bitcoin might be branded illegal is keeping apps off the store.
WhenYouTube changed its comments systemto use Google+ there wasplenty of outrage online. Were the critics right? Google+ boss Bradley Horowitz said today that they were.&quot;To be clear, out of the gate we weren&apos;t doing so well, and a lot of that had to do with ranking, and a bit of an arms race around spam and abuse,&quot; said Horowitz at the Le Web conference in Paris today.&quot;I don&apos;t think this was YouTube fanatics, there were some real problems with the integration as launched, and it took us a few days to iron those out.&quot;Horowitz defended YouTube&apos;s decision to use Google+ for YouTube&apos;s comments system, though, describing the change as &quot;a very beneficial thing for channel-owners and for commenters&quot; for the way they rank comments based on quality and social links.&quot;It means I can go to a video like Gangnam Style that has millions of comments that were useless to me a month ago as I tried to paginate through them, but now we&apos;re able to rank those comments in social proximity to me,&quot; he said. &quot;They float to the top, and I&apos;m able to interact with those.&quot;Horowitz was interviewed on-stage by Le Web founder Loïc Le Meur, who questioned him about recent speculation thatGoogle had a $4bn acquisition offer for social app Snapchatknocked back earlier in the year.Lemeur had asked speakers from Facebook and Twitter similar questions earlier in the event, and Horowitz took his cue from their firm-but-polite denials, while praising the ephemeral-messaging startup.&quot;Like my colleagues, I have tremendous respect for Snapchat, they&apos;ve obviously hit a real use case, and the usage we have seen amongst teens and young adults is stunning,&quot; said Horowitz, who went on to compare the Google+ Hangouts video-chat feature to Snapchat.&quot;Hangouts touches this ephemeral use case. When I&apos;m having a conversation with somebody, it&apos;s even easier than 140 characters. I don&apos;t have to author anything: I just light up a Hangout, invite my friends and we talk. And at the end, it&apos;s not recorded,&quot; he said. &quot;We&apos;ve seen evidence ourselves that the use case of ephemeral messaging is very powerful.&quot;Google's Bradley Horowitz on-stage at Le Web. Photograph: Stuart Dredge/The GuardianHorowitz parried questions about Google+ as a rival to Facebook in favour of talking up its new Plus Posts feature, which turns brands&apos; Google+ posts into interactive adverts that can be displayed and interacted with elsewhere on the web.&quot;It allows for much richer engagement as opposed to jus a display ad which is a means of generating brand value and awareness. This is something that allows me to engage in situ, I can stay on the site where I find the ad,&quot; he said.&quot;This is a mind-blowing expansion of the surface area of our product. Not only can these brands interact with users when they come to Google+ or to our mobile apps: now the web is the stream for the users... with content they can interact with if they choose.&quot;Horowitz also talked about the bigger picture within Google, and its ability to &quot;think in 10-year timeframes&quot; about the kind of projects described by the company&apos;s chief executive Larry Page as &quot;moon shots&quot;.&quot;We don&apos;t know if they will work, they make take pivots and twists and turns along the way, but they&apos;re worth doing because they solve the world&apos;s biggest problems if we get them right,&quot; said Horowitz, who cited Google&apos;s work on self-driving cars as a key example.&quot;When you think of the kinds of problems that can solve, both in terms of traffic... also you&apos;ll save lives with self-driving cars if we get this right, and pollution. There are so may benefits there,&quot; he said.&quot;i&apos;ve ridden in the self-driving cars. It&apos;s an amazing feat of technology when you bet your life on this technology, and it&apos;s actually stunning to see. Immediately, you can see it&apos;s viable and it&apos;s a matter of time.&quot;Horowitz added that while more here-and-now Google initiatives like Chrome and Android may not seem like moon shots, they started out as big, risky bets in their own right.&quot;They don&apos;t look like moon shots today, they look like successes today,&quot; he said. &quot;Some of these things take a very long time to play out, but they&apos;re worth doing. At the end you get something like Android, which I think is a huge contribution to the world.&quot;And Google+? Rather than trade active-user figures with Facebook and other social sites, Horowitz talked instead about some of the little details in Google&apos;s social network, like automatic photo-editing, as examples of its value.&quot;We analyse the contents of the photo and selectively fix things: we smooth skin so people look better and less wrinkled, and bring silhouetting and vignetting to photos,&quot; said Horowitz. &quot;These are subtle things, and require huge processing power, but ultimately make your photos better.&quot;• Google&apos;s Bradley Horowitz on Google+: &apos;Friction can be a very good thing&apos;
If you believe YouTube&apos;s interpretation of 2013, the year belonged to The Fox, the Harlem Shake and, well, Miley Cyrus.YouTube has brought together more than 50 YouTube stars and celebrities to celebrate their 2013 Year in Review, in a video featuring some of the biggest YouTube moments of the year.The YouTube Rewind video features the likes of Kid President, who rose to popularity through inspiring videos on YouTube and eventually met President Obama; Jenna Marbles, who has over 11 million subscribers to her YouTube channel; and the TV personalities Jimmy Fallon and Jimmy Kimmel.The background music is a remix of 2013&apos;s biggest hits, and comes fromDJ Earworm, another talent who has seen his fame erupt on YouTube.You can see the video here:Other things we learned from the YouTube Year in Review• Kid President is officially the coolest kid on the block. This year alone heinspired millions, met Barack Obama and opened YouTube&apos;s Rewind video. His &quot;pep talk&quot; is myfavourite video of the year.• We won&apos;t forget the Harlem Shake for some time. It practically became a movement, with universities, offices and even army squads around the world uploading their own versions to YouTube.• It&apos;s difficult to listen to Taylor Swift&apos;sTroublewithoutthinking of goats– so it makes sense that the producers of the YouTube Year in Review worked with 30 goats while creating the video.The UK&apos;s biggest hitsThe video-sharing website has also compiled lists of the most popular videos, from music to education, in different countries.Here&apos;s the list:• The UK&apos;s top trending video is entitled &quot;How Animals Eat Their Food&quot; by MisterEpic Mann, which is a series of ridiculous clips that sees the actors in fits of laughter towards the end of the clip.• It was pretty easy to predict some of the clips in the list, which includesTom Daley announcing he is in a same-sex relationship, Will Smith combining with Jazzy Jeff and Alfonso Ribeiro tosing the opening credits toThe Fresh Prince of Bel Airon the Graham Norton Show and anarmy squad doing the Harlem Shake.• There are a number of heartwarming videos that one might not think of as being particularly viral, such as thewedding speech of McFly&apos;s Tom Fletcher(which has nearly 12m views).• Among the more viral videos from Ylvis and Psy, the list of most popular music videos in the UK included Robin Thicke&apos;sBlurred Lines, Miley Cyrus&apos;sWrecking BallandWe Can&apos;t StopandWake Me Upby Avicii, withNaughty Boy&apos;sLa La Latopping the charts.• The most popular video in 2013 around the world was, quite unsurprisinglyThe Fox,so here it is again:•What lessons can musicians and labels take from YouTubers such as Jenna Marbles?
Google has never revealed how much money YouTube makes since buying the online video service for $1.65bn in 2006. That doesn&apos;t stop analysts and research firms taking guesses.The latest is eMarketer, which has published its first estimates for YouTube&apos;s advertising revenues today. The company predicts that YouTube&apos;s gross ad revenues will rise 51.4% to $5.6bn in 2013, accounting for 11.1% of Google&apos;s total.Once YouTube has paid ad partners and video creators their share, its net ad revenues are still expected to reach $1.96bn this year, up 65.5% compared to 2012&apos;s $1.18bn.eMarketer has also broken out YouTube&apos;s net ad revenues in the US, estimating that they&apos;ll reach $1.08bn in 2013, with $850m of those coming from video advertisements. The company thinks this will give YouTube a 20.5% share of all US video advertising revenues for the year.&quot;Predicts&quot;, &quot;estimates&quot;, &quot;thinks&quot; – this is all guesswork, so why should people trust eMarketer&apos;s analysis? The company says it is informed guesswork based on &quot;hundreds of datapoints and studies about YouTube revenues, ad impressions, rates, usage and other factors collected from research firms, investment banks, company reports and interviews with industry executives&quot;.eMarketer's estimates for YouTube's revenue growth.There are some other numbers to compare eMarketer&apos;s analysis to. In May this year, Morgan Stanley predicted thatYouTube&apos;s gross revenues would reach $4bn in 2013, whileBarclays suggested a likely figure of $3.6bnthe same month.A June report by analyst firm Wedge Partners claimedYouTube accounts for around 10% of Google&apos;s revenues– not far off eMarketer&apos;s analysis – which if the company&apos;s fourth quarter matched the average revenues across the three previous quarters would hint at around $5.73bn of YouTube revenues for 2013 as a whole.It&apos;s all still guesswork, of course, and Google is extremely unlikely to announce the real figures anytime soon. Suffice to say the $1.65bn Google paid for YouTube in 2006 – a sum that shocked many people at the time – looks like something of a bargain in 2013.Google&apos;s public statistics for YouTubeinclude the fact that the service attracts 1bn people watching more than 6bn hours of video a month, with 80% of its traffic coming from outside the US, and 40% of its viewing time happening on mobile devices.
On today's Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski, we hear fromScott Huffman, vice president of engineering and search at Google and the man in the know about Google's plans for Siri-like voice recognition apps and services. He tellsJemima Kisswhy voice recognition will be a big part of our daily lives in the not-so-distant future.You can also read Jemima's interview with Scott here.Along with Jemima, Aleks is joined by the tech team,Charles Arthur,Samuel GibbsandAlex Hernto discuss this week's big news stories including the Web's behemoths who have joined forces to pressure US authorities to curtail and clarify the power of the NSA. Staying with the NSA, bizarre revelations about intelligence services sending agents into virtual worlds Second Life and World of Warcraft. Aldi joins the bargain basement tablet wars with their snazzily titled Lifetab E7316. Finally the UK government announces plans for fast-track visas into Britain for promising tech entrepreneurs.
Nokia is believed to be building a low-end Android phone using a &quot;forked&quot; version of the Google code which could use non-Google properties such as the Bing search engine and Here maps systems and access Android app stores.Analysts reckon that it could be intended as a replacement for the low-end Asha range, which uses an updated version of the Symbian S40 software that Nokia has in effect abandoned for its smartphone range, but which has seen dwindling sales in the face of growing competition from cheap Chinese smartphones also using Android code.Areport at The Vergesays that the phone is codenamed &quot;Normandy&quot;, and points toimages of a Nokia handsetwhich were published by Evan Blass, who runs the @evleaks Twitter account and is noted for the leaks he receives from handset makers.The Verge suggests that it is being prepared for a 2014 release at &quot;full steam ahead&quot;, despite the impending takeover of the handset division by Microsoft, which is expected to conclude in the first quarter of next year.Nokia would be free to develop a handset using the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) code which is available from Google, which omits any Google properties such as maps, Gmail, or Google search. Millions of smartphones using AOSP are sold in China every quarter, comprising as many as a third of all &quot;Android&quot; phones sold in the world.Here, BingBy adding Microsoft&apos;s Bing search and Outlook email, and Nokia&apos;s Here maps, it could provide a platform to compete in the Android space. It could provide access to Android app markets, though they would not be able to access Google&apos;s official Play store, which requires a Google-approved app.Nokia has struggled to compete with low-end Android smartphones, particularly in China, which used to be a major source of revenue and profit for its business but which has seen revenues dwindle from €1.25bn in the first quarter of 2009 to just €215m in the third quarter of this year.The Asha line, introduced in the third quarter of 2012, has seen sales drop from 6.5m in that quarter to 5.9m in the same period this year. A key problem with Asha is the lack of apps compared to the gigantic app stores available for AOSP and Android phones.Nokia revenues, handset average selling prices (ASP) and sales volumes in Greater China. Source: Nokia accounts. Photograph: /GuardianRichard Windsor, a former analyst at Nomura Securities who now runs the Radio Free Mobile consultancy, said that the move could be promising: &quot;where LG, HTC and Motorola will all fail [in making low-end devices], Nokia might just succeed.&quot; An AOSP offering &quot;would have the huge advantage of opening Nokia low-end devices to the enormous app ecosystem but the also have disadvantage of a higher level of cost to maintain the code. Effectively, Nokia will have to replicate the Android organisation inside Google and assume responsibility for every line of code in its Android handsets. This will be much more expensive than maintaining the Asha code line, but as long as volumes are higher to compensate and the Nokia user experience improves, this should not be a problem.&quot;Ian Fogg of IHS Suppli said: &quot;If Amazon can use custom Android to drive its ecosystem, there’s no objective reason why Microsoft/Nokia can’t do the same… Nokia’s biggest challenges with use of Android behind the scenes are perceptions: external to market and internal at Microsoft, esp post-Kin.&quot; The Kin was a hugely unsuccessful handset for which Microsoft effectively rewrote the codebase, and launched at a disastrously high price - and killed after 42 days in spring 2010.Windsor points out that Nokia also has a proven track record of making money from low-end handsets: &quot;Back in the heydays of 2004-2008, Nokia regularly reported margins of over 20% on the cheapest devices it made. It was able to do this through a combination of scale, platform, logistics and brand.&quot;In late 2010, the then incoming chief executive Stephen Elop considered whether Nokia should adopt Google&apos;s Android as its new smartphone platform. But negotiations with Google, and then with Microsoft, and the analysis of the market dynamics persuaded him that Windows Phone was the better choice, he told the Guardian earlier this year.A Nokia spokesman said that the company does not comment on rumours or speculation.•Why Nokia didn&apos;t choose Android instead of Windows Phone: Stephen Elop explains
It is the internet&apos;s favourite sharing service for comedy photos and quirky images, but Imgur is now reportedly at the centre of some very grown-up negotiations that could see it bought by Yahoo.Talks between Yahoo and Imgur began this autumn, according to a sourcetalking to Business Insider, but this would be just the latest statement acquisition byYahoo’s chief executiveMarissa Mayer.Since leaving Google in 2012, Mayer has bought dozens of popular web startups, including paying$1.1bn for blogging site Tumblrand£18m for news app Summly.With more than 100 million users, and generating money through ads and image-hosting services for companies as well as recently testedsponsored images, Imgur would be a significant addition to Yahoo&apos;s stable of consumer services.What is Imgur?Imgur is an image hosting and sharing site, favoured by users of social media and social news sites including Reddit, Twitter and Digg because of its ease of use and flexibility.It hosts images for free in various formats, including animated Gif files, supported by advertising, with paid-for professional accounts available.Those images are kept online for free, only deleted if the image is not accessedat least once during any six-month period.Users of the site can post comments, use tools to create new images and then share those images with both Imgur users and the wider internet.It’s ‘imager’Despite being written as “Imgur”, the site’s name is actually pronounced “imager”, which makes sense given it is an image upload, sharing and hosting site. But it seems that almost no one realises that.Born in February 2009 as a ‘gift to Reddit’Imgur was conceived as a side project for “an image-hosting service that doesn’t suck” by Alan Schaaf, then a computer science student at Ohio University, who was fed up with the slow, laborious and limited image-hosting solutions available at the time.&quot;I got fed up with all the other image hosts out there so I made my own. It doesn&apos;t force you to compress your images, and it has neat things like crop, resize, rotate, and compression from 10-100. It&apos;s my gift to you. Let&apos;s not see anymore imageshack/photobucket around here ;)&quot;, said Schaafin a posting on social news site Redditat the time.From thousands to millions in monthsImgur became wildly popular in a very short space of time, going from thousands of visits a day to millions within five months, mainly fuelled by its adoption by social news sites Reddit and Digg.Donations didn’t cut itThe rapid expansion meant the donation-funded model Schaaf initially set out with was thrown out the window within three months of launching, insteadrelying on advertisingand merchandising to fund server and running costs.San Francisco-basedIn three short years, Imgur had started to surpass all image hosting rivals, and decided to step operations up a notch by moving the startup company to San Francisco to expand and acquire talent, now operating with a small staff of around 10 employees.Powered by AmazonHaving bounced around various web hosting services including Voxel, Imgur finally landed on Amazon’s web services platform in 2011, its fifth hosting web hosting service in three years that provided the scale now required.Bigger and biggerAnd vast scale is certainly required. In 2012, 300m images were uploaded to Imgur, with 364bn image views and over 42PB data transferred over the internet. As of June 2013, Imgur had grown even bigger, with over 1m images uploaded daily, with 3.5bn monthly views from over 70 million visitors, and recently announced that it had crossed the 100 million user barrier, making Imgur bigger than Reddit.April FoolsKnown for its humorous spirit, Imgur has a history of playing April fools pranks, or activating funny features starting with the “Catification”released in 2011, which allowed users to instantly add cats to images uploaded to the Imgur site with a single click.Another highlight was the announcement in 2013 that Imgur was implementing a feature where users couldupload images using the traditional postal serviceto “appeal to a broad user base which includes film users, the computer illiterate, and those afraid of radiation from scanners,” something the site eventually honoured, uploading images received via snail mail.What is the Imguraffe?The Imguraffe, asavailable on mugsand other bits of merchandising. Photograph: ImgurThe official mascot of Imgur is theImguraffe– a giraffe with a top hat and monocle – which started life as an April Fools’ Day joke called “the simple Imguraffe sharer” but was “too cute to give up” according to the Imgur staff and so was given a permanent position in 2012.Meme GeneratorThe first content creation tool produced by Imgur, the “Meme Generator” wasreleased in June 2013fostering humorously captioned images, allowing users to apply custom text to a wide variety of images to poke fun at daily life and create newinternet memes.Going mobileThe Imgur image fun isn’t limited to the desktop. Not only does Imgur have a solid mobile website, the site released Android and iPhone apps in 2013, which included the full functionality of the desktop site tailored for the modern smartphone.•Summly entrepreneur Nick D&apos;Aloisio explains why he &apos;maintains a level of humbleness&apos;
Fresh from launchinga new set of tools to court musicians, streaming music service Spotify may now be planning to add free music to its mobile apps, and go head-to-head with Apple&apos;s iTunes Radio.The company announced a press event for 11 December this week, with the main news expected to be a free, ad-supported music on mobile, according to both theWall Street JournalandTechCrunch.In most countries where it has launched, Spotify has required people to be paying subscribers to use its smartphone and tablet apps, with its free service restricted to desktop use only.&quot;The Sweden-based music company has reached licensing deals with all three of the global music companies to use their recordings on the new service,&quot; claims the Wall Street Journal, adding that Spotify has been negotiating the terms for nearly a year.&quot;The new ad-supported offering will allow nonpaying mobile users to play a limited number of songs on demand, but will mostly serve up music based on the user&apos;s input, much like custom radio services such as Pandora.&quot;TechCrunch fleshed out the &quot;limited number of songs&quot; aspect, claiming that &quot;users may have more freedom to listen to their previously compiled playlists or starred collection of songs&quot; but will be expected to start paying if they want to be able to search or browse new songs.Spotify already has this feature – called &quot;Radio&quot; – in its mobile apps for subscribers, as well as in its desktop and web versions. Making it free on mobile devices would be a direct response to the looming global launch of Apple&apos;s iTunes Radio, which is so far only available in the US, where itattracted 20 million listeners in its first month.Spotify – which declined to comment on the speculation when asked by the Guardian – will be hoping that free personal radio on mobile will act as a gateway to its premium service. Rivals Rdio and Deezer have already adopted this strategy, as has UK-based startup Bloom.fm.Free mobile radio isn&apos;t a new strategy for Spotify. In June 2012, the companyallowed free access to its Radio feature in its iOS apps in the US alone, with these users hearing similar audio advertisements to those used on the desktop version of Spotify.•Is Spotify going to save the music industry … or destroy it?
Star rating: 4/5When Rovio announced plans to release an Angry Birds karting game calledAngry Birds Go!it raised eyebrows for two reasons.First: the risks in taking a franchise so seemingly tied to a specific genre (2D physics-based aiming&apos;n&apos;shooting) and daring to enter a genre dominated by the Mario Kart games, and the memory of countless character-based karting titles that didn&apos;t match up.Second: the even bigger risks of turning Angry Birds into a fully free-to-play game, making its money from in-app purchases and ads rather than paid downloads.Free-to-play is problematic for Rovio, partly because of its generous approach to updates for previous Angry Birds titles – if you paid 59p for the original game in 2011, you were still getting new levels for it in 2013 – and partly because of the large number of children who play the Angry Birds games.On either front, if Angry Birds Go&apos;s in-app purchase prodding is too aggressive it&apos;ll spark a big backlash. The game is out today for iOS, Android, Windows Phone and BlackBerry 10 – one of the first games to hit all four platforms on its launch day – so how has Rovio done? Pretty well on all counts.I&apos;ve loved numerous iterations of Mario Kart, and laughed at some of the rivals that copied its basic features while missing the nuances that made Nintendo&apos;s series so great. I fired up Angry Birds Go! preparing for disappointment, but very quickly realised that it&apos;s a really enjoyable game.Different to Mario Kart, it&apos;s fair to say: the power-ups system is simpler, with each character having a single, unique power-up to trigger a set number of times during races, rather than picking up different ones on the track. More emphasis on jumps too, perhaps unsurprisingly given Angry Birds&apos; roots.The handling feels great, with a choice of touch or tilt. As in most touchscreen driving games, tilt is more fun, but touch is better for actually controlling your vehicle. The way the various karts turn, fly through the air and smash into one another feels very good.Angry Birds Go! includes a fruit-smashing mode.Angry Birds touches include the characters, obviously – yes, no legs or hands, so heaven knows how they steer – and the way races start by you pulling back the car in a sling and letting go at the right moment. The different birds&apos; power-ups are standard for the genre: a mixture of weapons and speed-ups.The game&apos;s two main courses – Seedway and Rocky Road – each offer five types of race. Race is a straight race with several birds; Time Boom is a solo challenge to reach the finish before a fuse burns down; Versus is a one-on-one race, and Fruit Splat is a (possibly Fruit Ninja-inspired) mode where you have to drive through a set number of fruit on your way to the finish line.Each section also includes boss-bird races: beat them three times, and you unlock them to use as a playable character. And as you work through, there are more modes to unlock too: one focused on stunts and another on jump-heavy &apos;air&apos; races, for example, and a Jenga mode unlocked either by entering a code found on the Angry Birds Jenga board game, or with a £1.49 in-app purchase.Jenga mode sees you slinging your car down a ramp to smash into blocks and dislodge pigs – perhaps a teaser for a future move of the original Angry Birds gameplay into 3D.This isn&apos;t the only way toys filter into the game. As with Angry Birds Star Wars II, Rovio has teamed up with Hasbro to launch a line of Telepods toys: models of the karts and their characters which can be bought for between £5.99 and £39.99, with varying accessories.They&apos;re nice toys in their own right, but the karts can then be scanned in to the game by putting them on their transparent stands and placing them over your device&apos;s camera. It&apos;s an alternative to the in-app purchases: good for collectors, but also potentially for parents who&apos;d rather buy physical karts than let their kids loose with their iTunes accounts.How about the free-to-play aspect then? Good with a few niggles. The use of timers – individual bird characters get tired after five races and have to &apos;rest&apos; unless you revive them with one of the in-game currencies, gems. Not a huge problem once you&apos;ve unlocked a few, but frustrating in the early stages.The other in-game currency is coins, which you earn during races, and spend on upgrading the various karts&apos; speed, acceleration, handling and strength attributes. Impatient players can spend gems to get more coins, with the gems sold for between £1.99 and £69.99 in an in-game store – note to parents, youreallyneed to set your in-app purchase restrictions and a secure App Store password.In a week of playing review code of the game, I&apos;ve not come to the kind of crashing &quot;pay now or you&apos;re stuck&quot; halt I&apos;ve seen in some free-to-play games: Rovio has clearly thought carefully about how aggressively it integrates in-app purchases into Angry Birds Go&apos;s gameplay progression.This kart costs &pound;34.99, but you wouldn't know from the in-game store.Not quite as good is the in-game store to buy new karts. Some can be bought with gems, with the amount clearly displayed underneath. Others simply have a Buy button which only when you&apos;ve tapped it and entered your App Store password do you see how much it costs in a &quot;Confirm your In-App Purchase&quot; pop-up.Showing the prices in the store would be better: they range from £1.99 to £34.99 at the time of writing, although this is where the Telepods feature kicks in for players who already own the specific toy for the kart they&apos;d like to unlock.All of this may evolve over time, as it has done for other free-to-play games. Taken on its gameplay alone, though, Angry Birds Go! is a good start. Another obvious addition – and I&apos;d be surprised if this doesn&apos;t come sometime in 2014 – is online and local multiplayer. The game tracks your scores against Facebook friends, but doesn&apos;t yet let you race real people.Angry Birds Go! obviously isn&apos;t a Mario Kart killer, given that the games exist on completely different devices. The wider threat of a growing number of children spending their gaming time with Angry Birds rather than Mario, Pokemon, Link and co is a separate (and often heated) discussion, but for now the two karting games aren&apos;t going head-to-head.Angry Birds Go! is great fun now, with plenty of potential for evolution in 2014 and beyond. A few tweaks to the in-app purchases aside, it&apos;ll be raising eyebrows for positive, not negative reasons.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSolarCity will use Tesla's batteries to store solar power &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewToday, SolarCity—a company that's grown quickly by installing solar panels for free and charging customers for the solar power—announced a new business that will extend that model to providing batteries for free, too. SolarCity is a rare success story for investors in clean technology, and its business model has sped the adoption of solar panels.The batteries could help businesses lower their utility bills by reducing the amount of power they draw from the grid. They could also help address solar power's intermittency, which could prevent it from becoming a significant source of electricity. The batteries are being supplied by Tesla Motors, whose CEO, Elon Musk, is SolarCity's chairman.Convenient, that. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)A mysterious law that predicts the size of the world's biggest cities &gt;&gt; io9Well, it's not mysterious - it's Zipf's law - though its mechanism are less well understood:This is terrifically fascinating, but is ultimately less mysterious than Zipf's law. It's not difficult to understand why a city — which is essentially an ecosystem, albeit one built by humans — should follow natural laws. But Zipf's law is something that seems to have no natural analogue. It's social, and as I mentioned earlier, it only holds true for cities over the past 100 years.LG G2 sales significantly below expectations, less than 2.3m units have been purchased &gt;&gt; AndroidbeatThere's actually a LG G2 sitting on my desk right now, and I think it's an outstanding device, butaccording to the Korean publication Asia Today, it's not outstanding enough.They say that sales of the G2 have barely broken 600,000 units in South Korea during the product's first four months of availability. To put that into some perspective, the company's 2012 flagship phone, the Optimus G Pro, sold 540,000 units during the same span of time.Moving on to international figures, the company had set itself an internal goal of selling 3m units of the G2 during the third quarter, but instead, sales were somewhere in the range of sub=2.3m. Add to this the increased marketing spend LG has committed to in order to get their name out there, and it looks like there will definitely be some management reshuffling by the time this year comes to a close.What former iOS leader Scott ForstallI is doing &gt;&gt; Business InsiderAmir Efrati at new technology site The Information is reporting thatForstall spent the year traveling to Italy and South Africa. He also advised a few startups, and became more philanthropically involved, focusing on education, poverty, and human rights.As for what's next, Efrati doesn't have any news, but he says VC firms like Kleiner Perkins and Andreessen Horowitz have stayed in touch, but Apple employees think Forstall's next move will be starting his own company.China's supercomputer technology used to monitor smog &gt;&gt; XinhuaThe official Chinese news service:A computer model capable of more accurately forecasting and analyzing the cause of smoggy days is expected to be put into operation in the following three to five years.The simulation model will be developed using the technology of Tianhe-1A, which ranked as the world's fastest supercomputer from November 2010 to June 2011, and the model's data will be revised in light of actual observation data from other monitors, said Meng Xiangfei, a researcher with the National Supercomputer Center (NSC) in Tianjin.The model is also expected to forecast weather conditions further in advance compared with current air quality monitors in operation, according to Meng.Chinese environmental authorities have set up 668 monitoring spots in 114 cities and have released the data daily online and through traditional media.Not mentioned: smog levels have been calamitously high recently - so much so that little prediction is required. The cause is simple too: burning fossil fuels and using vehicles which spew out particulates.Google barge on 'hiatus' amid scrutiny from two agencies &gt;&gt; CNET NewsAlthough the Coast Guard told CNET on October 31 that it "did not stop any work on" Google Barge, activity seems to have paused almost immediately following a Coast Guard inspection which took place on October 23. And as of this writing, the project is still covered in scaffolding and dark netting, with no work being done on it.The Coast Guard has yet to offer any additional details in response to CNET questions about its inspection of the Google Barge. Still, the most likely possibility is that the agency called into question the barge's suitability for being visited by members of the public, which Google's proposal made clear was a major goal of the project.At the same time, BCDC has said repeatedly that Google has yet to officially request a permit to dock the barge in San Francisco, something that may well be required under state law.Oh, pettifogging laws - surely this isGoogle's Fantasy Island, where Larry Page will be able to try out new ideas free of such humdrum concerns?Theft hits B4RN as equipment stolen &gt;&gt; thinkbroadbandTheft of copper cabling is almost a weekly occurrence in some part of the UK and B4RN with its full fibre FTTP roll-out in parts of rural Lancashire was hoping to avoid this, but it seems someone decided that the hardware they use when building the network was worth stealing.B4RN is reporting that a locked trailer was broken into on the night of the 4th December and a compressor, a generator, a transformer and a fibre optic cable blowing machine were stolen.Rural thefts are a problem.Make any database into your very own iPad app with FileMaker &gt;&gt; CITEworldMary Branscombe:FileMaker Pro is an unusual combination. It's a database that's powerful enough to build database solutions in. You can connect to Oracle, SQL, ODBC, and XML data, create workflow and business logic, set up scripts, and do data validation and conditional formatting. Large companies like the Austin Convention Center and Lee Medical are using FileMaker to create iPad systems that replace pen and paper for construction workers who need to see what booth goes where at a trade show, or nurses who need to see patient records and prescriptions.File under "simple but useful, for later reference".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
In the 17 years I've spent writing about technology, I have had the good fortune to meet, interview and chat with hundreds of game designers from all over the world. I have visited studios throughout the US, in Russia, in Japan, in France, Denmark and, heck, even Britain. And although the cultural references can often be hugely diverse, there are certain books and movies that come up in conversation over and over again.Here, then, are the 10 books that game designers and developers have cited to me most often as influences on their work. There is a lot of science fiction and fantasy, of course – these being the predominant genres in the realm of mainstream narrative gaming. In some ways the list could be seen as evidence of the industry's cultural homogeneity – the way in which big franchises like Mass Effect, Elder Scrolls and Halo all draw from similar influences. I think they will certainly give you a better idea of the concepts and conventions driving the games industry – perhaps they will tell you why we have the games we have. I should stress, however, that these aren't theonlybooks ever referenced to me in development studios.Indeed there are no doubt ridiculous omissions – it was never going to be possible to capture all facets of game design inspiration. Also, I chose to stick with fiction to narrow things down a little. I'd invite readers to add their own suggestions in the comments section.For now, here are the 10 books that developers from Osaka to Ohio have most commonly referenced to me. Each entry also has a few alternate titles (all of them also mentioned by developers) which I've sneakily added so fewer people would shout at me.Whatever else, all of these are worth reading.Akira – Katsuhiro OtomoOtomo's arresting and vivid portrayal of gang warfare on the streets of a post-apocalyptic Tokyo ran throughout the '80s, drawing in influences from both the West (Star Wars) and the East (Japanese author Seishi Yokomizo), to dazzling effect. Widely credited with introducing both manga, and though its animated movie translation, anime, to Western audiences, Akira explores ideas of mutation, psychokinesis, military corruption and terrorism, all the while exhibiting the nuclear paranoia that flooded Japanese culture after 1945. Every Armageddon-obsessed adventure from Final Fantasy to Infamous has ideas that can be traced back here.Alternatively:Another classic 80s manga, Fist of the North Star, has been influential. And from the west, Frank Miller's The Dark Knight Returns and Alan Moore's Watchmen are two works dealing in similar areas of warped heroism, mutated humanity and future-noir paranoia.Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories – HP LovecraftThrough a selection of interconnected stories written throughout the twenties and thirties, American writer HP Lovecraft created a new horror mythology, blending the supernatural and science fiction and imagining a universe of dank oppressive dread in which humanity is at the mercy of gigantically powerful monsters. Lovecraft's bestiary was a huge influence on the makers of seminal tabletop role-playing game, Dungeons and Dragons, thereby working its way into most video game RPGs ever since. And the Cthulhu Mythos that emerged from his works has had an enormous influence on games designers in other genres: indeed, the entire concept of 'end of level bosses' practically percolates Lovecraft's entire philosophy into one game convention.Alternatively:other writers whose own complex fantasy/horror mythologies have inspired game designers include Michael Moorcock (especially the Elric books) and Stephen King (The Dark Tower). Lovecraft was also an influence on another provider of video game set texts, Robert Bloch.Dragon Ball – Akira ToriyamaOriginally serialised in the weekly Japanese comic, Shōnen Jump, Dragon Ball is widely considered to be one of the greatest mangas of all-time, its volumes selling over 230m copies worldwide. Based around the Chinese novel Journey to the West (the source for the cult TV series Monkey), the epic work combines exciting martial arts action and a Picaresque narrative heaving with eccentric and fascinating characters. There have been dozens of video game conversions of the original works, but Toriyama's mix of combat, mythology and comedy has inspired hundreds more beat-'em-ups and action adventures. There are also dozens of games that make use of the"over 9000" meme, originating from Dragon Ball Z.Alternatively:Any of the 'big three' manga – Naruto, Bleach or One Piece, all hugely influential to game designers.The Greek Myths - Robert GravesVideo games are utterly crammed with conventions, ideas and archetypes ripped from world mythologies, but Ancient Greece has provided many of the key inspirations. The idea of the heroic quest, a central element in almost every role-playing game, is symbolised in the adventures of Odysseus, Perseus and Theseus, as are the underlying concepts of prophesy, destiny and of 'the chosen one' who is born to vanquish evil. This inspiration is obvious in titles like God of War and Altered Beast, but every time a character reaches for a magic item or feels as though they are at the mercy of vengeful gods, it is likely the source goes back to Ancient Greece. I have opted for Robert Graves' much-respected analysis here, but there are plenty of other options, including Bullfinch's Mythology.Alternatively:the Norse and Celtic mythologies have also been a huge influence on game designers, adding their own slants on iconic concepts such as magical items, warring gods and heroic journeys. There's also the Bible, of course, which is filled with war, heroism and wrathful deities.The Hero With a Thousand Faces – Joseph CampbellThis is a slight cheat as it's obviously not a novel, but Joseph Campbell's exhaustive study of world mythologies and the concept of the heroic archetype has been named as an inspiration by countless developers I have spoken to over the last two decades. Campbell's central argument, that all mythological tales spring from a single monomyth in which a hero defeats a series of challenges to attain a life-changing gift, is central to both video game and movie structure. This is the core stuff of story-telling, later refined into a writing guide by Christopher Vogler in his similarly much-cited work, The Writer's Journey: Mythic Structure For Writers.Alternatively:Sir James George Frazer's classic study of archetypal religious beliefs and practices, The Golden Bough, is another oft-named source for video game ideas.House of Leaves - Mark Z. DanielewskiThere was a time in the early 2000s when it seemed every studio I visited had a well-thumbed copy of this challenging but fascinating novel left on a desk somewhere. Here, though, it's as much about form as it is about content – House of Leaves is a cybertext, a work of "ergodic" literature in which the formatting of the text becomes a puzzle the reader must solve. Through footnotes, blank pages, interviews and codes, Danielewski creates a sort of dynamic experience, that reflected a lot of the experiments into interactive fiction and alternative reality gaming taking place on the web at the time. In essence its a story about how to tell stories in the digital age.Alternatively:Fictions by Jorge Luis Borges is another surreal and playful text that creates meaning in obtuse layers – it has been name-checked by many developers I've spoken to. A couple also mentioned Theodore Roszak's Flicker, a slightly more conventional take on Danielewski's use of fictionalised historical writing.King Solomon's Mines - H. Rider HaggardPublished in 1885, Haggard's colonialist romp through the deserts and mountains of Africa, brought us Allan Quartermain, the archetypal flawed adventure hero, and introduced the Lost World genre of fiction. These elements, modernised through the Indiana Jones trilogy (don't... just don't mention the fourth film), has gone on to inspire everything from Pitfall to Tomb Raider. Any game in which a hero and his bickering team locate a lost temple filled with fabled treasures probably has its roots in Haggard's novel.Alternatively:Along with Robert Louis Stevenson (Treasure Island) and Edgar Rice Burroughs (Tarzan), Haggard no doubt influenced the heroic fantasy works of authors like Robert E. Howard, whose Conan books have spawned a hundred monosyllabic video game warriors as well shaping the whole sword and sorcery sub-genre.Lord of the Rings – J.R.R TolkienWell, ithadto be in here. Although Dungeons and Dragons co-creator Gary Gygaxclaimed not to have been a fanof Tolkien's sprawling masterpiece, he conceded its huge influence on his legendary tabletop RPG, specially in the fantastical races that inhabited the rule set. And through D&amp;D, the trilogy has exerted its influence on just about every fantasy video game ever created, from the earliest straight D&amp;D and AD&amp;D conversions to the formative Japanese role-playing games such as Dragon Quest and Final Fantasy, and on into the massively multiplayer era of World of Warcraft. Informed by mythology and folklore, Tolkien established a vast all-encompassing reality to Middle Earth, including a far-reaching sense of history. Arguably, it is Tolkien who taught fantasy game designers about the importance of mythological backstory, of establishing aeons of conflict and lore, lending authenticity to entirely imagined worlds. If a game narrative begins, "after 3,000 years of war..." you can probably blame this guy.Alternatively:Michael Moorcock again, as well as the more playful and parodic Terry Pratchett who subverts all of those supernatural systems for comic effect. And of course, there is a new generation of designers who will grow up on the likes of Brandon Sanderson and Steven Erikson. Mervyn Peake's Gormenghast books should not be overlooked either.Neuromancer – William GibsonCertainly not the first cyberpunk novel, but possibly the most influential. Gibson's post-modern tale of hackers, criminal corporations and sentient AIs worked alongside Bladerunner to instil in game designers a new aesthetic of the future. No shiny spaceships and helpful robots, just noirish paranoia, busted up computer hardware, hard-drinking renegades and drugs. The anarchic, counter-culture feel of Gibson's works appealed to the bedroom programmers of the 80s and early 90s who identified with the author's damaged, technically brilliant protagonists, and with the assimilation of biological and computer organisms. Games like Syndicate, Beneath as Steel Sky and later Deus Ex, .hack// and Metal Gear Solid caught the vibe perfectly.Alternatively:pretty much anything by Bruce Sterling, Neal Stephenson or Pat Cadigan. And from manga, Bubblegum Crisis, Ghost in the Shell and Appleseed.Starship Troopers - Robert A. HeinleinGears of War, Halo, Killzone, Quake... all of them owe a debt to the concept of the space marine brilliantly realised in Heinlein's future war epic. He wasn't the first to write about the concept of a mechanised military defending humanity from invading aliens, but Heinlein captured many of the key elements that would go into the biggest sci-fi games. A troubled hero advancing through the ranks, an insect-like extra-terrestrial threat, a factional military... whatever you think about the archetypal video game space soldier, with his buzz cut, tribal tattoos and immense metallic body armour, it is one of the key images of this console generation, and his family tree goes back to this novel and its contemporaries.Alternatively:Ender's Game by Orson Scott Card, EE Smith's Lensman series and Iain M Banks' Culture novels also deal with galactic war, mega weaponry and vicious aliens/AIs. And where would games be without those?
One of the frontrunners to be Microsoft&apos;s next chief executive has said that it is the responsibility of governments to restore people&apos;s trust in technology following this year&apos;s revelations of NSA surveillance.&quot;Businesses and users are going to use technology only if they can trust it,&quot; said Satya Nadella, executive vice president of Microsoft&apos;s cloud and enterprise group, speaking at the Le Web conference in Paris on Tuesday.&quot;Clearly now it&apos;s the responsibility, I think, of governments – the US government included – to restore that trust. The only mechanisms that I think we have learned is that the respect for the liberties of people and the rule of law is the one way to have societies thrive.&quot;As an increasingly strong frontrunner to replace Steve Ballmer as Microsoft chief executive, Nadella&apos;s words carry weight. Microsoft was one of eight technology companies topublish an open letter to president Barack Obamaand the US Congress on Monday demanding changes to surveillance laws.&quot;The surveillance system has to be reformed, and the best way to reform it is to have laws govern it that respect individual privacy, both for the citizens of the united states and the citizens of the world. That&apos;s the stance we have taken, and we are going to actively push for that.&quot;Nadella has worked at Microsoft since 1992, with roles including heading the company&apos;s server and tools division, and leading its efforts to develop search engine Bing into a credible alternative to Google.Nadella deflected questions about whether he is in the running to be the next chief executive and insisted he is focused on his current role. &quot;It&apos;s a great time to be at Microsoft for what we are doing, and day-to-day it&apos;s about getting focused on what I&apos;m doing, and I&apos;m excited to be doing that,&quot; he said. &quot;There is no news!&quot;Most of Nadella&apos;s appearance at Le Web, where he was interviewed on-stage by journalist Om Malik, focused on Microsoft&apos;s prospects. Unsurprisingly, he painted a bullish picture of the company&apos;s continued relevance into the next decade, whoever its leader is.&quot;It&apos;s all about what we do going forward, versus what we have done. At some level our reputation is both great, and really reflective of the work we&apos;ve done in the past. We&apos;ve had great successes with Windows, and with Office. It&apos;s just a question of what we do next,&quot; he said.Satya Nadella at Le Web. Photograph: Stuart Dredge/The GuardianNadella talked about the importance of the cloud and enterprise technologies, but notably also talked up the significance of Microsoft&apos;s Xbox One console – a month after Bloomberg claimed that a rival candidate for the CEO role, Stephen Elop,might consider selling its Xbox business.&quot;From Xbox in the previous generation to Xbox One it&apos;s fundamentally transformed,&quot; said Nadella, before praising one of the new console&apos;s racing games&apos; asynchronous multiplayer feature. &quot;It&apos;s learning how you race, it creates a digital avatar that then on behalf of you races with others, and you get points for it... Having this ambient intelligence that&apos;s powering every experience is what we will see though in the next 10 years.&quot;Nadella also talked up the importance of changes in user interface – including touchscreens and voice control – as being the key to consumer technology evolution over the next decade, with Microsoft determined not to be an also-ran against competition from Apple, Google and others.&quot;I think that&apos;s going to be the next revolution. We have our shot at it like anybody else, and we&apos;re going to go strong,&quot; he said, while accepting that Microsoft&apos;s internal culture will need to adapt to take advantage of these technological shifts.&quot;We would not be here still [nearly] 40 years from our founding if we were not able to ride the waves of technology,&quot; he said. &quot;We have the capability that allows us to go and hunt for the new concepts. That&apos;s the key to this business, and longevity... Any successful small company becomes a big company by definition. You have to be able to deal with scale in meaningful ways.&quot;Nadella talked up Microsoft&apos;s enterprise business too, suggesting that Office 365 is &quot;as far as I can tell the most ubiquitous SaaS [Software as a Service] in the enterprise today&quot; while adding that &quot;Office 365 is on a tear for us, it&apos;s doing very well&quot;, while Microsoft&apos;s cloud platform Windows Azure is a viable competitor to Amazon&apos;s cloud services.&quot;Amazon definitely had an early start, but I would say we&apos;re the guys who are giving them a run,&quot; he said, before outlining the criteria by which he will judge his own performance – and by extension Microsoft – in the coming years, although Nadella declined Malik&apos;s invitation to give himself a score for how well it has coped so far.&quot;It would be hubris to say you&apos;re anything other than above average, because you always have room for improvement,&quot; he said, before suggesting that Microsoft&apos;s enterprise division should be judged on whether it is able to find growth from new areas, rather than just its established products and services.&quot;If you believe that the total IT spend is going to perhaps come in new forms – what I would call new IT, and let&apos;s call it [the other] existing IT. There will always be compression in existing, and there will always be expansion in new. And for any vendor to be successful they have to participate in that expansion, versus just the compression,&quot; he said.&quot;If you don&apos;t have a real stake in the new, then just surviving on the old – even if it is about efficiency – I don&apos;t think is a long-term game.&quot;•The contenders to replace Steve Ballmer as Microsoft chief executive
Apple has forced a secure messaging app to remove the ability to send bitcoin payments or be booted off the the iOS App Store. The move reinforces belief that the company has an unstated policy against allowing bitcoin apps on the store, despite allowing alternative forms of ecommerce such as apps from PayPal and Square.The app, Gliph, lets users send secure texts back and forth, and also hooks up with online bitcoin services Coinbase and Blockchain.info to allow them to send money to friends. But that last feature was what raised Apple&apos;s ire.&quot;We were asked by Apple to remove the ability to send Bitcoin from the iOS app,&quot; the company&apos;s co-founder, Rob Banagale,confirmed in a blog post. &quot;We fought to keep it in but it was not possible… You can still create wallets, view balances and receive Bitcoin in the Gliph app for iOS.&quot;Coinbase itself, one of the two online wallets which Gliph uses to enable the Bitcoin payments, was also forced off the App Store in November, and Blockchain.info&apos;s wallet app was pulled from the App store in 2012.Apple, which declined to comment on the issue, has been giving conflicting reasons to the developers of bitcoin apps.Blockchain were toldthat &quot;the facilitation of trading of virtual currency is not appropriate for the App Store,&quot; a rule which has no counterpart in the company&apos;s ownApp Store guidelines.Rob Sama, the creator of BitPak, another bitcoin app removed from the iOS store, says that he was told his app was removed because &quot;that Bitcoin thing is not legal in all jurisdictions for which BitPak is for sale&quot;.&quot;I inquired as to which jurisdictions Bitcoin was deemed to be illegal in, and he told me &apos;that is up to you to figure out&apos;. I asked him which laws Bitcoin violated, and again, he replied that &apos;that is up to you to determine&apos;,&quot;Sama said after his app&apos;s demise.A year before that, Bitcoin Express, an app with similar functionality, was also removed. That time, the app&apos;s developer was given a specific rule which was apparently being violated: 22.1 of the company&apos;s guidelines, which reads &quot;Apps must comply with all legal requirements in any location where they are made available to users. It is the developer&apos;s obligation to understand and conform to all local laws.&quot;The legal status of bitcoin remains hazy, but there is only one country where even making transactions in the currency has been clamped down on: Thailand. The Thai central bank, not knowing how to deal with bitcoin,issued a preliminary ruling in July 2013which banned the currency until the bank could determine whether it could be used to speculate on the strength of the baht, which is illegal in the country.Removing bitcoin apps from the store entirely, or curtailing their ability to send bitcoins, goes much further than merely removing them from the Thai App Store, and suggests that Apple considers the use of the currency legally questionable even in nations which haven&apos;t pronounced on the issue.That may be due to bitcoin&apos;s long association with the black market – notoriously,the currency is mandatory on drug marketplaces like Silk Road 2.0.. But any payment system can be used for crime; Apple has yet to clamp down on Silicon Valley darlings Square, despitereports that sex workers in California are charging customers using the e-commerce app.Banagale thinks that Apple&apos;s fear is simpler. &quot;If you believe Apple’s repeated rejection criteria of section 22.1, you could take a view that the company believes the currency will ultimately be made illegal in the United States or other important markets. Rather than be forced to remove apps once theoretical regulation comes into play, Apple is simply not allowing them to exist in the first place.&quot;•How the biggest bitcoin heist in history went from Maltese Falcon to Pink Panther
Samsung&apos;soffer to hold back in Europe from seeking sales injunctions against rivalswhich use its standards-essential patents (SEPs) for five years is insufficient, Europe&apos;s antitrust chief says.Joaquin Almunia, the European commission&apos;s vice president in charge of the Competition group,said in a speechon Monday that he will &quot;discuss with Samsung possible improvements to their commitments in the coming weeks&quot;.He also warned Finland&apos;s Nokia that it should not become a &quot;patent troll&quot; after the sale of its handset division to Microsoft is completed and it seeks to monetise its patent hoard.Almunia was blunt in his criticism of previous actions by Samsung and Google&apos;s Motorola subsidiary, which have respectively sought sales bans in Europeagainst Apple&apos;s iPhone and iPad, and Microsoft&apos;s Xbox. &quot;To repeat and to put it very simply, I believe that injunctions should not be available when there is a willing licensee,&quot; he said.In December 2012 Almunia&apos;s teamraised a formal &quot;Statement of Objections&quot; against Samsung&apos;sattempt to use the SEPs it holds in 3G connectivity standards to block sales by Apple.That means Samsung could potentially be fined up to 10% of its worldwide annual revenue - amounting to £10bn - if it does not satisfy the EC&apos;s concerns over its behaviour.Essential licensingSEPs form the basis of standards such as 3G, Wi-Fi, and so on, which can include hundreds of patents. Companies whose patents are used in standards are required by standards bodies to license them on &quot;FRAND&quot; - fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory - terms, so that a standard can be used as widely as possible. While FRAND per-patent payments are typically tiny compared to those which can be extracted for a non-standard patent, that is balanced by the income from broader use.The EC&apos;s antitrust division has intervened over Samsung and Motorola&apos;s behaviour because SEPs constitute a form of monopoly: if a company could not license them, it would be locked out of offering standards-compatible products. Almunia has repeatedly said that using SEPs to block sales if a company is willing to pay a FRAND rate constitutes a breach of antitrust rules.Almunia previously said that he considered Samsung had abused its position as the holder of an SEP: &quot;The Commission considers on a preliminary basis that Apple was willing to enter into a licensing agreement on FRAND terms for Samsung&apos;s SEPs. However, Samsung started judicial proceedings seeking injunctions against Apple.&quot;Samsung&apos;s offer, made in October, was to pause for five years in seeking injunctions - but not to abandon doing so altogether in future. The proposal was described as &quot;full of loopholes&quot; by the patents blogger Florian Müller, and &quot;sneaky&quot; by Yankee Group analyst Boris Melodiev, on the basis that such disputes typically take years to play out - so that the five-year time limit might run out during a dispute and leave would-be licencees vulnerable.Warning to NokiaAlmunia also warned Nokia that it should not abuse its ownership of SEPs in the mobile industry. &quot;If Nokia were to take illegal advantage of its patents in the future, we will open an antitrust case – but I sincerely hope we will not have to,&quot; he commented.Some concerns have been raised that the same of its handset division to Microsoft will mean that Nokia will be able to raise the prices it demands for its patents - both SEPs and non-essential patents. &quot;These claims fall outside the scope of our review [of the sale to Microsoft]&quot;, Almunia said. &quot;When we assess a merger, we look into the possible anti-competitive impact of the company resulting from it. We cannot consider what the seller will do.&quot;It would not be unlawful to refuse to license a non-essential patent, nor to demand a high price for one. But Almunia noted that companies which hold and monetise patents - often called &quot;patent trolls&quot; in the US - are a growing concern. &quot;You can rest assured that we are watching this space very carefully. DG competition will hold patent trolls to the same standards as any other patent holder,&quot; he said.Unlink, Google toldAlmunia said that he has told Google not to discriminate against companies which don&apos;t want it to use their content in its specialised search results. &quot;Google creates a link between getting the right to use material from other sites on its specialised search services and the appearance that these sites have on Google&apos;s general search results – a practice that allows Google to benefit from investments made by other firms.&quot;I have asked Google to sever this link to restore competitive incentives. This competition issue is irrespective of the IP situation because it is about the link that Google creates between general searches and specialised ones – such as when you look for news, items to buy online, and restaurants in your area.&quot;But he said that his powers did not extend to telling Google how it could use publishers&apos; content.Almunia is conducting an antitrust investigation into Google&apos;s monopoly position in Europe.
A new Google Maps feature lets users create and share their own &quot;street view&quot; paths from photos and location data, opening up the functionality to people without Google&apos;s express approval for the first time.Using the company&apos;sPhoto Spherefeature, users can turn a panoramic photo into one contiguous image, replicating what Google&apos;s Street View cars do automatically. With an Android phone, users can also make Photo Spheres just by waving their devices around.Users have been able to add Photo Spheres to Google&apos;s maps since 2012, but the new feature also allows them to stitch together the images to create a street view-style tour. Google Maps&apos; product manager Evan Rapoport shares his trip to Dunluce Castle in Northern Ireland:Evan Rapoport's custom Street View&quot;This feature can now enable environmental non-profits to document and promote the beautiful places they strive to protect,&quot;Rapoport said in a blog post. &quot;It also opens up a new tool for photographers to showcase diversity in a specific location – by times of day, weather conditions or cultural events – in a way that Street View currently doesn’t cover.&quot;Currently, the photo spheres which are uploaded can be made public to all on the main Google Maps, but the actual street views are only visible if users have a link to them – or have embedded them on a web page.•How Google lost at maps when everyone thought it had won
Twitter has signedan agreementwith a Swiss mobile software company that will offer cheap Twitter access to users on low-end tariffs and basic &quot;feature&quot; phones.The deal with Myriad Group will allow users to access content from Twitter without requiring them to log in. They can also subscribe to receive updates on topics such as news and weather or from specific Twitter users.The service provide users with text-only information, taking advantage of USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data) technology, built into most basic mobile devices.This is what a text-based version of Twitter looks like. Photograph: MyriadAlthough Myriad have provided the service for a number of years, this agreement sees Twitter officially endorse it as a USSD partner.The service is initially going to be rolled out to users in Latin America, Africa, Asia and India.Analysis by communications company Portland in 2012 found that57% of tweets from Africa were sent from mobile devices.With many users already keen to access Twitter on their mobile phones, is seen as the next logical step to facilitate a growing user base in countries where mobile internet access is either not ubiquitous or is relatively expensive to access.Twitter hinted towards expansion in their IPO filingThe deal follows statements made in itsIPO filingto the Securities and Exchanges Commission this year. Within the documents, Twitter made claims that their &quot;business and operating results could be harmed&quot; if they did not expand and were likely to invest in infrastructure to facilitate this.Under the section titled Risk Factors, it is written: &quot;We expect to continue to invest in our infrastructure in order to enable us to provide our products and services rapidly and reliably to users around the world, including in countries where we do not expect significant near-term monetization.&quot;Facebook got there firstThe move by Twitter follows in the footsteps of Facebook, who have been reaching out to users in emerging markets for years.Facebook Zero, for example, was launched in May 2010 and allowed Facebook users in 45 countries around the world to access a lighter, text-only, version of the social network with zero data charges. In the 18 months after Facebook Zero was launched, Facebook users in Africa increased by 114%.Facebook also launched their first USSD servicea year later, which allowed users in India to update their Facebook status for free. If they wanted full access to the Facebook application, users had to pay 1 rupee per day.• Twitter was in the news last week after it appointed itsfirst female board member.• This article was amended on 12 December 2013. The earlier version misnamed Myriad Group as Myriad Company.
Google is predicting a generation of screenless computing devices that rely on voice recognition, a senior engineer has said, emphasising that the company encrypts users&apos; audio data to the same standard as text-based information.Scott Huffman, senior engineering director at Google, said the company has seen dramatic growth of voice search and recognition tools, with recent improvements encouraging more people to start adopting the tools.&quot;We are looking to a future where we have a whole variety of devices,&quot; he told the Guardian. &quot;We have a super computer in our pockets, but also one in our watch, one in our glasses, maybe on our lapel as well as our laptop. Some of those have a screen and a keyboard but some won&apos;t, and we&apos;re seeing dramatic growth in the numbers of people interacting through voice recognition.&quot;Following therevelations about the extent of surveillance, the implications of ubiquitous microphones could raise concerns about even greater potential for intrusion into our private lives. Following the revelations, Google was the first major consumer web company to implement an encryption technique know as &apos;perfect forward secrecy&apos;, which adds an extra level of security around the transmission of user data.That standard of encryption will also apply to audio, Huffman emphasised. &quot;Encryption applies to any data flowing between Google&apos;s data centres,&quot; he said.&quot;OK Google…&quot; now extended to desktop voice searchIn the US, Google has already launched a extensive pilot project for Glass, its wearable computing project which offers basic directions, photos and video and basic web searches mostly through voice commands.Google is also expanding voice controls on its mobile software Android, which already accounts for around 60% of the world&apos;s smartphones equivalent to one billion devices worldwide, as well as desktop machines. It has introduced the universal command &quot;OK, Google…&quot; which triggers a voice command across devices, and can access diary reminders, maps, SMS and other tools. There is also a nutrition check, which will search calorific information for food.Google won&apos;t give the proportion of users who use voice controls regularly on their Android devices, but figures suggest around 3% of the US population uses them daily. More than half the population of the US own a smartphone with voice capability and two thirds of those are aware of voice controls. Just under half of those people use voice more than once each month and one in five use it daily, a Google spokesperson said.Huffman, who has worked on mobile search for five of his eight years at Google, admitted that some web users might not be aware that Google even can be given voice instructions. He said there is an obvious use case around driving, where voice commands will remove the temptation to text or check email while driving.&quot;It&apos;s a cultural thing, getting used to a technology like this, but there will be a whole set of devices built around it,&quot; he said. &quot;Two to three years ago we crossed the line from a demo to a real product, so now at least most of the time it can understand what I say. We&apos;re still work on the recognition of accents, and there are a litany of problems. But when it works, it is magic.&quot;•Google Glass is being made in California
Aldi is following the lead of high street rivals Tesco and Argos bylaunching its own budget tablet just in time for Christmas.Exploiting a rush ofgift buying in the busiestand most competitive market of the year, Aldi&apos;s offering is the Medion Lifetab E7316, which sold out within a day of going on sale.Atjust £79.99the Medion is cheap but - unlike theArgos MyTabletbefore it - vaguely cheerful, though the manufacturers have cut a few visible corners attempting to undercut the competition.German engineering, Chinese constructionProduced by Medion, a German computer manufacturer now owned by Lenovo and produced in China, the Lifetab E7316 is available in only one colour, black with mottled grey plastic.The main body of the tablet is made from a heavy-duty feeling plastic with an inset brushed aluminium back plate, and dull-grey plastic edging holding the glass screen in place, complete with “Lifetab” imprinted at the bottom.Aldi tablet Medion Lifetab review &ndash; the aluminium back adds to the robust-feeling build of the tabletThe back of the tablet sports a rather quiet speaker in the top left corner, a camera in the top right corner and microSD, headphones, and microUSB ports in the top.The front of the device is dominated by a 7in screen with a large black bezel, which is just 1,024 x 600 pixels making it lower resolution and therefore less sharp and distinctly fuzzy-looking than the screens of theTesco Hudl, Amazon Kindle Fire and Google Nexus 7.Text looks slightly fuzzy on websites and ebooks, while images lack detail and look washed out and dull.In portrait, the screen&apos;s vertical viewing angles are average, but its horizontal viewing angles are decidedly mediocre, which will make sharing videos with others difficult and reading at an angle impossible.The screen also has an odd, elongated aspect ratio making the display elements look warped. Circles – including the analogue clock display – distractingly appear as ovals, showing that the screen’s pixels themselves aren&apos;t square.SpecificationsScreen:7in LCD with 1024 x 600 pixelsProcessor:1.6GHz quad-core processorRAM:1GB of RAMStorage:8GB plus microSD slot supporting up to 64GB cardsOperating system:Android 4.2.2Camera:2-megapixel rear camera, 0.3-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, micro USBDimensions:192 x 122 x 10.8mmCrawling sites but smooth videoMedion has given the 7in Lifetab a quad-core 1.6GHz processor, which although sounds powerful, isn’t. For instance, while the Lifetab copes OK while browsing mobile sites, when you request a desktop site like the Guardian it slows to a crawl, taking long enough to load a web page that you think it has hung. Once the web page has loaded, scrolling around the site and zooming in and out is relatively responsive.Loading and browsing within the YouTube app is equally sluggish, but video playback is pretty smooth once it has started playing. Google Maps responds better, although loading map tiles can take a while, but once rendered panning and zooming around the map is quite smooth.As you might expect, multitasking is a frustrating experience to say the least on the Lifetab. Trying to update applications in the background slowed the tablet down to a crawl, with missed button taps, hangs and generally irritating sluggish performance.Medion rates the battery life of the tablet at just four hours, which might be a slight underestimate according to my testing. The tablet lasted around five hours of general usage, but that is simply not long enough for a small, portable tablet with low-end specifications. At least it can be charged via standard microUSB.Aldi tablet Medion Lifetab review &ndash; the low-resolution screen makes text appear fuzzy on websites and ebooksStandard AndroidFollowing the lead of the Tesco Hudl and Nexus 7, unlike other 7in Android tablets such asAmazon&apos;s Kindle Fire family, Medion made no visible additions to the standard Google Android ‘Jelly Bean’ experience short of a few apps, a headphone volume warning, and a web page widget on the homescreen that can be removed.That means users have unfettered access to the Google Play Store, including its 850,000 or so apps, plus movies and music services.In all, 15 applications come pre-installed on the tablet, including the Aldi Android app, a couple of Medion apps, a productivity suite, the eBay and Skype apps and a drawing pad app. A trial of the Kaspersky tablet security app is also installed.Medion has also included a user manual app, which includes basic instructions on how to use the tablet in ebook form.Camera: don’t botherThe 0.3-megapixel front-facing camera produces a muddy, blurred images, making video chat difficult.The rear 2-megapixel camera is fixed-focus and shoots poor photos and video: they&apos;re washed out, dull, lack detail and the video is far from smooth.Price: dirt cheapAldi has certainly priced the Medion Lifetab E7316 to sell, costing just £79.99, which significantly undercuts even the Argos MyTablet – £40 less than the standard asking price of the £119 Tesco Hudl for instance.Aldi tablet Medion Lifetab review &ndash; one for the kidsVerdict: one for the kidsAldi has managed to break the £100 barrier with the Medion Lifetab, and while it is certainly not a patch on the likes of the Amazon Kindle Fire or Google Nexus 7, it is a competitor to the £119 Tesco Hudl.The Lifetab is most let down by the mediocre screen, which is less than sharp, washed out and has poor viewing angles. Its processor is also anaemic, making multitasking a frustrating experience, while the four to five hour battery life is woeful – you get what you pay for at £80.However, the build quality of the Medion tablet is good enough and it looks like it could survive a session with the kids, so it might be an ideal tablet for the children, although Medion has made no effort to modify Android 4.2.2 to offer parental controls or content restrictions.If you can get your hands on one (it is also available direct from the Medion website) and can’t stretch the budget to the significantly better£119 Hudl, the Lifetab could make a good stocking filler.Star rating: 3/5Pros:Cheap, solid build, expandable storage, standard AndroidCons:Poor screen, odd aspect ratio, slow processor, poor battery life
Redshirt, named after Star Trek'slegions of expendable crimson-clad crew, casts you as a new arrival on Megalodon-9, an "ageing Federation-run space station." Armed with a mop rather than a phaser, you are tasked with cleaning up after the station's numerous transporter accidents. Well, we can't all be heroes.Along with the rest of the station you're signed up to the social network Spacebook, which acts as Redshirt's interface. Starting a new game prompts you to sign in as your social media alter ego and get networking.Each new day on the station allows you several actions on Spacebook, a period of "mandatory sleep" as well as actually having to do your job. Before work you might 'like' the status update of your boss to get in his/her/its good books, then attend a holographic training session to improve your skill in "Speedy Cover-Ups", or just drown your sorrows in a bar with some like-minded peons.The 'liking' and schmoozing isn't aimless, however. It soon becomes clear that getting off the station ASAP would be a really good idea. It's not made clear exactly what's going to happen but shortly after you start the game, a 160-day countdown to 'something significant' begins and all leave (for non-senior crew) is cancelled.The Guardian's correspondent aboard Megalodon-9, CP Scotty, quickly decided the way to escape his dead-end job wasn't to grind XP and earn a promotion. The answer was clearly to flirt with his boss (amorphous gel, Derick McEwen), win his trust, and clamber over him to start the long ascent through the ranks to Captain's Assistant and safety. The game is full of knowing references to classic sci fi - various flavours of Star Trek, 2001: A Space Odyssey and even Red Dwarf all make an appearance. It's done in an affectionate spirit and the game's designer and coder, Mitu Khandaker, clearly knows and loves what she is pastiching.Social status reportMeanwhile, among the stars, CP Scotty clambered his way through successive jobs by romancing the hiring managers and casting them aside once they'd turned a blind eye to his hopeless lack of qualifications for each new position. After several away missions with an authentically high fatality rate, CP found himself working as the Captain's Assistant, dating his boss and holding a black market shuttle ticket off the station. His Spacebook profile proudly proclaimed he was 'basically everyone's favourite person.'Which highlights the real problem with Redshirt: it's actually a bit easy to escape the station and beat the game. You can hold out until the bitter end and try and take a significant other with you, but the paranoid nagging of even the steadiest of romantic partners is so relentless it becomes tempting to just jump ship and leave them to it. There's also just a little too much off-key behaviour from the game's other characters to suspend your disbelief. Siblings post flirty messages to each other; partners complain you never spend any time together but won't let you spend time with them; and the game gave CP Scotty enough Hail-Mary friend requests from higher-ups to ensure he graduated from rank to rank with ease.Furthermore, status updates from the other characters repeat frequently, and searching through columns of profile pictures to find suitable invitees for an event can start to feel like a chore rather than a pointed satire of our obsession with social media.But overall it's a question of flawed pacing and niggles rather than a fundamentally broken game, and the attention to detail in the setting and writing mark out Redshirt as a real labour of love. There's also an iPad version in the works, which could be a better fit than the PC for this satire of our always-on social media obsession.If you can overlook some occasionally glitchy mechanics, Redshirt is an absorbing, tongue-in-cheek sci fi romp that rewards the player for doing all those awful things you would never do (but might want to) in real life.Like!• Redshirt is available direct from theofficial website, or from Steam or GOG.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAmicus Brief &gt;&gt; Bob KohnLike all others, Kohn was required to limit hisamicus curiaelegal brief on what he thought about the US Department of Justice's antitrust case against Apple to five pages. So he did it in comic book form. (It all hinges on "low prices" against "efficient prices".)Intellectual property and competition policy &gt;&gt; EUROPA - PRESS RELEASESJoaquin Almunia, the EC's antitrust chief:Patent holders should not seek injunctions based on SEPs [standards-essential patents] against companies that are willing to enter a licence on FRAND [fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory] terms.As many of you will know, Samsung has offered commitments to address our competition concerns in relation to its use of injunctions.Samsung essentially proposes not to enjoin companies which are willing to have the dispute settled by a court or arbitrator.We have market-tested these commitments and will take account of the feedback when we discuss with Samsung possible improvements to their commitments in the coming weeks.In other words, Samsung's offer to hold off for five years from abusing its SEP powers by seeking injunctions against willing licencees wasn't sufficient.Snapchat active users exceed 30 million &gt;&gt; Business InsiderOne source with insight into the company's figures told us the following:• Snapchat has about 60m total installs, making it larger than Instagram when it sold to Facebook for $1bn.• Of those 60m installs, Snapchat has about 30m monthly active users.• 55% of monthly active users use Snapchat daily. That's 16.5m people.We checked with another source who wouldn't give exact numbers, but said the absolute figures (60 million installs and 30 million monthly active users) are "much too low."Quite a lot of users, really.Samsung tries to silence user whose S4 caught fire; it doesn't go over well &gt;&gt; NeowinOh Samsung, you tried to have a YouTube video pulled after it showed a Galaxy S4 that caught fire while charging but this is about to blow up in your PR and legal teams face after you sent a 'hush' document to the user.Here's the deal, YouTube user GhostlyRich posted a video on YouTube in early December that showed that his Samsung Galaxy S4 caught fire while charging. While the battery did not explode (thankfully) you can clearly see the charging port is burnt. To no surprise, a burnt charging point rendered the device useless and seeing that the Phone is still under warranty, you would think Samsung would simply exchange the device and make good with the consumer to fix the issue.Wrong. What Samsung has done, foolishly, is sent the user a document saying that they will exchange his defective device only after he pulls his initial video from YouTube. If Samsung was unaware of how the internet works, it's about to find out that trying to quiet the user will result in a black eye for the company.Original video: 45,000 views. Demand letter: 277,000 views. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)China Mobile to accept iPhone orders this week &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogA phone call to a China Mobile customer representative confirmed that customers can preorder iPhones from the site starting Thursday."Customers can begin to preorder for our new 4G services from Dec. 12 through the company's website and some dedicated branches in Shanghai. But we will only start providing commercial 4G services after Dec. 18," the customer services operator said.China Mobile is preparing a pricing plan for new iPhones but the company hasn't informed the customer services team of the details yet, the representative said.The Secret Plumber – Edinburgh's worst tradesman or just a very naughty boy? &gt;&gt; Ed UncoveredEverything's in there, from the rude initial response to the "Oh, my phone was stolen and hacked!".Siri, Topsy, and the web – context is everything &gt;&gt; getwired.comWes Miller:Many people have said Topsy was acquired to enhance advertising or iTunes content. Both are tangentially right. But ads have never appeared to be a primary focus for Apple – which makes sense, because the customer they build their hardware, software, and services for usually isn't a fan of ads. That said, the analytics from Topsy Pro could well wind up integrated into iAds. We'll see in time. As for content discovery? Sure, that'll happen too, and people will buy content as a result of their searches. But I don't believe that this is what this acquisition was about.People expect Siri to be able to answer their queries, and if it can't, they disengage from the service, and potentially from Apple's platform, if they don't find that it just works the way they expect. That's why I believe Topsy has everything to do with Siri, and that's where the team will end up, and how we'll see the technology demonstrated at WWDC next summer."The human condition" (GIF)Queueing theory: in practice.Using the iPad Air as my main machine &gt;&gt; euansemple.comEuan Semple:It is now a couple of weeks that I have been using my new iPad Air as my main computer - and I have to say I am loving it. This has come as something of a surprise to me. I have been a hard core Mac user for many years and have got a lot of pleasure from building up workflows, macros, keyboard shortcuts etc and frankly played my Mac like a musical instrument. I also didn't get along with the first iPad.First of many, or an outlier?CMAP: "Why do you use Microsoft Word?" &gt;&gt; Charlie's DiaryCharlie Stross:I try to avoid Microsoft Word like the plague, but I have my limits. For me, the requirement that finally made me crack and throw money at the Beast of Redmond was the need (in mid-2012) to edit, revise, and indeed redraft the first six books of the Merchant Princes series into three omnibus volumes in twelve weeks. There was no slack time in the proposed production cycle for those books: they were to come out at one month intervals in the UK in the spring and early summer of 2013.Rather like floppy disks in the Federal Reserve, Word and Excel are likely to survive any change in broader computing because they're baked in to so many businesses' workflows.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
There&apos;s a growing battle for the so-called &apos;second-screen&apos; market.Apps and social networks are vying for attentionon mobile phones and tablets while users watch the television.Indeed, research in August by broadcasting regulator Ofcom showed that whileadults are spending more time in their living rooms watching television, 53% of individualssimultaneously use another device. The BBC evenplastered one of their latest Doctor Who trailers with hashtags, an ingenious marketing ploy to get viewers to tweet about the upcoming show.But one of the more intriguing parts of this cultural phenomenon is that, beyond individualssending outinformation to their social media profiles, there is a huge group actively looking toreceiveinformation – and organisations are using predictive analysis to forecast upcoming trends.Shazam is one app that does just that. Users can upload segments of songs they are listening to – on the television, on the radio or even in a shopping centre – and find out the name and artist of the song. Users make 15 million song identifications each day – and Shazam is using this data to predict artists that will receive mainstream attention next year.Names on the list include Action Bronson, Banks as well as London-born Sam Smith, and a few others you may not have heard of just yet. But Shazam has good form when it comes to predicting artists who are likely to gain major traction; the music service anticipated that Lana del Ray would cause a stir in 2012 and their list of &quot;Artists to Watch&quot; in 2013 included the likes of French Montana, with both achieving major success in their respective years.So how exactly does it work? Shazam combines critics&apos; reviews alongside the number of people that have used Shazam to find a song to understand which artists are generating the most interest. This means that instead of only relying on what the criticism (positive or negative) of the music has been, Shazam is able to use consumer behaviour to better judge the artists that have already started to pique the interests of listeners and are starting to gain traction.The full list wasreleased on Shazam&apos;s blog:Action Bronson– Queens native Bronson lists early influences as Wu-Tang Clan. He launched his first album 2011 but gained huge Shazam tags in 2013 after releasing several hotly tipped mix tapes.August Alsina– August’s single “I Luv This Sh*t” has been one of the most Shazamed rap tracks of 2013 and his mix tape tracks are also gaining traction with hip hop headsBanks– Born Jillian Banks, she started writing music as a teenager in suburban LA and released an acclaimed EP in 2013.Jhené Aiko– Collaborations with Drake and Big Sean thrust her into the public eye in 2013. Now, after releasing a mix tape, ‘Sail Out’, Aiko looks set for big things.Kid Ink– XXL Magazine listed Kid Ink among artists like Danny Brown and Macklemore in its 2012 Freshman Class feature. Signed with RCA/Epic, Kid Ink is set to release his first album under a major label this year.Lucy Hale– Best known for her role as Aria Montgomery on the ABC Family series, Pretty Little Liars, Hale is set to be the next country star.Martin Garrix– Dutch DJ best known for his track, “Animals,” Garrix is the youngest person ever to top the Beatport charts.Rich Homie Quan– Georgia native and artist for the Island Jam label, Quan has been named by the New York Times as one of “Atlanta’s rising generation of rappers … who deliver lines with melody and heart, like singers on the verge of a breakdown.”Sam Smith– London-born Smith contributed the soaring vocals on Disclosure’s 2013 hit, “Latch” and Naughty Boy’s “La La La.” He prefers the raw soul style in the vein of his favorite artists, Stevie Wonder, Chaka Khan and Aretha Franklin.Vance Joy– Originally from Melbourne, Vance Joy has already achieved success in his native Australia with his single, “Riptide,” and is set to break globally this year.
It's Tuesday.
Google's latest doodle celebrates the life of Grace Hopper, one of the great pioneers of the computer age who is widely credited as being the "mother" of the Cobol computer language.Born as Grace Brewster Murray in New York in 1906, she later studied at Vassar College and in 1934 became the first woman in Yale University's 233-year history to graduate with a doctorate in maths.She married the New York University professor, Vincent Foster Hopper, in 1930 and retained his surname after their divorce in 1945.During the war, she was involved in US military research and worked on the Automatic Sequence Controlled Calculator, an "electronic brain" which calculated rocket trajectories and was used by the Manhattan Project scientists to build the atomic bomb.It was in the 50s that Hopper pressed ahead with the pioneering work that would become central to her legacy, by inventing key software technologies that paved the way for today's computer languages.Along with genius for programming, Hopper's formidable powers of persuasion were crucial in prompting government agencies and corporations to agree on a common business programming language: Cobol.It grew out of her role in 1959 as a technical consultant to the Conference on Data Systems Languages, which brought together computer experts from industry and government. Hopper believed that programs should be written in a language that was close to English rather than in machine code or languages close to machine code.As she continued her work, Hopper served as the director of the US Navy Programming Languages Group in the Navy's Office of Information Systems Planning from 1967 to 1977 and was promoted to the rank of captain in 1973. Despite retiring in 1963, she was recalled to active duty and travelled widely on international lecturing tours, rising to the rank of rear admiral.Hopper died in January 1992 and was interred with full military honors in Arlington National Cemetery.However, her work remains an enduring part of everyday life, where a Cobol program will handle at least some of the work involved in transactions ranging from ATM cash withdrawals to filing of taxes.
We've seen less than 1% of the NSA documents Edward Snowden took with him from his employer, Booz Allen. The whistleblower had been employed to consolidate training documents used to brief NSA agents and contractors on the full range of NSA programmes and sources, which gave him access to the intimate (and sometimes boastful) details of the NSA's capabilities.The disclosures will keep coming, and they will be worse. The journalists handling the Snowden trove have taken extraordinary care to redact them in order to preserve the legitimate law-enforcement capabilities of western spy agencies, and there are certainly programmes of even grander sweep and more sensitive details that will take more time-consuming verification and caution before they can be disclosed.In the meantime, two themes keep running through the disclosures: first,that the world's spies have converged on a consensus theory of spying:that the way to find the needles is to make the haystacks as big aspossible. Call it the Greater Manure Pile Theory of Intelligence: thebigger the pile of crap, the greater the likelihood that there is a ponybeneath it. Somewhere.The second theme is a simpler one: gathering up mountains of data oneveryday people is an attractive nuisance and an invitation to abuse.Whether it's the news that NSA spooks use their anti-terror apparatus tostalk women they fancy – a practice so widespread it got its owncreepy-cutesy name, LOVEINT – or that they collaborate with GCHQ and the Canadian spies at CSEC to spy on leaders of friendly nations at G20summits; or that they use it to gather details of the pornography-viewing habits of non-criminals whose ideas they dislike in order to blackmail and discredit them.It's safe to assume that the future of the Snowden trove is many more such revelations: more mountains of sensitive data about everyday, innocent people; repeated, egregious, criminal abuse of that data.Far-reaching consequencesFor decades, I've had privacy conversations with people who've assured me that they have nothing to hide and therefore nothing to fear. I'm having a lot fewer of those discussions these days. When you discover that a paraplegic Canadian woman was denied entry to the USA after a border-guard accessed a database that revealed she'd once been suicidally  depressed, it's easy to see how you – or someone you love – might suffer far-reaching consequences even from accurate data used for the purpose it for which it was intended.This week's news that the NSA has a "planetary scale" programme of gathering location data on "hundreds of millions" of mobile devices, for the purpose of establishing guilt-by-association for people who are physically proximate to terror suspects only heightens the sense that your life might be permanently compromised by data gathered by the habitual liars at spy agencies such as the NSA and GCHQ, who consistently misled their paymasters in government about their activities.Still, it's hard to believe that spies will stop spying, or spy less. We are nowhere near peak surveillance. The Met will not be satisfied until London has 14 CCTVs per red blood cell.Peak indifferenceHowever, I believe that we have turned a corner: we have finally attained Peak Indifference to Surveillance. We have reached the moment after which the number of people who give a damn about their privacy will only increase. The number of people who are so unaware of their privilege or blind to their risk that they think "nothing to hide/nothing to fear" is a viable way to run a civilisation will only decline from here on in.And that is the beginning of a significant change.Like all security, privacy is hard. It requires subtle thinking, and the conjunction of law, markets, technology and norms to get right. All four of those factors have been sorely lacking.The default posture of our devices and software has been to haemorrhage our most sensitive data for anyone who cared to eavesdrop upon them. The default posture of law – fuelled by an unholy confluence of Big Data business models and Greater Manure Pile surveillance – has been to allow for nearly unfettered collection by spies, companies, and companies that provide data to spies. The privacy norm has been all over the place, but mostly dominated by nothing-to-hide. And thanks to the norm, the market for privacy technology has been nearly nonexistent – people with "nothing to fear" won't pay a penny extra for privacy technology.Limits of technical literacyIn September, the Pew Research Centre releasedAnonymity,Privacy, and Security Online, a study of American Internet users' attitudes towards privacy. Broadly, they found that Americans had recently taken extensive, affirmative steps to improve their privacy, but had, generally speaking, failed. Their technology and their technical literacy were insufficient to accomplish such a difficult end. They evinced a widespread view that privacy rules were too loose. They reported many instances of bad consequences arising from breaches of their privacy or the privacy of people close to them.Not long after this report, Cassidy Wolf, this year's Miss Teen USA, made headlines after it was revealed that her computer had been taken over by a creep who took covert nude photos of her using its webcam, captured her social media passwords, and demanded live sex shows or he would post the compromising photos to her online accounts. Wolf went to the FBI, and they ran the creep to ground, only to discover that he had dozens of other victims, including minor children.The Internet Engineering Task Force is promising to encrypt the entire internet by default. Internet companies like Google and Yahoo are stepping up the encryption within their networks. They're rethinking their collusion with spy agencies – having discovered that these agencies not only demanded the right to their spy-boxes in the data-centre, they also secretly tapped the fibre leading in and out of it.More of us are increasingly aware of the risks of the privacy risks from technology. From here on in, the market for privacy-preserving technology will only grow. From here on in, the public pressure to rein in spy agencies and preserve privacy in law will only mount. From here on in, the chorus of voices correcting the nothing-to-hides will only swell. From here on in, the privacy-preserving design decisions in technology will only rise in importance.The spies will keep spying. They will spy more. They will spy harder. They have proven themselves to be without any scruple and without any adult supervision. But their job gets a lot harder from here on out. There is a moment out there for privacy activists to seize upon, a moment that privacy entrepreneurs can capitalise upon, a moment that privacy-oriented lawmakers can make political hay from. It's up to us to make the most of it.• Surveillance debate: we're asking for an end to bulk data collection
Every year, the eyes of the mainstream games industry turn wearily to US cable channel Spike TV and its rambunctious awards ceremony, which this year has been renamed VGX rather than VGA, because that is more &apos;next generation&apos; or something like that. Anyway, the game of the year went to GTA V, with Naughty Dog getting &apos;Best Studio&apos; and Bioshock: Infinite beating CoD: Ghosts and Battlefield 4 to &apos;Best Shooter&apos;. The full list ison the official websiteif you want to take a look.More interesting, though, was the range of trailers and announcements shown during the three-hours of web-streamed material. And just so you can find this stuff with the minimum of effort, here are the key revelations:Game of ThronesAs rumoured, Telltale Games, developer of the brilliant Walking Dead adventure series, is making an episodic Game of Thrones title. Details are scarce but the developer is working with HBO and the teaser hints at the fact that this won&apos;t simply by an interactive re-tread of the books or TV series content – as with Walking Dead, it is likely to be a spin-off or side-story. We&apos;re certainly looking forward to some interesting character reaction indicators: &quot;Ned Stark willrememberthat you threw his son out of the window while engaging in incest.&quot;No Man&apos;s SkyThis was the big, big surprise hit of the night. Hello Games, the Guildford-based studio responsible for the Joe Danger titles announced No Man&apos;s Sky, a hugely ambitious space exploration game, which uses procedural generation techniques to craft a vast galaxy. &quot;It’s a science-fiction game, but it’s not like most other sci-fi games,&quot; explains studio co-founder, Sean Murray. &quot;We set out to make a game that challenges what it means to be next-gen, and what it means to be an indie title. It’s going to mess with people’s perceptions of Hello Games, and I have no idea how people will react. It’s different, and pretty much the furthest thing from what we’ve done before.&quot; The buzz was so great, Hello Games&apos; web and email servers crashed last night under the sheer weight of global interest. Amazing times.Broken AgeDouble Fine showed off the world gameplay premiere of its Kickstarted point-and-click adventure Broken Age. The studio also announced a new member of its voice acting cast, with Elijah Wood signing up as the lead male character, Shay.Dying LightDead Island developer Techland showed a live demo of its forthcoming open-world zombie adventure, coming next year to PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One. With its focus on free-running elements, the kids are calling it Dead Island meets Mirror&apos;s Edge.TitanfallRespawn Entertainment got greedy at the close of the VGX event, showing not one but two trailers, each revealing a new mech from much-anticipated sci-fi shooter, Titanfall. The Ogre is a great big battle tank armed to the gnashing metallic teeth with deadly weapons. The Stryder, meanwhile, is the leggy athlete of the robotic vehicle world, scampering over battlezones like a startled deer.Tom Clancy&apos;s The DivisionUbisoft showed a demo of its graphically stunning online multiplayer tactical shooter, focusing on the game&apos;s new engine Snowdrop. There&apos;s lots of advanced volumetric lighting and particle effects, plus a convincing day/night cycle. Oh, and the snow actually melts in real-time. To create slush. I wonder if the soldiers will start slipping over? &quot;Come on men, let&apos;s take cover in that... whoops, argh, my Coccyx!&quot;Quantum BreakAlan Wake developer Remedy Entertainment showed some in-game footage of its interesting apocalyptic thriller, and Xbox One exclusive. Set in the aftermath of a time travel experiment that has gone horrendously wrong, the game is being accompanied by a live-action TV series that apparently changes narrative course based on player actions.Tomb Raider: Definitive EditionCrystal Dynamics revealed its &apos;Definitive Edition&apos; of this year&apos;s Tomb Raider reboot, which will be coming to Xbox One and PS4 in the US on 28 January, and Europe on 31 January. The developer claims to have ripped the game engine to pieces and rebuilt it with the next-gen specifications in mind, resulting in 1080p resolution and rezzed up visual details. There&apos;s also Kinect support for key menu actions like swapping weapons.South Park: The Stick of TruthSorry, had to slip this one in at the end because I&apos;m an idiot and find this &apos;ranged magic attack&apos; sequence funny.ThiefThe long-awaited Square Enix reboot of the classic stealth adventure snuck a gameplay trailer into the VGX line-up. Due for release on multiple platforms in February, the action follows master thief Garrett as he returns to his home city and finds the steampunk metropolis under the shroud of a mysterious plague, that... wait a minute, is this Dishonored? No I&apos;ve just checked, itisThief. It looks beautiful, though, and the shadow system, which informs players if they&apos;re obscured in the shade or not, should work brilliantly on next-gen platforms.
