Fire Emblem: Sacred StonesGame Boy AdvanceAdvance Wars and its sequel are two of the most subtle and compelling games ever created, becoming benchmarks of benign addiction and portable gaming joy. When their developer, Intelligent Systems, releases new software, it's naturally subject to the very highest of expectations, and Fire Emblem: Sacred Stones is no exception. Much like its prequel and the transcendent Advance Wars, this is a turn-based strategy game that involves no dexterity-testing components whatsoever, deriving tension and involvement from your approach to each troop engagement. Emphasising adventure game-style character development as well as raw manoeuvres, the latest instalment of Fire Emblem still rather annoyingly stops allies who are killed in battle from ever returning, but its fast-moving plot, cartoon characters and gradual improving of skills render it thoroughly engrossing.&#183;Nintendo, £35GTA San AndreasPC, XboxAs a means of stirring up tabloid journalists, the Grand Theft Auto series is like throwing bricks at a hornets' nest. Players rewarded for killing Haitians! Teaching children to murder! And steal cars! The fact that this is a game with an 18 certificate that (like many other games, and in parallel with similarly braindead movie content) lets you kill all sorts of gang members, no matter what their parentage, escapes coverage completely. Far more importantly there are very few games in existence with the wit, playability, intelligence and sheer attention to detail displayed in the awesome GTA San Andreas, let alone its staggering size and complexity. Now available in prettier format on Xbox and PC, this more than lives up to the magnificence of its PS2 forebear.&#183;Rockstar, &#163;30-&#163;40
A bit of G8 fun with the world's most powerful leader. Atgeorgewbushsingers.com, a group of crooners and musicians have decided to convert the aural blunders of the American President into a series of incredibly funny tunes. Click on The Album to hear samples.For more music go toatmo.se, search for "Bush and Blair" and see a rather moving video of two friends serenading each other, or watch Bush singing a cover version of This Land atjibjab.com.World debt and global warming may be troubling many of us, but over atbushorchimp.com, they have a more pressing concern: is Mr Bush really a chimpanzee? The evidence appears compelling.Finally,actofme.co.ukuses a selection of Bush speeches to create a scriptwriter allowing you cut and paste the US president's speeches to create all-new rude ones.
MondayTesting timesNintendo DS: Euro sales hit one millionA wild ideaTuesdayImport export"Incredible! Incredible! I can hardly even focus on what you're saying!"Interview with the US Frag Dolls: Why must girl gamers be so hard-core?New game genre invented by boffins?Minor league baseball incorporates computer games into its gameSomething for the weekendWednesdayDigital Game Researchers Association conference round-up1985 and all thatThursdayMadden meets Heat Magazine'Next gen hardware is underpowered' article disappearsInteractive baseball nixedPES5: new screens out, but who plays the game at that angle?EA Sports to introduce portable personalised avatarsFridayVirtual worlds from the TV screen: making the casual gamer biteDungeons and popcornQuake,Another World on mobile
Microsoft today agreed to pay IBM $755m (£435.5m) to settle a long-running dispute arising from a government antitrust case.The companies said the payment settled claims arising from the federal government's landmark antitrust case against Microsoft in the mid-1990s, in which IBM was identified as having been affected by certain Microsoft practices.Under the terms of the agreement, Microsoft will not only pay IBM $775m but will also extend $75m in credit towards the deployment of Microsoft software at IBM.The companies said the settlement resolved all antitrust claims in connection with the IBM OS/2 operating system and SmartSuite products except claims for harm to IBM's server hardware and server software businesses."With these antitrust issues behind us, both Microsoft and IBM can move ahead, at times cooperatively and at times competitively, to bring the best products and services to customers," Brad Smith, the general counsel and senior vice-president of Microsoft, said.Over the last few years, Microsoft has sought to resolve disputes with companies in connection with the antitrust case. Mr Smith said today's announcement was "another significant step towards achieving that goal".Microsoft last year paid Sun Microsystems $1.6bn to end a 10-year dispute. In March, it agreed to pay $60m to settle a patent and antitrust dispute with Burst.com, and the following month elected to pay Gateway $150m to end a case similar to the IBM one.In the government's 1998 antitrust lawsuit, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson ruled that Microsoft had bullied IBM, Gateway and other computer makers to promote the software company's Internet Explorer browser.
The authentic mobile port of Quake, developed by Bare Naked Productions under the strict guidance of Id, is out this July. The game will be embedded on a new handset that features a dedicated 3D graphics co-processor. The publisher of the game, Pulse Interactive, is unable to reveal the manufacturer of the phone, or where in the world it is being released first, although we know it's a Korean company. My guess is it's either LG, which introduced itsSV 3603D accelerated games phone at the 3GSM show earlier this year, or Samsung, whichunveiledtwo 3D games phones in April.A demo of the title shown recently at E3 surprised journos with its accuracy and impressive 3D performance - the developer is claiming a smooth 25fps framerate. Interestingly, it will also be possible to activate the famed Quake Console from the PC original, allowing the input of cheat modes, etc. Players will even be able to drop Quake mods and maps into their phone directory and access them from the console.Finally, I've heard that the conversion supports 16 player death matches over at least two different Local Area Network protocols, including Bluetooth.And if that wasn't enough retro fun, a straight port of Amiga classic Another World has been produced forSymbianphones by developer Magic Productions...Originally created by Eric Chahi in 1991, the enigmatic adventure game - which sees young scientist Lester Chaykin transported to 'another world' in a freak nuclear accident - makes early and incredibly stylish use of polygon-based graphics. There will be two releases of the game, a standard version available for download from a variety of carriers, and a deluxe version available on MMC card. Distribution is being handled byTelcogames.Finally, two new sports releases to tell you about. Finnish developer Mr Goodliving hasPlayman Summer Games 2out, another in their series of cartoon-ish and very playable track and field titles. The controls are as intuitive as ever, while the visuals are bright and imaginative with loads of little special effects and details like day/night time, audience flash lights, lens flare, weather effects, fireworks and customizable animated advertisement banners. Events are 100m, hammer, javelin and triple jump.And thenLiving MobileandIn-Fusiohave joined up to release Tour De France, a simple racer based around the punishing cycling event. There are four trial modes to take part in including Individual, Team, Mountain and Classic and the controls apparently allow for a tactical race rather than a mindless button-bashing challenge.
AFPreports:The operation that began early Wednesday dubbed "Operation Site Down" was "designed to disrupt and dismantle many of the leading criminal organizations that illegally distribute and trade in copyrighted software, movies, music and games on the Internet," the US Justice Department said.The raids were carried out in United States, Canada, Israel, France, Belgium, Britain, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, Portugal and Australia, striking what is known as the "warez" community, officials said.There were raids in "more than 90 locations," and "The warez groups hit go by the name RiSCISO, Myth, TDA, LND, Goodfellaz, Hoodlum, Vengeance, Centropy, Wasted Time, Paranoid, Corrupt, Gamerz, AdmitONE, Hellbound, KGS, BBX, KHG, NOX, NFR, CDZ, TUN and BHP, according to the Justice Department."
"The [Sony BMG] deal with Mashboxx, led by Grokster's former president, Wayne Rosso, aims to create an open network while limiting or even blocking the trading of copyrighted material," reportsThe New York Times."As part of the deal, Sony BMG's music will be available on the service for 99 cents a track. Mr Rosso said users wishing to preview a song could download a version that plays a limited number of times, with a voice-over advertising the full rendition being heard intermittently over the music. Anyone deciding to purchase would get access to the unadulterated song."Mr Rosso said the network would allow the free exchange of music by artists and labels who wished to make their work available free, as well as live-concert recordings and other hard-to-find files."
Telewest, the cable television company, yesterday launched a TV-on-demand service that will allow customers in selected regions to buy extra programmes.The service, available to 26,000 customers in Cheltenham and Gloucester, is known as "Teleport". It adds a television menu to the selection of films the firm already offers, and gives subscribers a second chance to watch programmes from the previous week, such as EastEnders and Casualty, as well as special interest programmes.Another service will be added giving access to classic series such as Inspector Morse and Waking the Dead, as well as music videos on a subscription basis.The BBC is providing Teleport with more than 180 hours of documentaries, natural history, drama, light entertainment and children's shows.Teleport is the latest development in Telewest's efforts to take on the market-leading satellite service, Sky Digital, which has had great success with Sky Plus, its personal video recorder, but does not offer video on demand. Viewers can watch programmes when they want and pause, rewind and fast-forward them with video-on-demand technology as with a video or DVD player.Telewest and its rival NTL are hoping the technology will prove a crucial marketing tool and both announced the launch of services in January.Previously, video on demand had been supplied only by smaller players such as the Hull-based cable firm Kingston Communications and HomeChoice, which offers TV via London telephone lines. NTL already offers television, including 30 to 40 hours of the week's most popular BBC programmes.Telewest said some programmes would be free and customers already taking the company's top digital TV package would have "most elements" of the new service included at no extra cost.The company is investing around &#163;20m in the development of advanced TV services in 2005 and is hoping to offer video on demand across the country by early next year. It is also planning to launch its own personal video recorder.
"In an interview with Nikkei Newspaper in Tokyo, Gates was asked whether Microsoft would consider opening the manufacture of Xbox units to third parties. Gates responded that "there is nothing concrete" but said the company is always talking with partners about how to expand the Xbox culture," reportsCNet."Gates declined to give details, such as which companies Microsoft might be thinking about working with or if a license would be extended to the underlying software of other electronics equipment, such as handheld devices, PCs or home digital media centers."Breaking the traditional proprietary mold of the game console world is something no one else has tried and something JupiterResearch analyst Michael Gartenberg says would be a bold move on Microsoft's part.Comment:This sounds to me like a non-story, but it is being reported all over the place. (Daftest headline: Xbox 360 leans towards open source? atCVG.)Microsoft originally did think it might be able to license a games-oriented platform, but it was based on Windows CE and went down the pan with the Sega Dreamcast. After that, it decided to copy the games-industry standard strategy, only better, which was exactly what Sony did.Imagine the sales pitch: "Hey, guys, why not licence the Xbox platform from us for $10. Then you'll be able to build clone consoles and sell each one at a $100 (or more!) loss." Yeah, right.There could be interesting options that are not Xbox clones, such as licensing the system for TVs, PVRs, set-top boxes and other devics... but pricing problems and the generally short lifespan of games consoles might mean that's not such a popular idea.
Massively multiplayer online games are crash landing on a next generation console near you. Recent announcements by parties as varied asMicrosoft and Square,Microsoft and Real Time WorldsandSony and DC Comicsmay be responsible for shifting virtual worlds from the desktop to the living room, and if they're successful, this may be the biggest revolution in modern game consumption. But will they manage it?It's a pretty huge move, pushing an arguably niche genre to the mass market at great expense and at great risk. While the move is not withoutprecedent, I agree withthisGamePro article which argues that MMOGs are only for the hardcore. You have to be a pretty dedicated gamer to get through some of the nonsense that results in an ultimately rewarding interactive experience, whether it's inFinal Fantasy XIon your console, orStar Wars Galaxieson your PC. That's not to say that there aren't exceptions to the rules.World of Warcrafthas managed to get 2 million people worldwide to log on and stay on (and pay up monthly) which says something about its design, its accessibility, and the good feelings players achieve through interacting with one another and the gameplay objectives in the virtual world.The Sims Onlinemanaged to get a huge female population playing (beforewaning monumentally), which is a testament to its accessibility. There are over 1600 active virtual worlds out there. Some of them seem to be doing something right.Still, in order to be a viable entity on a home console unit - competing directly with the likes of GTA, Super Mario and FIFA - things will have to change. Some may call it dumbing down, but the product must be created with the consumer in mind. Personally, while I consume my fair share, I'm still only primarily interested in them from an academic perspective, as resources of human sociability in online space. In a lot of ways, as games I find them as tedious as the casual player. So thinking about Joe or Jane Casual player, these are some of the current issues in online games which could benefit from a revamp before attempting to win over the masses:(caveat: Most unhelpfully, I have no suggestions as to how to correct these issues. I'm not a game designer. These are simply some of the things I've found in my days playing MMOGs which I think would turn most non-gamers off)The long hard GrindMost online games start out brilliantly. The possibilities seem endless. Sociability, a whole fabulous world to explore, freedom, an unending stream of new content and vastness – all of these are what draws the curious in and hooks 'em, until the reality of the product sinks in and the dedication to the online world becomes less of a pastime and more of a chore. The truth is, the further in you get, the more time you've got to spend doing pointless tasks in order to increase your "experience", which then allows you to access another fraction of virtual acreage. In the same way that I lost interest in the Dreamcast game Shenmue when I was forced to get a job shifting virtual boxes around a virtual dockyard for hours of real-time, most people will simply see grinding as a double shift and give up.The demand for DedicationRelated to grinding is the tendency for MMOGs to consume your life. Will Wright made a killing in The Sims when he merged the traditional game format with the "interstitial" casual paradigm: players could drop in and do something quickly and completely and get back to their real lives feeling like they'd accomplished something without losing their jobs/relationships/children to the social services. Big quests are nice, but they shouldn't be the only option, and gamers shouldn't be penalised for leaving in the middle of a job. This happens in offline games as well; two hours to complete a Halo quest is OK once in a while, but it's not something I regularly pull out for a quick round of fun. Most casual gamers respect their offline time, and want to live in the real world rather than in virtuality. Offering the option to do so would embrace that market as well.Say no to orcs and goblinsJust becauseLord of the Ringswas a Christmas cinema hit for three years on the trot doesn't mean that everyone wants to immerse themselves in an environment overflowing with orcs and goblins. Break free of Tolkien and fantasy themes and watch the audience base grow! Please!Sociability optionsYes, one of the best things about playing in MMOGs is the option to interact with real people in a variety of collaborative and competitive situations. However, as the GamePro article articulates, it's important to offer the option for players to play through online game sessions solo if they want to. It adds to that sense of freedom, of ownership of the game experience. If players are forced to meet up with others every time they want to have a go at one of the in-game quests – and are penalised if they don't, regardless of the reasons (offline obligations, perhaps?) – they might choose a more solitary pursuit, like Gran Tourismo. Furthermore, as gamers advance at different rates through the levelling systems, they become unable to group together, so the sociability wanes. I know some games have implemented designs which allow lower-level characters to play with high-level characters, and a burgeoning virtual trade market allows time-poor/cash-rich gamers to advance by purchasing levels for real world money, but this may not be something a casual player will embrace.Pay me the moneySubscriptions fees are one of the reasons the number of virtual world development companies is exploding, all of whom are racing for the pot of gold at the end of the online game rainbow. Yes, it is true that when implemented correctly great success can be had from providing bandwidth and content to millions of players for a low monthly fee. The casual player might see another subscription fee on top of the cost of the console and the online access subscription as not worth the enjoyment expected from the virtual world - especially if they're MMOG virgins. New models are already in place (for example, Anarchy Online incorporates advertising into its non-subscription version, Second Life and Guild Wars have one-time only fees), but these are the minority among the major players.At the minute the MMOG market is teeny. It doesn't even come close to the market for releases of the ilk of GTA: San Andreas, or even Who Wants To Be A Millionaire. The long-term maintenance commitment on the part of the online game development company means that the releases must be viable, and must attract a large enough market of dedicated consumers. Broadening the user-base by taking the products to the home console is one way, but even if they're built - and especially if they continue to be built according to the status quo - the new gamers may not come. It'd be a shame because the possibilities are too exciting for words.
"Introducing powerful new software tools for shared computers in schools, libraries, Internet cafes, and other public places. The Shared Computer Toolkit helps make it easy for anyone to set up, safeguard, and manage reliable shared computers running Windows XP," says the blurbhere.
Last week, at the Gnomedex technology conference in Seattle, Microsoft announced it is building the ability to detect, display and subscribe to RSS (Really Simple Syndication) web feeds into Longhorn, the next version of Windows. This will make it much easier for developers to use RSS in applications such as Microsoft Outlook, Office and instant messaging programs, as well as Internet Explorer.Microsoft is the first operating system provider to make such an announcement, but it's not the first time it has made it. Microsoft announced that Longhorn would support RSS two years ago at its Professional Developers Conference, but it is now doing something more ambitious than the desktop sidebar it showed then.Also, "supporting RSS" is just a shorthand way of getting the message across. Microsoft is actually building in a "feed engine" or syndication platform that will support any popular service including RSS 1.0 and 2.0 and the rival Atom 0.3 and 1.0. Any idea that it represents "the death of Atom" is misinformed.This represents a big bet on RSS's future, going far beyond news. In fact, Microsoft sees a trend from simple web browsing to searching syndicated information feeds. Instead of users going out to look for information, more of it will come to them. And it won't just come from websites to browsers: it will come from all sorts of sources to any application that exploits the new API (Applications Programming Interface).For example, if you go to a conference, your calendar schedule could be continuously updated by a web feed, or you could have a regularly updated list of the top 20 downloads from a music site. Grandparents could have a screensaver auto-updated with pictures of their grandchildren as the parents post them to a photo-sharing site, or a "live" version of their kids' Amazon wish-lists.To do all this, Microsoft has had to add a list extension to RSS to make it more like Atom. RSS is designed to be extended, and Microsoft has done it in the proper way. It is making its extensions available under a Creative Commons licence, with the blessing of the CC's founder, Lawrence Lessig.The proposed extension is not set in stone. Microsoft has said it is willing to discuss its specification with people who have cogent objections, such as Phil Ringnalda (see links below).RSS capabilities are also expected to appear in Internet Explorer 7, but as Microsoft's Dean Hachamovitch said at Gnomedex: "The browser here is incidental. It's not about the browser. It's about the platform."Opera was the first company to build RSS into its browser, and others followed, including Apple and Firefox. However, there has been no shortage of utilities that add RSS capabilities to IE, for anyone who wants them. The real game-plan is to make RSS-style syndication much easier to use, and much more useful, to a vastly bigger audience.And instead of doing it with IE's channels, Windows' Active Desktop and ActiveX, as Microsoft did in 1997, it is going with public, internet-based technology instead.LinksRSS in Longhornhttp://msdn.microsoft.com/longhorn/understanding/rss/Longhorn Team RSS Bloghttp://blogs.msdn.com/rssteam/Longhorn/IE7 demonstration videohttp://channel9.msdn.com/showpost.aspx?postid=80533phil ringnalda dot comhttp://philringnalda.com/blog/2005/06/ms_embraces_rss.phpDare Obasanjo at Gnomedexhttp://www.25hoursaday.com
If you were stuck in a tent at Glastonbury and didn't feel like venturing out, you could always catch up by watching a televised version on a mobile phone. It shows how rapidly the world is changing. Not long ago, television programmes, voice calls and computer data came via different routes, probably from different companies in different industries. Today, they may all be coming down the same pipe - or, in Orange's case, over the same mobile 3G phone network - and everybody wants to get into everybody else's business.BT this week announced a deal to deliver television over its broadband network using Microsoft's IPTV (Internet Protocol Television) system, while Sky, the satellite broadcaster, is expected to launch a broadband TV service over ADSL. Indeed, a small London company, Video Networks Ltd, is already delivering Sky via its ADSL network, and its Home Choice system has finally advanced beyond the M25 to Stevenage.The convergence of all these technologies is being driven into the market by the "triple play", which means offering TV, phone and internet services from a single source, with a single bill. In its purest form, it can mean delivering all three over a single broadband internet cable, so users get IPTV television and a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) telephone service along with their internet access. But most suppliers are happy to pick and mix technologies, as long as they can make a profit.In the UK, the triple-play vision has been pushed by the main cable TV suppliers, Telewest and NTL. They already had the hardest part covered - the delivery of multichannel television - so they just had to add telephone and internet services. "&#91;Triple play&#93; is probably our biggest selling point, and one that we've been executing for several years," says Philip Snalune, Telewest's director of consumer products and marketing. "About a third of our customers are taking all three services from us, and with new customers it's higher than that. It's growing, in other words."This is good business for Telewest, and analysts say it has two other advantages: it greatly increases the revenue from each user while reducing the "churn rate". In these very competitive markets, customers are prone to change their phone company, internet service provider, and TV service, especially if offered a cheaper deal. Once they sign up for a triple-play service, however, they are less likely to switch.But it is not such good business for traditional phone companies such as BT. All over the world, telcos have seen customers switching to cable and mobile phone services. However, with the rapid take-up of broadband DSL (digital subscriber line) at ever-increasing speeds, many telcos are starting to offer their own triple play. They already have the phone and internet services, and just need to add some form of TV.The past year has seen lots of high-profile deals signed, but few commercial services. Smaller companies, such as Home Choice, Kingston Communications in Hull, FastWeb in Milan and Aliant in Halifax, Nova Scotia, are already running triple-play networks. BT, Telecom Italia, France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, Telekom Austria, Swisscom and Belgacom have all run trials. Microsoft's IPTV trial customers include Bell Canada, Swisscom/ Bluewin, and the US giants SBC, BellSouth and Verizon.For comparison, Home Choice had about 15,000 subscribers at the start of this year, whereas SBC's target is to enable 18m (half its customer base) by the end of 2008.Of course, many telcos have been thinking about delivering TV programmes, or at least video on demand, for more than a decade. James Allen, principal analyst, the Analysys consultancy, Cambridge, says: "It's what ADSL was designed for." But it is not as simple as it sounds. It requires heavy investments in the network and in providing a guaranteed level of service.As Snalune points out, customers are not very bothered if a web page hangs, but will get really annoyed if similar glitches occur while they are watching a movie.Life is also about to get harder for the telcos, with the rapid approach of high-definition television: HDTV requires more data. You can deliver full screen TV via a two megabit per second DSL line, and compression might get that closer to 1Mbps. However, a 720-line HDTV picture needs at least 5-6Mbps, while full 1080p HDTV needs even more.It is not yet clear that the phone networks can handle the traffic economically. In any event, SBC's plans to implement IPTV are now running behind schedule, while Swisscom has just delayed its commercial introduction until next year. In Australia, Telstra (the partially privatised Telecom Australia) has abandoned plans to field test IPTV "entirely for our own internal and local market reasons and not because of anything to do with Microsoft's product", Telstra spokesman Warwick Ponder told CNet Australia.But it is taking off in France, where more than 750,000 French homes get internet television. Charlie Davies, senior analyst, Ovum consultancy, London, says this is mainly due to Free's launch of Freebox TV, with prices starting at &euro;30 per month (www.free.fr). That only gets you a 1Mbps ADSL line, but it includes 85 TV channels plus free phone calls (in France), too. Free also offers faster services, including 20Mbps based on ADSL2 Plus, which is certainly enough for HDTV.However, France has weak broadcast TV and cable services, and this year was the last major European country to launch a Freeview-style service, digital terrestrial television TNT. Free, which is essentially an ISP, moved quickly to fill a gap in the market. The UK market is much more competitive, and perhaps not even BT would want to tackle Sky, Telewest and NTL head on.In the UK market, there may be more opportunities to profit from video-on-demand services, where people stream or download the programmes they want from a giant database. Allen, from Analysys, says: "DSL has advantages in the world of video-on-demand. Unlike cable, it's not shared, and there's a lot of microcontent out there. If they put the BBC Promenade Concerts online, for example, I can see a lot of music lovers who would pay to be able to listen to any prom at any time, but it's harder than selling the top 10 blockbusters."It is already clear that almost everyone is going to offer video on demand, including BT, Orange, NTL, Telewest, Sky and even the BBC. Indeed, Telewest is scheduled to launch its own service, called Teleport, today. This starts with four services: Teleport TV, Replay, Movies and Life. Teleport Replay will allow Telewest subscribers to replay popular TV programmes they missed during the previous week, or just want to see again, for free. Teleport TV will allow them to replay programmes from an archive of the past six to 12 months, with a subscription. Teleport Movies and Life are pay-per-view services offering films or specialist programmes.Telewest is also experimenting with free TV delivered via its website atwww.blueyonder.co.uk/tv. The beta test uses Narrowstep's TelVOS Television Operating System to broadcast live events and show highlights from TV channels such as Extreme Sports and The Horror Channel.The next step could even be a "quadruple play": a combination of TV, internet access, and both fixed and mobile phone services. BT's new Fusion service - where the same Bluephone uses a landline at home and works as a mobile phone when you are out - is a pioneering market entry, but at some point the triple play has to be expanded to include mobiles.The battle between telecoms firms and cable companies is already expanding into a three-way fight as the mobile phone companies start to offer TV to the phone, as well as voice and online services - whether through the internet, i-mode or Wap. Orange has just launched its nine-channel &pound;10-a-month service using the MobiTV system. This sends programmes via the 3G mobile network to a Java player on a Nokia 6680 - the only handset supported at the moment, with others to follow.Orange spokesman Matt Sears says you can use MobiTV to watch "regular telly in moments of microboredom". You're not likely to watch Lord of the Rings on it, but you might want to catch up with the news or Big Brother, or take advantage of special features such as Glasto TV. "We had an exclusive, dedicated show &#91;about Glastonbury&#93;, about two hours long, and updated every day," he says.But this is an expensive way to deliver TV - it consumes a lot of bandwidth - and broadcast alternatives are on the way. Sears says Orange is also looking at DVB-H (Digital Video Broadcasting-Handheld), which O2 and NTL will pilot with Nokia phones in Oxford. Some rivals - including LG and Ericsson - reckon DMB (Digital Multimedia Broadcasting) is better, and Virgin and BT are even experimenting with DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) to deliver Sky Sports News, Sky News and Blaze, a new music TV channel, to mobiles.When it comes to triple and quadruple plays, it is far from clear which technologies are going to be most effective, or which companies are going to win. But the potential market is so huge that everybody has to fight for it. That should drive prices down, and there will be a lot of blood on the carpet by the end.
Originally it was known as Freeserve, then it was bought by France T&#233;l&#233;com and became Wanadoo, but from next year the internet service provider that helped put the public online in the late 1990s is to be known as Orange, writes Richard Wray.The name change is part of a three-year plan to expand T&#233;l&#233;com's international business outlined by chief executive Didier Lombard (pictured) yesterday.Orange, which T&#233;l&#233;com bought five years ago, will become the company's flagship brand for mobile, broadband and business customers outside France.Using the Orange brand, T&#233;l&#233;com plans to launch TV over broadband in the UK by the middle of next year.It said it would launch a number of new services such as a combined mobile and internet access in the first half of 2006.The introduction of such new services is designed to help the company achieve its target of more than 12 million high-speed mobile customers by 2008, including more than 6 million in France and more than 5 million in Britain. The company also announced a number of so-called converged services yesterday, including a combined mobile and internet access service that will also launch in the first half of next year.T&#233;l&#233;com yesterday updated investors on its plans to expand over the next three years, having pulled the heavily indebted company back from the brink of collapse after the dotcom bubble burst. It intends to double its dividend and continue to reduce its debts, as well as increase sales by between 3% and 5% from 2006 to 2008.It also announced plans to save &euro;2bn (&#163;1.3bn) by 2008 through cost cuts.
The British recording industry has teamed up with online music services to challenge the royalty rate music publishers and composers are demanding for digital downloads.The BPI and seven online companies - AOL, Apple iTunes, MusicNet, Napster, RealNetworks, Sony Connect and Yahoo - announced yesterday they have taken the Mechancial Copyright Protection Society and the Performing Right Society to the copyright tribunal .The MCPS-PRS alliance wants to charge a higher royalty rate for songs downloaded from the net than for those on CDs. Publishing royalties on CDs currently comprise 6.5% of the retail price. The alliance wanted to charge a 12% rate for most online music services but as a concession suggested a temporary rate of 8% while the industry is still developing."The licence the alliance is trying to impose for online music is unreasonable and unsustainable," said BPI's counsel Geoff Taylor. "The alliance's tariff threatens to harm seriously the development of the legal online and mobile music markets."The online consortium and the BPI argue the advent of a new music format does not warrant an increase in royalties. They believe imposing a higher royalty on downloads puts them at "an unfair commercial disadvantage".The MCPS-PRS alliance argues the proliferation of music means artists get a small slice of an even smaller pie. "Industry observers must be baffled by record companies taking the publishing divisions of their own companies through a tribunal procedure - spending millions that neither side can afford," group chief executive Adam Singer said.The BPI and the alliance have been negotiating the download royalty rate for years, but the matter has become more pressing in the past 12 months as the popularity of digital downloads has soared. Ad hoc agreements have been struck in the interim as the parties have tried to agree a flat, industry-wide rate.
Tricky digitsWhen you try to log on to some websites, in addition to entering your email address and password, they ask you to type in a sequence of letters and numbers from a box. This is sometimes tricky to do as the digits are often wavy and distorted. What possible extra security can this offer, and how do people with impaired vision cope?Mike GerrardJack Schofield replies:Some people have used web-based email, storage and other sites for unwelcome purposes, such as circulating pirate software or pornography, or posting spam. To make this simpler, they write scripts or short computer programs that can, for example, create dozens of accounts very quickly without human intervention. The victims try to block this by setting up a hurdle that a human can manage but a computer program can't (or not yet), such as deciphering distorted graphics. Websites are using the same idea to ensure that a human is logging on, rather than the name and password being created or remembered by Windows or another program. There ought to be an alternative for people with impaired vision but unfortunately usually the only way out is to get a friend to help.Blocking web bugsI have recently upgraded from Outlook Express to Outlook 2003, and it doesn't automatically display images in the message pane. Is there any way of enabling this?John WattsJS:Some messages are in HTML format, like web pages, and these can include links that result in images being fetched from a web server. This saves sending large images by email, but it can open up a security and a privacy risk. For example, an email can contain "web bugs" or beacons, which are often clear single-pixel images, and therefore invisible. Whenever you open the email, the web beacon hits the server, which can then record when you opened the email, which browser you are using, and so on. Web beacons are also used on some websites, and are not specific to Microsoft products.By default, Outlook 2003 does not fetch images from web servers unless the internet address is on your list of Safe Senders or Safe Recipients, or the web server is in your Trusted Sites security zone. However, you can download the image by clicking on the image area, or by right-clicking and selecting Show Picture. Alternatively, go to the View menu and select View in Internet Zone, which displays the message like a web page. Note: this can include running malicious Javascript.To answer your question, finally, you can go to the Tools menu, select Options, and click the Security tab. Where it says Download Pictures, click Change Automatic Download Settings, and untick the box that says Don't download pictures or other content automatically in HTML email. However, I think it is a very bad idea to do this. I would instead suggest that anyone using Outlook Express uses a similar procedure to select Block images and other external content in HTML email, and this automatically becomes the default when you install the Windows XP Service Pack 2. I'd make the same recommendation for other mail programs on Windows and other operating systems.Eros Paradise etcWhenever I run Spybot, all sorts of strange file names come up in the listing at the bottom of the screen. Spybot does not say they are problems, but what are they for?David Dollman, Richard Parish et alJS:When it is running, Spybot Search &amp; Destroy lists the malware it is looking for, not files it has found. This is just to reassure you that the program is working correctly.TIF problemI purged my temporary internet files in Windows XP Home SP2, but Properties for that folder still shows a size of 507MB (14,000+ files in 33 folders). The puzzling thing is that I am unable to see any of these files or folders.Steve WebsdaleJS:Open Windows Explorer, right-click on Local Disk (C:) and select Properties. Click the Tools tab, and click the Check Now button to check your disk. Restart your PC and see whether the problem has gone away. If not, download the excellent free CCleaner (www.ccleaner.com), close all other programs, and use that to delete your temporary files again. If that hasn't worked, download A43 (www.shawneelink.net/~bgmiller/) or some other alternative to Windows Explorer and have a look around with that. (Unlike Windows Explorer, A43 is set to show hidden files by default.) The fact that Windows Explorer says something about what's on your hard drive doesn't make it true.Backchat&#183;Readers have had problems with Epson printers refusing to work: apparently you have to take them to a dealer for resetting. Reader Dennis Kaye recommends a website atwww.ssclg.com/epsone.shtmlthat "explains how to locate, clean and dry out the waste ink pad and then resets the counter allowing the printer to work again. Brilliant!" The site offers a free SSC Service Utility.&#183;Please send questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but please include full details.
On Monday afternoon, America's supreme court set its sights on file sharers, and came out fighting. The case of MGM v Grokster saw the file-sharing network effectively made liable for the illegal activities of its users - and dealt a potential body blow to peer-to-peer technologies that allow internet users to trade files with each other.This was presented as the latest slugging contest between the old, corporate bruisers - record companies and entertainment conglomerates - and the brave new world of technology, internet activists and file sharers. On points at least, the old guard won.In fact, Grokster lost because it was accepting, accommodating and even encouraging those who were using its network for illegal purposes. The judgment pointed out that the company had been actively chasing the illegal market in file sharing even before Napster collapsed so spectacularly in 2001.Immediate reaction from lawyers, technologists and interested observers painted the decision as a blow for innovation. "The supreme court has unleashed a new era of legal uncertainty on America's innovators," said Fred Lohmann, an attorney with digital rights campaign group the Electronic Frontier Foundation.There could certainly be an effect on technology inventors, and concerns over the future costs of legal advice are well-founded. But what is the future for file sharing?In the short term, nothing changes. In the medium term, Grokster, in a lemon-sharp twist, is likely to be swallowed up by the record industry. In the long term, file sharers must realise they cannot have all music free.This is not necessarily a bad thing. Free access to copyrighted music won't ever be legal, but technology can drive down the costs of listening to music until price no longer matters. Radio showed us the way, and now file sharing hands us the answers. We already have services that point forward: subscription-based offerings from Napster 2.0, PlayLouder MSP and Yahoo all let you download as much music as you like for a fixed cost. Record companies may finally start to realise that file sharing has many benefits to offer them, too.The headline result was bad news for many, but the court's judgment was full of nuance. This was not a decision against technology, but against those who act with a cavalier disregard for the law. Services such as BitTorrent - whose creator, Bram Cohen, has said he would never use it illegally - are likely to dodge the bullet.Though many of the philosophies behind open file-sharing have merit, unfortunately they do not chime with the law as it stands. Technologists, like the rest of us, must cope with reality.The Grokster ruling was a disappointment to many, but it was far from a knock-out punch. And while it might not be popular with file sharing's biggest fans, perhaps the judges got things just about right.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Getting personalBritish bloggers are often left in the shade by their more bombastic transatlantic counterparts, but there's lots worth reading from the UK. British blogging has, in the most part, remained dedicated to the art of personal writing, which is often more interesting and rewarding than the niche blogging evident elsewhere. The country boasts a fantastic body of writing, as well as much of the camaraderie that bleeding-edge bloggers had five years ago. Take, for example, Jonny Billericay's amusing musings on the possible closure of his village post office. He is staging his own virtual "Post 8", has penned a protest song (think Billy Bragg meets The Streets), and has even got people from around the world to join the campaign.http://jonnybillericay.blogspot.comhttp://jonnyb.libsyn.comhttp://media3.libsyn.com/podcasts/jonnyb/Post_Office.mp3Ahead of the gameAnother British weblogger making a name for herself is Alice, the proprietor of gaming blog Wonderland. It's a cornucopia of stories - much like the Guardian's Gamesblog - covering the whole gamut of games, from the very funny to the serious. It is regularly picked up by the likes of uberblog BoingBoing, and is cementing Alice's reputation as an expert in her field. And, as proof that surfing the web works not in waves but in strange circular motions, she was also one of the team responsible for Stortroopers, a craze that swept the blogosphere a few years ago.http://crystaltips.typepad.com/wonderland/www.stortroopers.comCause and effectBlog search engine Technorati relaunched this month with a new design and improved capabilities. The change came just in time for the site to launch a wide-ranging Live8 initiative, with a heavy focus on those blogging about the campaign to help Africa's most troubled regions. Technorati will also be giving 10 bloggers backstage press passes for Live8 concerts worldwide, as well as a chance to follow the Live8 crew from New York to Edinburgh and back. Technorati's David Sifry says his aim is "for bloggers to create proactive change, not just reactive change based on other news events".www.technorati.comhttp://live8.technorati.comwww.sifry.com/alertsCitizen chainFormer Silicon Valley reporter Dan Gillmor left his job earlier this year to start a new "citizen journalism" project for people in the San Francisco area, called Bayosphere. The wheels are starting to roll on the site, along with contributions: advanced users can post stories, information and comments about the area, and have their own blog. But they must sign the site's pledge: a statement of dedication to fairness, thoroughness, accuracy and openness.http://bayosphere.comhttp://bayosphere.com/cjregisterPolitical postsWhile Gillmor is recruiting citizen journalists, few traditional hacks hang around the blogosphere more than newspaper diarists on the look-out for some tittle-tattle. While there's a time-honoured tradition of diarists nicking stories from other newspapers, the idea of journalists who lack imagination plagiarising weblogs seems awfully crude - particularly since bloggers who provide the gossip don't get paid for the privilege. Westminster websites have come and gone over the past few years, but a few seem to be staying the course. Enter Recess Monkey, employed somewhere in SW1, and Guido Fawkes, who is rather miffed by the Guardian Backbencher's "political hotties" feature.http://5thnovember.blogspot.comhttp://bill.verity-networks.com/ext/recess/http://politics.guardian.co.uk/backbench/Site surveyThe Massachusetts Institute of Technology is undertaking a survey of bloggers to try to discover more about them. "Our goal is to help understand the way that weblogs are affecting the way we communicate with each other," says the site's blurb. The list of questions is long, and relates to demographics, online behaviour, technological prowess and social linking within the blogosphere. What MIT will do with the results is not clear, but it is also taking a sample of 5,000 bloggers.http://blogsurvey.media.mit.edu
Unfair textJay Forsyth (Feedback, June 23) is correct that a raised dot on the number five on the telephone keypad helps blind and partially sighted people to locate the appropriate digits to make a phone call. However, this doesn't make it easier for a blind person to write or read a text message.The RNIB is working with a number of mobile operators, especially Vodafone, to make it possible for blind people to send and receive text messages by incorporating synthetic speech software into mobile phone handsets. However, this technology is new, and few blind and partially sighted people have the new phones.We are sure it was the intention of the Live8 organisers to offer a fair and democratic means of applying for tickets. Unfortunately, texting is not available to enough people to make text-only application truly fair and democratic.Julie HowellRNIBInclusive methodJay Forsyth contends that getting a friend to send a text message for a blind person is an acceptable form of inclusion. In the same way that a person in a wheelchair might get a friend to go upstairs for them to use an inaccessible lavatory I suppose?John J GodberSpare the empathyJay Forsyth is clearly carrying so much empathy for Bob Geldof that there is none to spare for sight-impaired people. I'm not blind, but it's pretty obvious to me that the raised dots on the number five aren't going to be much help to a person who can't see the display. And how are replies supposed to be read? As for the suggestion of "getting a friend to text for them", I would "gently suggest" that what blind people, like Africa, need is not charitable patronage but enough support to maintain their dignity and independence. I suspect Geldof would agree.David WhartonLeicesterUnder threatAdam Vaughan (Not so safe and sound, June 16) says that Apple is under threat from better products from competitors. It is also under threat from its poor customer service and products. When I ran the Edinburgh marathon two weeks ago, my 18-month-old iPod's battery lasted a mere two hours, 40 minutes: at least one of us made it to finish line. My attempt to get a refund for a faulty iTunes download was met with automated responses, one of which told me to download the track again only for me to find it was still faulty.Ryan Paul TaylorJust unlucky?Maybe Apple's quality control has declined with the iPod's success, or perhaps Dean Dracknell (Feedback, June 23) has been unlucky. I bought my second generation model second-hand on eBay more than two years ago, and it has never locked up and I have never had to reset it. I have just installed a new battery and can drive from London to Cornwall and back on one charge.Mike PettyLondonAntidote to cheatsAndy Breen (Feedback, June 23) points out how students can listen to recordings of lectures as podcasts. Podcasts can be used in many ways to support learning. At the UK Office for Library and Information Networking, we have published podcasts in advance of the Institutional Web Management Workshop, providing information about the event. But perhaps the most intriguing potential use is for students to publish their podcasts on their project work. Finding a podcast not only on the correct subject but sounding like themselves can prove rather difficult. A possible solution to plagiarism?Brian KellyUniversity of BathLow-impact LCDYour article on plasma screens (The plight of plasma, June 23) overlooks three key points on which LCDs win out over plasma screens. First, plasmas are significantly heavier, so are not very suitable for wall mounting. Second, plasmas generate large amounts of heat (wasted energy) whereas LCDs generate little. And finally, and most importantly, LCDs consume significantly less energy than plasmas and traditional cathode ray televisions. Of the three technologies, LCDs have by far the lowest environmental impact.Keith J BakerLeicesterThriving marketIdentity theft has once again reared its ugly head, with an Indian call centre worker selling thousands of UK bank customer records for less than &pound;3 a shot. While companies have invested heavily in defending against external threats, these defences are worthless if internal risks aren't addressed. USB memory sticks or iPods can easily be used to siphon off vast amounts of data from a business. No company can stop these devices entering the office, but organisations need to take control of which employees can connect these devices to their PCs and therefore better manage the flow of information. This isn't just a problem on foreign shores or for the banks. Data theft is a thriving market and complacency could prove deadly.Matt FisherSwindon
Review the systemThe patent system is designed to protect the rights of inventors, and to allow inventors to benefit from their invention. It does this by providing a legal monopoly with which to do so.The anomalies raised fall into two main camps: patents that stifle innovation and those that are arguably non-patentable. This may mean the system needs review rather than a global "Yes" or "No" to software patents. Many patents can take years of development to achieve marketable solutions and these should probably attract longer term monopolies - the drugs industry is a case in point. Software patents could be marketable within months and should have a shorter term of monopoly. If the patent system were more flexible, maybe there would be less issue taken with their acceptability.Jon WilliamsOxfordMan the life raftThank you for making this outrage so clear. I shall let all Malta's MEPs know. The multinationals have done this to us Europeans with medicine: they will stop at nothing to satisfy their corporate greed. They cannot touch India, China and South Africa, so they steal the oars from our life raft.Narcy CalamattaMaltaWho's the parasite?Richard Stallman may be content for people to make free with his ideas, but many businesses rely on the patent system to ensure a commercial return on their research and development, and to prevent their market base being swamped by the commercial clout of larger companies. In the absence of a patent system, anyone would be able to plagiarise an innovation, freeloading on the inventor's development work. Such an environment would stifle development. Then who would be the parasite?The proposed EU directive is intended merely to formalise the practice that has developed under the legislation, which was enacted three decades ago, in the pre-microchip era. If you take the financial risk of developing a product that incorporates a new technical invention, you can protect it against plagiarism by patenting the invention. Why should you be denied that opportunity just because the product is controlled by a computer of some kind?Tim LidbetterKingston upon Thames&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
There are two extreme schools of thought on ergonomics. One says if you're sitting comfortably, you probably don't have a problem. The other says nonsense, you'll be doing all sorts of damage - and what you need is a custom- built ergonomic chair ... here's one for only &pound;600 just in from America. Neither is absolutely right. The good news is that the way in which the &pound;600-a-shot brigade has it right is that it needn't cost a lot of money every time. "Many people do spend a lot of money on chairs that are labelled ergonomic, but the actual guidelines on what makes an ergonomic chair is just that you can adjust it in terms of more than height," says Paul Godfrey, director of ergonomics specialist Health and Fitness Solutions. "You get one or two companies spending a lot thinking the more they spend, the better the chair will be, but it's all about adjustability."Essentially, what's ergonomic for one person isn't necessarily going to be ergonomic for someone else. "You're not going to be able to find one chair to fit all. When you take all the heights and sizes and body frames you'll find in a company and try to fit it into one chair, you realise that even if various components of the chairs adjust, it still won't fit the individual," says Godfrey.It's worth taking a step back and considering what is meant by "ergonomic" in terms of chairs. The hollow of the back should be supported and the feet should rest comfortably on the ground or else on a footrest. The elbows should be about level with the keyboard for comfortable typing and the top of the monitor should be at eye level. And that's just about it for beginners. It should be apparent from those comments that the chair is only one element of the deal."A lot of people pay attention to the chair and forget that you need a good marriage between the chair and the desk," says Godfrey. "Most desks are made to 700-720mm high. Unless you're 5ft 4in or shorter, 720mm is going to be too low for most people." So you have a new ergonomic chair at the right height but sit too high and lean forward, or compromise your sitting position by dropping the chair height.The result can be complaining employees, which gets difficult because the people making the decisions about spending feel they've "done" ergonomics and it didn't work. "When directors spend money on furniture and don't get the return on investment that they'd hoped for, their perception of ergonomics becomes negative," says ergonomist Herman Bynke. "They are removed from the subject matter and they really don't believe in ergonomics afterwards." Bynke believes it isn't enough to spend a lot on state-of-the-art chairs. "Ergonomics is all about the fit between the human being and the equipment. It's a big picture, and ergonomics in the office environment is still focused on the chair."Godfrey agrees that people need to look further than the furniture. "People expect that good ergonomics are going to take their aches and pains away," he says. "They need to understand that even when you're sitting properly at a chair that's been designed for you, with the right desk height and so on, you're still sitting. We're hunter gatherers, and the whole office environment has evolved over the last 20 years, while we haven't evolved for many thousands. We like to be upright, we like to move about and the fact that you're sitting well doesn't take away the fact that you're sitting." People still need to understand that they should get up for 10 minutes an hour, and that staring at a screen for ages isn't going to be a good idea, he says.There is a lot that can be done without spending a lot of money. People make the mistake, says Bynke, of putting screens to the side of the desk rather than looking straight at them - crick in the neck anyone? Then they put the documents on which they're working on the desk rather than at the same height as the monitor. Notebook users often seem to think the monitor height rule doesn't apply to them: stands for notebook computers are available though, for example the NotebookStation USB from Kensington."People forget that these products were designed for working on the move, not for sustained use, and therefore they sit hunched over their laptop for far too long," says Phil O'Neill, director and business manager for Kensington Europe.Lighting is also important. The Verilux Happy Eyes range is among those that imitates daylight, which is whiter than the yellowish artificial light to which most people will be accustomed. Overall, the way people make mistakes appears mostly to involve overlooking the basics. If you're sitting badly, the chances are you know you're doing so, and if your staff are doing so you'll be able to spot it.If you're embarking on investigating the ergonomics of your environment for the first time, consider asking your staff whether they're comfortable and educating them about the correct use of their equipment before spending a fortune - a high spend might prove unnecessary.&middot; Spend a fortune on chairs without finding out whether the existing furniture is causing a problem.&middot; Buy footrests for everyone in the office when their feet already reach the ground comfortably.&middot; Spend a lot of money on monitors because the most costly ones must be low-radiation. There may be good reason to invest in an expensive monitor, but all modern monitors are low-rad.&middot; Focus exclusively on the chair.&middot; Fail to educate staff on how to use ergonomic equipment. Slouching in a chair for hours on end will hurt your back no matter how brilliantly designed it may be.
Few of the Londoners carrying one of Transport for London's Oystercards around in their pockets and handbags have much idea of the technology behind it. That's hardly surprising. The smartcard's own website doesn't mention it by name, confining its explanation to the chip and aerial inside the card and the radio signals that transmit information from card to reader and back again. Some passengers will have noticed that they can call up the details of recent journeys by holding the card to a reader on a ticket machine. Others might have heard that car parks, swim-ming pools and newsagents will probably soon accept Oyster pre-pay credit.Oystercard uses a technology that will soon become as ubiquitous as the mobile phone. The radio frequency identification (RFID) tags inside the smartcard which, when held to a terminal, generate a magnetic field that activates the chip - are already being used by big retailers to track stock. Farmers can tag their animals to enable them to keep track of their medical history. DHL, which ships more than a billion packages a year, wants to switch its entire operation from barcodes to RFID within a decade. Now the airline industry is interested too.RFID tags have a number of advantages over the traditional paper barcodes that identify luggage. They can't become crumpled and rendered unreadable, and they do not need to be held directly underneath a scanner. The accuracy of a barcode reader is typically around 80-85%. With RFID, it can be as high as 99.9%. A handheld RFID terminal can read the tags on dozens of bags simultaneously, and automatically alert a manager if one of them shouldn't be there. If a piece of luggage goes missing, an international RFID standard tracking system would mean that airport staff could locate its whereabouts immediately. Around 0.7% of the 1.5bn bags carried each year go missing. Chasing them, returning them and compensating passengers is something airlines can ill afford. RFID tags have been around for a while - BA trialled them quite successfully in 1999 - but they have been prohibitively expensive. However, the price of a set of tags and readers has fallen substantially in recent months. You can now buy a demonstration kit online for less than &#163;50, and tags bought in bulk cost around 11p each, bringing them within the reach of airlines.The International Air Transport Association is so impressed by RFID that it has already set out to establish a single airline standard for the technology by the end of 2005. The US airline Delta has run trials of cheaper, so-called "passive" tags, while IATA is experimenting with tags tucked inside a familiar barcoded luggage label. British Airways, which announced in June that it will be trialling RFID, intends to insert the tag inside the bag, which would make it difficult to damage or remove, but could slow down the check-in process.In a few years' time, the RFID revolution could easily let you remotely track your suitcase from front door to hotel room. The catch is that you won't be the only one watching it. IATA envisages a time when passengers could entrust a delivery company with their hold baggage some hours or days before their flight was due to leave and collect it at their destination."The bags &#91;would be&#93; processed for loading onto the aircraft only after there is confirmation that the passenger has checked in," explains a recent IATA report, Simplifying the Business. "The passenger is able to check baggage status by internet or mobile phone."In theory, the task of e-tagging, X-raying and handling baggage could be outsourced to a traditional parcel carrier. Passengers would no longer have to struggle with heavy suitcases on public transport, or hire a taxi to take them to the airport. Check-in staff would be largely redundant, which would be a boon for airlines.The technology is also of considerable interest to the US departments of Homeland Security and Transportation. At the moment, a percentage of hold baggage is searched. Sometimes this takes place in the passenger's presence. Increasingly, however, it doesn't - which is why the Department of Transportation now insists luggage is left unlocked. RFID would enable security staff to scan a container of suitcases and pull out those belonging to passengers on a watchlist, who are of a particular nationality or who are not recognised as regular travellers.So far, so reasonable - providing you are a trusted traveller. But even if the system is internally secure, it still has the potential to be abused. Opportunistic theft by baggage handlers is already a problem for airlines. Some privacy campaigners are worried that RFID readers would enable them to finesse their selection of possibly lucrative bags. The technology certainly makes it more likely you will see your bag again - and if the airline industry and governments get their way, so will a lot of other people.News in briefEasyJet and Servisair have launched their own airport lounge booking service,Easyjetlounges.com. You don't have to be flying with easyJet to use it, and the 33 lounges available include Heathrow terminals, Manchester and Birmingham. Prices for each leg of the journey vary, from &#163;12 to &#163;16 at Stansted and Humberside and &#163;17.95 at Luton.Bmibaby now flies to Birmingham to Bordeaux, leaving at around 7.30am on weekdays and returning to Birmingham at 11.25am. The airline's parent, bmi, is adopting some of the cost-cutting practices of its no-frills offspring. In what bmi calls a "modular" approach, the business cabin will be stripped out of all flights from Heathrow after August 1, except to Brussels, Glasgow, Edinburgh and Belfast. The cheapest one-way fares will start at &#163;25, while "economy flexible" tickets will replace the old business class.www.flybmi.com/bmi/en-gb/planandbook/newbusinessmodel.aspxSmoking will be banned everywhere on GNER trains from August 29. Having won the franchise to operate on the route for the next decade, the company's chief executive says he wants to run half-hourly services on the London-Leeds route "within a couple of years".www.gner.co.ukPassengers waiting for the new half-hourly Heathrow Connect rail service from Paddington via Ealing will have to wait a little longer. At the time of writing, the Hayes and Harlington-Heathrow leg had not opened, though the rest of the line is functioning. Tickets will be cheaper than the Heathrow Express (&#163;9.50 single from Paddington) but the journey is slower.www.heathrowconnect.com
A new group of consumers is coming of age - and it looks set to change the global marketplace. Rejecting trad-itional brand values, these young people have an unpre-cedented influence on the goods and services they buy.Dubbed the "millennials" by a report jointly authored by Yahoo! and Carat Interactive, they are the first group of young people who find themselves in a technologically dominated world. However, unlike their parents who have struggled to understand and adjust to a post industrial society, they are embracing all forms of digital communication.In an age dominated by television, the millennials are turning their backs on this form of media in favour of more interactive means of information exchange. The internet is now the hub of their daily lives. They describe the internet as a zone without borders, a limitless expanse of information, entertainment and community. Their life offline is described as barren, lonely, slow and frustrating. The millennials have their own language that is dominated by text messaging, which is their preferred method of communication.These changes to the way in which young people interact with information, and how they view the brands that make up today's marketplace indicates a seismic shift away from traditional media.The last few years have seen the rise of the "tweenager", aged between eight and 12, and who have massive spending power in the high street and online. As this group grows up, its influence continues to expand. "The growth of media choices and advertising clutter is bewildering to many adults, but not so to a generation that come of age in a fragmented media landscape," a spokes-person from Yahoo! points out. The University of Southern California described the millennials, who were their incoming freshmen in 2003, as: "The most digitally literate students to enter college."There are 47 million millennials in the US aged between 13 and 24. They have massive spending power that is in excess of $149bn a year - 15% of which is spent online. But what is more stunning is that research suggests that this group of consumers has considerable influence on the spending of others, which could be as much as five times their own direct spend.This is supported by Martin Linstrom in his book Brand-child, which indicated that consumer spending to the tune of $1.88 trillion is influenced by this group of young people. This means 80% of all branded goods purchased by parents are directly influenced by their children. If you thought teenagers and young adults were brainwashed by hours of meaningless television, video games and text messaging, think again. This group of people intimately understand the world they live in. With innate skills with today's information technology, and a cynicism regarding big brand advertising, they are shaping not only the media landscape that is attempting to sell to them, but also changing their relationship to commerce in all its forms.For business, this has meant almost throwing away the advertising rule book. Business realises it must form a closer connection with the people who will, after all, become their long-term customers. But tweenagers and millennials drive a hard bargain with the brands they associate with. Today, the millennials simply won't tolerate a brand they cannot connect with, and that doesn't understand them. Brands are scrutinised constantly by these groups of consumers who test a brand's ability to support their values, desires and group affiliations. It's a fatal mistake to put all young consumers into one category. The reality is that within their social group are clear and distinct segments, each with their own particular requirements. Designing brands and advertising to appeal to these diverse groups is the challenge for advertisers.Understanding who customers are and what values drives their buying decisions is now paramount. How this information is communicated is also of great importance. Television no longer holds the high ground. Increasingly, all forms of digital media are becoming the primary means by which brands communicate their message. The millennials are a force that cannot be ignored. Understanding these groups of consumers is the key to any brand's longevity.Born to be WiredThe original research carried out by Yahoo! and Carat Interactive can be downloaded athttp://tinyurl.com/dfocwBrandchildChildren aged between 8 and 14 are now major consumers in their own right. Read about how brands can sell to these new consumers atwww.brandchild.comBorn to BuyBy Juliet B. Schor &#163;17.99This book outlines the research and marketing strategies that are being used to reach this group of young consumers.BrandedBy Alissa Quart &#163;6.99Learn how to use marketing strategies specifically aimed at the tweenager market in this insightful book.
The world of big business has long been a driving force behind the spread of technology, but now small companies are pushing forward the rollout of broadband. Figures suggest that around three-quarters of all British businesses are using broadband internet services, and they are now reaping the profits.With competition becoming increasingly intense between internet providers, the conditions are ripe for companies to make the change - and even those already on broadband may find that they could make some serious cost-savings by switching to a different provider.Competition is increasingly intense, particularly at the high-speed end of the market, which is ideal for businesses that will be sharing connections among a number of employees.David Razavi runs Cool Matters, a small company that specialises in refrigeration and air conditioning. He employs 11 people from the firm's offices in west London, and says there have been tangible benefits from moving to broadband."We do a lot of business through email and internet," he says. "When we had ISDN, there was just one computer connected to the internet because that's all we could afford. It wasn't cost effective and it was as slow as hell.Since changing to an 8 megabit service from Bulldog, he says, "Product-ivity is up, speed is up and sales are up. At the time we changed, we had two people in the office. We now have six, and four different people can do quotations at the same time."There are several immediate benefits which moving to faster internet services can bring. Connect-ions that are always on allow you to surf and talk simul-taneously, something that is particularly useful if you are starting to employ more people in the office.Faster connections can also be shared between multiple computers without them all grinding to a halt. And if you send a lot of documentation, then email can take the hassle - and the cost - out of getting your information to its destination.But not every business is making the most of broadband. A recent study by Brunel University found that some small businesses were actually suffering because they adopted high-speed connections: although they succeeded in reducing the number of tasks they had to undertake, the tasks that were remaining took longer to complete.Jyoti Choudrie, the operations director of the Brunel Broadband Research Centre, puts this down to lack of training in how to use fast systems efficiently and without abusing them."Small and medium organisations need to be made aware of how to use broadband to its full potential," she says. "It sounds obvious, but training in how to use broadband is key to using it effectively."Most, though, find that the positives outweigh the negatives. "It's brilliant," says Ben Jones, who runs club promotions company Fragile, which is based in Liverpool. He gets his connection from Telewest Blueyonder, and says it has proved invaluable to starting up his firm. "We use broad-band a lot for organising our printing. Our printers are based in Brighton, and sending proofs by courier would be expensive and take a lot of time. That's really important when we need a five-day turnaround."Business can also use broadband to turn towards newer technologies that may change the way they work. Jones, who works from home, has used inexpensive internet telephony to set up a business telephone line that means he doesn't have to hand out his home number to people."It gives us cheaper international calls as well, and if you're out of the office you can redirect it to your mobile," he says. The company also uses web services to send out text messages to clubbers, something that would be far more difficult on a slower connection.Getting on to broadband is largely a case of deciding which supplier suits your needs best. But first you will need to check whether your local telephone exchange is broadband-enabled. While services are closing in on being universally available, there are still many exchanges that cannot offer high-speed connections - particularly in more remote rural areas. To check if your exchange has not been upgraded, log in towww.bt.com/choosebroadband,a page which allows you to lobby BT to speed up in your area.If you are looking for an internet service provider to bring you up to speed, then it often pays to look towards a large provider - the kind that has national or near-national coverage. Though staying with a local ISP will get you an extremely personal service, they are likely to lease their broadband lines from BT Wholesale, due to the prohibitive cost of setting up inside telephone exchanges - the process known as "local loop unbundling".This means that large providers are generally able to provide better products at lower price points. Most of them have been long-term players in the business market, including the likes of Claranet and Demon. Some, like Bulldog and Easynet, have focused on pushing the highest possible speeds. Cable providers NTL and Telewest Blueyonder, meanwhile, are increasingly offering more options to business customers. And there is always BT.The best option is to check websites like ADSLGuide (www.adslguide.org.uk)and Broadband Help (www.broadband-help.com)for advice on the latest deals and offers. But there are a few important things to remember when picking your provider.Firstly, price isn't everything. Customer service may be important to you, particularly if you think you might need technical support. Support line call rates can be expensive, and some companies cut their costs by reducing the level of support available.Some also recoup money by enforcing contractual cancellation fees - Virgin, for example, recently announced a &#163;50 cancellation fee for anyone who leaves their network in the first 12 months. Many ISPs no longer use these sorts of methods to keep profits up, but check the fine print before you sign up.Speed of connection is also important, especially if you are planning to share one line among several workers. Ultimately it pays to take a good look around and to ask friends, colleagues and customers for their tips. But there has never been a better time to make the change - and it could even have benefits you'd never thought about."The computer and internet have become the heart of our business, when before it wasn't," says David Razavi. "It's more than worth the switch: you really can't go wrong."&#183;www.adslguide.org.uk&#183;www.broadband-help.com&#183;www.mybusiness.co.uk/aEsWN-Q.html&#183;www.dti.gov.uk/bestpractice/technology/internet-broadband.htm
Your business is healthy. Booming, in fact. Your outfit has grown from a handful of people working flat-out to produce a marketable product to something much bigger. The only trouble is, where once you prided yourself on knowing everyone in the company, the other day you arrived only to feel you'd wandered into the other building. Suddenly, you suspect, growth may also have a downside.What do you do? A number of approaches are possible, the first of which - funny enough - is to acknowledge that the original owner may indeed be in the wrong building, or at least the wrong job.Robert Drew, chief executive of mentoring service TEC International, says the nature of a business changes when it reaches a certain stage. "When you go from a small to a large business, often the big issue is whether you're the type of character who can take the business with you," he says."Often, the person who starts the business isn't the type of character who'll turn it into a professional business. They get bored with the professional processes that have to come into place." If you don't have the passion, he says, you won't drive the thing and it just won't work. If you are among the entrepreneurs who started their own business to get out of some perceived rat race or to get away from office politics, you're almost certainly not the person to pilot a large organisation.Richard Chiumento, chief executive of HR consultancy Rialto, agrees. "The entrepreneur will have the characteristics and market view to get the product to the market, but when you grow to about 20 people, they start to look impatient, and have an unrealistic view of how quickly things can be done. They then become a barrier, and they upset the workforce."Recruiting the right people isn't easy. "You need to have the right cast of characters - people who are self-starters, and one of the critical things is that the owner/manager has to be a leader rather than manager of resources," says Drew.The fourth item, he suggests, is a body of people around you who are not involved with the day-to-day running of the organisation. You need a sounding board, you need questioning and you need it without the office politics." This can happen through non-execs, which costs, or through a mentoring service such as that offered by Drew's company.Leadership does matter. Toby Ingham is a leadership coach (www.bloom-uk.com), and he believes a successfully growing business starts with a vision, which will already have been coherent enough to get someone to use it for a financially functioning, entrepreneurial model."If you're going to expand on that, you need your vision for how that's going to expand, and how you're going to share that vision. What I commonly see in leadership is that you can have people with good ideas but they fail to join them up with other people."A long-term view becomes vital, he says. "Another issue is the big "C" culture of the organisation compared with the small "c" culture of the employee," he adds. "In any organisation, if you want to have a long-term success, you need to think about how these two groups talk to one another."In larger companies, you can often see a culture in which new people just come in and fall into the assumed ways of thinking, so they're buying into old values that naturally don't include them."Indeed, the entrepreneur who finds his or her company has started to grow to a larger size than he or she had anticipated is likely to find that communications become a major barrier. One of the features of the small business is that ideas can be exchanged informally around the water cooler or coffee machine - it's a cliche, but it's become one because it happens a lot.As more people join, such processes don't happen as naturally. Jonathan Fitchew, managing director of Pareto Law, saw his company double in size. When it went from 30 to 60 people, he started putting strategies in place. "We did some grand things like going to Dubai, skiing, things like that," he said. "We found that as a once a year thing that was very good, but what we now do is to run a social committee. Five pounds is deducted from every employee's salary, and the company adds to that so &pound;15 per month goes into the social fund for everyone. Just two months ago we had a ten-pin and tapas evening between our London and Wilmslow office, so everybody went and we think it's one of the best things we ever did."The informality was restored and the emphasis will now be on smaller events rather than the grand gesture.Ingham welcomes informal workshops and brainstorming. "We spend too much time firefighting in business - it would be nice is if we could move away from thinking about the short term, and spend some time thinking about what's actually happening, getting feedback from the market as well as staff."People tend to panic when you suggest they should talk to each other, he says, but they need to do it. "Much of the problem is that businesses are attached to reporting short-term profit and turnover figures."Technology can also be a help, although it's never a substitute for talking to people. Justin Townsend is the chief executive of InGame Advertising, which has offices in the UK, Berlin and New York. "We use a lot of instant messaging and video conferencing," he says. "You also have to watch emails as you grow - when you get 100-150 emails a day, you have to judge which are the most useful, and we've found that people don't pay as much attention to email as they do to a phone call anyway."Alan Higham, chief executive of the Higham Group - a service provider to the life and pensions industry - is well aware of the issues surrounding rapid growth, having moved from 6 to 450 employees over the last seven years. "When I founded the firm, it was really to do things in a certain way, so I was very strong on culture and values," he explains. "It was easy enough to get the team all rallied round in the early days, and even when we got to 70 or 80, I still knew everyone by sight and could have told you something about their interests and their families. I still know a lot of the 400 permanent staff, but since we've employed 200 of them in the last 12 months you can't get to know everyone."His answer was to accept the impossibility of any one person knowing everyone in the business. "We've started focusing heavily on utilising everyone within the firm to maintain the small company feel. We've put effort into promoting and highlighting the values - for example, we have 'value awards' like a mini-Oscar ceremony."Promotion strategies have also been important. "We have a fairly flat structure with six levels," he says. "And 65 of the 67 people at level three are our home-grown graduate-level intake. Rather than recruit outside of the firm and bring in experienced people, we've given youth its head and promoted internally. It means we have to support people when they have less experience &#91;than an outsider might&#93; but we have fewer issues with cultural problems as a result."Evidence that this works came out when a 26-year-old level four manager took a team off to work on an offside project. The client had a backlog of work and the team had to be completely flexible about the tasks they took on. "The client was so satisfied they gave our team two days off - they paid us for two days' holiday because of the impact that we made!"Growing larger beyond a certain size has its challenges, and it is sometimes necessary to call in outside help. Chantal Bowman is director of the Inside Edge brand at communications company Golin Harris. "Most of our programmes are based around the notion that to communicate with employees effectively, you need to know what they want from you," she says. "We'd undertake research with employees starting with focus groups, and find out what they think the issues are with communications with management."Bowman cites one instance in the US in which the employees were delighted to be working in healthcare because it was important, but less delighted to be working for their particular employers. The answer in that instance was a company-wide poster campaign highlighting the importance of every employee in the chain, from the warehouse staff and drivers upwards. Staff satisfaction increased as a result.The thought of focus groups and poster campaigns internally may be a little scary in the early stages, but making everyone feel valued is a major part of running a larger business. The trick is to make those informal coffee-machine meetings continue to happen even when they need a more formalised structure. Whether this is done through the intranet, instant messaging or the local tapas bar is down to the employer.&middot; Think about whether it's time for you to continue as a chief executive but in a higher role, and hire a manager for the discipline and diligence which has to take place.Robert Drewof TEC&middot; Remember the cost. I've worked with two entrepren-eurs who worked 18 hours a day and never saw their families - one got divorced.Richard Chiumento, Rialto&middot; Keep communicating with staff and don't be afraid to have fun. One of the things we do is to celebrate birthdays at work. It keeps the friendly feel and people enjoy it.
&lt;BRJonathan Fitchew, Pareto Law&middot; Take the medium-term rather than the short-term view if possible, and keep in touch with your market.Toby Ingham, leadership coach&middot; For financing, use your own money if you can - or go to the bank. Don't dilute the equity."Robert Drew&middot; Keep the structures flat. When there are loads of layers of managers, you lose touch."Jonathan Fitchew&middot; If you have to give equity away, go for a business angel rather than a venture capitalist, as the latter really want to make a buck quickly."Robert Drew&middot; Watch the infrastructure for communications. If someone sends an email to 50 people it wastes time and bandwidth.Jonathan Fitchew&middot; Remember your objectives will no longer match those of your employees. "They will think it's just a job. You need to engage them."Richard Chiumento
MarketingThe writing's on the wallHave you ever been annoyed by graffiti? It might be worth checking closely next time, as it could be the work of graffiti artist Paul Curtis, who has picked up the O2 X Club Arena award for entrepreneur of the year. He won for his work with Symbollix, a group of artists who have developed a form of guerrilla marketing they believe to be eco-friendly, as it involves cleaning up and restoring small spaces on pavements and walls to turn them into advertising plots.SoftwarePush for proper licencesNew research from Centennial Software suggests that many businesses still have not grasped the need to obtain proper licenses for their software. The company, which sells automatic inventory tools, found from its operations that organisations have anywhere from 30% too many, to 30% too few licenses for the software they use. Having too many isn't serious, although paying for software that isn't being used is clearly wasteful. But more worrying were those businesses with insufficient licenses to cover their use, which can result in prosecution and financial loss.HeathcareA campaign with backboneThe Health and Safety Executive (HSE) has launched a campaign against back pain. Figures from the 2003/2004 Labour Force survey suggest that some 4.9m working days are lost annually as a result of bad backs, and that each affected employee takes about 19 days off work per year as a result. Backcare, the charity that does exactly what its name suggests, says the cost to the National Health Service is about &#163;5bn per year. For more information on the HSE's plans, visitwww.betterbacks.hsw.gov.ukSecurityMobile devices 'pose a risk'The growth of personal mobile devices - iPods, smartphones with memory or laptop computers - has given their manufacturers a lot to be happy about, but IT support staff are beginning to feel the negative points. A survey among corporate businesses, conducted by network specialist LANDesk, suggests that managers still believe laptops are the most difficult element of IT to manage securely. About 20% saw mobile phones as a threat, while 14% believed that MP3 players were a potential area of security risk. And 23% of managers in Europe admitted they had no way of controlling employees' use of personal devices.ConsumerismIre over Jersey VAT loopholeResentment of the VAT loophole that allows people to buy items cheaply from Jersey is growing, and the health food industry is the latest to join the protests, according to the Forum of Private Business. The Health Food Manufacturers Association says it is hit by two things: first, the price differential (since the Channel Islands are not subject to the same VAT and duty laws as the mainland) and second, the claims that offshore people can make about the products they sell. They would be barred from making a number of these claims in the UK, but the laws are different elsewhere.LegislationCould your data be leaked?Is your company fully aware of the implications of the Data Protection Act? According to research from IT company Hostway, about one million small-to-medium enterprises are at risk of leaking information because of poorly configured servers. A total of 59% of respondents admitted that their servers remained in their default configurations when they were installed, and said they had made no effort to adjust them to comply with any industry-specific requirements under the Act. While 27% conceded that their IT manager hadn't had any extra training in data protection matters.GovernmentSmall best for home workersThe remote worker is becoming more important in business - but curiously, the smaller enterprises are adopting the idea more than the larger businesses, says research from communications specialist Mitel. The main findings were that 72 per cent of decision makers within small firms allowed their employees to work remotely, while the figure sunk to 44 per cent for the larger firms. A similar survey in 2003 said that only 29% of companies would allow home working; clearly there has been legislation since then obliging people to consider it when it's requested, but it's a major leap for the smaller enterprise none the less.AccountingNew service adds upSage has launched a new service called Sage HR Advice. Using it, accountants can offer clients up to date HR advice including legal documents, and they can do this either through the website at a basic cost or using a hotline for a little extra cost. Sage has launched the scheme because its latest annual 'Business Heartbeat' survey suggests that 26 per cent of small businesses regard their accountant as their most reliable source of business advice, whereas accountants don't necessarily have the resources to offer expertise in every field. Sage has outsourced the call service to a specialist in the field.EntrepreneursBreak down in start-upsA new report from Barclays suggests the slowing down in high street sales is dampening entrepreneurial ardour in the UK, leading to fewer start-up businesses beginning in the first quarter of this year as compared with the first quarter of last year. The fall, from 129,500 in the first three months of 2004 to 116,300 in the same period this year, still represents an improve-ment on the 99,000 average for that time of year, the bank concedes, and it expects a positive figure for the year overall. Another figure the survey revealed was the bias in favour of male entrepreneurs: 29,000 women began a business during the quarter in question compared with 78,600 men. The bank has therefore decided to start an award scheme for female entrep-reneurs in conjunction with Handbag.com. For more visitwww.handbag.com/yourbusiness.
Tourists increasingly use online services to book their holidays. Those running small hotels, bed and breakfasts and self-catering accommodation can set up a website, possibly even with an e-commerce capability - although this may be too expensive to justify - but the site may or may not be found.It may be easier to use some kind of consolidator: but most online travel agencies focus on large hotels and chains. However, small accommod-ation businesses have trad-itionally relied on tourist boards for distribution and, in some parts of the UK, they have risen to the challenge of e-commerce.Both Wales (www.VisitWales.com) and Scotland (VisitScotland.com, a joint-venture between the Scottish tourist board VisitScotland, and IT services firm Atos) sell small providers' space online. The Welsh tourist board, which started in July 2002, charges 4.7% commission for bookings made through its website, compared with 10% for those made through the board's call centre or tourist information centres. VisitScotland.com, which started in October 2003, charges 10% commission for online sales - the same as for other channels.Last week, VisitScotland.com started a new service, Iona (Inventory Online Access), initially aimed at self-catering, although it is likely to be extended to other kinds of accommodation. The previous Scottish system required owners to allocate a certain number of units for VisitScotland.com to sell -making it unsuitable for single-unit accommodation, including many self-catering businesses.Iona is designed to handle all bookings online, allow owners to make discounts in slack periods in the fashion of large hotel groups, as well as allowing immediate booking of all rooms through VisitScotland.com's website, call-centre or through tourist information centres.VisitScotland's chief executive, Marco Truffelli, says it will be simple to use: "Our aim is not just to digitise the accommodation sector, but to make it easier for small businesses to promote themselves in the global economy," he says.Iona will also be able to accept full payments for the booking: previously, VisitScotland.com simply took its 10% at the time of booking, leaving the rest for the owner to process. "The vast majority of one-unit self-catering businesses don't have credit card facilities," says Truffelli. "So we're becoming their merchant services provider." Tourists will be charged a &#163;3 supplement for using credit cards: Truffelli says tourists are used to this, as budget airlines do the same.Small B&amp;Bs are among the users of the existing e-commerce system, including Margaret Hart, proprieter of the three-room Bluebell House in Inverness. She allocated two rooms to VisitScotland.com over the winter. "It's certainly much better for advance bookings," she says, adding that she was up 75% on the previous year. Hart already has bookings as far ahead as August: "It's great for me, as I know that business will be coming in."Hart sends in her allocation on paper and alters it by telephone, adding that this is a lot easier and faster than the old booking method, when a tourist information centre or VisitScotland.com's call centre would speak to a customer, phone her to check availability, sometimes wait for her to phone back, and only then confirm the booking.Hart says e-commerce booking is vital. "When I first arrived 16 years ago, it was all passing trade," she says. "Most people now book through the internet, VisitScotland.com or word of mouth. That's the way it has been for a few years now."Fiona Flynn runs Airlie Guest House, a B&amp;B in Edinburgh, and also uses the online booking service. "It's no better and no worse than any other advertising I do," she says. Flynn reckons she receives about the same number of bookings through VisitScotland.com as from SmoothHound.co.uk, an online directory of small accommodation, which passes on emails, rather than taking bookings itself. Its basic listings are free, although it charges up to &#163;150 for images, text and a link to a hotel's own website.However, Flynn says that VisitScotland.com has been displaying her standard current rate as if it were a reduced price. VisitScotland.com said this was because the system shows any price other than the top "rack rate" price as a reduction.England's provision varies from area to area. Cumbria tourist board (www.golakes.co.uk) opened an online booking service in July 2003. Members pay a fee on top of their standard membership, but no commission on bookings. Rather than allocate rooms, members are asked to update availability regularly and have to confirm reservations by email.Bournemouth (bournemouth.co.uk) offers those advertising in its brochure an e-commerce service at no extra fee, but charges 11% commission. A spokesperson says that B&amp;Bs and small guesthouses make up four of the five biggest users of the system.Other areas have no service. VisitBritain - responsible for marketing English tourism within the UK, as well as Britain to the rest of the world - says that the north-west and Yorkshire have made the most progress in offering e-commerce services, along with some parts of the south-west. Other regions are either developing systems, or reviewing their policies.VisitBritain planned to start supporting e-commerce last September through EnglandNet, a tourism data exchange system, but this is still being tested. Ray Veal, head of EnglandNet at VisitBritain, says the project suffered from various problems. At the start of this year, it moved from being a joint-venture of regional tourist organisations and VisitBritain, but is now solely run by the latter.EnglandNet will not sell accommodation directly, but will allow users of websites including VisitBritain's (www.visitbritain.com) to search availability data collected by England's tourist boards and commercial organisations, then hand them over to those organisations to make a sale - a concept it calls the "virtual High Street"."What it will let you do is find product that meets your requirements, then let you choose who you're going to book your product through," says Veal. He adds that VisitBritain hopes to open the service at the end of July, depending on the agreement of regional partners.Among the commercial providers, Active Hotels (www.activehotels.com)started by providing e-commerce for B&amp;Bs, and although it has broadened its client base, it still serves its original market. "All they need is an internet connection," says a spokesperson of its technical requirements. It charges around 15% commission with no fixed fees, and sells accommodation through around 1,500 websites and electronic networks, including Multimap.com and Yell.com.
Visible democracySwansea council meetings will be broadcast over the internet if proposals to modernise and open up its decision-making process are adopted. The idea was discussed during a recent meeting of the council's open Swansea member forum. The group is looking at various ways to allow citizens to participate more fully in local government affairs. The plan is to provide initial access to recordings of debates from the council chamber to assess demand. If the move proves popular, live meetings could follow. Other proposed measures include inviting the public to speak in support of their petitions, and instigating a public question time at the beginning of meetings.www.swansea.gov.ukNow I's 64Chip leviathan Intel is now calling itself a 64-bit company following the release of six Celeron chips in the company's Extended Memory 64 Technology (EM64T) range of processors. The Celeron D range forms the low-end of the EM64T family and offers a higher level of computing power when used with 64-bit hardware and software. The release completes Intel's rearguard action against its main competitor AMD, which launched an antitrust lawsuit against its rival in the American courts earlier this week. Intel still offers Itanium chips, which are incompatible with 32-bit x86 software, for high-end servers, but sees EM64T as being right for personal computers.www.intel.comFraud awarenessTracing and reporting fraud and unethical practices in companies is often left to whistleblowers and newspapers. Fraud-I believes that creating a policing policy within a company will minimise the chances of such public embarrassment. The British start-up company has devised an intranet extension, Fraud-I Online, to take employees through a short awareness course. This ensures everyone knows when rules are broken and helps them spot malpractices. It also tackles the delicate matter of how to report these illicit practices. The course ends with a multiple-choice questionnaire, which employees sign on completion to make them legally responsible for their future behaviour.www.fraud-i.comRisky businessWorkshare, a provider of document integrity solutions, is offering a free security add-in for Microsoft Office to alert users to the risk levels of their documents. Trace! V2 helps by uncovering visible or hidden content that may be sensitive or inappropriate. The company says that exposure of illegal information, content that violates corporate policy or invades personal privacy will help companies avoid a host of problems, including fines, adverse publicity, lost business and lawsuits. The software scans folders, emails and websites according to predetermined policies, looking for risks in the areas of intellectual property, financial disclosure, privacy and identity, profanity and regulatory restrictions.www.workshare.com/productsIBM tops the listIBM dominates the top of the list of the world's 500 most powerful supercomputers, which was released at the end of the 20th International Supercomputer Conference in Heidelberg, Germany, on Saturday. IBM Blue Gene machines take the top two places with US-based systems, and the company provides the processors for six of the top 10. Overall, however, the list is dominated by Intel, whose processors power 333 of the top 500, including 254 based on Pentium-compatible Xeon chips. Intel Itanium chips are used in 79 systems, and AMD chips in 25. IBM is the dominant manufacturer, with 259 systems, followed by Hewlett-Packard (131), SGI (24), Dell (21) and Cray (16). Most of these supercomputers are installed in the US, which has 277 of the top 500, followed by Germany (40) and the UK (32).www.top500.orgNew DellsDell has launched new Dimension 5100 and 9100 PCs that use a new format BTX motherboard in new "arctic silver and alpine white" cases. Dell says these have been redesigned "to help reduce noise and improve reliability and cooling". The 5100 has a standard Pentium with at least 512MB of memory, with prices starting at &pound;469 including delivery and VAT. The 9100 has the option of a dual-core Pentium D, and comes with a flat panel display instead of a CRT as standard.www.dell.co.uk/dimensionSun to goSun Microsystems has finally launched its first portable, the Sun Ultra 3 Mobile Workstation. It has a Sun UltraSparc processor running Sun's Solaris 10 version of Unix, and will be released next month with prices starting at $3,400. The system could appeal to developers and engineers. Tadpole Computer has been making Sparc-based portables for many years, including SparcBook and BullFrog models. It would not be a big surprise if the Ultra 3 models turned out to be rebadged versions of Tadpole and Naturetech portables, given that Sun's photos show these names on their screens.www.sun.comwww.tadpolecomputer.comwww.naturetechws.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The best video recorders on sale pair a device for making temporary timed recordings - invariably a hard disk - with something to archive them on, such as a DVD recorder. Until recently, such combi recorders were a financially painful upgrade, costing four or five times more than VHS models.Taiwanese maker Mustek has, however, driven the price down with its R580 DVD/hard disk recorder, which costs &pound;245. The box is much heavier than you'd expect, though still slim and stylish. It is also simple to set up thanks to the well-labelled remote control and the sensibly designed on-screen menu. For recordings, you can either capture video on the 80GB hard disk or on to DVD (either DVD+RW, DVD-RW or their write-once equivalents). There are five quality levels but, unless you are just recording soaps, you will probably only use the top two. To make timed recordings, you have to use a rather primitive VHS-style timer system. While playback on both the hard drive and DVD is satisfactory, it lacks the resolution and colour rendition of pricier rivals from Philips and Toshiba. For the cash-strapped home cinephile, however, the R580 is well worth considering.www.mustek.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
"The entertainment industry has won a famous victory," said the Lex column of theFinancial Timeson Wednesday. "The US supreme court made a unanimous decision that file-sharing services can be held legally responsible for distributing products to facilitate illegal downloads. That provides a huge boost to the film and music companies' fight against online piracy.""At issue in the case - Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios v Grokster - was whether file-sharing services should be held liable even if they have no direct control over what millions of online users are doing with the software the services provide for free," explained theDenver Post. "The decision sends the case back to a lower court, which had ruled in favour of the file-sharing services Grokster Ltd and StreamCast Networks Inc on the grounds that the companies couldn't be sued."That lower court ruling, explainedBusiness Week Online, had depended on a 1984 court case, in which Universal Studios sued Sony, arguing that Betamax video-recorders threatened its business by making the illegal taping of movies easier. Universal lost. "When the court took up Grokster, tech companies and cyber-libertarians feared the worst - that Betamax would be overturned and any technology that could be used to illegally copy content could be sued out of existence.""Fast-forward (or, if you prefer scene-skip) to Monday," said theLos Angeles Times. "Justice David Souter, writing for the court, did not answer the question everyone thought he would - namely, whether trading music online is more or less similar to taping a movie on a VCR. Instead, he asked a completely different question: do users download more Shakespeare or Modest Mouse? Put another way, the question is not so much whether the technology can be used illegally, but how it is actually used. If it can be proved that its makers induced people to use it illegally, they can be sued."TheBoston Globeobserved that "supporters of file-sharing worry that the court is trying to throttle software innovation," butUSA Todayreassured them: "Even if the   digital entertainment companies win against Grokster when the case returns to the lower courts, they'll likely find that technology moves far faster than the law ... Ultimately, the rapid advancement of technology gives ... the entertainment industry no real option beyond pricing their products attractively and making them easily available. By doing this, they may succeed in convincing most people to play by the rules."The Lex column agreed the threat to software development had been overplayed. "The software industry is sure to continue coming up with new ways to make &#91;file-sharing&#93; easier. The   bottom line is that illegal file-swapping is not about to disappear," it said. The onus was now on the entertainment industry "to promote legal digital download services. Finding a powerful model for legal file-sharing should be part of that."The court's 24-page opinion was "heavy on common sense and lacking in apocalyptic" pronouncements, said Business Week Online. "Notably absent from the Grokster opinion is any condemnation of file-swapping networks at all. In fact, the court took pains to point out the technology has legitimate uses, including distribution efficiencies for libraries, universities and governments."In fact, suggested Heather Newman in theDetroit Free Press, the main victims of the ruling could be ordinary punters. "That's because it gives recording and movie interests a much bigger club to hold over the heads of file-sharing services - a club that could force the online file services to divulge more information about their users and might even compel the makers of digital devices to build file-protection protocols into new players," she wrote."With greater accountability," she warned, "there's a long-term danger that your personal information ... may not stay private. And because those services and makers of recording devices like MP3 players now have a higher standard to uphold, you may find that you soon have less flexibility to make personal copies of your music and movie files."
What do you do, exactly?Help people look at the world - and act in it - in different ways than would be possible in their normal working situations. The result is to kick-start innovation processes, because we expose people to questions, people and situations they have not encountered before.So you are not a design guru, you're a symposiarch?The word is from Greek democracy. After a day's formal deliberations, senators would continue informally over a dinner orchestrated by the symposiarch (architect of symposiums). His task was to pose a pertinent question, and make sure everyone contributed.How would you define design?Herb Simon said: "Everyone designs who devises courses of action aimed at changing existing situations into preferred ones." Victor Papanek said that "design is basic to all human activities - the placing and patterning of any act towards a desired goal constitutes a design process". Designing is what human beings do to organise their world.What is your book, In the Bubble, about?The phrase "in the bubble" is used by air traffic controllers to describe their state of mind when they are in the flow, and in control. Most of us feel far from in control. We are filling the world with technology and devices, but have lost sight of an important question: what is this stuff for and what value does it add to our lives? My book is one answer to that question.The book is about social fiction, not science fiction?Science fiction imagines exotic futures shaped by fabulous new technologies. Social fictions describe new ways of doing today's daily life activities - from growing food to looking after children. The role of designers in social fiction changes from packing tech into gadgets, to developing the platforms and infrastructures we need to do daily life in new ways. A favourite example is time-banking, or bartering time and expertise.In the book, you talk about "people formerly known as users". Why? Do you prefer the term "prosumer"?"Users" are perceived by too many companies as passive masses whose role in life is to receive - and pay for - egregious pre-packaged content. I refuse that role. I can't stand the hybridised words thrown up by guru-speak such as "prosumer". "Glocalisation" is another ghastly one.What are your favourite places online?Wingham Rowan's project to create an infrastructure for micro-selling and time banking on the net (www.nationalmarkets.com). I have been banging on for years about the revolution that will happen when local economy trading schemes migrate to the net. Rowan's scheme could help that happen on a huge scale.Favourite gadget?This sounds naff but I love my Laguiole knife and am unmoved by all other gadgets.&#183;Visit:www.doorsofperception.comIn the Bubble is out now from MIT press.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The proposed directive would be a disaster for software development in Europe. It would threaten the existence of companies like mine, stifle innovation, reduce competition and drive up prices. The drive for patents comes from the European patent office seeking to expand its remit and intense lobbying of companies that want to avoid competition while talking about innovation.Physical invention - such as drugs, new types of microchips or carburettors - generally involves huge risks, as it deals with complex objects and processes. Development and product life cycles are long, the technology evolves slowly and capital investment is high.All this acts as a disincentive to invent without a guarantee that others will not simply take your invention and copy it. The granting of a limited anti-competitive monopoly in such situations is the reward and incentive for producing socially useful inventions that would otherwise not have been created. We get new good things, the inventor gets a patent for a while.Programming, by comparision, is different: it needs little capital, it is quick to create, development is rapid and products have short lives. "Invention" involves small steps built on a huge pool of ideas that exist. The risk is significantly lower. It is much more akin to writing a novel than creating an anti-cancer drug - the weaving of pure ideas from the past with a pinch of new to create a something never seen before. What has protected software developers in the past has been sensible copyright laws. This has produced an industry that has proven to be vibrant, successful, competitive and innovative.Introducing an anti-competitive monopoly on ideas would not have the same effect as with physical inventions. Once granted a monopoly, patent holders can extort what is effectively a tax, or squeeze rivals out of the market without any genuine competition. They don't even have to bring their "inventions" to market, but simply use them as a barrier to entry for competitors.In the US, which allows computer programs to be patented, software developers are forced to divert resources into patent searches and registration at great cost to themselves and customers. Development is also uncertain and risky, because it becomes impossible to know who owns the software you write.Copyright is all that is needed to protect software development. Patents will be counter-productive and harm most of us.&#183;Bruno NicolettiDirector, The Foundrywww.thefoundry.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Europe's impending decision on how to deal with the patenting of software is one of technology's hottest potatoes. It is also one of the most complex. A host of contradictory arguments veer between baffling legalese and wild speculation.In essence, the argument is about the way in which "computer-implemented inventions" will be granted patents in the Software Patent Directive. The European Parliament is set to vote on the directive in two weeks' time, and wrangling over its contents has been going on at length.Anti-patent campaigners fear the patenting of "pure software" or simple lines of code. This, they say, will stifle innovation because so much of the software process is about refining products created by others. In these pages last week, open source campaigner Richard Stallman likened such patents to claiming ownership of basic structures in a novel, such as plot.Pro-patent groups believe the ability to register software patents is necessary to protect those who put considerable time and money into such developments, and look to systems operating in America that reward businesses who pump money into R&amp;D. Why, they say, would anyone spend money coming up with an innovation if the market were then able to adopt it for nothing?Some processes are so simple and vital that nobody should be able to patent them. But are some software processes so innovative that they should remain the property of their inventors, at least for a time?The issue should be where to draw the "sensible" line between what is innovative and what is ordinary. The argument, though, gets bogged down by questions on whether such a line should exist at all. And with the software industry sharply divided, European parliamentarians are often forced to rely on lobbyists to understand the issues.The argument is complicated. But if Europe does not hear all the evidence, justice may not be done.
Patents for software inventions have existed in Europe for years, and the legal requirements are no different than the requirements for patenting advances in other technologies.Software patents do not "restrict" computer users; they will not "tie up" software developers; the European consumer will not be harmed. The US has allowed software patents even longer than Europe. It is easier to file infringement suits in the US, and hard for victorious defendants to force losing plaintiffs to pay their legal bills: nevertheless, the US software industry leads the world.Critics tend to omit the precise features of patent law that defeat their arguments. The world's patent laws do not protect "mundane" advancements in any field. A patentable invention must satisfy the legal tests of novelty, inventive step and industrial applicability.A patent examiner - an impartial governmental official - reviews pending patent applications, and even if the examiner allows the patent, it will only last a limited time.We are supposedly entering a "knowledge economy", and intellectual property law represents the collective body of laws for protecting knowledge. Exempting software would create an odd economic and legal aberration whose full effects could not be easily determined.The appeal of the patent system is fairly clear: assume you invent the software controls that enable low-cost, zero-emission engines. With a patent system, you may be compensated for your labours. Without a patent system, your compensation depends upon the ability to exploit the invention against competitors who may have enormous intrinsic advantages over you.No one suggests waiving the novelty and inventive step requirements for any patentable technology. So, the only issue is whether software has industrial utility. If it does, for example in software for avionics, power station controls and life support monitors, then patenting could not be more appropriate.Much of the critique of software patents arises in the open source movement, which proposes that software be monetised (if at all) by the sale of professional services. But no business model should be forced upon every company in any industry.Europe has slim prospects for becoming a paradise for junk patents, software or otherwise. Among other things, patents can be opposed and invalidated. But if Europe is to ban software patents, then it should do so for the right reasons.&#183;Tom EwingIntellectual Property Attorney, CIPwww.cip.chalmers.se&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
There used to be a time when running a television channel was the preserve of large corporations or rich media tycoons. But if Iolo Jones gets his way, anyone will be able to have their own station. Later this year, Narrowstep, where Jones is chief executive, hopes to position itself as the "eBay of personal broadcasting", by offering punters the chance to set up their own web-based TV channels.Consumers will be able to upload their home videos via their internet service provider or a web portal, create a look and feel for the channel, develop their own schedules and broadcast to the broadband world.Narrowstep already offers 40 channels, many of which can be accessed via its website (www.narrowstep.com). Some stations are created by the company, while others, such as the Blueyonder.tv service the company recently launched for Telewest, are tailor-made for specific clients.Jones is confident the time is right for an explosion of broadband TV channels. "To see quality images on a full screen, people need broadband connection speeds of 800kbps and above - a growing number of people have that speed," he says.Jones believes there are also plenty of potential broadcasters who are not just those looking for extra distribution outlets of channels shown on satellite or camcorder-owning parents. With start-up fees from about &pound;5,000 per year, many web-only stations are springing up, and Narrowstep offers stations covering niche hobbies such as surfing and sailing.Vikas Agrawal, head of strategy and innovation, Siemens Business Services, says: "Broadband will take us beyond the 500 channel world of TV to a 5m channel world of the web. It will be the unique, niche content that will drive this change."BT, which offers a wide range of video-on-demand content, is also excited about the technology. "With broadband, there's a real opportunity to deliver niche content to particular communities," says Andrew Burke, chief executive BT Entertainment. Next year, BT will offer an IPTV (internet protocol TV) set-top box, which connects to a TV and offers live channels via Freeview's digital terrestrial services and video-on-demand through broadband. Cable companies are also expected to use IPTV services, and Home Choice has been offering a broadband TV subscription service for five years.But will users really be happy to watch TV channels via the web? "Even though we offer different ways to access the broadcasts, including video-on-demand, we find that 70% of viewers just watch live TV," says Jones.Maybe, in spite of red buttons, TV is a passive experience after all.
The UK broadband market could be on the verge of a shake-up. In response to the latest review of fixed-line services by regulator Ofcom, BT has announced plans to make it cheaper and more attractive for third parties to install the hardware needed to deliver broadband services across its network of exchanges.It is a move that should accelerate a process known as local loop unbundling, which is intended to introduce more competition to the high-speed internet market. The result should be lower prices, faster connection speeds and a wider range of broadband-based services. But in the short-term, not everyone will be able to reap the full benefits.The vast majority of ADSL broadband services are delivered via IP Stream, a product owned by BT Wholesale and sold on to other service providers. Broadband packages tend to be underpinned by the same technology and offer much the same functionality - essentially internet access at speeds of up to 2Mbps. As Ian Fogg, an analyst specialising in the broadband market at Jupiter Media, points out: "ISPs can't really differentiate themselves on technology. The only real way they can differentiate themselves is through their brand and customer service."It wasn't meant to be this way. When BT began to roll out ADSL broadband across its exchanges in 2000 and 2001, it was required by the regulator - then Oftel - to allow rivals to develop alternatives to IP Stream and connect at the level of the "local loop". A few tried, but dropped out, deterred by high costs and an uncertain market.But the situation is changing. Bulldog offers connection speeds of up to eight megabits per second, much faster than the maximum from most ISPs. This is only possible because Bulldog - a subsidiary of Cable &amp; Wireless - has installed equipment in about 400 exchanges. It is not the only player. Easynet, one of the UK's oldest ISPs, is also offering 8Mbps, and Tiscali has "unbundled" 27 locations, with plans to raise that to 200 by the end of the year. BT is seeing a serious invasion of its personal space.So why the sudden flurry of competitive activity? According to Alan Ryan, director of Broadband Channels at Easynet, local loop unbundling is now more attractive economically. "There has been pressure on BT from the regulator to cut costs," he says. "And the cost of the technology is falling. That means ISPs can see a return on investment."BT last cut costs for third parties using its exchanges last year after an Ofcom consultation exercise, and it will do so again this autumn in response to the regulator's latest report which called on BT to take steps to create a healthier competitive environment. Also, BT is to fix the price of its wholesale broadband products until there are 1.5m unbundled lines. The intention is to provide competitors with a degree of price certainty.What will this mean for internet users? Once unleashed from the shackles of BT Wholesale's IP Stream pricing model, unbundlers are free to experiment with prices, services and business plans. We are already seeing more choice and diversity.Bulldog Internet has been marketing its &pound;29.50/8Mbps services to businesses and consumers, while Tiscali's priority is trying to ensure it can offer a &pound;14.99/1Mbps connection to all home users. These two approaches are fundamentally different, with Bulldog targeting tech-savvy households and Tiscali eyeing a more general audience."Our experience suggests that &pound;14 to &pound;16 is a natural price point for consumers," says Tiscali UK's chief executive Mary Turner. "Once you offer more than 2Mbps, most would question whether they need the extra speed, especially if it means paying &pound;30 or more."David Ferguson, marketing director for Bulldog, disagrees, arguing that Wi-Fi in the home will drive demand for faster connection speeds. "We're seeing families using our service because it enables several people to seamlessly use the same connection".While it is debateable whether the average consumer will feel the need for a massive hike in bandwidth, many business users certainly will.For one thing, an 8Mbps connection opens the door to packages combining email and net access with low-cost telephony based on Voice over Internet Protocol technology. While phone services are possible on 2 megabit connections, the reality is that just a few simultaneous calls would eat up the bandwidth.Higher-speed connections offer, depending on the functionality offered by your ISP, the option of allocating bandwidth specifically for voice to protect quality. Turner, Ferguson and Ryan are agreed that telephony will be a key driver in the uptake of unbundled broadband services.BT is unlikely to sit back and watch its market being eaten away. The company has been trialling ADSL2 plus technology, which could offer speeds of 28Mbps. According to Fogg, pressure from rivals could prompt a quicker roll-out. It already has broadband telephony offers, including the newly introduced Fusion phone. "Prices aren't compelling at the moment," says Fogg. "But if there is market pressure, all it has to do is tweak its tariffs."And BT remains in an enormously strong position, with its IP Stream product reaching more than 90% of the internet population. For the moment, any ISP with ambitions to provide a universal service will have to use the IP Stream product, which will limit the introduction of new services based on alternative technology. "Local loop unbundling will lead to innovation," says Fogg. "But the class of service will depend on where you live."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Today's reviewscover a true classic from the past plus one of this year's finest games so far. The former is Sensible Soccer, bought back to life on one of those plug-straight-into-your-telly things. The use of a pad as a controller is my only issue. I'm a purist - Sensi should only be played with aCompetition Projoystick - but this looks like a decent version all the same, despite the original's use of real player names not surviving the transition. I reviewed one of 2005's finest titles so far -God of War. This gorgeous hack 'n slash adventure will re-affirm any waning interest in action games. Or at least remind you of how good a PS2 game can look. Last up, in an high quality week for reviews, is Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones - a RPG for the not-yet-forgotten Game Boy Advance. "Sacred Stones has impressive amounts of gameplay for the money", said reviewer Rhianna Pratchett.
This has been a bleak week for mankind. On Monday, Britain's top chess player Michael Adams, who is rated seventh in the world, concluded his best-of-six-games match with the Hydra supercomputer. He had known that taking on this monster - a 64-way cluster computer that analyses 200m moves per second - was going to be tough. But he surely can't have envisaged quite how voracious the monster would be: Adams managed a solitary draw in the six games, losing heavily in the other five. As the Hydra team crowed at the end, "Man is dead - long live the machine."There are a variety of ways of viewing this result. First, you have to feel sorry for Adams, a 33-year-old chess professional. When Garry Kasparov lost to Deep (or, more accurately, Deeper) Blue in 1997, at least the result was close - the machine squeaked it by a single point. But he was still psychologically wrecked and spent the next five years telling anyone who would listen that the computer was getting human assistance during games. It is hugely upsetting for a chess grandmaster to be beaten by an assemblage of microchips.So, bad news for Adams. But even worse news for chess as a whole. It is already in a trough, thanks to the charismatic Kasparov's recent retirement and political shenanigans within the sport that have left it without a generally agreed world champion. Now that a wretched machine is demonstrably better than any human, will anyone care who the best non-silicon player is? If a machine could be constructed that could beat Roger Federer, would we be so glued to Wimbledon?The third point - and, admittedly, this is science-fiction - is the question of what machines can ultimately achieve. If they can outwit man over the chessboard and, in the space of 20 years, develop from basic chess calculators to sophisticated super-grandmaster-level chess players, who knows what they can ultimately do. Remember, Neanderthal man once thought he was in control. If machines can master the Sicilian Defence (Scheveningen Variation), none of us is safe.The aptly named Hydra is financed by the Abu Dhabi-based PAL Group, and the computer is housed in a secure server room in the emirate. All Adams could see during his match at Wembley Conference Centre in north London was a man dressed in black with a shiny laptop, connected to the monster by an internet link.I met the man in black, German computer expert Ulf Lorenz, before the fourth game in the Adams match. In fact, Adams's only chance may have been our photographer, who - just before Adams arrived and much to the Hydra project manager's annoyance - started manoeuvring the laptop to get a better picture, in the process almost dislodging a wire. Oh, that he had succeeded - mankind might have been saved!Lorenz let me play a game against his Frankenstein's monster. I am a fair-to-middling player and lasted a respectable 38 moves, but I can't claim Hydra was ever sweating. He - why do I assume Hydra is male? - grabbed a pawn, I launched a speculative attack and eventually got my comeuppance. It was a little disconcerting when, at about move 32, Lorenz told me Hydra was predicting "mate in eight". The thing isn't just a cold-blooded monster; it likes to gloat, too.Lorenz claims Hydra is now the strongest chess-playing entity in the world. "We think we have crossed the 3,000 ELO line," he says. ELO measures the strength of chess players; Kasparov, at his strongest, would have been just above 2,800, so to reach 3,000 is like cutting 20 seconds from the world record for the 1500 metres. No human player could compete with that."Once it was thought that humans played almost perfect chess," says Lorenz. "Grandmasters were seen as perfect and it was said that no one could ever play ELO 3,000 because there's a limit. Now we see this is wrong. It was also said a grandmaster would always be able to get at least a draw by keeping control of the game. That has been proved wrong, too."Twenty years ago, no one would have believed a computer would beat a grandmaster. Now, with Adams' defeat, the game is up - grandmasters are not just being beaten, they are being humbled. "Surely it is the end of the line for us human chess players," I suggest to German grandmaster Christopher Lutz, another key member of Hydra's programming team.He tells me not to be so melodramatic. "There are certain things a computer can simply do better than a human," he argues. "I am not really worried about it. It is still worth humans competing against each other."I hope Lutz is right, but fear for the future of chess. The grandmaster - eccentric, all-seeing, unbeatable - was an iconic figure in the public mind. Now he has been rumbled. The grandmaster sees seven or eight moves ahead; Hydra calculates twice that number on average, more if it exerts itself. Hydra's programmers say that human players rarely play 10 optimum moves in succession; the computer plays optimum moves all the time. It has never lost to a human; perhaps it never will."Chess at a crossroads" proclaimed the posters at Wembley Conference Centre. Now the road has been chosen - and, speaking as a human, I don't care for the destination.&#183;Moss v Hydra game:&#91;White "moss"&#93;
&#91;Black "Hydra/Scylla-1.06bC"&#93;
&#91;Result "0-1"&#93;
&#91;ECO "B90"&#93;1. e4 c5 
2. Nf3 d6
3. d4 cxd4
4. Nxd4 Nf6
5. Nc3 a6
6. a4 e6 
7. Bd3 Nc6 
8. Nxc6 bxc6
9. O-O Be7
10. f4 O-O
11. e5 dxe5
12. fxe5 Qd4+ 
13. Kh1 Qxe5
14. Bf4 Qc5
15. Ne4 Nxe4
16. Bxe4 f5
17. Bd3 Bf6
18. c3 e5
19. Bg3 g6
20. Qb3+ Kg7
21. Rad1 Qa7
22. Bc4 Qc7
23. Rd2 a5
24. Rfd1 Re8
25. Bf2 Rb8
26. Qa2 e4
27. Ba6 e3
28. Bxe3 Rxe3
29. Bxc8 Qxc8
30. Rd7+ Kh6 
31.Qf7 Qe8 
32. Qxh7+ Kg5
33. h4+ Kg4
34. Rf1 Rb7
35. Rxb7 Re1
36. Qxg6+ Qxg6
37. Rxe1Bxh4
38. Rd1 Bf2
 0-1
Boysstuff is a gadget site. It was growing nicely, but deliveries were happening too slowly, and off-the-shelf software didn't look like the answer. Guy Clapperton speaks to founder Richard North and IT and operations director Mav Peri.GC: Tell me about your company.RN:It is six years old. We started with two or three people for the first year, and turnover was about &pound;400,000. There are now 25 people. We sell gifts and gadgets, big boys' toys and hobbyist items. Hobbyist items are pertinent at the moment because we're looking for growth in that area over the next two or three years. We sell predominantly online, but we do give people the opportunity to buy over the phone, and via mail order forms that come with our brochure. Although readership of our mail order brochure is in excess of 2 million a year, we actually find out customers prefer to buy online.GC: So you grew to an extent and then had a problem? I understand your "back office" systems weren't talking to your "front office". What does this mean?RN:At the beginning, I lost about 40% of the start-up capital we'd raised. We'd employed an IT company who'd sold us the idea that they could build an e-commerce site for us. They did just that, but it didn't communicate with our systems in the back office.GC: What is the "back office"?MP:The big problem was that we had a standard office finance package for all the purchasing, and we had a very full e-commerce program that was generating the orders - and trying to marry those two up was proving impossible. There were huge bottlenecks in almost every aspect of the business, between invoicing and distributing the orders, and there were hold-ups printing the slips so we could get them out of the door.GC: Orders were being held up - did you lose any?MP:It was a mix. We were definitely losing orders and the program couldn't cope with the traffic and the number of transactions.GC: Do you know how many orders you might have lost?MP:To give you an example, at one point we had two days' downtime during the peak season at the end of November. Two days' downtime when we couldn't invoice online - and a full day of processing is a lot of time.GC: So you identified the problem. How did you go about finding a solution?RN:We looked at the different systems on the market. Predominantly they were based on legacy systems - by which we mean products that were built to handle traditional mail order, where most of the orders are taken over the phone. They then had modules built in to accommodate e-commerce, so you had the worst of the old world put together with the new. When I met Mav, I persuaded him to join us, not on the strength of remuneration, but on the provision that he would become a shareholder. He had harboured a desire to create and build a New Age system that was an all-in-one, handled the mail order requirements, but would also cater for e-commerce customers, so we could profile customers.GC: So you mapped out your requirements?RN:Yes. People browse the site in different ways and, of course, people leave the basket and don't buy anything. Finding out why people leave the basket page is the big mystery. We built a system called ePandora, and when the company that hosts our systems called us two years ago, we realised we had a lot of concurrent users. They knew the systems that were out there crashed at approximately 100 concurrent users. We were on about 6-700 concurrent users. They came and had a look, and then invited a lot of other people to come in. People said it was different to what they were using, and that it was very effective.GC: How long did it take you to build this system?MP:We've been working on it steadily since 2001. We launched the first version at the end of 2002 and have been developing it since, adding modules and enhancing performance.GC: So was the investment worth it?RN:I think so. We've invested heavily in this in terms of an IT team, but in that period, you've got four people and the man hours and time involved, so it's a lot of cost. I think it becomes worth it when we either acquire other businesses and run them on it, or we partner with someone who runs our systems to power their e-commerce activity.GC: Have you done either of those things?RN:We started Gadgetstuff.com with virtually a zero marketing budget and with no push at all, and this year it will do over &pound;500,000 in sales. That's just because some of the features of ePandora are things like auto-search engine optimisation, so we get all the traffic and sales. Another area where it's going to pay off is in its white label ability. If you look at Empire Direct, we're powering their gifts and gadgets offering. You go on their site and you'd think that all of it is Empire Direct, even the shopping basket, but it's all powered through ePandora. Another example is quad bikes. They cost &pound;1000 and take up a lot of storage space. We're working with the importer who has all the warehousing and space. They'll access our dispatch terminal through the web, the customer will go onto our white label quad bike site, the order gets checked through ePandora and a dispatch note is generated at the warehouse site. Our couriers are notified so the product gets delivered 24 hours later. It's bringing us into the area of large, high-ticket items without the costs of storage and other logistics.
Record companies have unleashed a further wave of lawsuits against music fans they accuse of illegally downloading copyrighted songs from the internet.Just days after a landmark supreme court ruling said websites that let people download copyright material could also be sued, record labels announced a new round of lawsuits against 784 people.The so-called John Doe suits bring the total number of legal actions mounted by the Recording Industry Association of America, the body that represents the major record labels, to nearly 11,000.The RIAA said it was targeting users of peer-to-peer sites such as Limewire, Bearshare and Grokster, the online service whose legal battle with MGM led to Monday's landmark ruling."On Monday, the supreme court provided a real shot in the arm to legitimate online music services and unanimously injected moral clarity into this debate," said Mitch Bainwol, the RIAA chairman."If there was any doubt left, there should now be none: Individuals who download music without permission are breaking the law. Our efforts to defend the rights of record labels, musicians, songwriters and others in the music community from theft will certainly continue and likely be strengthened in the weeks and months ahead."The BPI - the equivalent of the RIAA in the UK - said it would not rule out further legal action against individuals in this country."We've sued 90 people to date in the UK and while we are not currently announcing any additional actions that doesn't mean that we are at the end of that process," said a BPI spokesman."The supreme court ruling means that companies can now be sued for making money out of copyright theft but that doesn't change the degree to which personal individual responsibility is involved.""It would be a bit like saying that it's illegal to sell crowbars that can be used to break into cars then not prosecuting people for breaking into them."He said the majority of the 90 individuals, including children, against whom the BPI has taken legal action had already settled out of court, paying average fines of &#163;2,500.The music industry believes unauthorised downloading and uploading - where individuals make large number of tracks available for others to upload free of charge - costs it millions of pounds in lost revenues.However, critics of the legal actions dispute the link between lost revenues and file sharing, saying the link has never been proved especially among younger fans who download music they might not otherwise buy.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Another interesting EA Sports story has just come in. The company is allegedly developing a new personalisation system for the next-gen era, which will allow gamers to create their own avatar and then drop it into any EA Sports title. Apparently, players will move this character and his/her stats between games so they could be a +5 handicap in Tiger Woods PGA Tour, a Chelsea striker in FIFA and a quarterback in Madden. Better still, the portable avatar system may feature EyeToy support allowing users to photograph their face and paste it onto the in-game representation.EA has, of course, been working in this direction for a couple of years, most noticeably with itsGameFacetechnology, found in the latest iterations of Tiger Woods, but this cross-game personalisation feature, reminiscent in some ways of the Xbox 360Gamer Card, seems to be a much more advanced proposition.
Yesterday, Anand Lal Shimpi published an article called Microsoft's Xbox 360 &amp; Sony's PlayStation 3 - Examples of Poor CPU Performance, and as ourGamesblogpoints out, it seems to have disappeared.The gist of the piece is that the (PS3) Cell and (Xbox) Xenon processors, both based on IBM's PowerPC cores, deliver significantly worse real-world performance than yer boring old AMD or Pentium D. It says:Just because these CPUs and GPUs are in a console doesn't mean that we should throw away years of knowledge from the PC industry -- performance doesn't come out of thin air, and peak performance is almost never achieved. Clever marketing however, will always try to fool the consumer.And that's what we have here today, with the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. Both consoles are marketed to be much more powerful than they actually are, and from talking to numerous game developers it seems that the real world performance of these platforms isn't anywhere near what it was supposed to be.As a comment on Gamesblog points out, someone posted the text onUsenet.Comment:I wouldn't set too much store by this: ultimately, the results that matter are the ones based on real hardware and software bought over the shelf. That's months away on the Xbox 360 and probably more than a year away for the PS3. Also, it's not unusual for suppliers to overhype their products, with Sony's Emotion Engine in the PS2 being an obvious example. But the points Anand makes are still interesting....
Konami has released some new screens of Pro Evolution Soccer 5 today including this one of buck-toothed genius, Ronaldinho, probably about to perform another astounding slight of foot. I always get annoyed when fresh PES or FIFA images are unveiled because invariably they're taken at these ridiculous close-up angles that you never encounter during actual gameplay. Of course, I knowwhythey do it - they want you to be blown away by the incredible character modelling, but images like this tell us nothing about the game itself. Can't we just have a couple of shots with the camera at the furtherst distance out? Y'know, so we can see what it'll be like to play?Anyway, Konami has revealed few details yet, apart from this press release which announces that John Terry will be back as a 'figurehead' (i.e. costly endorser) for the game:"Due for release in Q4 2005, Pro Evolution Soccer 5 furthers the realism, on and off-the-ball movement and intuitive control of the best-selling football series with Producer Shingo 'Seabass' Takaska and his team at KCE Tyo Inc. implementing a host of new gameplay features and aesthetic touches as he continues his quest to deliver the most realistic football title on any format."It is this realism that, as with many other top level footballers, attracted Terry to Pro Evolution Soccer. A confirmed fan, the Chelsea captain has hosted tournaments at home for his team mates and takes copies with him when on International duty. As such, his knowledge of the game and position as one of the world's greatest young talents makes him a perfect figurehead for the forthcoming Pro Evolution Soccer 5."
Anyone who searches regularly for articles and documents on subscription websites knows the problem: you can only search them one at a time because their content does not appear in normal web searches. Yahoo thinks it has the solution in what it calls its Search Subscriptions service, which allows users to search up to seven closed sites, as well as combine subscription searches with ordinary web searches.This is known as "deep search", because it goes beyond the surface level of what is openly available on the web, and provides access to what may be larger and more detailed silos of information.The advantage of using YSS is that you don't have to perform the same search multiple times on different "deep" sites. The catch is that you have to be a subscriber to view any of the results, though in some cases you will be able to pay per view.Yahoo is offering a beta service that searches FT.com, The Street.com, Forrester Research and The Wall Street Journal, among others. Factiva and LexisNexis, the big news and data search rivals, will be added in the coming months. Yahoo says the main benefit to the owners of these sites is exposure to its 320m users, some of whom may decide to subscribe.Yahoo does not charge publishers to be listed, or take a percentage from new subscriptions or one-off article sales made via the service. It also says it has no firm idea how many UK or Europe subscription sites are under consideration for its service, but it is accepting nominations from users.Salim Mitha, director of Yahoo Search UK and Ireland, says the development of the service depends on feedback. "We don't know where this will go yet. If it is popular with users and publishers, the listing of sites will increase," he says. "We are the first to do this, so it is very much in beta &#91;test&#93; at the moment. The one thing users have said is that they like being able to mix the results of searching on a subscriber site with searching the web."Yahoo says the service targets all its users, not just those who are likely to pay for content in this manner. However, in the US, there are signs it is trying to make itself more attractive to small businesses, with an offer of free web hosting that has not been replicated in the UK.Simon Alterman, Factiva's vice president of content, says there are many benefits to being listed: "It offers convenience to Yahoo users and we are recognising there is valuable information not easily accessible to most web searchers that we want to make available." Factiva is to provide a selection of its sources through the Yahoo page and will offer pay-as-you-go access at &pound;1 per article, or &pound;6.50 for 10 articles.Google, which along with various news aggregators promotes the free searching of open access news on the web as well as offering search of academic papers through its Google Scholar service, said it welcomed competition in areas of niche search.But most in the search community seem unsurprised by Yahoo's announcement. According to Allen Weiner, a Gartner analyst, Yahoo's move into broader search was expected: "The other shoe has dropped in the search marketplace. We have long expected the addition of premium content or content not available through web crawling. Yahoo's announcement sets the stage for the next step in the evolution in web search."The trend began earlier this year when Yahoo and Google introduced search of premium non-web content in the area of audio and video search. However, Gartner says it remains to be proven how they will make money.Search engine Ask Jeeves says there is most demand from users to make search more targeted through services such as its "related search", which helps users narrow down searches stage by stage. "We are also working on the idea of searching the deep web," says Tony Macklin, vice president European product development. "We are looking to develop relationships with publishers of content held on databases."But Blinkx, a newer entrant to the search market, says Yahoo has the wrong focus. Its founder, Suranga Chandratillake, says: "Indexing the deep web is limited as it is restricted to only those who have already subscribed. There is much more of a demand for deep search of audio and video. We are the only search service that checks the quality of audio and video before it is presented as a search result. This is deep search of content we all have access to."Gartner believes the service represents a broader trend towards what it calls "universal search", where a user is able to search across the web, the desktop, a home or work network, and selected subscription services simultaneously.Meanwhile, Google's recent admission that it is developing an online payment service similar to eBay's PayPal could be the springboard for its own paid-for content services. Cynics may be amused to note that the Yahoo Search Subscriptions link does not appear on a Google search, which is strange bearing in mind how many news sites and blogs link to it.http://search.yahoo.com/subscription
"A recent study by financial analysts at Merrill Lynch Japan suggests that the PlayStation 3 may cost up to $490 dollars to manufacture, with the company predicting that Sony will launch at $399 and take a $1.18bn loss in its first year on the market," reportsGamesIndustry.biz."Merrill Lynch's report is based on the assumption that the Blu-Ray drive, Cell chip and RSX graphics processor will cost around $101 each, with the remainder of the components and manufacturing costs boosting the production costs to the $490 level."Comment:It's standard practice to lose money on console hardware: suppliers get their money back from sales of games. However, Sony is taking a big risk with the PS3 in using technologies that are basically unknown (Cell, Blu-ray) and may not be ready for prime time.Sony is also shedding staff and generally in a much shakier financial position than its main rival, Microsoft, which is happily losing money on the Xbox. (I guess Microsoft would argue that it's an investment in a start-up business, and start-ups typically lose money for two to five years. Windows lost money for longer than that.)But Microsoft recently had nothing better to do with the odd $30 billion than give it back to shareholders, and it still has another $30 billion spare. That puts it in a rather different position to Sony when it comes to fighting a global price war.
Further to Tuesday'spostabout the Minor League baseball game that was to be kicked off by two gamers on MVP Baseball 2005, theWinnipeg Sunhas reported that it ain't gonna happen no mo' (viaKotaku). Instead the gamers, who were going to play the first two innings of the match between the Kansas City T-Bones and the Schaumburg Flyers, will play two innings after the real-life version is done.The ruling came down from the Commissioner, who said:After further review and discussion, I have decided that this concept as originally presented is not in the best interest of the Northern League. Any promotion that could affect the outcome of a regular season game is not permissible. Ultimately, such an event could have an influence on the final standings, and this certainly challenges the integrity of the league..Boo hiss!
Illustration: Bill ButcherThursday, as always, is when the Guardian's technology supplement,Online, is released into the wild.This week our lead article is a look at how telecoms firms, ISPs and broadcasters are taking each other on with thetriple play: providing TV, voice calls and internet over one connection. To supplement that, we also examine forthcoming changes inbroadbandand, more specifically,internet-based television.Elsewhere, Stephen Moss takes on chess supercomputer Hydra and wonders whethercomputers are really on the verge of killing off chessand we interview design futuristJohn Thackara.I wonder if the Grokster ruling wasn't themost sensible outcomegiven the circumstances, and we look atEU software patents: includingarguments forandagainstthe impending directive.As usual, there's lots more to dig in to.Click herefor the whole shebang.
Official reports don't come much more damning. The charge sheet against the main agency responsible for police computers includes words such as "largely failed", "fundamentally flawed" and, inevitably, "poor value for money". The long-awaited review into the Police Information Technology Organisation (Pito) concludes that the relationship between the organisation and the 43 forces it is supposed to serve in England and Wales "has probably gone beyond the point of no return".This is embarrassing for a government that is relying so much on IT to make the police and criminal justice system work better. Ministers have been sitting on the report since February; it eventually appeared on the Home Office website last week. Even that timing was less than ideal, given the attention in the ID card debate to the department's competence at running IT projects.Pito is responsible for systems handling fingerprints and radio communications as well as the police national computer and the national web portalwww.police.uk. It was set up in 1998 to provide a new start to the troubled history of police computing, which was largely blamed on every police force being responsible for its own IT.Although employing 700 people, and spending &pound;800m since 1998, the organisation's contribution has been "marginal", the review finds. In fact, it never really had a chance. The review finds that the organisation's structure breaks the first rule of successful IT delivery: no one knows who is in charge. "In practice, accountability falls between the cracks." Central government pays for the organisation, but cannot ensure its systems are properly implemented. Individual police forces are "left outside the decision making process" and "can and do deny ownership" of projects.Likewise, the relationship between the organisation and the new multibillion-pound criminal justice IT programme "has never been made explicit".Where do we go from here? There is no question that police need better IT: the shortcomings in national intelligence-gathering systems shown by the 2004 inquiry into the Soham murders is only one example. Neither is there any question that forces should rationalise IT departments and purchasing. They employ more than 3,700 people in IT, spending &pound;750m a year.The report recommends that Pito be absorbed into the proposed new national police improvement agency. This approach reflects the increased strategic importance of IT and could usefully be adopted by other public services such as the NHS and local government. However, in enforcing central control, the Home Office will find it difficult not to tread on the sensitive toes of chief constables and civil libertarians.There is another side to the better use of IT on the beat. The LSE's critical report into identity cards this week points out that "e-policing" can have big changes in the way our streets are patrolled. When everything a police officer does is recorded electronically, discretion and flexibility tend to disappear. These are not questions for IT departments, whoever runs them.
Either something funny's going on at hardware news siteAnandtechor I'm worse at using search engines than I thought. Several videogame news sources are 'linking' to an article on the site in which a selection of game developers have apparently expressed their disappointment with the Xbox 360 and PS3 hardware.A post on Evil Avitarfor example, runs a quotation from the piece:"Both consoles are marketed to be much more powerful than they actually are, and from talking to numerous game developers it seems that the real world performance of these platforms isn't anywhere near what it was supposed to be."...before adding an editorial interpretation:Developers seem to be happy with the GPU performance in both consoles but extremely disappointed in the CPU performance. The Xbox 360 CPU is quoted as being only twice as powerful as the Xbox CPU in real world performance.Slashdot also referenced the pieceyesterday.So where is it?I think I briefly found the article this morning, but got sidetracked, closed my browser, then came back later and couldn't find it again. Searches for Xbox 360 and PS3 come up with older stories.Is this routine maintenance or has some pressure been applied somewhere? Or am I just being daft? Looks like a very interesting piece nonetheless.Update:Goggle Groups still has a copy of the article righthere. Thanks to The Rev for tracking it down (and to everyone else for trying).
Apologies if you already know all about this, but I only just caught up via the salaciousGeek On Stunblog. It seems the forthcoming 2006 instalment of EA's long-running American Football series,Madden NFL(or whatever its called), features a Superstar mode, which lets you take a promising young player and literally control his life, selecting an agent, choosing a haircut, optioning movie roles and keeping up to date with friends via a Blackberry-style device. There's more informationhere.What a strange, seductive idea. It's obvious of course that EA Sports is under a certain amount of pressure to think of new features for its key brands so that they can be annually re-packaged. Sorry, massively updated. But an American football soap opera option? Perhaps there was a brainstorming meeting where some junior designer blurted out "Madden meets The Sims!" as a jape, only to be taken seriously by his straight-faced seniors."I want a design document on my desk by 10am!" someone may well have barked.And there it is in the game.Is this going to make it into FIFA I wonder? I can see the press release now: "Can you keep your premiership star out of the Gucci shop on Bond Street? Or China Whites? Or court?!"
