When the 1850 public libraries bill was going through parliament, opposition came mainly from MPs representing the universities of Oxford and Cambridge. They were appalled at the idea of unmediated information getting to people who probably shouldn't have it and in whose hands it could even be dangerous. In 1950, the film industry defence organisation was established to buy up movies so they couldn't be shown on the new rival medium of television. These classic examples of organisations trying to thwart new competition (cited at a recent Westminster Media Forum on the creative industries by Lord Puttnam) have their equivalent in today's efforts by the music industry to throttle the growth of downloads instead of trying to harness them for its own survival.But behind all this lies an urgent question: is there anything we can do to encourage the recent success of our creative industries - which now account for 7.3% of GDP, according to the Work Foundation - or should we just lie back and let luck take its course? Creative industries - embracing Harry Potter, galleries, plays, advertising, publishing, television, computer games and so forth - are becoming vital for the growth of the economy with manufacturing in decline and the financial services industry suffering turbulence from which it may not fully recover.This ought to be a golden age for Britain's creative industries. Historically, we have been brilliant at inventing but hopeless at exploiting. The web has hugely reduced the cost of translating ideas into businesses and the emergence of the venture capital industry ought to provide the finance to achieve it. Governments can't grow companies, but they can fertilise the soil and remove weeds that impede growth. Who could have predicted that the amateur coders who cut their teeth on the BBC B and Spectrum computers in the 1980s would move on to create one of the world's strongest computer games industries? Or that the industry would then be largely acquired by foreign companies, just as Bebo, a rare UK success in social networking, andLast.fm, the music networking site, have been? Britain's games industry has just dropped from three to four in the world league because of an exodus of talent to Canada to take advantage of tax subsidies to games developers, a problem not remedied in last week's Budget.One of the next growth industries must be virtual worlds since hundreds are springing up, with China and Thailand having quite dramatic plans. I know of UK companies that might succeed, but it looks like most of the action will be in the US and Europe - where Finland's Habbo Hotel, with 90 million teenagers, and Sweden's Entropia Universe are huge successes. So what can be done? First, the government must ensure that the infrastructure is there. This includes establishing UK-wide fast, affordable broadband, including Wi-Fi. This is the equivalent of governments and industries getting together in the 1990s to ensure that GSM was a standard for mobile phones. That was the main reason Europe acquired a big competitive advantage over the US in wireless technology.Second, we must improve core mathematical and engineering skills to produce people who can then hone those skills to fill gaps such as the current shortage of engineers for computer games and virtual worlds. One smart suggestion is that maths teaching in schools could be linked to a career in gaming.Third, we need to capitalise on the amazing popularity of social networks to make it easier for people with ideas to translate them into products and services. This is already happening with music, where a video can be made for next to nothing to showcase before a potential global audience. But, as with public libraries and films in the past, one big obstacle to progress is the conservatism of current producers.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
"The FBI has recently adopted a novel investigative technique: posting hyperlinks that purport to be illegal videos of minors having sex, and then raiding the homes of anyone willing to click on them," reportsDeclan McCullagh at CNet.A CNET News.com review of legal documents shows that courts have approved of this technique, even though it raises questions about entrapment, the problems of identifying who's using an open wireless connection -- and whether anyone who clicks on a FBI link that contains no child pornography should be automatically subject to a dawn raid by federal police.The story covers the case of "Roderick Vosburgh, a doctoral student at Temple University who also taught history at La Salle University." He was "raided at home in February 2007 after he allegedly clicked on the FBI's hyperlink."Vosburgh was charged with violating federal law, which criminalizes "attempts" to download child pornography with up to 10 years in prison. Last November, a jury found Vosburgh guilty on that count, and a sentencing hearing is scheduled for April 22, at which point Vosburgh could face three to four years in prison.McCullagh points out that the FBI could just as easily spam millions of Americans "advertising illegal narcotics or child pornography -- and raid people who click on the links embedded in the spam messages."Actually, if just reaching the site is a crime to be punished with imprisonment, couldn't they just send everyone an illegal TinyURL or obfuscated link in a phishing e-mail that says: "Have a look at this lolcat. Funny!"? Or would that be taking entrapment a bit too far?One message is to make sure you don't have any hidden thumbs.db files from other people, because you don't know what they contain. The case also adds a bit of spice to ideas of speeding up the web by testing or starting to preload links just in case users want to click on them....
Two years ago, we launched our Free Our Data campaign on an act of faith. We knew that making the government's information available freely - and for free - for re-use by individuals, charities, academics and entrepreneurs was the right thing to do. What we did not know was precisely how much richer Britain could be as a result.Last week, an authoritative independent economic study, commissioned by the government and published along with the Budget, answered that question. Looking at the arms of government most dependent on selling data and taking conservative and pessimistic scenarios throughout, the study - Models of Public Sector Information via Trading Funds (tinyurl.com/2xs4qj) - concludes that the benefits of giving government data away outweigh the loss of income from licence fees from the current practice of "cost recovery" by more than &pound;160m for the largest six "trading funds" alone.It also rebuts claims that a move to "free data" would damage the work done by agencies such as the Met Office and Ordnance Survey.We scent victory. But there is still a long way to go.The Treasury and Cabinet Office commissioned the study from a team of economists at the University of Cambridge in response to last summer's "government 2.0" review, the Power of Information. That called on the government to engage with user-generated websites, in particular by ending restrictive policies of charging outsiders to re-use official data. It urged the government to make data available at the "marginal cost" of supplying an extra copy (for digital information, zero), so long as there was no evidence that this model would damage trading funds which rely on selling information licences.To inform the policy, it said the government "should commission and publish an independent review of the costs and benefits of the current trading fund charging model". In marked contrast to the enthusiasm with which it accepted most of the Power of Information's ideas, the government responded cautiously, warning that "a solid body of work is required before consideration is given to the future of the trading funds model". But it agreed to undertake "economic analysis of these issues" for publication by the year end.Strong case for freedomThe analysis was carried out by three Cambridge academics: Professor David Newbery of the Faculty of Economics, Professor Lionel Bently of the Faculty of Law and Rufus Pollock, a fellow in economics at Emmanuel College. (Pollock is also a founder of the Open Knowledge Foundation, which campaigns against restrictions to knowledge-sharing.)The study considered the government's six largest "trading funds" (which cover their costs by selling their products and services to the public and private sectors) ranked by sales of information: the Met Office, Ordnance Survey, UK Hydrographic Office, Land Registry of England and Wales, Companies House and the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency. All bar the DVLA (which earns only a tiny proportion of its budget from the sale of data) have featured in our campaign.The academics do not equivocate. The 147-page report, dated February 26 but published only on March 12 (perhaps because it is mentioned in Chapter 3 of the full Budget), sets out a rigorously-argued economic case for making raw data - information produced as part of a government body's "public task" - available for free. The case for pricing basic data at no more than the marginal cost of a copy is "strong". It cites a battery of reasons, including removing the market distortion and overheads involved in trying to set a price that covers an agency's costs and encouraging the uptake of information and the beneficial innovation that will result. The report also dismisses the claim made by advocates of cost recovery that tight funding encourages innovation. This case is "weak for public enterprises not subject to regulation and providing monopoly services without fear of competition".A net gain for societyWhile the details vary greatly between the trading funds, the overall contribution to social welfare of free bulk data would outweigh the extra direct subsidy needed to support the costs of producing the data.The Cambridge proposals would not end the sale of information in the form of "refined" products such as maps. However, these would be in genuine commercial competition with products from other suppliers which would automatically have access to source data on the same terms. This would remove one of the biggest gripes about the current system - the concern raised by the Office of Fair Trading and industry bodies about fair access to data.The findings will be hard to dismiss. Unlike previous studies, they are based on hard figures from the trading funds affected. It also takes a holistic view, for example taking into account the overall cost to society of the extra taxation needed to pay for free data.Britain's leading expert in public sector information policy, Professor Richard Susskind, chair of the Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information, described the report as "precisely the kind of detailed, systematic and rigorous economic analysis of trading funds and PSI re-use that APPSI has been recommending since 2003. We hope this represents the beginning of a new era of open and sophisticated thinking about the economics of PSI."Michael Nicholson, chair of the industry association Locus, said the study "breaks new ground. It is the first time the consequences of exploiting public sector data have been reviewed from a socio-economic perspective in this way". Ordnance Survey, the agency that would be most affected by a change in policy - and whose raw data the report says would benefit the UK most - said the study is "an important input to the wider debate". Ed Parsons, the OS's former chief technology officer, noted that "the ludicrous merry-go-round of government departments paying [each other] would disappear, reducing costs and increasing the use of geographic information (GI) within government ... the relatively small GI industry in the UK would flourish".Central government was less enthusiastic in its responses. The department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, which oversees the running of trading funds, implied pricing policy would continue as before. While the government would set out clearly what information it needs for its public task, to ensure that such information "is made available as widely as possible for use in actual and potential downstream markets" the principle of recovering costs will remain in the next spending review (after 2011). "The underlying principle will be that information collected for public purposes will be made available at a price that balances the need for access while ensuring customers pay a fair contribution to the cost of collecting this information."Hang the expenseMeanwhile, the department that really matters, the Treasury, indicated that in a climate of mounting concern about the soundness of government finances, the last thing it needs is an intellectual case for abolishing a stream of revenue. In his Budget report, Chancellor Alistair Darling said he would review the future of trading funds "in conjunction with the Shareholder Executive", the body charged with getting the best possible return from government-owned enterprises. "This is probably the equivalent of asking the state's last official hangman his views on the abolition of capital punishment," Nicholson said.As for the Free Our Data campaign, we feel that our cause now has both the theoretical and the empirical buttresses that our critics have demanded for the past two years. But we are still some way from persuading ministers to make the leap. We shall keep up the pressure.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogfreeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;This correction was published in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday March 24 2008. In a graph showing how the UK economy would benefit from government data being made available free, we miscalculated the total net cost to the government. The figure should have been £15.37m, rather than £2.26m.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Daring Fireball blogger and Mac fan John Gruber has dropped any gloves he might possess and waded into Wired magazine's Cult of Mac man Leander Kahney in a post headlinedHow Leander Kahney Got Everything Wrong by Being a Fucking Jackass.Kahney has written Wired's current 3,500-word cover story,How Apple Got Everything Right by Doing Everything Wrong. I guess this is also connected with Kahney's new book,Inside Steve's Brain.Kahney's argument is, briefly, that Apple does everything the wrong ("evil") way -- it's closed, proprietary, secretive (no bloggers etc), run by a control freak -- whereas Google is open (supports open source), egalitarian, not evil etc. But under Our Great Leader, it works for Apple.As Gruber points out:Kahney's point seems to be that it's somehow surprising that Apple has succeeded despite being different than Google, and but also that Google is somehow representative of a typical Silicon Valley company. It is not. Google and Apple are both unusual companies -- and in many ways, particularly the specific ways Kahney claims they're so very different, they're actually alike.With regard to open platforms, neither Google nor Apple are dogmatic either way. So, yes, it's true that Apple's strategy is not to be open by default out of the belief that "openness" is inherently good or inherently leads to success. But nor is it to be closed by default, either. Apple simply tries to do what's best for Apple. In some cases that is closed (Mac OS X, iPhone OS), and in others it is open (WebKit, Darwin, CalDAV). The same goes for Google. They are a huge contributor and proponent of open source software, but last I checked, they haven't released the source code for Gmail or their algorithms for web search and ad relevance.Kahney does have a point, of course, though it doesn't have anything to do with Google. Apple is (or was) a proprietary 1970s-style computer company that has outlived its time, only to see its time come round again. It's basically Wang by other means. (Kahney points to "companies such as Osborne and Amiga" -- but he's wrong about Osborne, which used de facto standard CP/M, and the Amiga was actually launched by Commodore.) It's just done great job of marketing a closed non-free system as representing "freedom".Gruber surely hits the nail on the head when he points out that "in many ways, particularly the specific ways Kahney claims they're so very different, they're actually alike."And making that point in depth would probably have provided Wired with a more original and more interesting cover story.
The long Easter weekend is practically here. And with the weather supposed to be rubbish this looks like a perfect opportunity to get some gaming in. Today's releases include the addictive Rainbow 6 Vegas 2 and the fun, if limited, Sega Superstar Tennis. The latter is obviously the better family bet, especially on the Wii, although older players should appreciate the Sega nostalgia as well as the easy achievement points on the 360. So anyway, four days off work - what are you playing this Easter?
"The creators of the BBC Micro are reuniting at the Science Museum in London to discuss the legacy of the computer known fondly as 'the Beeb'," according toDarren Waterson the BBC's Web site.Hermann Hauser and Steve Furber, who worked at Acorn, will be joined by former BBC staff John Radcliffe and David Allen.Hermann Hauser was half of the Acorn management team, the other half being Chris Curry. Steve Furber was half of the main development team, the other half beingRoger/Sophie Wilson. (This is by no means a complete list, obviously.)The other names may be unfamiliar. John Radcliffe was the executive producer for the BBC Computer Literacy Project, while David Allen produced the excellent BBC Micro Live series of television programmes.The BBC thereby provided a massive amount of free publicity for the machine, and the British government subsidised sales to schools, but Acorn still went bust....The seminar has been organised by the Computer Conservation Society and is being held at the Science Museum, Exhibition Road, London, SW7 2DD at 2.30pmtoday.If anybody makes it, let us know how it went....
EA has revealed the first details ofSims 3, the next generation of its multi-million selling life simulation. Due sometime next year, the game will feature a totally new engine, as well as a host of intriguing features.Paramount, perhaps, is the new open neighbourhood system, which gives players seamless access to the outiside world, rather than the rather limited 'community lots' system from Sims Unleashed, Sims 2, etc. You'll be able to head out, shop, meet virtual pals, spy on neighbours, etc. There's also a much more detailed and intricate create-a-sim feature, allowing players to fine tune skin tone, body shape and hair styles from a large array of options. There are increased customisation options in the home, too, "from floors to flowers, fashions to sofas, wallpaper to window shades and more..."But is there still a place for The Sims as a major phenomenon?Oh sure, the series isenormous, and still shifting add-ons and expansionpacks in huge numbers. And EA, of course, has a whole section of its business dedicated to this one franchise. But when you think about it, the first title was released in 2000 - three years before Second Life, four years before World of Warcraft, five years before Club Penguin and several years before the explosion of sites like Facbook and Myspace. It could be argued that since The Sims invented and marketed the concept of the mainstream life simulation, the online virtual community has emerged and more-or-less taken over its role as a computerised social experience.Are the people who bought and enjoyed The Sim back in the day, now involved in real-life virtual communities? Are they now playing Pogo and Popcap games, while updating their Bebo pages and keeping tabs on their Second Life identity? Have they moved beyond the solo, imaginative environment represented by Will Wright's simulation? Even if they haven't, I wonder if the game can ever be the overwhelmingly popular and discussed experience it once was.On the other hand it could be arriving at just the right time. There's talk of Facebook fatigue; according to market research company ComScore, the number of MySpace users dropped from 72 million in October to 68.9 million in December 2007. Second Life is hard to get into, and once you're in, you're at the mercy of griefers and, well, strangers who use virtual identities as disguises. You're still playing games, but you don't always know the rules.But the Sims universe is your universe - it's a solipsistic comfort zone. The NPCs may have their own agendas, but they're working within a readable, logical construction. By extending the game to include a simulacrum of an online virtual world, EA is offering the pre-supposed advantages of virtual exploration and interaction, without the inconvenience of actually having to deal with other people. Not only that, but you can also customise the world in your own way, and you don't have to worry about pleasing or offending others.To paraphrase Woody Allen, don't knock The Sims, it's virtual interaction with someone you love.
Two new systems claim to make it easier and safer to shop online, by letting you pay for goods directly from your bank account without having to hand over card details. But experts are warning consumers not to be "lulled into a false sense of security".The POLi and eWise systems, launched this month, offer the option to pay directly from a bank account at supporting online retailers' checkout pages. Shoppers selecting the option are automatically taken to their bank's log-in page where, after they have manually logged in, a page appears on which the necessary payment fields are "pre-populated" with the correct amount and the retailer's bank account details.Once the consumer has accepted the purchase, the funds are transferred and the retailer is given a confirmation code so they can ship the goods.Not cleared for paymentThe companies behind each system claim this process of being automatically directed to a bank account gets around the problem of people either not having cards or not wanting to type in their card numbers on a merchant's site.They claim their systems provide greater protection for retailers by ensuring payment is cleared from the customer's available funds for a lower fee than a credit or debit card provider. It also saves a retailer from being responsible for storing card details securely. No retailer wants to follow in the footsteps of TJX, which lost more than 45m customer records between 2005 and 2007 (tinyurl.com/3y3vls).While web security experts agree that the gains for retailers are undeniable, they are questioning what the consumer gets from the two new systems.No UK bank has yet agreed to work with either payment system. None of them would provide a spokesperson to explain why not, but one can assume they do not want to allow a third party in to their back office systems. It would also be fair to say that eWise is not a popular operator among banks because it is behind the account aggregation services at Egg and First Direct which allow customers to log in to several accounts, with different banks, from one page. Banks are opposed to this as it means customers give a third-party site their passwords and risk compromising several accounts if the password falls into the wrong hands.Without access to the banks, the crux of the potential security risk each system poses is that users need to download software to allow POLi and eWise to fill out payment forms on their behalf. While POLi requires users to download a Microsoft .Net application for the payment, eWise requires users to download an ActiveX program (which will only run in Internet Explorer, on Windows).These are not routes which Greg Day, a security analyst at McAfee, believes will engender confidence: "Using ActiveX for online payments is the kind of thing that would make me run a mile. [It] is probably the most used route for hackers to get in ...  and steal personal information."Security analysts believe that if the payment systems become popular, they will be a powerful magnet for criminal gangs. Yuval Ben Itzahk, chief technology officer of security provider Finjan, says it is not the legitimate version of the software that could cause problems, but the potential fakes. "As soon as you download any type of software to do with payments you open it up to phishers and social engineers," he says. "If it becomes popular I can bet you 100% that phishers will launch sites claiming to offer it as a download and they will email people telling them they need to upgrade their current version and, if the person falls for it, they will end up with some malware code, probably a keylogger, which will record their bank account password and pass it on to the criminals."Web security experts are also claiming that the downloads do not follow a simple premise: if you are asking consumers to change the way they pay for goods, there should be a very clear security benefit, rather than an added potential risk."I can't see that either of these new systems brings in a new layer of security, but they do add a new layer of vulnerability," says Rik Ferguson of web security company Trend Micro. "I can't see why someone would chose to open themselves up to the risk of paying direct through their bank when it's not clear who will pick up the tab if things go wrong."Pay upCertainly neither system operator is promising they will bear responsibility for any losses suffered through their technology becoming compromised, pointing out that, unlike PayPal, they do not store a user's bank account.Hence, the issue of responsibility is key, believes Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos. "It may take some wrangling but if things go wrong with your bank, they'll pick up the tab and it's the same with a retailer or a card issuer. It's also the same with PayPal - although they're a big target for phishers, they have a clear policy for putting things right so that's what I would question these new systems are missing."Mark Matthews, managing director of eWise, points out that all communication through the eWise system is encrypted and that the system is "scaleable and robust" and has been used in Australia without incident.David Gagie, managing director of Netbanx, which is behind the POLi system,  says it accounts for nearly one in four online transactions in Australia and has proven far less prone to fraud than credit and debit cards. "People trust it because they realise if you don't give a retailer your card details in the first place they can't be lost or misused," he says.Gagie adds that Netbanx is working on adding a VeriSign certificate, similar to those used by all major high street banks online, for extra security. Users click on a padlock symbol to ensure it is issued by VeriSign. But this is unlikely to be in place when the system finishes its trial with undisclosed retailers next month.As for working with the banks, eWise's Matthews is still hopeful. But he says: "We've talked to all the major banks but there always seems to be a bigger project that they're working on. We'd still welcome the chance to work with them."
Have legs, will run up hillsThis is a Great Dane-sized robot quadruped being developed for the US military. Noise as hell, but amazingly robust and agile. When they make them 300 times taller with inbuilt machine guns, it'll be Empire Strikes Back time...Is there an echo in here?Video of the screensaver from twingly.com that lets you visualise the blogosphere as it happens. Now shown: the all-encompassing space junk of spammed blog comments, and splog mountains.Insert ball. Run. Repeat.Tired of throwing the ball for the dog? Let this machine do the work. And hope the dog doesn't try to launch itself.Got a brilliant, funny, whatever technology or games video? Tell us about it in the comments!
I have a Kensington dock (with video) for my Dell Inspiron 9300 laptop. I have a monitor, keyboard, mouse and external sound system connected to the dock. I also have USB hubs connected for various devices: printer, two external hard drives, webcam, camera, phone, iPod. It means I can move the laptop by disconnecting the power and one USB cable. Is there a limit to what can be connected though one port?Tom CorcoranA USB host can support up to 127 devices in a "tiered star" formation, but you can run out of bandwidth if you use too many of them at once. Running a video while writing to both drives could be a challenge, for example. You can also run out of power: a USB device can request up to 500mA, but a non-powered hub can only supply 400mA to be shared between four devices. Using powered hubs usually avoids problems. USB devices don't speak unless spoken to, so it shouldn't matter how many you have connected but idle, as long as each one has its own 7-bit address.
I have 4Mbps broadband but only ever manage to achieve about 1Mbps downloads. If I upgrade to 8Mbps, can I expect the speed to improve? Surely if it is possible to get a faster download speed, I am entitled to that under my existing 4Mbps package?David LewisYou are not buying a specific download speed, you are buying a connection based on one of a family of DSL technologies. That technology will operate at the highest reliable speed it can manage, given the quality of the line, the number of joints in the line, and the distance from the exchange. If you upgrade to DSL Max, this uses different equipment at the exchange, and you should get faster downloads. The 8Mbps system will start at 2Mbps, increase the speed, and see how it goes over the next three days. If the line is the major limiting factor, you may not get much of an improvement, and it could even be worse, but your upload speed should be faster. Note that DSL Max is a "rate adaptive" service that works out the maximum stable rate over 10 days, so try not to turn off or keep rebooting your router: the line management system could see these as line problems and keep reducing the speed. In theory, I think you can drive the speed down to 288kbps before it becomes a "fault".
Wirksworth is a small market town in Derbyshire with a successfulcommunity website projectbased on an open source content management system, Typo3. We have had problems with our version of Typo3, and we are looking to do a revamp. We need a reliable and simple system with a good message board.Alastair ClarkThere are half a dozen content management systems that, like Typo3, use the MySQL database. PHP-Nuke (phpnuke.org) is the obvious one to look at, because it was designed for community-based portals, and seems to have good community support. An alternative is MKPortal (mkportal.it). You would then add a message board such as phpBB or MyBB, so check how easy it is to do this. But I've never used any of these. If you have, please let us know which you think is best.Backchat: Graham Mitchell fromMC3suggests Drupal or Joomla! "Both are award winners in the open source CMS field. Personally, I favour the power and flexibility of Drupal." On the Ask Jack blog, two out of three people suggested Joomla! while the other preferred Drupal.
I buy DVDs for the video library at my US college. Am I wasting money buying DVDs now that Blu-ray has won? Our collection of VHS tapes gathers dust.Dave NullAll the high-definition players still play regular CDs and DVDs, and will for the foreseeable future. Bear in mind that most people don't actually need an HD player because they don't yet have an HD TV screen. Even if they do, many DVD players now do such a good job of "upscaling" that regular DVDs produce very acceptable results. So the changeover could be slow, and I don't think you need to worry unless Blu-ray drive manufacturers drop DVD compatibility. This is unlikely. Indeed, the Blu-ray camp is planning to offer dual-format BD/DVD discs, which should help libraries like yours make the transition.
USB treeI have a Kensington dock (with video) for my Dell Inspiron 9300 laptop. I have a monitor, keyboard, mouse and external sound system connected to the dock. I also have USB hubs connected for various devices: printer, two external hard drives, webcam, camera, phone, iPod. It means I can move the laptop by disconnecting the power and one USB cable. Is there a limit to what can be connected though one port?Tom CorcoranJS:A USB host can support up to 127 devices in a "tiered star" formation, but you can run out of bandwidth if you use too many of them at once. Running a video while writing to both drives could be a challenge, for example. You can also run out of power: a USB device can request up to 500mA, but a non-powered hub can only supply 400mA to be shared between four devices. Using powered hubs usually avoids problems. USB devices don't speak unless spoken to, so it shouldn't matter how many you have connected but idle, as long as each one has its own 7-bit address.Faster broadbandI have 4Mbps broadband but only ever manage to achieve about 1Mbps downloads. If I upgrade to 8Mbps, can I expect the speed to improve? Surely if it is possible to get a faster download speed, I am entitled to that under my existing 4Mbps package?David LewisJS:You are not buying a specific download speed, you are buying a connection based on one of a family of DSL technologies. That technology will operate at the highest reliable speed it can manage, given the quality of the line, the number of joints in the line, and the distance from the exchange. If you upgrade to DSL Max, this uses different equipment at the exchange, and you should get faster downloads. The 8Mbps system will start at 2Mbps, increase the speed, and see how it goes over the next three days. If the line is the major limiting factor, you may not get much of an improvement, and it could even be worse, but your upload speed should be faster. Note that DSL Max is a "rate adaptive" service that works out the maximum stable rate over 10 days, so try not to turn off or keep rebooting your router: the line management system could see these as line problems and keep reducing the speed. In theory, you can drive the speed down to 288kbps before it becomes a "fault".Community portalWirksworth is a small market town in Derbyshire with a successful community website project based on an open source content management system, Typo3. We have had problems with our version of Typo3, and we are looking to do a revamp. We need a reliable and simple system with a good message board.Alastair ClarkJS:There are half a dozen content management systems that, like Typo3, use the MySQL database. PHP-Nuke (phpnuke.org) is the obvious one to look at, because it was designed for community-based portals, and seems to have good community support. An alternative is MKPortal (mkportal.it). You would then add a message board such as phpBB or MyBB, so check how easy it is to do this. But I've never used any of these. If you have, please let us know which you think is best.Not dead yet!I buy DVDs for the video library at my US college. Am I wasting money buying DVDs now that Blu-ray has won? Our collection of VHS tapes gathers dust.Dave NullJS:All the high-definition players still play regular CDs and DVDs, and will for the foreseeable future. Bear in mind that most people don't actually need an HD player because they don't yet have an HD TV screen. Even if they do, many DVD players now do such a good job of "upscaling" that regular DVDs produce very acceptable results. So the changeover could be slow, and I don't think you need to worry unless Blu-ray drive manufacturers drop DVD compatibility. This is unlikely. Indeed, the Blu-ray camp is planning to offer dual-format discs, which should help libraries like yours make the transition.Backchat&#183;Ivan Chapman wanted a handy subnotebook for writing scripts using Final Draft software. The consensus on the Ask Jack blog (tinyurl.com/2xedqo) was that keyboards like the one on the Asus Eee PC are a bit small for that and he'd be better off with a "thin and light" laptop. Windows XP or Mac OS would be needed for Final Draft, but OldSkool says he uses Celtx, a free screenwriting program, on his Eee PC. "It's industry standard and I find it functions just as well as Final Draft; it also has a thriving online community."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
One casualty of last November's missing-disc fiasco was a government strategy for sharing citizens' personal data between departments. It was scheduled to appear on November 22, just two days after Chancellor Alistair Darling told Parliament the HMRC had lost the details of 25 million people. Unsurprisingly, the data-sharing announcement was buried in a deep vault under Whitehall where it has languished ever since.It can't stay there indefinitely. Huge chunks of the government's programme to reform public services depend on the presumption that information gathered by one public body is made available to others in the interests of efficiency, customer-centricity and detecting fraud.Until now, government policy has assumed that data-sharing enjoys public support. Many public service managers can tell of citizens being amazed that data are not shared, even when failure to do so costs lives. Ordinary citizens don't differentiate between different arms of the state, the argument goes.I'm sympathetic to this assumption. However, it is untenable in the current climate. Ordinary citizens clearly do care what officialdom does with their data, and don't necessarily view the NHS or their local authority as a branch of the state. Last week, the British Computer Society (BCS) released a poll showing two-thirds of Britons say their trust in the government to look after personal data has fallen in the light of recent revelations. At the same time, parliament's joint committee on human rights painted a picture of a government with a frighteningly gung-ho attitude to new data-sharing procedures. Its report criticised the approach of passing laws containing very broad enabling provisions, while relying on secondary legislation, generally unscrutinised by parliament, for data protection safeguards.Even more than the data loss fiascoes, this is a symptom of a government out of step with growing public awareness of the power of information. If IT-based reforms - let alone schemes like the ID card - are to retain credibility, the government must recognise these concerns.New guidance on officialdom's management of personal data is expected to appear shortly. A seminar organised by the BCS last week suggested it could start by embedding the importance of personal data in Whitehall's own criteria for success or failure. All IT-based changes should have a privacy impact assessment; this should be carried out regularly as part of "gateway" reviews of major projects. Meanwhile, "capability reviews" should test government departments' ability to handle information safely (possibly instead of current criteria such as their ability to "ignite passion, pace and drive" - I'm not making that up).Meanwhile, ministers could send a signal to society by giving the Information Commissioner real powers to spot-check organisations for data protection breaches, and to put unauthorised snoopers in prison. (Incredibly, the government is contemplating backtracking on tougher sentences, apparently under pressure from media organisations worried about their executives going to jail.)Citizens need to be brought in to the equation, too. This means gaining more informed, active consent before information is shared - and creating workable procedures through which individuals can revoke that consent. Vitally, citizens should have an automatic right to correct data about themselves.The whole information relationship between citizens and the state needs to be put on a new ethical basis. What we need, someone told the BCS, is a Magna Carta moment. I agree.
Bob Cernik likes using x-rays to probe the nature of materials. The Manchester University professor has been working at the Diamond Light Source synchrotron in Oxfordshire to develop a prototype 3D colour x-ray system to detect hidden explosives, drugs, or even cancer. But wait a moment ... x-rays, in colour and three dimensions?When Wilhelm Roentgen x-rayed his wife's hand in 1895, he produced a "shadowgraph" showing that x-rays passed more easily through skin than bone. On modern x-ray sensitive film, the shaded areas from bones appear lighter than their surroundings. And, of course, there are no colours we can see.So how does a hospital x-ray CAT scanner produce colourful 3D body images? It's a process called "false colour", where shades of grey are converted to a corresponding colour in the normal spectrum.Dense spacesCernik, a professor of synchrotron radiation and materials science, cautions against being fooled: "This gives you a high spatial resolution density contrast image that is often false coloured to aid diagnosis. But it is a false colouration that indicates how dense the object is."There are other x-ray techniques, including diffraction, that allow scientists to identify materials. With this in mind, Cernik talks of "colour" x-rays which, like visible light, contain a range of electromagnetic wavelengths. "Current imaging systems such as spiral CAT scanners do not use all the information contained in the x-ray beam. This extra information can be used to fingerprint the material present at each point in a 3D image."To do this with x-rays, Cernik's system uses "tomographic energy dispersive diffraction imaging" - or TEDDI. He works with "voxels" (volumetric pixels) which represent points in three-dimensional space. TEDDI measures voxels throughout a sample so that each contains an x-ray diffraction pattern - the key to identifying a material's atomic structure and chemistry."You'll get something like a 3D image of the object and you also get some details of the atomic arrangement of every single point," he says of TEDDI's data output. "The system can be programmed to look for something specific, like semtex or cocaine."Cernik is using the Diamond Light Source's powerful x-rays to develop a solution. He's also relying on advanced detector engineering pioneered at Daresbury Laboratory, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory and Cambridge University, and is helped by funding from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council. "It's a fairly simple idea, but turned out in practice to be a huge technological challenge," Cernik says.TEDDI requires an x-ray source with a pencil-thin beam, a collimator (to put the radiation into parallel beams), a detector, and much data analysis. The synchrotron provides high energies to penetrate dense metal objects, although Cernik will eventually use compact x-ray sources like the ones used in hospitals.Making the collimator was precision work: it only allows x-rays travelling parallel to a specific direction to pass through after being scattered by a sample. Helped by Cambridge University, Cernik has laser-drilled 50 micron diameter holes (around half the width of a human hair) 30cm deep through a series of thin (100 micron) tungsten plates. He then matched 256 holes with a 16 by 16 element semiconducting x-ray detector.In early TEDDI experiments, Cernik imaged thin samples of nylon, aluminium, and deer antler bone. After hours of scanning, he managed to construct images and collect an x-ray diffraction pattern at each voxel. That pattern has between 2,000 and 4,000 data points, potentially gigabytes of data per scanned image.For larger samples scanned at high resolutions, millions of voxels means a data processing problem but will also provide Cernik with useful answers. "The multiple wavelengths actually contain the information about the crystallography of the object. Our system will identify one chemical component specifically even if they have the same density." Cernik is now using a high energy 80-by-80 element x-ray detector made from cadmium zinc telluride. By tiling together detectors and collimators, he'll make TEDDI run 100 times faster with simpler scanning, lower x-ray doses, and 3D colour imagery."We should be able to complete a large scan of a suitcase in about a minute," Cernik says. "We think that one of the biggest applications will be in the security industry." With the right programming, TEDDI might also scan a biopsy sample in seconds to detect cancerous tissue."The TEDDI method is highly applicable to biomaterials, with the possibility of specific tissue identification in humans. It could also be used in aerospace engineering, to establish whether the alloys in a weld have too much strain."X marks the futurePaul Evans, professor of applied imaging science at Nottingham Trent University, thinks that TEDDI is excellent work which produces very accurate results. He's being funded by the US and UK governments to develop the world's first "scatter-enhanced" 3D x-ray security scanner.His method also uses x-ray diffraction but concentrates on the high-speed identification of substances in cluttered scenes - like the insides of suitcases. X-rays pass through and are scattered by the contents but, compared with the primary beam, the scattered signals are extremely weak."If you want to create a security system you've got to solve the problem with weak signals," Evans says. "I'm looking at techniques to produce 3D x-ray images with materials identity information in them."The system uses sensors to pick up the scattered signals to identify materials and combines them with multiple-view mass discrimination data. Rotating 3D colour images are then presented.It's a big improvement on airport scanners which "mass discriminate" metals from plastic (and colour the operator's screen for emphasis) but don't tell you the metal. "Using scattered radiation generally enables you to identify materials rather than the crude discrimination which currently exists at airports," Evans says.Although shadowgraphs and CAT scanners are proven techniques, using those invisible colours in x-rays for materials identification adds a new dimension. Evans now reckons that fast 3D x-ray systems offer another way forward. "People keep thinking we've got to the end of the line with x-rays, but there is a lot to come. High-speed materials identification using x-rays has a rich future."
No More Heroes is a rare commodity: a Wii game aimed at adults. And there's no mistaking it for any other game: it marries comic book-style cel-shaded visuals, fighting with a beam katana - pretty much identical to a Star Wars lightsaber - riding a giant motorbike and a madcap plot. You play slacker Travis Touchdown as he tries to become number one assassin by taking out the 10 hitmen ranked above him. The result is sensory overload, particularly given the fruit-machine theme that pervades it. Riven with cute touches, such as genuinely amusing mini-missions performed to raise the money to take on the top hitmen and the occasional encouragement to, for example, wield your beam katana as a baseball bat, its biggest asset is a great control system which makes exemplary use of Wiimote and nunchuk, and particularly satisfies when you chain attacks and develop short-lived power-ups. Utterly original and pleasingly bonkers.
Perhaps by not as much as you'd like. Although the forthcoming boost to always-on speeds is touted to offer connections at up to 24Mbps, most of us aren't getting anything like the 8Mbps that the current ADSL 2 can offer. Point Topic's latest broadband consumer survey found that of those subscribing to an "up to" 16 Mbps package, only 4% said their connection actually provided it. As listed speeds get higher, the proportion of users experiencing those speeds becomes lower. For example, 72% of users on a 512kbps package achieved that speed, but only 15% of users did on an 8Mbps service.The ratio of advertised to reported speeds for six UK internet service providers - Sky, Virgin Media, Tiscali, Carphone Warehouse, BT and Orange - was also assessed for broadband packages of more than 2Mbps. The closer the ratio to one, the closer to the advertised speed users experience. Sky was best (0.79), with BT (0.65) and Orange (0.63) doing least well. If you're getting only 1Mbps from an "up to" 8Mbps package, then you may feel miffed.In most cases of slow broadband, there's little you can do. The further away you are from the telephone exchange, the lower the broadband speed attainable. You may get a small speed increase from using new microfilters and carefully checking any extension wiring - but you're unlikely to see any real gains.According to Andrew Ferguson, of the broadband information sitethinkbroadband.com, if you live in an area covered by internet service providers such as Be, you might get 24Mbps, because it uses ADSL2+, capable of up to 16/24Mbps. And BT is rolling it out to all of us.There is a catch, however. The higher frequencies used by ADSL2+ to transmit the data signal don't travel as well as ADSL; those living at a distance from the telephone exchange may see little benefit. Nevertheless, Ferguson says BT plans to provide ADSL2+ coverage to 50% of UK households within a year. The first exchanges are being upgraded in April in a multi-year programme. But remember, moving from an "up to" 8Mbps to 16/24Mbps doesn't necessarily mean doubling or tripling your current speed.If you live more than 3 or 4 kilometres from the telephone exchange, a "slow" broadband connection is down to the laws of physics. One solution is to replace your copper telephone wires with fibre-optic cable. To demonstrate what this can do, a new 10,000 home community at Ebbsfleet will use "fibre to the home". With BT talking of 100Mbps connection speeds, it'll be one place where fast broadband will be taken for granted.
Have legs, will run up hillsThis is a Great Dane-sized robot quadruped being developed by the US military. Noisy as hell, but amazingly robust and agile. When they make them 300 times taller, it'll be Empire Strikes Back time...tinyurl.com/2byv3vIs there an echo in here?Video of the screensaver fromtwingly.comthat lets you visualise the blogosphere as it happens. Not shown: the all-encompassing space junk of spammed blog comments, and splog mountains.tinyurl.com/2aqdn8Insert ball. Run. RepeatTired of throwing the ball for the dog? Let this machine do the work. And hope the dog doesn't try to launch itself.tinyurl.com/28n7ta&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Somewhere out there some firm that holds my credit card details has been hacked. I know this because I have started to get spam to an email address I only ever use for buying things. I have no idea which firm it might be: in the past two and a half years, I have had at least 520 messages to that address, from around 75 different firms. I don't think it's likely that any of the big ones - Ryanair, O2, Amtrak, BT, John Lewis, and so on - has been hacked or else we would hear more of it. (Wouldn't we?) But somewhere among the software publishers, the music sites, the wine merchants and secondhand book dealers I have been paying from this address there is one whose customer database has been plundered.Keeping specialised and unique email addresses for different tasks is one of those tricks that everyone should know and practice: for one thing it can be combined with spam filtering rules to make a rock solid defence against phishing scams. Since I have unique addresses for eBay, PayPal, the various Amazons and my bank, none of which are ever used for other correspondence, I know that email purporting to come from any of those firms which is not sent to the right private address must be a scam and it's easy to set up rules to delete it unread.I have not done this with the correspondence for one-off purchases, all of which went to the address which has now become a spam target, because each new address would have to be set up in the spam filter. The gang that stole my customer details is most unlikely to be the same ones as are sending me the spam. There are well-established marketplaces for email lists and the number of addresses for sale is hard to grasp: one moderate-sized botnet analysed by SecureWorks last year contained 162m addresses. Many millions of these will be dead, of course; the spamming software has routines built into it to detect and delete addresses which have been blackholed, but messages which are instead bounced will keep the address alive.There's nothing I can do, of course. I will try to keep a beady eye on my credit card and bank statements. But I do that anyway, and it will only detect damage after the event. In any case I don't know whether my credit card details are gone. On a well-designed site, they would be stored separately from the customer database; but on a well-designed site the customer database wouldn't get hacked either.In the meantime, I skim-read the spam that drifts up in what used to be my private inbox, since Thunderbird's built-in spam filter is nothing like as efficient as Gmail's, or the one in Opera's mail module. There is a strange, twisted poetry of longing to discover here. The black economy of the internet has invented another criminal trade: alongside the programmers and the data thieves, there must be copywriters for the penis enlargement pills. My favourite ones talk of "product reviews": it makes me hope that someone, somewhere is publishing What Penis magazine.You'd have thought that after 10 years or more of pretty much continual spam there would be nothing fresh to say about enlargement pills, patches, creams, and - for all I know - stretching machines. How can there be anyone out there who supposes that any of this will work? Yet the inexhaustible stream of spam proves that there must be hundreds of suckers born every minute.Much of it seems written by people who don't speak English as a first language. But the awful thing is that all the circumlocutions are perfectly clear, because they speak to the universal fear of being a despised outcast. If you take the time to read the spam, it becomes clear that the market is the boys' equivalent of anti-ageing creams for women: what is really being offered is the promise of being attractive, or at least not loathsome.It may seem implausible to anyone over the age of 12 that a man whose tool bangs against his knees will be - whatever his other problems - irresistible to women. But the alternative explanation for a lack of success is that women are giggling behind your back at your pathetic, stunted personality. And that would be even worse.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Reuniting the UNI endorse the spirit of this initiative (Newly asked questions, March 13). When an institution is broken, more citizen scrutiny can only help fix it.davemenninger.comI believe there are many interesting applications for textual analysis; it can be adapted for identifying linguistic patterns (automatically) or for spotting inconsistencies (by mobilising an army of volunteers and crowdsourcing the efforts). I still can't understand why the official UN data site doesn't count "text" as data, but, well, I am sure they have a nice bureaucratic excuse.evgenymorozov.com/blogThe net: not dead yetBefore mass hysteria sets in, let's all remember that we have years, decades even, to deal with this latest programming glitch (Oh no! The net has just 30 years to live, March 13). And as for the internet? Well, I'm pretty sure that self-improving artificial intelligences will be running the world by then.readwriteweb.comRight on timeEvery time we need to find something out or exchange a thought, not only can we do so straight away, but our attention will be caught by a dozen other things which we hadn't until then been aware of needing to know or share (The internet is the ultimate labour-creating device, March 13). By giving us almost unlimited access to information and enabling us to communicate so easily, the net plugs into two of our most basic instincts as a species - to learn and to talk to each other - with the result that we spend more and more of our time doing these things.johnmill.wordpress.comThe internet is now a two-way street. We outsource to the internet and at the same time we insource to ourselves, getting extra work we normally would not do. Since the internet is global it might be true that it is the ultimate work creating device.outsourcing-options.comApple's sliceDear oh dear! Since when has 30% become "more than a third" (Developers toe the platform line,guardian.co.uk)? How did poor Charles get through school, let alone get a job as a tech journo? Trying to make Apple look slow, sly, or greedy by exaggeration, slight and slur only makes the column's author look snarky, envious and foolish. The SDK is over 3GB, for Pete's sake - that's one heck of a lot of code to give away for free. Or even 30% of app takings which covers distribution and credit card fees, and doesn't apply to freebies.Vincent Bowry,Suva, FijiTarget acquiredThe online Sydney Morning Herald of March 14 took the advert targeting issue, as discussed recently in Technology, to another level altogether. A report of a gruesome assault in a Sydney park was headed "Woman's nose bitten off". A link was provided - "Ads by Google" - to "Safe Cosmetic Surgery" from London. "Request a free brochure online now!" it urged, sensing there wasn't a moment to lose.Harold Lewis,CobhamGlowing endorsementIt is high time people came to grips with reality and realised that nuclear is the only solution (The real answer is nuclear, not plastic, March 6). Fred Hoyle convinced me when I heard him 30 or so years ago, saying just this, and that all other "solutions" were a waste of time. It was not to do with global warming but as the only answer to the inevitable world energy crisis which would arise when third-world nations demand a higher standard of living. To those opposed to nuclear I would say that there will be no future for mankind without it and the problem of waste will be solved. I must take exception though to the reference to smart bulbs - they are far from irrelevant.Charles Rowbotham,Arnside&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technologyWrite to:Letters, Technology Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone:020 7239 9925Fax:020 7239 9933Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Three weeks ago, a project to document  every single living species on the planet was launched on the internet. For the first time in history, the 1.8m plants and animals, fungi and bacteria (and other microorganisms) that constitute life on Earth will be collated in a single place. An army of unpaid volunteers, largely amateurs from outside the scientific community, is being asked to carry out this enormous endeavour. Unsurprisingly, within hours of its launch, the embryonic Encyclopedia of Life (eol.org) had crashed.The encyclopedia, which was back online swiftly, didn't crash because many of its creators were unpaid volunteers, or because all previous attempts to build a catalogue of the planet's species had also failed, but because the site housing the first 30,000 pages received, before lunchtime, a staggering 11m visits.We're all geeks nowIn other words, it collapsed under the weight of expectation, or as New York University professor Clay Shirky says, the project proved so popular "it tapped into a latent need" - namely, the world's nature enthusiasts' need to share the information with others on the internet.Shirky was in London on a lecture tour this week to promote his new book, Here Comes Everybody: The Power of Organising without Organisations (shirky.com/herecomeseverybody). Like the launch of the EOL, the book provides a timely reminder of how the nature of organising ourselves is rapidly evolving.You may have already recognised a lot of what Shirky, a professor at NYU's interactive telecommunications program, says: that it's suddenly easier to organise both large and small groups of people. But what's so new about this, he says, is the ubiquity of it all. "This time around it's not just geeks and early adopters who are taking advantage of social media," he says. "Now the technology is so prevalent that it's everybody."Resembling a bald, bespectacled Tom Hanks, Shirky ruminates about how we sit on the cusp of a new age of collaboration born out of cheap access to communications technology. He argues that simple tools like email, the internet and the mobile phone are making it "possible to achieve large-scale coordination at low cost. It is now possible for serious complex work to be taken on with [little or no] institutional direction," he says.Take the Encyclopedia of Life, for example. It demonstrates, like Wikipedia before it, that massively complicated projects can be achieved by a mass of self-coordinated volunteers at a fraction of previous costs. "It just wouldn't have been possible five years ago," says Jesse Ausubel, chair of the steering committee attempting to organise the collective knowledge of the world's life scientists.Shirky quotes many examples of the rise in collaborative action due to the ease of communication and its and falling costs: from millions of Americans raising funds for Barack Obama's presidential bid to Tibetan bloggers highlighting the brutal tactics of the Chinese state.EOL is just the latest example of mass collaboration and innovation outside the usual formal structures. It may have the backing of big research institutions like Harvard and the technical assistance of Microsoft, but most of its construction is being farmed out to thousands of volunteers. Even EOL's &pound;25m budget is meagre when you consider it is due to last 10 years - a project charting the entirety of planetary life is run on the budget of a provincial zoo.Trouble ahead?Shirky is not alone in seeing a sweeping societal shift now that social media has become as common as television. This month sees the publication of We Think, by Charles Leadbeater (charlesleadbeater.net). In it he argues that the internet is ushering in a new age of meritocracy, as more of us can participate in the production of culture and contribute ideas to the "cultural stew" of weblogs, Facebook and YouTube. But he also warns of the forthcoming struggles between those who wish to share information and culture and those who wish to control the activities. As Leadbeater says in his introduction, the conflict "between the rising surge of mass collaboration and attempts to retain top-down control will be one of the defining battles of our time".Leadbeater explains how new forms of self-organisation still require leadership of a different kind - "one that does not instruct, but encourages them to find better solutions together within the same sets of rules and values. These new communities are not without order and hierarchy however. Often they have an inner core group - a kind of aristocracy - that get them going. But these hierarchies are more open, more meritocratic than traditional hierarchy."Leadbeater thinks the US is ahead when it comes to exploring innovative organisational structures like the Encyclopedia of Life. But, perhaps, the new forms of organisation might most effectively take root elsewhere. "Many of the most radical innovations will come in the rapidly developing world - China and India and Asia, Africa, South America - where people will need to innovate low-cost collaborative solutions, [yet still] they have strong rural traditions," he says.So the real question is: how far can it go? Shirky champions the fact that Wikipedia is the 11th biggest website in the US and the UK. But that still leaves 10 corporations, with more traditional hierarchies and management structures above it.He also admits that if a traditional car company ran along the same lines as Wikipedia it would quickly go out of business. Others such as Nicholas Carr, through his blog Rough Type (roughtype.com), have argued that the new freedoms championed by the likes of Shirky and Leadbeater only displace more expensive professional alternatives, to the detriment of the greater common good.But maybe it helps to think of it like this: if the world's life scientists wanted to produce a collaborative book of all the 1.8m species known to humankind and potentially millions more unknown ones, they would need a very long bookshelf. The sum of 1.8m pages would require the equivalent of a book 300ft thick. A website is a lot easier to handle, and if we can all help to write it, why shouldn't we?&#183;Here Comes Everybody, by Clay Shirky, is available at the Guardian Bookshop for &pound;18:guardian.co.uk/bookshop
If you're reading this column, it's likely you know a console from a PC, a real-time strategy from a first-person shooter. But there are millions of people out there who wouldn't classify themselves as gamers who could soon participate in a giant game without doing anything at all - by becoming unwitting players in the Passively Multiplayer Online Game.PMOG (pmog.com) is part of an emerging gaming phenomenon that takes everyday activities - from walking down the street to surfing the Web - and turns them into structured playthings. These games make the unseen viewable, turn the humdrum ludic and imbue the seemingly inconsequential with meaning. In short, they make what we'd be doing anyway a lot more fun.PMOG translates what you surf on the web into experience points and virtual currency: your journey online becomes your path through the game. You can be an active player, choosing to take "missions" from the PMOG home page that take you down a path of interesting sites. I got lost down a rabbit hole of websites dedicated to papercraft, or the art of folding bits of paper into striking art. Each site had been tagged by another PMOGer with an explanation, further information and a ratings system that allowed me to report the quality and appropriateness of the site.Along the way, I picked up player-generated side challenges (the Japanese art of paper carp is bewildering) and earned points that will translate into paths that I'll create for others to follow. I also found loot that others had left hidden, like Easter eggs buried across the landscape of the internet. I could have chosen to be entirely passive and to let the game find me. Once activated, PMOG constantly runs in the web browser, and players fall on missions as they trip along the internet that can lead to undiscovered treasure troves of information. Or they might hit a mine left by another player that takes their virtual spoils.PMOG collects information about your surfing habits and adjusts its objectives, and your skills, accordingly. The constant observation raises red flags, but the creators insist players can control which site information is retained by the game and which is kept out.At the moment, PMOG is still in beta, but with a warm reception at SXSWi last week, the doors should be open soon. It makes exploring the far corners of the internet more appealing, and gives a personal touch to the faceless web that makes everyday life much more fun.
EU sets TV standardAs expected, or feared, the European Commission has endorsed Nokia's DVB-H for European mobile TV services, adding it to the EU List of Standards.http://www.tinyurl.com/29sstfSix cores this yearIntel has outlined plans to move to chips with four, six, eight and more cores.tinyurl.com/ys4mquBuzz threatens Digg?Yahoo Buzz shows today's most popular stories based on its log of search terms and emails.buzz.yahoo.comGoogle in TransitGoogle is beta testing Google Transit, which lets users plan routes using public transport and Google Maps.google.com/transitThe special OneDell has finally launched its flagship living room-friendly XPS One PC/20 inch HDTV/entertainment system in Europe.tinyurl.com/36rh6kThe power of SIXThe new Social Innovation eXchange (SIX) is sharing news and case studies of social innovation, mainly in the public sector.socialinnovationexchange.orgShare with MiShareiSkins is now selling a &pound;60 gizmo called MiShare that allows files to be shared between iPods without using a PC or separate cables.iskins.co.uk/mishare.htmmishare.comHulu hooplahThe Hulu website for TV programs and movies, backed by News Corp and NBC Universal, was officially launched last week.hulu.com
A laser keyboard? A LASER KEYBOARD? Indeed: you plug this little &pound;120 gizmo, made by Celluon, into the USB port of your computer (or connect via Bluetooth), find a suitably flat surface, and voila, upon it will appear, etched in red laser light, the outlines of the keys of a standard Windows keyboard. Wow! It's like a very, very small prog rock concert from the 1970s right there on your desk! Put Genesis's Seconds Out on the iPod!Is that impressive or what? No more need to lug around a keyboard with your Palm (does anyone still use those?) or Tablet PC (you bought one of those?) or Windows or Symbian smartphone (some people have them, I hear). You can even plug it into a normal laptop or desktop machine if you'd like to get the sensation of making words appear just by tapping your desk.The keyboard is generated by scanning a laser beam very rapidly over the desk, rather as cathode-ray TV generates the picture by progressively squirting lines of electrons onto the tube you're watching. A detector watches to see whether anything interrupts the beam (by capturing reflections to a detector mounted by the laser) and can figure out which "key" - or "keys", since the scanning happens very much faster than typing - are being "pressed". Does it work? It does. I tried it on an HP laptop running Windows XP, which recognised it at once (after the software had been installed). The sensation of tapping one's fingers on the naked desk is very strange, because we're used to keyboards which give a certain amount of tactile and force feedback.But here's the problem. I'm a touch typist, yet though I tried for quite a while, I couldn't get any accuracy with the keyboard. Missed keys, wrong keys, missed spaces were common. (I tried hunt-and-peck. But that's slow.) Yes, you can negotiate menus, and even move the mouse by swirling your finger around once you're in a mouse control mode (for example, with a dialog box). But it's not better than a little mouse you could carry in a pocket.Another problem is that you can't enlarge the keyboard. (True, you can't with standard keyboards either, but this is just light.) Raising the laser makes the image on the desk larger, but then the reflections aren't captured, so nothing happens when you type. And, finally, the gizmo plus the virtual keyboard takes as much, if not more, room than a real keyboard. It's not better than fold-out portable keyboards that have been around for ages, or flexible ones from companies such as Eleksen.So with regret this has to go into the category of "nice idea, but reality doesn't agree". It must have seemed neat at the time. But lower-tech methods are actually better.Pros:Looks great, Bluetooth available, very portableCons:Variable accuracy, not space efficientmaplin.com
Dynasty Warriors is one of those "big in Japan" titles that serves to underline the cultural differences between our nations. It's a good looking, if basic, hack-and-slash through Ancient China where rival warlords are competing for dominion over the land. For the player, this means choosing a character and launching into "Musou Mode" where you slaughter "grunts" by the platoon load (and harder-to-beat enemy generals) as they blithely amble into your path, and try to complete assorted tasks - take the fortress, open the gate, etc - in a set time. "Musou" apparently means "story", but on this evidence might equally translate as "press buttons furiously and hope". While the main game is an often frantic, confusing experience, Challenge Mode - kill as many people as you can, and other such targets - is stupidly enjoyable - particularly if you play as Xiahou Dun, an eyepatch-wearing warrior armed, apparently, with a giant swizzle stick.
Genuinely cooperative games are rare, so full marks to EA for designing a shoot-em-up that works for single players but comes into its own with two. Going in all guns blazing triggers a system called Aggro, complete with "bullet time" high scoring and chances for your partner to set up sneaky ambushes. The console does this automatically, but it's far more satisfying with a mate at the controls. Cooperation also pays dividends when piloting vehicles or trying to reach tricky places where a step-lift comes in handy. And it all looks brilliantly grungy, combining great graphics with chunky, upgradeable weapons and a host of challenging objectives per level. If this is what a next-gen FPS feels like, give me more.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Forget innovative weaponry and shiny graphics, character persistence and customisation have become vital features in any first person shooter. Okay, quality is still hugely important but online persistence - where your character's stats increase and develop the more you play - is now key to the appeal of any online shooter. Call of Duty 4 is a fabulous game but its online popularity is clearly fuelled by the levelling system that lets players kit out and continually develop their individual character.Rainbow 6 Vegas 2- released tomorrow - takes this trend further, with a role playing game-style XP bar running along the bottom of the screen. This logs every kill that you and your team make, awarding points - usually 10 per kill - that edges you tantalizingly closer to the next promotion and the attendant equipment upgrades. And like World of Warcraft and other MMORPG's the tendency to play on and just, "get to the next level" is hugely addictive.Further character personalisation is available through the face scan option via the 360 or PS3 camera. This works in a similar way to the original Rainbow Six Vegas although this time round you get an oddly creepy lip sync effect when you speak. Luckily R6V2 is worth the effort. The story mode is strong - although co-op is reduced to two rather than the four of the original game - but Terrorist Hunt is the better long-term co-op bet. Here you team up with other players to take out computer controlled assailants. Limited lives make it tense yet obviously hugely rewarding when you pull off a victory. In many ways Rainbow Six Vegas 2 feels like a buffed up version of the original game - the graphics are fine, but hardly a great leap forward - but the leveling up, especially when playing offline, really adds depth. Slightly more cerebral than Call of Duty 4 and simply more interesting than Halo 3, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is currently at the top of my console shooter chart.
The Elite Group is chuffed that its "Eee PC killer," theG10ILhas won "the Best Pre-Commercial Mobile Broadband Notebook category in the annual GSMA" awards. The press release says:The GSM Association (GSMA), representing the global mobile industry, announced Elitegroup Computer Systems (ECS) as the winners of its Mobile Broadband Notebook competition to stimulate the recently identified -- though currently untapped -- mass market segment for notebook PCs with embedded Mobile Broadband (HSPA) connectivity.It's an Intel Diamondville* design with screen sizes from 8.2 to 10.2 inches, and runs Windows XP or Linux, in spite of looking a bit like an iBook from the Age of Bathroom-based Design. Other features include three USB 2 ports, Ethernet, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, a four-in-one card reader, and a 1.3 megapixel camera. Pocket Lint published aload of picsearlier this month.The G10IL is expected to ship in April and the target price is "sub $500".* Diamondville was the code-name for a very small, cheap ultramobile 45nm chip with a new microarchitecture. The official title for public consumption is now Intel Atom, as in "Intel Centrino Atom platform". There will probably be dozens of examples this summer. The long-term aspiration is to paper the world with $250 subnotebooks.
It's good to know that, amidst the current economic crisis, there are certain indefatigable financial laws we can rely on. Hence, Chart Trackhas revealedthat UK Xbox 360 sales received a healthy 40% boost last weekend, thanks to the recent price drop. Not all the sales news was as positive for Microsoft. From Gamesindustry.biz:But while Xbox hardware was up, software did not enjoy an attendant rise. "That's mainly because the week prior there were big new 360 releases like Army of Two, Bully and MX vs ATV," Bloch noted, explaining that a drop-off in the following week is typical.Recently, PS3 had been the stronger performer (US detailshere), thanks in part to Blu-ray's victory in the HD format wars. I spoke to Play.Com's Head of Games on Saturday who told me that PS3 was easily outselling both Wii and Xbox 360 on their site. Now the 'next-gen' battle has taken another mildly intriguing turn.
A story in today's FT suggests that Apple is talking to music companies about aplan that would give unlimited accessto the iTunes library for a "premium" iPod/iPhone purchase.As the FT says,The "all you can eat" model, a replica of Nokia's "comes with music" deal with Universal Music last December, could provide the struggling recorded music industry with a much-needed fillip, and drive demand for a new generation of Apple's hardware.It could probably turbo-boost sales of iPods, which have been ..um, not accelerating as fast as before. (Nobody seems to be able to agree whether one should measure from quarter to quarter or year to year to decide whether they're "slowing down".)The sticking point, as ever: money. While Nokia is offering an "all-you-can-eat" service where it's reckoned to be suggesting $80 per handset, Apple has pitched rather lower - $20, according to the sources. The music companies aren't biting. Apple, most probably, is going to wait for them to see just how much the credit crunch hurts (EMI, don't forget, is a private equity buyout, which means its loan costs will rise, hitting the bottom line) while it sits on its $18billioncash pile. One can almost hear Steve Jobs's mellifluous voice now: credit crunch? What credit crunch? We're just offering you adeal, guys.Again from the FT:Detailed market research has shown strong appetite among consumers for deals bundling music in with the cost of the device, or in exchange for a monthly subscription, executives said.One executive said the research had shown that consumers would pay a premium of up to $100 for unlimited access to music for the lifetime of the device, or a monthly fee of $7-$8 for a subscription model.Apple, which is thought to make relatively little money from the iTunes store compared with its hardware sales, is also understood to be examining a subscription model.Certainly Feargal Sharkey, who we spoke to in the latestTech Weekly podcast, might see this as a smart way to get money in music-makers' pockets. And whenI tried out the MusicStation offering(available presently on Vodafone), which is an all-you-can-eat offering for £2 per week, it seemed to me - as subscriptions do - the obvious way forward.The music labels are probably going to start hurting badly enough soon enough that they will go for this. The only question is the price. Which means - as a corollary - that DRM isn't going to go away in a hurry, since you don't want people downloading tons of stuff and then spreading it around their friends, do you? (Though you're welcome to do so with theTech Weekly podcast, which remains free.)But here's the question. How much extra would you be prepared to pay for unlimited, forever music on your iPod?
The Castlevania series has found its gloomy way onto just about every games machine over the last decade, usually providing a solid platform adventuring experience. When I heard Konami and Glu had a mobile version on the way, I thought this may finally be a conversion too far. Turns out, it wasn't.Due out in mid-April, Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow is, of course, an adaptation of the 2003 GBA title, the first truly successful portable incarnation of Konami's long-running series. You play highschool student Soma Cruz who finds himself inexplicably warped from a near-future Tokyo to Dracula's castle, making this an unlikely proto-gothic cyberpunk time travel adventure. Soma must now escape the zombies, skeletons and giant eyeball monsters to reach the throne room, which leads to safety.While this is basically an exploration-focused platformer, the mini-RPG elements from the GBA original have been faithfully transported to mobile. Soma must collect weapons, potions and armour enroute, while also sucking up the souls of vanquished enemies which give him a range of new abilities. These usually open up new areas of the (impressively large) game map: 'Skula' for example, lets you walk under water, helpfully providing access to that sub-aqua door you glanced a few rooms back.All of this is tracked via a dense inventory screen that soon becomes cluttered with familiar spells, swords and armour types. Managing these items and selecting the best for your current situation (you can only utilise three skills at once) is as absorbing as ever - even if the combat itself is mostly random dagger pokes and lobbed projectile attacks.While the character animation is basic, the grand gothic interiors are nicely detailed, faithfully recreating the look of the GBA title (although Gameloft has since pushed the graphical envelope a little further with its excellent Prince of Peria titles). There's also a lot of loading between level areas, which - as veteran platform gamers will quickly recall - can get frustrating.But this is a great translation and compelling enough to have me playing well into the night a couple of times, when I really ought to have been sleeping.(Image is from the GBA version: come on Glu, send me some screenshots!)
15 months after the consumer release of Vista, Microsoft has released Sevice Pack 1 - aka SP1 - to update and delight users.The picture above? Oh, that's some toilet roll with the feature list printed on it. AsEngadget comments, "you've got to feel sorry for Vista - people keep crapping on it."Therelease notesare something to behold; the "Support for New Technologies and Standards" section contains the interesting comment that itAdds support for Windows Smartcard Framework to enable compliance with the EU Digital Signature Directive and National ID / eID.Sorry, whose NationalIE/eIDID/eID is that, then?An interesting little note in "General Improvements and Enhancements":With SP1, Microsoft differentiates the experience customers have using non-genuine versions of our software. This is based on feedback we heard from volume license customers in particular as part of our Windows Genuine Advantage program. Further details can be found in an interview with Microsoft Corporate Vice President Mike Sievert athttp://www.microsoft.com/presspass/features/2007/dec07/12-03wga.mspx.That would be "don't annoy the enterprise customers", I suspect.You can get the SP1 downloadhere(32-bit x86) orhere(64-bit) - though if you're updating just one computer it's better to useWindows Update. Sizes are 434MB for the x86 version, 760MB (or so) for the 64-bit one. Probably not much need for bittorrent on this one then...
British mobile phone users could enjoy the sort of "all-you-can-eat" call packages that are available in the US after the Competition Commission was asked yesterday to consider scrapping one of the most complicated aspects of call charging.The Competition Appeal Tribunal posed a series of questions yesterday to the commission as part of a long-running spat between the regulator, Ofcom; BT and the UK's newest mobile phone network, 3, about mobile termination rates.One of the questions was whether the UK's five networks - 3, O2, Orange, Vodafone and T-Mobile - should stop charging each other to connect calls to customers from other operators and so cut mobile termination rates to zero.The move would enable the mobile phone companies to offer flat-rate tariffs allowing customers to make as many calls as they want for a fixed monthly charge. Similar packages in the US for $99.99 (&pound;49) a month have already been announced by AT&amp;T, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless. In Germany, T-Mobile and E-Plus are offering unlimited calls.The network 3, owned by the Hong Kong-based conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, has been pushing hard for an end to the pricing regime, which Ofcom restructured a year ago.Having far fewer customers than the other four players, 3 is a net payer of mobile termination rates. It pays out about &pound;50m a year more in termination rates than it collects from Vodafone, O2, Orange and T-Mobile when their customers call someone on its own network.Tim Lord, 3's director of regulatory affairs, said the lack of termination rates in the US and Hong Kong meant customers got lower service prices, and bigger bundles of call-time allowances. Utilisation rose by a factor of three. "We think it will change the industry fundamentally if it happens here," he said.BT, meanwhile, has to pay the mobile phone firms every time one of its landline customers calls a mobile phone. It pays the five networks more than &pound;1bn a year in mobile termination rates. BT objected to the new termination rates imposed by Ofcom last year, saying the regulator had not been strict enough.Under Ofcom's plan, the rate that 3 can charge will fall 45% to 5.9p a minute over the next three years, while the other four networks will see prices drop to 5.1p.Scrapping termination rates altogether is likely to be better for 3 than it is for the other four networks because the former only has a 3G network to run; O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone also have the cost of running their old 2G networks. The end of termination rates could also spark a renewed price war in the UK with 3 using its lower cost base to undercut rivals.The UK is already one of Europe's most competitive mobile phone markets. Research from the market experts Gfk Retail and Technology showed that in the second half of 2007 the market increased year-on-year in terms of number of phones sold. But to spur that growth in predominantly pre-pay mobiles, the operators heavily subsidised the price of handsets. In cash terms, sales were actually down in the second half of 2007.Gfk warned that while there appears to have been growth in the first quarter of this year, the market would slow down over the months ahead.All the mobile phone companies are cutting costs as they focus on retaining existing customers. Vodafone, for instance, yesterday announced plans to lay off 450 people, mainly managers, from its headquarters in Newbury, Berkshire. The company is adding more than 400 frontline staff and building a customer service centre in Stoke-on-Trent, with the capacity to take 850 workers, as it battles with a market in which penetration is well over 100% - meaning many people have more than one mobile device.
At BarCamp Brighton last weekend, Alternate Reality Game developerAdrian Honheld a session on games and stories. His company's storytelling experiment,We Tell Stories, in association with Penguin, kicked off yesterday, and thus his talk was a timely retrospective on the relationship between narrative and interaction.According to his analysis, there are only six ways games tell stories.Story as RewardThis is the catch all - the story is the carrot that dangles in front of the player, compelling him or her to get throught he puzzles to the cut-scenes. Generally, the gameplay is largely unrelated to the story because it's the last thing that was done in the development process. Games with this story-driven format are stories on rails.Story as ExperienceIn this approach, the story is told through gameplay. There aren't any cut scenes, or cut scenes are integrated into the game. This means the story has to be written into the design right from the start, and the 'rails' of the game have to be hidden well to create a gameplay experience that doesn't feel controlled.Typical Game: Half Life/Deus ExBranching NarrativeThis is the quintessential 'interactive story' : player can make choices (like in choose your own adventure stories), but this only gives theillusionof choice. It also involves creating a lot of 'wasted content' because people never see all of it. Adrian thinks this approach works best if the path is right at the end, but more often than not, players find they can't progress unless story tasks are completed in a certain order.Typical Game: Legend of Zelda seriesPseudo AIApparently, the buzz on the game-writer's street is that this approach 'is the future'. Writers can completely influence story within certain parameters. However, it's very developer-heavy: natural language processing and AI require a huge amount of scripting - thousands of pre-written lines, to be exact. And effectively, the player is still in a maze, but a slightly more complex one.Typical Game: FacadeSandbox GamesThere's no set narrative in this category, but there may be a setting. The pro of this approach is that user-generated stories can be better than anything that's pre-written, but it does require great game design, and isn't a gaming experience for everyone. Often parameters make a better game experience.Typical Game: Black and WhiteDungeon Master GamesThis is a very 'live' approach to game design: developers set the narrative to an extent, but are able to react to player actions. However, this requires real-time response, and so it doesn't scale well, or offer many replay options. After all, how much human interaction can you actually have with each player when there are 100K people playing the game?Typical Game: Alternate Reality Games, table-top gamesYou can check out his slideshere, or read up on the session onRachel Clarke's blog.
The embattled internet company Yahoo has pledged to double its cash generation over the next three years if investors allow it to remain independent by rejecting Microsoft's hostile takeover.A business plan published by the Silicon Valley web portal set out ambitious forecasts for growth in search revenue, video and display advertising.Yahoo believes its operating cash flow can increase from $1.9bn (&pound;940m) to $3.7bn in three years. It expects revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, to jump from last year's $5.1bn to $8.8bn in 2010.To achieve growth, Yahoo intends to build on the popularity of its internet "starting points" such as mail, search and mobile, which web users return to many times daily.The firm has high hopes for its Panama advertising platform, for simplified offerings to commercial customers, and for growth in its Asian operations.The rosy assessment of prospects is Yahoo's latest pitch to shareholders for a rejection of Microsoft's all-stock offer, which was worth $44.6bn in early February but has since fallen to $40bn due to a fall in Microsoft's share price."This is a scale business and our scale is a tremendous strategic asset," said Yahoo's chairman, Roy Bostock. He said the figures "provide context for our board's unanimous rejection of Microsoft's unsolicited proposal".Frosty relations between Yahoo and Microsoft have thawed slightly. Last week, the two companies quietly held a meeting allowing Microsoft to set out its case for a friendly merger. No negotiations took place.Yahoo's shares jumped $1.50 to $27.35 in early trading on the technology-dominated exchange Nasdaq. Wall Street analysts give the firm little chance of hanging on to its independence, although it may persuade Microsoft to raise its offer."At the very least, this is a smart last-ditch effort by Yahoo management to squeeze a few more dollars out of Microsoft," said Ross Sandler, an analyst at RBC Capital. "The company is clearly laying out a very optimistic scenario. Judging by recent history, we remain sceptical of Yahoo's ability to execute smoothly against this plan."Once the most popular internet search engine, Yahoo has lost ground to Google in recent years. Critics have accused Yahoo's management of spreading the company too thinly across a wide range of activities without any overarching speciality.Microsoft is the only company in the race for Yahoo. Rupert Murdoch said he did not want his News Corporation to go head-to-head in a battle for Yahoo with the Seattle-based software empire.
Click here to listen to this week's showIt's not every day you get rock royalty in the pod, but this week presenterAleks Krotoskiwelcomes Feargal Sharkey - once of theUndertones, now the boss atBritish Music Rights. He comes in to explain why he's trying to smooth the bumpy road for the future of music.We also talk to Anthony Rose, head of the BBC'siPlayerproject - which hasbeenin theheadlinesrecently - about Auntie's reasoning behind working on an iPhone client, and about the future for video on demand.Elsewhere, panellistsCharles ArthurandBobbie Johnsonare on hand to help pore over the news, views and the blogs. Plus, an exclusive insight into my shelving system. Bet you can't wait for that.As always: your thoughts and opinions are welcome - leave them in the comments below.·The podcast feed URL·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·Visit our Facebook group·The Tech Weekly archives
Arthur C Clarke, the science fiction writer who also thought of how geosynchronous satellites (which keep the same position relative to the Earth's surface) could work, and was the scientific adviser - because the original writer of the short story - to Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey - has died aged 90 in Sri Lanka, where he had lived for the past 50 years.From the Press Association:A prolific writer, Sir Arthur is credited with foreseeing such phenomena as the frequent use of satellites, space travel and mobile phones. He came from a farming family, was born in Minehead, Somerset, on December 16, 1917. After leaving school, he moved to London in 1936 and pursued his early interest in space sciences by joining the British Interplanetary Society.He started to contribute to the BIS Bulletin and began to write science fiction. During the Second World War he joined the RAF, eventually becoming an officer in charge of the first radar talk-down equipment - the Ground Controlled Approach - during its experimental trials. (Later, his only non-science-fiction novel, Glide Path, was based on this work.)After the war, Sir Arthur returned to London and to the BIS, becoming its president in 1947-50 and again in 1953. In 1945, a periodical magazine, Wireless World, published his landmark technical paper "Extra-terrestrial Relays" in which he first set out the principles of satellite communication with satellites in geostationary orbits - a speculation realised 25 years later. While developing his theories, he worked with scientists and engineers in the US in the development of spacecraft and launch systems. Sir Arthur's work, which led to the global satellite systems in use today, brought him numerous honours and academic recognition. Today, the geostationary orbit at 36,000 kilometres above the equator is named The Clarke Orbit by the International Astronomical Union.After leaving the RAF in 1946, he was awarded a Fellowship at King's College, London to study for a degree in mathematics and physics, graduating with first class honours. In terms of Sir Arthur as an author, the first story he sold professionally was Rescue Party, written in March 1945 and appearing in Astounding Science in May 1946. He went on to become a prolific writer of science fiction, renowned worldwide and with more than 70 titles to his name. In 1964, he started to work with film producer Stanley Kubrick on a science fiction movie script. Four years later, he shared an Oscar nomination with Kubrick for the film version of 2001: A Space Odyssey. Then, in 1985, he published a sequel, 2010: Odyssey Two and worked with Peter Hyams on the film version.His thirteen-part TV series Arthur C Clarke's Mysterious World in 1981 and Arthur C Clarke's World of strange Powers in 1984 has been screened in many countries. Sir Arthur first visited Colombo, Sri Lanka in December 1954 and had lived there since 1956 pursuing a passion for underwater exploration. In his latter years, he was largely confined to a wheelchair due to post-polio syndrome, but his output as a writer continued undiminished. In 1998, he was honoured with a knighthood - formally conferred by Prince Charles in Sri Lanka two years later. Sir Arthur married Marilyn Mayfield in 1953, but the couple divorced in 1964.Phew. OK, Arthur C Clarke memories, anyone?
Clay ShirkybyJoi,Some Rights ReservedFor those of you not familiar withClay Shirky(he said that his Wikipedia entry was better than the biography on his own site), he summed up both is work and his views succinctly at the beginning of a talk at the Royal Society of Arts today.We have reached an age when this stuff is technologically boring enough to be socially interesting.Clay was talking about his new book, Here Comes Everybody, the Power of Organising without Organisations, and he spent 20 minutes giving examples of what he meant here in Britain, in Belarus and in Sicily. You can get a sense of his ideas from arecording of a speech he gave last night at the ICAcourtesy of Mark Kramer. Read on for highlights on his talk.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Clay Shirky,flashmobstechnorati tags endThe examples he gave are both well known and some less publicised:HSBC student account revoltBelarus' protest of eating ice creamor as Clay said, "Nothing says dictatorship like arresting people for eating ice cream."A popular revolt against the mafia in Palermo.And again, Clay summed up all of these efforts by saying:This effort forms the experimental wing of political philosophy.He also talked about how his views had evolved over time. He admitted that he used to be a 'cyber-utopian', but that ended suddenly when one of his students told him of how a teen girls' magazine website in the US had to shut down its health and beauty forum because, "We couldn't get the pro-anorexic girls to shut up." Anorexic girls were sharing tips on how to lose weight. He said: "This isn't a side effect. This is the internet. This is a case where it's not an improvement to society, it's also a challenge."He also studied Sourceforge, one of the largest online clearinghouses for open-source software. Three-quarters of the projects are failures he said with no downloads. Success for most of the rest is modest, but a few have millions of downloads. But he said that open-source was useful because of the transparency in the process.Failure can be a benefit as long as we can all learn from them.One of the best comments of his entire talk was when he was asked what would be the next great tool. He dryly answered 'e-mail'. The revolution isn't when people adopt new tools but when the tools became so ubiquitous, so common that they change behaviours.
Since the whole thing about server-side adware company Phorm first blew up, we've been hearing about the report by 80/20, a consultancy run by Simon Davies and Gus Hosein (better known for their role in Privacy International), which examined the implications of the Phorm setup. (Kent Ertegrul, Phorm's chief executive, confused the two, very separate, organisations, as you'll recall from our interview.)Now we've been sent the report, dated February 10 2008, which you candownload(PDF, 396KB). We've not had time to digest it at all, so we'll update this entry as and when we get the chance. In the meantime, Phorm points out that this was aninterimreport - the full one is due later this month (not much time for that, then) and that while it has a number of queries, those are now being sorted out with 80/20.A couple of quick notes from the report:This PIA [Privacy Impact Assessment] takes into account the May 2007 audit performed by Ernst &amp; Young. While broadly agreeing with Ernst &amp; Young's findings, the 80/20 assessment provides a broader geographical context, a wider focus across a more universal privacy environment and a more risk-based approach in its methodology.I can see which report we have to look at next...From the executive summary:We broadly agree with the positive findings of the 2007 Ernst &amp; Young privacy examination, but remain concerned that the scope of that report was based almost exclusively on conditions applying to the US privacy environment. Public sensitivities, regulatory conditions and other factors vary substantially according to geographical location.We are encouraged by the spirit of openness shown by Phorm's executive team. A clear willingness to engage with and respond to this examination has, in our view, provided a strong foundation for development of a strong and sustainable privacy commitment by the organisation.Based on the information and documentation we have reviewed, we believe that Phorm Technology does not make use of personal data as defined in the UK Data Protection Act (though not necessarily the data protection or privacy Acts of all countries). However the technology may prompt wider (albeit often perception based) privacy and intrusion concerns.Can't fault them on their foresight with the latter. Over to you: what's in there?
Everyone's talking about the American sub-prime banking crisis. But how did they get there? Well, we know - they lent money to people who couldn't pay back. But should they have seen it coming? Could they have? Some fantastic animations we've found online put it all into perspective, using a method rather likeGapminder(which wewrote abouta while back) but with public data from American banks' filings.The source isAnd Still I Persistwhich has used its own technology, calledBoomerang, to disentangle this colossally complex topic. The first graph shows (by bank) the value of mortgages, by bank, where there were payments outstanding by 90 days or more. The number of "late" loans is vertical; the asset size of the bank horizontal; its total loan portfolio is the area of the circle at any point. (It's bad to be vertical, small and near the x-origin.)And secondly, total charged-off loans - that is, number of loans that have been written off as "non-performing" (vertical axis), total assets (shouldn't that beclaimedassets?) of the bank on the horizontal, and the area of the circles showing the bank's total loan portfolio. (Being vertical and not far along the axis and having a small circle is bad.)So - the question we now have is, why did it all go pear-shaped in 2007? What in particular happened?(Note: this looks terrible, I'm aware, in Firefox and Camino on the Mac; it's fine on Safari. I don't know how it looks on Windows. My suggestion, if you're not getting the graphs in all their glory, is tovisit the original post- it should be fine there.URL corrected; apologies - CA)
Half of the UK's broadband users are unhappy with the service from their internet providers even though high-speed connections are at their cheapest and fastest, according to a survey by price comparison service uSwitch.With 15 million customers - half the country - spending &pound;3bn on broadband every year, the gap is widening between the companies perceived as best and worst providers, according to uSwitch, which makes money by encouraging consumers to hunt out new deals.Its survey of nearly 11,000 broadband customers suggests four million customers are not satisified with their provider and four out of nine companies have less satisfied customers this year than last.The report's top ranking goes to PlusNet, bought by BT a year ago, with 86% customer satisfaction. It won nine out of 11 categories including best customer service and best technical support.But BT came last for value for money for the second time running. Sky moved ahead of Virgin Media to take second place overall, with eight out of 10 customers satisfied. The survey ranked Orange as the worst broadband provider, claiming half a million customers - over a third - are not satisfied with its overall service.
"An editorial in this month's issue of the American Journal of Psychiatry says Internet addiction - including 'excessive gaming, sexual pre-occupations and e-mail/text messaging' - is a common compulsive-impulsive disorder that should be added to psychiatry's official guidebook of mental disorders," reports Sharon Kirkey inThe Ottawa Citizen.Like other addicts, users experience cravings, urges, withdrawal and tolerance, requiring more and better equipment and software, or more and more hours online, according to D. Jerald Block, a psychiatrist at the Oregon Health and Science University in Portland. Dr Block says people can lose all track of time or neglect "basic drives," like eating or sleeping. Relapse rates are high, he writes, and some people may need psychoactive medications or hospitalization.Later in the story it says:Some use computers like they would drugs or alcohol as a way to escape reality, the researchers say. Addicts may be addicted to everything from the sheer act of typing, to chat rooms, online shopping or three-dimensional, multiplayer games users have described as "heroinware."At least South Korea is taking the problem seriously:After 10 people died in Internet cafés in South Korea from cardiopulmonary-related deaths - at least seven reportedly due to online gaming - the government trained more than 1,000 counsellors in the treatment of Internet addiction, Dr Block writes.With apologies toNapoleon XIVfor the headline.
Yahoo's share price rose nearly 5% today after the internet company released details of a three-year plan that it claims proves that Microsoft's takeover offer "substantially undervalues" its business.The internet content company has put forward a financial plan saying it expected to "roughly" double operating cash flow to $3.7bn and generate $8.8bn (£4.36bn) in revenue by 2010.Yahoo also said that it would meet City expectations for its first quarter, a key concern for analysts who had speculated that if the company missed its targets Microsoft might drop its $31-a-share offer and come back with a lower bid.The company's share price on New York's Nasdaq exchange had risen by 4.45% to $27, at 13.33pm UK time, following today's announcement.Yahoo said the plan was presented to its board of directors in December, before Microsoft's bid. The company added that it "supports the unanimous determination by the company's board of directors that Microsoft's ... unsolicited acquisition proposal substantially undervalues Yahoo"."Yahoo is positioned for accelerated financial growth. We have a powerful consumer brand, a huge global audience and a highly profitable operating model," said Jerry Yang, the company's co-founder and chief executive.The company forecast $1.9bn in extra revenue over the next three years from display and video advertising and expects to "outpace the currently anticipated market rate of growth" in the burgeoning digital media sector.Yahoo also expects $1.4bn in additional search revenue in line with the anticipated growth rate for the sector."This is a scale business and our scale is a tremendous strategic asset," said Roy Bostock, the chairman of Yahoo's board."We are pleased to share with the market more details about our business and our expectations for Yahoo's financial performance, which provided context for our board's unanimous rejection of Microsoft's unsolicited proposal."Yahoo said it aimed to enhance its position to be a leading starting point for internet users when they log on and a must-buy for advertisers.Goals include developing Yahoo.com, My Yahoo, search and mail to be more "open, social and relevant" to users.A key initiative intended to please advertisers is to develop a new ad platform designed to "simplify online advertising buying and selling" as well as improving underperforming search advertising platform Panama.The company also reaffirmed that its financial performance was on track to meet expectations for 2008.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
While at (the now infamous) Play Live this weekend, I had a quick chat with the event's presenter, Iain Lee. The self-confessed geek was disarmingly pleasant and candid, and I wondered if he had any plans to resurrect his career as a videogame TV show presenter."I just don't think it works," he replied sanguinely. "The only time it ever worked really was Gamesmaster, and I think that was the timing, it was Dominic Diamond - love him or hate him, he was right for that. We tried it with Thumb Bandits and in all honesty it was rubbish. People who make TV programmes don't quite understand games, they don't understand what they are and why people find them exciting - they choose to show elements that don't... I don't know, it just doesn't seem to work."So could he think of a format that might just turn things round?"I've given up. I found Thumb Bandits the most disappointing and depressing experience of my life - apart from working with the lovely Aleks. It was just hideous - the people who were making it just didn't know... no I won't say that, that's a bit harsh. I found it very depressing because it wasn't what I wanted it to be, so I've not thought about doing it again."I was asking, really, because ofXLeagueTV, which is attempting to bring across the American/South Korean model of televising pro-game tournaments. "I love Xleague," he said. "I don't know how long it's going to last as a viable business - it can't be getting that much of an audience. I went on there as a 'celebrity' guest and they show the games as though it's a sport, you've got people playing Rainbow Six with commentary - as a hardcore thing that works, but again it's breaking that into the mainstream that's the problem."Getting into my new stride as a faux celeb reporter, I asked what hewasup to. "I'm filming a pilot episode of a sketch show with Mackenzie Crook and Bob Mortimer, which is crazy I don't understand it. Me and Mackenzie live together and 'crazy' things happen. It's for the BBC and it all depends on whether they decide to pick it up or not. I've done hundreds of these things and often they don't go anywhere, but Bob Mortimer is on board and he seems very confident that something will come of it. It's very funny! We're filming it in April, so we'll see how it goes."If I'd have posted that yesterday, it would have been an exclusive. As it is, The Sun,beat me to it. Looks like my career as a TV gossip breaker has already stalled.Still, I did also meetNicholas Hoult. Would anyone like to know what consoles he has?
A link- just in case you haven't seen it. It's quite funny. Here's a taster:Concerned parents are again blasting the Nintendo Wii for an incident of effeminate violence following a 13-year-old boy's limp-wristed attack on three of his classmates at a Cleveland-area middle school Tuesday. The incident--the sixth of its kind in as many months--has left parents searching for answers and struggling to comprehend the dainty assault, which left the necks of two sweaters severely stretched out and countless fingers stubbed.
This was supposed to go live yesterday, but got mixed up with the Tuesday chatterbox, or something. Anyway, tickets for the Blizzard Worldwide Invitational event will beavailable from this Thursday. The action takes place in Paris on the 28th and 29th of June and will allow fans hands-on play with Starcraft II and Wrath of the Lich King, the upcoming World of Warcraft expansion. Expect panel discussions, Starcraft tournaments, costume competitions and lots of whooping and hollering. All attendees receive a goody bag of Blizzard items - including a beta key to "an upcoming Blizzard Entertainment game" - which is the least you expect when tickets cost 55 quid each. Still, with WoW being the most important game release so far this century - in terms of gaming and market impact - then this event, the first of its kind in Europe, looks like big news.
"Notebooks with Flash-based hard drives cost a lot and, according to managing partner Avi Cohen at Avian Securities, they don't work very well either," according toCNet.A large computer manufacturer is getting around 20 percent to 30 percent of the Flash-based notebooks it is shipping sent back because of failure rates and performance that simply isn't meeting customer expectations, the firm stated in a report on Monday. Avian gathered this information on a recent swing through Asia.Cohen doesn't say which manufacturer, but the author points out that Dell(see update below)is the main manufacturer to ship Flash-based systems in volume.It looks like another case of industry hype finally meeting reality. There are some advantages to solid state drives (SSDs) for "road warriors," especially improved battery life and robustness (the ability to survive being dropped). However, for most people, SSDs deliver much less storage (32GB or 64GB instead of 160GB or more) for a lot more money.The same money would be better spent on a notebook with more RAM and a faster graphics chip.Update: According toEngadget:Dell claims that the 20 to 30% failure and return rates for SSD laptops cited by Avian's report "don't even vaguely resemble what's happening in our business." Dell says it wasn't contacted in the study, and that "global reliability data shows that SSD drives are equal to or better than traditional hard disk drives we've shipped."Thanks to techboy66 for the link.The Engadget quotes are taken from a Direct2Dell post,Recent Opinion on SSD Failure Rates Fails to Include the Facts, which would have been an even more useful link ;-)
