Skyscanner, the flight search site, has doubled its revenues in the last year and is planning an aggressive recruitment drive in its home base in Edinburgh, its chief executive has said.Gareth Williams, also co-founder of the site, said on Thursday it hopes to expand tenfold in the next three or four years and has not ruled out a flotation on the stock market.Skyscanner is a free service which trawls the world's airlines for flights serving up users with results by time, price and airline.It was started in 2001 and has survived despite the dominating presence of the likes of Expedia and Kayak, which floated earlier this year.Skyscanner, which takes a cut on each booking or a commission on each click through to an airline website which converts into a sale, is now turning over £3m a month in revenues.Asked whether it would float, Williams said "possibly so", but he said it would be a function of the company's size, not an immediate goal."As a founder and CEO my day-to-day concern is just to get bigger. I think we have 10 times the size with us in the next three of four years. I don't see an IPO as a goal, I see it as a side effect," he told the Dublin web summit.His site attracts 14m uniques a month with 30m visits with a 28% click-through rate and a 20% booking rate. About half of visitors are repeat visitors.Last year it was pulling in £1.8m a month and five years ago £180,000 a month.Williams puts down the growth to the simplicity of the offering – it is offering raw data with click-through to airline sites – it is not intervening in the sale and will click through to an airline's website even where there is no partnership.Around a third of its traffic is to budget airlines – and he reports that Ryanair has described Skyscanner as one of the "good guys" – and about 60% of the traffic shorthaul.The company has raised just less than £3m in equity funding.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
I'm looking for a portable router that can be used in hotel rooms and houses where there is wired broadband but no Wi-Fi. I would also like to be able to vary the strength of the signal, with the idea that generating just enough signal for a single room may be preserving battery power for these small portable devices.Rhys JonesSome Wi-Fi routers allow you to vary the power, though this involves logging on to the router and hunting through the settings. It will probably be under an Advanced heading, and may be called something like Transmit Power. However, this feature is not widely known, because people usually want more power not less: hence the popularity of boosters, extenders, repeaters etc.I don't know of any portable "travel routers" that have this feature, but maybe readers can suggest some examples. These routers are usually much weaker than the sort of thing that you'd use in a home or office.PC Pro magazinereviewed one of the smallest and cheapest – the TP-Link Wireless N Nano Router, advertised as 150Mbps – and found that the file transfer speed dropped from 8.5MBps when close to the router to 2.7MBps in the room next door. (Note the shift from Mbps or megabits per second to MBps or megabytes per second.)TP-Link is well known for this type of product. The Nano is so small you could put a couple in a shirt pocket, and it only costs£20.89 at Amazon.co.uk. So, as PC Pro concludes, "What's not to like?"The Nano isn't battery powered. It has a micro USB socket so it could either be powered from a laptop or netbook, or from the mains using the kind of plug shipped with many mobile phones and tablets. If your portable device is deficient in both Ethernet sockets and USB ports, then a mains-powered device is your best bet.If you want something battery powered, then the TP-Link TL-MR3040 150Mbps Wireless N Portable Battery Powered Router looks like an interesting alternative at£39.19 at Amazon.co.uk. This is obviously bigger (since it includes a battery) but, if I've read the blurb correctly, you can plug in either an Ethernet cable or a 3G USB dongle to set up a Wi-Fi network. However, after 4 hours or so, you will need to recharge the battery using either the power adaptor supplied or a USB cable and a PC.If your mobile device is an iPad, then you might want to consider anApple Airport Express, which is small and powerful but a lot more expensive (£79). It is mains powered, but has the power supply built in. The Airport Express has another advantage: in Apple's words, it's "incredibly easy setup from your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch". This avoids the problem of carrying a router that you might need a PC or Mac to set up or manage when you've left the PC or Mac at home.The Airport Express signal will pass through walls into adjoining rooms and I don't know if there is a way to turn the signal down. (I couldn't see one in the set-up guide.) However, setting a password should ensure no one else uses your Wi-Fi.Personally, I prefer wired Ethernet to wireless because it is faster, more reliable, and more secure. Yes, I always carry a short Cat5 cable in my bag. But if I was planning to use a portable router in hotel rooms, I'd set it up at home first, to make sure it worked, then try it at a friend's house. No, I haven't done it myself. However, I do carry around a 3G USB dongle and sometimes one of 3's MiFi portable 3G hotspots for the times when there's neither a wired nor a Wi-Fi connection available. This usually means on trains, but it has rescued me in times of network downtime or when working in someone else's office, as well as in the odd hotel room.Connecting XP with no certificateOn a recent trip to Europe from Australia, we used our Fujitsu M2010 netbook running Windows XP with various Wi-Fi hotspots. However, when we tried to use it in southern Spain, including in our hotel, it would not connect. The free hotspots appeared on our list of available options, and the signal was good, but the netbook was unable to locate a certificate so we couldn't connect. Any ideas on how to resolve this for the future?PaulThe simplest solution is to tell Windows XP not to require a certificate. Unfortunately, even if you'd thought of this, the setting is buried away where you'd be unlikely to find it.When you get this error, Windows XP pops up a bubble message in the bottom right that says: "Windows was unable to find a certificate to log you on to the wireless network BLUE123AJ" using the network's name, whatever it might be. Now you can solve the problem as follows:1: Right-click on the wireless icon in the bottom right of the Taskbar and select "View Available Wireless Networks".2: Select the BLUE123AJ wireless network (if it is not already selected) and click "Change advanced settings" to open the Wireless Network Connections Properties box.3: Click the Wireless Networks tab, which should be in the middle of the properties sheet. (If it isn't, Windows XP is not controlling your wireless settings, so you'd have to change that using the Control Panel applet for Network Connections.)4: Go to the list of Preferred Networks, select your network (BLUE123AJ), and click Properties to open a new properties sheet headed (in this example) "BLUE123AJ properties".5: Click the Authentication tab, which should be in the middle of the new properties sheet.6: Untick the box that says: "Enable IEEE 802.1x authentication for this network".7: Click OK and then OK again to close the two boxes.You should now be able to connect to the network.Try this now. XP has almost certainly remembered the name of your Spanish hotel's network, in case you need it again, so you can try removing the need for an authentication certificate. Once you have done it, there's some chance you'll remember it next time you need it. If not, get whoever is at the next table to Google BLUE123AJ and you should find this answer. (The AJ is for Ask Jack.)
There is a formula for the modern multiplayer first-person shooter that has very nearly been perfected. Key to this formula is the concept of unlockables, which can be anything from guns to masks or grenades to helicopters.What matters is that it takes hours, days or even weeks of play time to get your hands on them. That – as much as the visceral thrill of the fire-fight itself – is what keeps players coming back for more. Give us unlockables, a varied selection of maps and a good choice of game modes, and – provided you haven't done anything truly silly with the gameplay – we'll sign up for your war without a second thought.It's the success of this formula that's to blame – or to thank, if you prefer – for the current homogeneity of the genre. Compared with the numerous things they have in common, there's only a very limited set of differences between its standout titles, the Battlefield and Modern Warfare series.Medal of Honor: Warfighter(Xbox 360/PC/PS3/WiiU) – the sequel to 2010's franchise reboot Medal of Honor – stands somewhere in the narrow no man's land between the two. Built with the same engine as Battlefield 3, but refined to provide the faster, more arcade experience of a Modern Warfare, it's a hybrid hoping to capture the best of both. They might just as well have called it Medal of Honor: Modern Field. Although that does sound more like a game aimed at gentleman farmers.Call it what you will, Warfighter contains every ingredient of the trusted formula, and in generous quantities. Take, for example, unlockables. Play online and the first thing you'll unlock are the game's six classes: Assault, Sniper, Demolitions, Point Man,  Heavy Gunner and Spec Ops, each of which has its own unique piece of kit, called a Class Ability.Some of which, it has to be said, are a lot better than others: while the Assault class gets its very own grenade launcher to send explosives flying across the battlefield, the Sniper class gets a bi-pod. You know, to rest his rifle on, so his ickle arms don't get too tired.The freedom to customise extends far beyond the classes. Players can choose their avatar – again, after unlocking them – from 12 different national special forces, including Russians, Brits, Canadians, Aussies and South Koreans, each with its own distinctive appearance, voice and arsenal.There is also, of course, the formula's obligatory weapon modification: the optics, barrel assembly, muzzle, grip and magazine style can all be fiddled with, for the killing machine of the player's dreams.You name the box, it's ticked: variety is ensured with a healthy array of game modes, from the no-respawn intensity of Home Run to epic, drawn-out assault and defence missions. There's even a little innovation in the game's approach to kill-streak rewards (for the uninitiated: things like helicopters and mortars that you get to call in when you're doing well).Alongside the usual plethora of fiery apocalypses, there are also defensive options: if you need to take an objective you can forego an air strike and instead request a smoke screen.The most significant innovation, though, is the age-old buddy system. In multiplayer games, each team is sub-divided into pairs called Fire Teams, who, if they cooperate, have quite a few little tricks up their sleeves. They can heal each other when shot, resupply each other with ammo and respawn from one another's location when not in the heat of battle.Your buddy is also visible to you no matter where he is on the map, and can be seen as a coloured outline even on the other side of a wall. Get paired up with a good communicator and the Fire Team mechanic might just add whole new levels of tactical depth.Other nice touches, such as the  ability to slide round a corner while sprinting, and gritty, class-specific  melee kills, also look like positive tweaks to the recipe.It's not yet clear how far the single-player campaign strays from the generic, but a pure driving level set in the slums of Karachi showed an impressive level of detail and invention, and the story seems a little less apocalyptic than is usual, finding space for the  occasional insight into the soldiers'  home lives.They haven't messed much with the genre's success, but why should they? This is first-person shooting done right, by the book, with just enough new tricks to be called an evolution.
Samsung did not copy Apple's iPad designs in building its Galaxy Tab product, thecourt of appealruled on Thursday, reinforcing an earlier decision in which a judge said the Korean company's designs were not as "cool".Apple will also be obliged to publicise the fact the two designs are different – a ruling handed down in July – in newspapers, magazines, and on its website. The three appeal court judges upheld that ruling, saying its purpose was not to "punish [or] …  make it grovel [but] to dispel commercial uncertainty."Apple had appealed against thedecision in Julyby Judge Colin Birss QC, who had decided Samsung's tablets didn't infringe Apple's registered design for the iPad: "They do not have the same understated and extreme simplicity which is possessed by the Apple design," he said inhis judgment (PDF). "They are not as cool."The appeal court judges agreed the contrasts in appearance and design between the two companies' products was sufficient that the "informed user" – the test applied in such cases – would think them different.The decision in the UKmatches that made by a juryin the US, which decided that although some of Samsung's smartphone designs infringed Apple's iPhone designs, those of the Galaxy Tab tablets did not do so for the iPad.Apple's UK appeal was dismissed by Lord Justice Longmore, Lord Justice Kitchin and Sir Robin Jacob.It is the latest round in an ongoing international legal battle between the two companies, which are the two biggest competitors in the smartphone market, even though Apple is Samsung's biggest customer for phone parts – and Samsung is Apple's biggest supplier.The three court of appeal judges also rejected Apple's challenge to an order made by Birss that it must publicise it had lost the case.Jacob said: "The grant of such an order is not to punish the party concerned for its behaviour. Nor is it to make it grovel – simply to lose face. The test is whether there is a need to dispel commercial uncertainty."Ruling that an order was necessary, Jacob said Apple must make the position clear "that it acknowledges that the court has decided that these Samsung products do not infringe its registered design. The acknowledgment must come from the horse's mouth. Nothing short of that will be sure to do the job completely"Birss said in July: "The informed user's overall impression of each of the Samsung Galaxy tablets is the following: from the front they belong to the family which includes the Apple design; but the Samsung products are very thin, almost insubstantial members of that family with unusual details on the back. The overall impression produced is different."Apple had argued that the front face and overall shape were the most important factors because the "informed user" would spend the most time looking at the front and holding it.In Wednesday's ruling, Jacob said: "Because this case (and parallel cases in other countries) has generated much publicity, it will avoid confusion to say what this case is about and not about."It is not about whether Samsung copied Apple's iPad. Infringement of a registered design does not involve any question of whether there was copying: the issue is simply whether the accused design is too close to the registered design according to the tests laid down in the law."He added: "So this case is all about, and only about, Apple's registered design and the Samsung products."Samsung said in a statement: "We welcome the court's judgment, which reaffirmed our position that our Galaxy Tab products do not infringe Apple's registered design right. We continue to believe that Apple was not the first to design a tablet with a rectangular shape and rounded corners and that the origins of Apple's registered design features can be found in numerous examples of prior art. Should Apple continue to make excessive legal claims in other countries based on such generic designs, innovation in the industry could be harmed and consumer choice unduly limited."Colin Fowler, a litigation lawyer with international IP law firm Rouse, said: '"The publicity order is a first in such circumstances. The judge says that Apple could have avoided it had it not pressed ahead with legal action in Germany after the UK court's original EU-wide decision, and then publicised the interim injunction it obtained there."The court of appeal found that this will have caused commercial uncertainty in the market place and therefore the publicity order is necessary to clear up that confusion. The original provision has been watered down to some extent. Rather than put the legal statement on its UK home page for six months which is what was originally ordered, Apple now has to put a link to the statement on its UK home page for one month, but only because it has agreed to ask the German court to discharge the injunction there. As before, Apple also has to advertise the legal notice prominently in the press."Apple did not respond to a request for comment.In the US, Samsung is appealing the outcome of a case where Apple was awarded almost a billion dollars in damages by a jury over patent and design infringements claimed against the iPhone.
iPhone users who have upgraded to Apple's new iOS 6 software have been complaining that their mobile bills have rocketed after data usage has shot up – possibly due to a bug in how the OS switches between 3G and Wi-Fi connections.Some have used gigabytes of data in just a few days, after previously using only a small percentage of that amount when running iOS 5. Most service plans in the UK allow just 500MB of data monthly – putting those users affected by the bug far over their allocations.Culprits for the bug may be Apple's iTunes Match service, which lets users download copies of their own music from the internet to a phone either via Wi-Fi or on 3G, and some of the other iCloud synchronisation services including the Safari browser, and iCloud documents and data.Alexander Laintold the Guardian on Twitterhis usage had gone from 500MB in a month to 2.7GB, but said he "thought it was because of changing to Orange". He has iTunes Match activated, but set only to download when the iPhone is connected to Wi-Fi.However some users say they have found iTunes Match downloads continue if they have started in a Wi-Fi zone but then move away and get a mobile data connection. "Rolphus", a British software developer in Reading, is using an iPhone 4 updated to iOS 6 and had "use cellular [mobile] data" turned off for iTunes Match downloads – but still saw them carry on, which he said meant his data use had rocketed: having used about 140MB of data per month, he had used more than 300MB in less than that time.Chris Budden, who has been hit by the iTunes Match problem,said"I called Apple about it and they said 'that's how it is'. Painful, especially as I'd queued a thousand songs to download."Applereleased a support note for its Verizon customers in the USto tackle precisely the problem described by Budden and Rolphus, saying that it fixed an issue where "under certain circumstances" the iPhone 5 could use mobile data rather than Wi-Fi.But UK users may be affected too. Chris Greensaidhe has iTunes Match turned off but that data consumption had gone "sky high": "iTunes Match and Use Cellular off. Today [I] found [my] phone is using 3G even when connected to Wi-Fi."Apple has not identified any specific cause for the use, though one source there pointed out that "with iOS 6 there are more options [than with iOS 5] to use cellular data, eg with iTunes Match and [the iCloud service's] Documents and Data [synchronisation]."Not everyone who has seen huge leaps in data use has iTunes Match enabled, though – which may point to other services, such as iCloud synchronisation of photos, documents or Safari web browser content, using the mobile data allowance without the user's knowledge.ZDNetreported on the problemat the start of October, since when more and more people have discovered that they have been billed for extra usage.Jason Yates, who has iTunes Match turned on,saidhis usage had roughly doubled in a month, from about 300MB to 600MB.Yet the problem does not seem to be uniform. Others users with iPhones who have updated to iOS 6 have not reported problems – though some might not have received a monthly bill yet, or could be on unlimited data plans.The Guardian has asked mobile carriers whether they have seen any change in data use by new iPhone owners. None had responded by the time of publication.• iTunes Match can be turned off in the Settings of the iPhone. Settings for synchronisation of photos, documents and data can be turned off in the iCloud settings, in the Settings app.• Users concerned about their data use can download apps includingOnavoandSnappli, which act as proxies for data connections and can compress image and other data to reduce use.• For monitoring data use, apps available includeDataWiz(free) andDataMan(99 US cents or 69p).
That's weird, I had a Chatterbox all set up for today 7am and it's disappeared from the system. Oh well, here it is again!
One of the great classics of American literature Herman Melville's Moby-Dick has been celebrated in the latest Google doodle.The search engine's tribute to Melville's best known work coincides with the 161st anniversary of the novel's first publication in Britain in 1851. The doodle depicts a scene from the book in which Captain Ahab commandeers a boat to strike at the huge white whale.The tribute also coincides with an ambitious project to record all 135 chapters of the novel over 135 days, with readings by famous fans including David Cameron, Tilda Swinton, Stephen Fry and Simon Callow broadcast daily online.Melville's masterpiece is narrated by the sailor Ishmael, telling of his voyage on the whaling ship the Pequod, under Captain Ahab. Ishmael soon discovers that Ahab has one purpose on his voyage, to seek revenge on the ferocious sperm whale, Moby-Dick, who bit off his leg.Through the journey of the main characters, the concepts of class and social status, good and evil, and the existence of God are all examined as the main characters speculate upon their personal beliefs and their places in the universe.Unappreciated in Melville's lifetime, Moby-Dick is now, according to the American academic and author Jay Parini, a book which "permeates a culture, reinforcing and shaping ideas: ambition, for example, and the drive to conquer nature, the imperial drive, the wish to pursue an ideal to the last degree".
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGovernment data PDF enthusiasts will be 'dealt with', says Maude &gt;&gt; Guardian DatablogThe Minister, in charge of the government's transparency drive, said that departments who continue to publish the data in their annual reports in PDF format would be 'dealt with'."Data in annual reports in PDF, that is in breach of our own open government license - and we will deal with that," [Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude] said.You're urged not to be one of the people Francis Maude has to "deal with".$499 Microsoft Surface preorders slip to three weeks &gt;&gt; CNET NewsAre we seeing the first signs of keen consumer interest in Microsoft Surface?Answer: at this stage -- the first day of preorders -- we have no idea if Microsoft's first branded PC is a hit. But one backordered model may point to some momentum.The $499 model is already showing shipments pushed back to "within 3 weeks," while the two other pricier models are available for delivery by October 26, when Surface goes on sale.When it comes to tablets people seem to prefer less expensive, aka cheaper. (Thanks @jforbes for the link.)Pondering Whatsapp &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansNone of this is especially scientific, but taken together, it seems pretty clear that WhatsApp has well over 100m active users, and possible 2-300m. Skype, incidentally, has 254m MAUs [monthly active users].In other words, WhatsApp has several times more users than Instagram had when Facebook bought it for what was then $1bn. With a staff of just 35, plus outsourced development in Russia, that's a testament to the scaling possibilities of app stores - and suggests that M&amp;A industry is pretty much camped out in the WhatsApp offices.WhatsApp also has revenue, which Instagram famously did not, though how much is even more opaque.WhatsApp may be the biggest app that many people over 25 haven't heard of.Limited use of sharing buttons shows people's desire to share links privately &gt;&gt; PoynterAddThis, which provides sharing tools embedded on 10 million websites, says between 70 and 95 percent of all link-sharing occurs by copying and pasting a URL, not by clicking a button on the page.In some cases this has the same effect, if someone copies and pastes a URL into Twitter instead of clicking the embedded tweet button. But the data also show the hidden but popular practice of sharing links privately with specific people over email or IM, said Greg Cypes, director of product for AddThis parent company Clearspring Technologies."The desire for people to share one-to-one or one-to-few ... is much much greater than we originally expected it to be," Cypes said.Dark Social: we have the whole history of the web wrong &gt;&gt; The AtlanticAlexis C. Madrigal:Here's a pocket history of the web, according to many people. In the early days, the web was just pages of information linked to each other. Then along came web crawlers that helped you find what you wanted among all that information. Some time around 2003 or maybe 2004, the social web really kicked into gear, and thereafter the web's users began to connect with each other more and more often. Hence Web 2.0, Wikipedia, MySpace, Facebook, Twitter, etc. I'm not strawmanning here. This is the dominant history of the web as seen, for example, in this Wikipedia entry on the'Social Web.'But it's never felt quite right to me. For one, I spent most of the 90s as a teenager in rural Washington and my web was highly, highly social.The social networks you can name aren't the ones that actually send people to sites.A few words on Reddit, Gawker, and anonymity &gt;&gt; PopehatLet me put it this way: I would not let the moderators and fans of the Reddit creeper forums around my daughters; I'd worry they would sexually assault the girls. I don't worry about Gawker writers and editors molesting my girls. However, if my girls were molested, I'd expect Gawker writers and editors to try to find ways to monetize it, use it to drive traffic, come up with banal, weakly ironic hipster-douchebag quips about it, pay witnesses to offer lurid details about it, and try to find clumsy and demi-literate ways to connect it to politicians they don't like.The Internet Is Not Private: You're a fool if you think it is. The internet makes it easier, not harder, to figure out who you are, because the internet preserves your activities and allows your critics to crowdsource efforts to identify you.A fantastic post. If you only read one (other) thing today...Slideshow: A History of the Smartphone in 20 Handsets &gt;&gt; Reg HardwareWith the news that world smartphone usage total has passed the billion mark in 20 years, we present 20 of the most important smartphones from the past 20 years.Nice gallery. Wonderful what you can do when you're not constrained by having 350 words for a print article. (Thanks @angusthebull for the link.)Google to debut US$99 Nexus tablet in 4Q12, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesHowever, Quanta declined to comment and Asustek Computer, a Taiwan-based vendor developing Nexus 7 through cooperation with Google, indicated that it has no plans to launch US$99 Nexus.If Google launches such a US$99 tablet, China-based white-box vendors of inexpensive tablets are expected to be under heavy competitive pressure, the sources pointed out.Not really - surely it would be Google that would come under pressure, since those cheap tablet makers are playing in that price space already. Google might have to swallow a loss or razor-thin margin on each device it sold. That's not a long-term or a volume strategy, and wouldn't please OEMs either. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Microsoft Surface team do Ask Me Anything &gt;&gt; RedditReally interesting. (Two years ago, would anyone have thought Microsoft would make its own ARM-based tablet?) (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The prolific anonymous Reddit user who was exposed by a Gawker article as the troll 'Violentacrez' has issued an apology of sorts for his involvement in posts that included racist and misogynistic images, comments and links.Gawker's Adrian Chen exposed 49-year-old Texas programmer Michael Brutsch inan investigation of the frequent Redditor contributor on Friday.Violentacrez was also attached to hundreds of sub-forums with names including Chokeabitch, Hitler and Rapebait.In an interview with CNN for Anderson Cooper 360 to be broadcast on Thursday night, Brutsch described his activities as "gallows humor" which he claimed had been a way of unwinding from his job.Asked by reporter Drew Griffin if he was stopping because he has been identified. Brutsch replied:Yes. I mean that is, you know, Violentacrez is what I did in my spare time to unwind from my 10-hour-a-day job. That's how I relaxed in the evening. I no longer need to relax in the evening, because I no longer have a job. That and the fact that the curtain's pulled back and everyone can see the puppeteer … that and the fact that I have, as with the rape and pregnant Reddits, I have come around over the last few months to understand that some of these things can be harmful to other people.In the interview, Griffin asked: "Are you apologizing for what you did or trying to make an excuse for what you did?""Well, I am to some degree apologizing for what I did. Again, I was playing to an audience of college kids. Two years ago, when all of this was at its height, the audience was appreciative and supportive of the sort of gallows humor that I put out there," Brutsch said.Brutsch also said Reddit admins instructed him to make sure there was no overt or real child porn on the site. He said the Jailbait forum was mature teenagers with clothes on or "their naughty bits covered". According to Brutsch: "They [Reddit administrators] depended on me to make sure things were within the rules and things were with the lines."Brutsch deleted his Violentacrez account after Chen told him he knew his identity but returned to Reddit under usernamembrutsch. He said on the site Tuesday that he wasfired from his job over the weekendand that he would be appearing on CNN. He declined an interview with the Guardian to prepare for the interview.Violentacrez also created Reddit's Jailbait forum which hosted images of underage girls, usually pulled without consent from their Facebook accounts. It included the phrase "keep a teen off the streets – put her in your van" in the group's description.Anderson Cooper reported on Reddit last yearand called out Violentacrez for creating the site, without identifying Brutsch.The full interview will air Thursday on CNN's Anderson Cooper 360 at 8pm and 10pm ET.
Have you ever noticed that wherever you are in the world, every telephone keypad looks the same? Or wondered why satellites don't crash into each other? Or why you dial 64 to reach New Zealand, but 65 for Singapore? These are some of the mundane but essential logistical achievements of theInternational Telecommunication Union, a specialist UN agency that dates back to 1865.Yet as it gears up for its first global conference in 14 years, the ITU has found itself under unprecedented attack. The first assailant is the powerful US technology lobby. Companies, including Google, are claiming that new ITU proposals would mean internet companies paying hefty fees to local telecoms companies, reigniting historic tensions between US internet giants and incumbent telecoms firms across the world.But that's not the only battle that will be played out this December when the ITU's 193 member states gather in Dubai. Russia and China have been explicit in their goal of taking control of the internet away from the US, while developing countries feel the western technology hegemony is limiting their economic opportunities. With the world's internet population predicted to reach 3.4 billion by 2016, there is everything to play for.The ITU has not helped its case. Suspected by some critics of encouraging the controversial proposals, comments by the eloquent secretary general Dr Hamadoun Touré seem designed to antagonise the US. He toldVanity Fairearlier this year: "When an invention becomes used by billions across the world, it no longer remains the sole property of one nation, however powerful that nation might be. There should be a mechanism where many countries have an opportunity to have a say."The reaction to some of these new proposals, orITRs, has been a comprehensive, well-organised andwell-funded campaignby a cabal ofpowerful American corporates– including Google, Microsoft, Cisco, AT&amp;T and Comcast. Much of the resulting media coverage of the ITU, particularly in the US, has ranged from dismissive to aggressive, labelling the low-profile unionobscureandirrelevantand exploiting American animosity for the UN.Expanding profileMuch of the damning coverage has focused on proposed changes to the wording of several ITRs that appear to attempt to expand ITU's remit from telecoms to the internet. Given that the organisation began by co-ordinating telegraph communications and expanded to telephones, mobiles and data, it isn't unreasonable that its members might seek to expand its remit accordingly.But its members also include 700 private-sector organisations, and one of those, the European Telecommunications Network Operators (ETNO), has caused the most contention among the US tech lobby by pushing for aproposalthat would effectively allow telcos tocharge companiesfor delivering their content. "What we want is a pricing model that ensures the revenue of operators and allows content providers to better compete in the market," ETNO's chairman Luigi Gambardella told La Repubblica this month. For a player like Google or anybody else delivering media over the net, that could prove very expensive.Google's chief internet evangelistVint Cerfhas been one of the big guns rolled out to lobby against the proposed regulations, describing the proposal to return to the "sender pays" principle as regressive. He claims that model had failed in the telephone world, particularly in developing countries where paying telcos high settlement rates had supposedly funded infrastructure, but instead ended up in the pockets of government treasuries or officials. "It's the absolute antithesis of the internet where the participating parties on the edge of the network pay for access to it," he said. "Freedom to innovate on the network has been largely a consequence of its economic model and its openness."The ad-hoc coalition lobbying against ITU proposals is made up of Google, Microsoft, Cisco, Comcast and AT&amp;T and 10 others, and is chaired by ambassadorDavid Gross, a lawyer, past chair of several delegations to the ITU, and former government international communications policy coordinator. He represented the group when it testified at a congressional hearing in May.  "[The sender pays proposal] is asking for trouble because it's suggesting the model, a model that is clearly working, would need to be revised for no apparent, real reason, other than the economic benefit of a few carriers," he toldDigital Trendsin August. "I will quickly add that my coalition has major carriers, like AT&amp;T and Verizon, and they also think that this is the wrong way to go."Global pressure: the ITU faces attacks from tech giants and hostile governments. Photograph: Paul J Richards/AFP/Getty ImagesCampaigning for the open webFor its part, Google has campaigned hard under the banner of the open web and the media-genic issues of free speech and-anti censorship that other ITU proposals allude to. But make no mistake – this is absolutely business as usual for a company worth$243bn(£150bn) because the sender pays principle – which is said to begaining tractionamong African and Arab delegations – would be catastrophic for its business, effectively taxing every interaction with its 700 million or so daily userbase.Add to that the threat posed to Google's income by Facebook's monopoly of social data and related advertising and the trend for "privatised" data inside mobile apps, and suddenly Google's mission to "index the world's data" seems rather more precarious. No wonder Google has made a campaign for the open web such a priority. This is what Google's chief legal officer,David Drummond, describes as a "happy coincidence". "We are not ashamed," he says, "to say the open web is good for the world, and happens to create good opportunities for business".On the other hand, administration and organisation of the internet has been dominated by the US since Arpanet, the precursor to the modern internet, was established between four US universities in 1969, and a handful of US-controlled authorities followed. The biggest point of contention isIcann, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, which oversees management of internet address. Icann has responded to global pressure by internationalising its management board, though it is still a California-based non-profit. The US has, however, fiercely defended the root zone, the core domain name and numbering system run by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (Iana) – which remains on contract to the US Department of Commerce managed by Icann. On this, they will go down fighting.Circles of influence: tech giants fear hefty fees to telecoms companiesChallenging western dominanceWestern dominance is the one of the biggest challenges for developing nations, saysAlice Munyua, a researcher and policy development expert, representing Kenya and Africa on forums such as Icann. "It is a big concern for African governments and stakeholders, and not just because of how the internet is governed, but how it is developed from a commercial and technical perspective," she said. "There is a feeling that we are not able to participate or contribute effectively because of the lack of capacity, skills and resources, so there's a digital divide in terms of access, but also in appropriating the internet for our own development."This, she believes, is the reason most African governments are supporting Arab proposals that countries should be compensated, by websites and internet services, for the flow of internet traffic they generate, and that wide-ranging privacy protections be introduced with exceptions for law enforcement.Drummond said he was sympathetic with developing countries who feel excluded from the western-dominated internet industry. "But the treaty route, and the lowest common denominator approach mandating a certain set of technologies or regulations, is not the way to go." Munyua says even finding delegates who understand issues of internet management and governance can be difficult, and that with problems as basic as a unreliable electricity supply, African nations have different priorities when engaging with the ITU.Elsewhere in the ITU, the battle for control is more like a cold war. Russia, backed by several Middle Eastern countries and by China, has pushed for morecybersecurity regulationsand for more ITU control of domain names: this follows Russian president Vladimir Putin stating last year that Russia aimed to establish "international control over the internet using the monitoring and supervisory capabilities of the International Telecommunication Union". It has mooted cutting off internet access for anyone who threatens network security, called for a new UN body to replace Icann, and campaigned, but failed, with a previous UN proposal to create a cybersecurity code of conduct.Eleanor Saitta, technical director of theInternational Modern Media Institute, is also a hacker and security consultant. She warns that one of the biggest threats is the increasing militarisation of the internet. Even as the 193 nations of the ITU meet in December, some of those nations will be silently unleashing state-sponsored cyber attacks on each other, as well as surveillance and censorship on their citizens.Occasional reports of this flourishing industry surface; just last month the UK government was moved to block software exports to Egypt afterGamma Internationaladmitted selling a product that could remotely copy files, log keystrokes and record video. "We are seeing governments wanting to get involved in censorship and surveillance and that truly has the potential to break the internet, because it will not function as a network or community where people can collaborate and share," said Saitta.America's corporate internet industry has already had to battle on home turf, however. In 2011, theStop Online Piracy Act(Sopa) andProtect IP Act(Pipa) proposed significantly expanded power for US law enforcement in identifying and penalising copyright infringement. Google was one of the loudest voices in this lobby, putting its sophisticated Washington policy department to work. The campaign, which saw high-profile sites including Wikipedia and Redditblack outfor a day in protest, has succeeded inpostponing the legislationfor now.Public eye: Google's near-monopoly on search is coming under scrutiny. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PAGoogle in the dockBut lobbying by Google and its contemporaries against the ITU may well end up backfiring. Google is likely to face ananti-trusthearing in the US by the end of the year, investigating whether Google gives preferential treatment to its own products in search listings. The European Commission is also building a case against Google; the combination could stop Google expanding its US and UK businesses where Google accounts for 65% and 90% of the respective search markets. The search engine is also fighting a privacy battle against European regulators unhappy at how Google shares data between YouTube, Gmail and its other products. On one hand, Google is preaching for an open web, while on the other operating a virtual monopoly in search.The lobby's arguments on cybersecurity look weaker in the light of America's own Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act, or Cispa, which was widely condemned by civil rights groups forsacrificing the privacyof its citizens to allow the government to trace hackers. Hot on the heels of Sopa, it was passed by Congress, killed off by the Senate and is now being revisited by the Senate. US defence secretary Leon Panetta claimed this week that the US risked a "cyber Pearl Harbour" if it did not resolve its cybersecurity issues. The US government itself was implicated in the development of theStuxnet and Flameviruses which was intended to derail and spy on the Iranian nuclear programme, and the White House has also claimed it was subject to an attack in October from hackers linked to the Chinese government.With so much to contend with on home turf, why, asks internet governance policy analyst professorMilton Mueller, is the US technology lobby chucking so much firepower at the declining institution of the ITU? They might do better, he suggests, to focus attention on Icann, pointing out problems with how governments engage with the group on advisory committees.Mueller says: "We're all 'prepared to fight the ITU' – but we're ignoring threats that come from Icann, the US government and from nation states. We're not building the kind of new institutions we need to govern the internet and keep it free."• Jemima Kiss will be hosting aGoogle+ Hangout on Thursday 18 October at 5pm BST on the battle for the internet
If you go to YouTube and type in Minecraft, it returns about 7,710,000 results. How fast that number must change. The poster-boy for word-of-mouth success and community involvement, Minecraft has sold just less than 8m copies, and its success allowed creatorMarkus Persson(AKA Notch) to establish Mojang with two fellow designers. The studio's first big release is Scrolls, a card-based strategy title – not an obvious progression. Or so it seems.Scrolls is a difficult game to pin down. It has elements of a collectible card game (the Scrolls themselves), but roots this on a battlefield where strategic positioning is everything – to win a game, either player must destroy three of the five idols their opponent guards. Armies can include bomb-lobbing cannons, wolves that strengthen each other, dependable soldiers, or weird savages. Sounds like a lot to learn about, but Scrolls can be picked up in minutes and played for hours on end."The idea for Scrolls is something that has progressed in a sense," explains Jakob Porser, the game's lead designer and Mojang co-founder. "The base of it was something Markus [Persson] and I discussed many years ago, and at that time it was more an adventure-type game where you would walk around and encounter stuff in a top-down map. Both of us are also big fans of collectible card games but we had issues with some of them, and thought it would be nice to take a crack at it. So we combined the ideas."The biggest difference between Scrolls and other card-battlers is the gameboard. "It's not just your deck and how you play it," says Porser. "But also this very strategic element in how you position units and creatures, choose to siege stuff and the like." There have been combinations along these lines before, but none work quite like Scrolls does – playing it is more akin to a turn-based strategy game where you're positioning an army, rather than simply amassing troops.Perhaps Scrolls' most elegant distinction is in the way it manages resources. The majority of collectible card games depend on this mechanic, something like Magic: The Gathering's land cards – the more of these you have, and play, the more powerful cards you can use. Scrolls has resources but no resource cards, instead letting you sacrifice one Scroll per turn for either a permanent increase in your resource pool, or two more Scrolls. This not only replaces a somewhat fiddly element of these games, but at a stroke solves the common problem of running out of cards in the lategame.The very idea of a collectible card game, of course, may be a turn-off for some people. One of the biggest barriers, and not an inconsiderable one, is the potential cost – acquire a Magic: The Gathering habit and your bank balance knows about it. "That's one of the advantages of a game created from the get-go as a digital-only experience," says Porser. "It doesn't have that baggage of being a physical product, so first of all we can make this a lot cheaper for people."How much cheaper? "We had a lot of different ideas, and to be honest even though we're approaching the point when we're going to start selling the game we haven't nailed down the financial side of it," Porser explains. "But basically whatever the cost you pay, you're able to get everything in the game – you start off with preconstructed decks and get rewards for playing. You don't buy stuff with real money but in-game currency, which you acquire by winning games."Scrolls is at alpha stage, which means it is playable in a basic form without many of the bells and whistles of a final product. The next stage after this is beta, when a typical studio might choose to allow a larger playerbase to sample things for testing and feedback – but Mojang is not a typical studio. Minecraft was released almost as soon as it was playable, then sold in beta for a lower price than the final game. In a manner somewhat reminiscent of Doom's shareware success back in the early 1990s, it spread by word-of-mouth and became a hit."I will give you an answer about Scrolls' release," says Porser. "But saying this you should take into account that we have said certain dates before and never kept them! We're looking at releasing it this year, so not very far from now, and the way we want to do it is the same way as with Minecraft. We will release an early version and sell it at a reduced price so that people can kind of help us shape the game, in a sense."It is natural that people yoke Minecraft and Scrolls together, but this is the one area where the former heavily influences the latter. Playing the alpha, I initially practised with the Scrollsbot AI, which it later transpired was the creation of dedicated fan kbasten. "It kind of carries over from Minecraft," says Porser. "People mod Minecraft like mad and just have a blast developing for the game as well as playing it, and we're already seeing that with Scrolls."Scrolls is a different kind of game to Minecraft, of course – you couldn't recreateHyrule"But people will still be able to do projects and have fun with it," says Porser. "Someone set up an IRC channel that ties into the game chat, there's a ranking tracker with a list, a server used to record matches, spectator modes, some apps, all sorts of crazy stuff. We endorse that as much as we can. I mean, we get so many great ideas and feedback from our community. Crowdsourcing is a very big part of Mojang."Like I said, Scrolls is a difficult game to pin down. A collectible card game with a unique strategy element, offering a rich singleplayer adventure mode and comprehensive multiplayer structure, with the potential for endless community-authored additions. "Our forward plan is simple," says Porser. "We want to keep making as much content as possible for it." The kind of thing that starts small, but could become very big. There's no point in making silly comparisons, because Minecraft was and is a phenomenon. But Scrolls embodies its creators' philosophy, and undoubtedly lives up to the Mojang name – that is, something cool to play around with.• Game previewed on PC; cert TBA; Mojang
On Wednesday 17 October, the new digital serviceGov.ukmoves out of public beta and replaces the two main government digital brands, Directgov and Business Link. It is the first major full platform release from the Government Digital Service.This release heralds a new approach to digital delivery of public services in the UK. It is the start of a new approach to all things digital in central government, so here are just a few reasons why it matters.User needs: simpler, clearer, fasterGov.uk puts user needs above all. Since the UK government embraced the internet in the mid-90s, several needs have competed for prominence. The brand needs of Whitehall departments and their hundreds of agencies meant a proliferation of sites and interfaces, confusing users as to the definitive source of government policy and information.Campaign and single-issue sites were left in the public domain, while the needs of security and IT departments led to expensive, highly user-unfriendly sites and services. Through all this, user needs were neglected.So in September last year my colleague, an amazing developer and polymath Richard Pope, wroteEvery superfluous page we create is one more dead endfor an angry, frustrated, confused user in announcing theNeedotron, our tool for identifying and filtering the real needs of users.This relentless focus is evidenced by our ongoing user testing. We have:• online surveys with more than 20,000 users on Directgov and Business Link to create benchmarks for Gov.uk• conducted 11 rounds of face-to-face user testing since July 2011 across all user types – businesses, people with different internet usage, old people, young people, people with disabilities and other hard-to-reach groups for whom English isn't their first language.And as we have been in beta since February, we've also conducted guerrilla testing on Gov.uk and transactions/and remote user testing on more than 3,000 users. This will continue, as constant user testing and iteration is a core part of our ethos.Gov.uk has led us to repurpose much of the government's digital estate. We've created 28,500 mappings between Directgov/Business Link and Gov.uk.This means that when users go to an existing page, they will get a seamless user journey to updated content or an archive of the page. We have taken 41,000 pages of content from 10 government department websites and reformatted them for Gov.uk, and created 470 "detailed guides" from Business Link and re-formatted for Gov.uk.We have done this for many reasons. Early results show Gov.uk is simpler for users, with the average task success at 61%, compared with 46% on Business Link. It's faster: the average time to complete a task was a minute quicker on Gov.uk than Business Link, and we have made much of the policy and government jargon clearer to all users.The how, the why and the openGov.uk is not the finished article. It requires much polish, especially with social media features and integration into the wider ecosystem of web services. This will come over time, and that's largely due to how it was created.Gov.uk is the creation of a highly talented team of digital specialists: developers, digital product managers, content designers, user experience designers and technology architects. These new skills combined with the commitment and professionalism of the existing civil servants at GDS create a compelling combination. It's a privilege to lead such talent.Then there is the approach to software. All Gov.uk's core code is released openly via a collaboration platform calledgithub&lt;/a&gt;. That means members of the public can suggest corrections and improvements. Most of Gov.uk software is open source – meaning the platform is not subject to licence payments, code delays from vendors nor proprietary lock-in. At a stroke this saves a fortune for the taxpayer, allows rapid changes to be made and allows us to switch technologies at the speed at which they emerge these days – which is daily.You can't do that with 12-month procurement cycles and five-year fixed contracts. We are quick.We've had to create much of our own infrastructure. We've used theG-cloudto commission our infrastructure and services. We don't have a marketing budget: the product is the marketing, and we use our own assets and media to talk to users. All of which makes us cheap. Very cheap, when compared to the IT contracts which preceded us.So what does that make us? Talented, quick to react and change to user need, flexible, open and cheaper than the preceding era of procurement and outsourcing. I like to call that agile.The futureThat's why Gov.uk is important. It's simpler, clearer and faster for users and has changed how government works internally. We owe the minister for Cabinet Office, Francis Maude, and Martha Lane Fox, our digital champion, who between them have created the GDS.After the release, we have much to accomplish. While adding more platform services, including identity and more metrics and data services, we must migrate all government departments onto the platform by April 2013, and then nearly 200 agencies in the following year. It has taken us in government 17 years to engineer our way into the current toxic mix of expensive, outsourced services with no common platforms. It will take us a few years yet to engineer our way to a better place. And through that period, we must address our key transactions and also develop new products and make better use of our data, all based on an open standards approach.All that is to come. Later this week criticism will surface. Good. We welcome that. All new digital products create a wave of user reaction, much of that the all-too-human criticism of the new and unknown.I don't know what the criticism will be, but I am convinced that the reaction from the GDS will be a willingness to listen, to react and improve our services, and a desire to collaborate with our users who, after all, fund our services. In short, we will react like public servants, by placing user need at the heart of conversation. That's why Gov.uk matters.Mike Brackenis executive director of Government Digital Service at the Cabinet OfficeDisclosure: Bracken is a former director of digital development at Guardian News and Media. He joined the GDS in July 2011
"All cars are getaway cars" – Martin Pawley,Architects JournalCities are designed to fulfil a lot of functions, but fun driving usually isn't one of them. Quite the opposite these days.  Escalating traffic levels have strangled the life out of urban roadways, while congestion charges and designated parking have become familiar weapons in the war against personal transport. We're not supposed to enjoy cars, we're supposed to put up with them.Diametrically opposed to this life-sapping philosophy is Need For Speed: Most Wanted, the latest anarchic drive-'em-up from Guildford-based developer, Criterion. The veteran studio has been responsible for some of the best racing games of the last decade, switching from its own Burnout series in 2010 to rescue EA's long running Need For Speed brand. Its interpretation of NFS: Hot Pursuit sold eight million copies and introduced the brilliant Autolog social competition system, which allowed gamers to asynchronously compete for the best times. And now the development team has returned with another NFS offshoot and another scintillating interpretation.Set in and around the sprawling metropolis of Fairhaven, Most Wanted challenges players to become the most notorious illegal racer in town, speeding through a series of illicit driving events, gathering speed points and unlocking mods. Brilliantly, very few of the dozens of licensed vehicles are locked at the start of the game; instead, they're hidden around the enormous map – if you find them, you can keep them. And you're free to explore the entire open-world environment at your leisure, locating challenges and races en route.So how does a studio go about creating a landscape designed specifically for high speed thrills? "It's quite an interesting process," says creative director, Craig Sullivan. "We start out talking about the kind of variety we want. So in Hot Pursuit, which was quite different to Most Wanted, we knew we wanted mountains so you could drive in the snow, and we wanted desert so you'd get that Vanishing Point feel. We purposefully didn't have a city because that game was all about going 200mph through rolling beautiful curves. We were also inspired by California, so we wanted beautiful coastlines, forests – almost a homage back to the original Hot Pursuit games. But with Most Wanted, we knew it had to be based around a city. We kept the coastline, though - it's our job to make something you can memorise, so if you know the coastline is on the south, you can orientate yourself around that".The next step was to add specific gameplay set-pieces – an abandoned airfield, a power plant with lots of off road runs – destination areas for players to discover and experiment with. Then comes the road network, or ribbons as Criterion call it, which links everything together and accommodates the vehicle handling. The underlying ambition is to create a world that looks authentic, but that offers up a range of ridiculous possibilities. "We've got a 500ft jump that goes across a freeway," says Sullivan. "You don't get many of those in real life, but it's all about staging things so they look like they could exist. I spent a long time skateboarding when I was a kid and I understand the flow of skate parks, the lines you naturally seek out; you take a similar approach when you're driving at speed: with the best open-world games you'll find yourself, not in a funnel, but in a geometry set that feeds itself to you as you travel, which allows you to have a fun time - it's something you can get very wrong, but we'd already done Burnout Paradise so we had experience with exploration".Predictably, the designers are heavily inspired by real cities. During the development of Most Wanted, Criterion sent a group of its design staff to Boston, a historic city with a variety of road surfaces and architectural spaces. "To build an authentic city, it can't all look pristine and new," says Sullivan. "It needs to look as though it has been constructed over many years. We wanted cobbles, we wanted wide plaza areas and narrow alleys. I'm just about to go on vacation to LA and Hawaii and I know there are things I'll see that will make me think 'that would be cool in a game'. If you find something that looks natural, that looks like it would be fun to drive a car off or through or over, it helps with the design process. We're constantly trying to keep that balance between believability and fun".Another key element of the Criterion driving experience is handling. The studio is famous for its accessible, exciting driving model, combining real-life physics with elements of classic japanese arcade design, so you get cars that feel authentic, but can still drift over a kilometre of tarmac. "There are so many little parts that go into making a great driving experience," says Sullivan. "We start out with the raw data from the manufacturers and produce an accurate simulation of what that car is like to drive; Most Wanted contains the most realistic simulation we've ever done - and we could have stayed with that. There are plenty of games out there that are all about simulating how hard it is to drive a car, but we want to go beyond that - it needs to meet your expectations of what a car is like to drive."So what does that mean for the coders? "There's lots of Criterion DNA in there," says Sullivan. "The brakes are a little bit stronger than they are in a real car so you can weave through traffic at speed. We have systems that help you control the drift – you can get the back end out doing 150-200mph – I don't know many drivers in the world who could do a 2km drift like that. In our game we have… they're not really assists, they're smart little systems that allow you to feel like you're really driving that Porsche 911. It feels believable, but it allows you to drive in a cool way".These systems are the result of Criterion's obsessive approach to development, and it has been this way since the beginning. "We spent a lot of time back in 2000, talking about the roots of driving games, talking about AM2," says Criterion's vice president, Alex Ward. "That's where we started: we just discussed braking and sliding – if you don't have those right, you have nothing."Both Alex and Craig talk about the endless iteration that goes on at the studio, the compulsion to play and improve. "We constantly change things," shrugs Sullivan. "Not for the sake of change, but to improve it. Is the game too long, too short, is there enough variety? We're lucky with EA – they know we change a lot of stuff, but they're not nervous. We iterate the crap out of every game we do, we're always cutting stuff, adding stuff, right to the end. When it gets to the later stages, when the debugging begins, the team just wants people like me out of the office because I'm always tweaking stuff. There's an email I always send out, the subject header is 'just one last change' but no one ever believes that it is. They say 'can we send him on holiday?'"Over the years, though all of this, Criterion has learned one vital lesson: handling is all about flattering the player – even if they haven't a clue about racing lines, the apex of a curve or brake management, you mustn't tell them that. "There's a reason you can't turn assists on and off in a Criterion game," says Sullivan. "We're trying to make one experience that allows as many people as possible to have fun. There are a lot of different cars in the game and some of them are hard to drive - we have an Ariel Atom in there and I don't think theres's been one on a Need For Speed game before. It drives like a wasp; it's very quick it corners insanely but it's also very weak, if it touches anything you crash".I try to interject with another question, but he's off now, breathlessly listing super cars. "We have Bugatti Veyron in there, the Lamborghini Aventador, we've got the Koenigsegg Agera R in there, which is currently the fastest production car in the world. They all drive in a very different way, but they still have that… we're influenced by games we've played in arcades: our job as game creators is to make sure that within two minutes of picking up the controller you can drive the car how you want to drive it and nothing seems unfair. Youaregoing to crash at some point but that should make you smile because you know YOU'VE messed up. That's the secret of tight, sweet-spot handling.  That's what we always strive to capture".Criterion has learned something else from the arcades: the importance of inter-player rivalry. Introduced in Hot Pursuit, the Autolog system would show players the times achieved by their friends on every race they attempted. This meant that, even in the single-player mode there was a constant sense of competition, you'd re-try events dozens of times to beat your friends and get to the top of the leaderboard. In Most Wanted that concept is being extended so that almost everything you do in the game can be compared against the activities of your mates. Approach a speed camera, for example, and a little table will pop up showing how fast your friends have shot through it before you. Pull off an amazing jump through one of the game's many billboards, and when your pals approach that same board in their own game, they'll find a poster of your face (taken with the Kinect or Playstation Eye camera if you have one), together with your jump distance.It has proven to be a remarkably popular feature already, and Criterion knows why. "We always wanted Autolog to change the way people play racing games," says Sullivan. "It was based on stuff we were doing in the office: we'd play Forza or Gran Turismo and we were writing our best times down on a white board, like in Top Gear. And we were like, 'why doesn't the game do this?' So we came up with Autolog and it immediately drove competition around the studio. We had an instance during development where some of the guys in our IT department were playing an event called Vanishing Point; the guy who designed the handling for the cars, Matt Follett, had set an amazing time that nobody could beat - the IT guys attempted it 750 times, they just tried to do it over and over again. Once they'd finally beaten it, they told Matt, who went back in and beat their record first time. He crushed them. They were devastated."The Criterion team seems to thrive on these tales of obsession. Alex Ward starts telling me about Burnout Paradise, the team's first open-world title. Some of the brand's fans weren't sure about the game, weren't sure about the move to a gigantic environment. "We used to get people writing to us saying, you've blown it, I'm not playing this game anymore," he says. "So Matt Webster would ping their telemetry and find out that they'd been playing for 870 hours. We'd write back and say, we're sorry we couldn't entertain you more."Perhaps the most important design decision in Most Wanted is the lack of a vehicle progression system. In most racers, you start off with dull everyday vehicles and have to go through a series of races before you start unlocking the really cool sports cars and exotics. But in Criterion's latest - the only cars kept from you are the one's you gain by beating the Most Wanted racers. Everything else is out on the map to discover.How did this come about? "We have big ideas, but they come at different stages," says Sullivan. "Most Wanted didn't start out as the game you're playing today. We course correct, we change things. We had talked about all the cars being unlocked right at the start of the project, and we spent a bit of time looking at it, but it was a hard problem to solve. So we actually started with a linear progression system. But later, when we had the basics of a game - the races, the cop chases, the open world – built, we realised we could go back and look at this idea of all the cars being open."For Sullivan, there was a nagging discrepancy at the heart of linear progression: how could you offer an open world, but then restrict access to vehicles? It didn't make sense. "For the kind of games we're making, especially with Need For Speed, player choice is really important - if you go to Disneyland, they don't force you to go on the rides in a particular order. It might sound weird, but that's how we approach making our games - we don't know what every gamer likes, so we give you lots of things and it's up to you to decide."We made closed track games in the past - three or four Burnout games - there's space for that kind of title in the market, but we're focused on pushing the genre forward and we think open worlds and player choice is where it's at. Driving around a track, be it real or fictional, there's only so much we can bring to that: you can improve the visuals - where else is there to go? We want game designs that support new experiences, things that we might not even know we're going to design - we don't want to hem everything in".Alex Ward is even more bullish in his dismissal of standard racing game progression structures. "Do you want to drive the Aston Martin right now? The Carrera? Why not? 20 years of driving convention says you can't, but why not? People said the game would have no meaning, but no - put the cars in the world and go drive them. Find the Caterham and take it out. And once you've found it you can switch to it at any time."I don't want to make you backtrack around the map. Gaming is changing, this is where we 're going. That's why there's no story in the game - I don't want a story, the game is about me! It's about me and my friends. The stuff we're working on with most Wanted and beyond… it's like, that's tradition, but fuck it, let's dothis. Why can't I drive all the cars? If I buy a DVD I can watch the ending straight away if I like. If DVDs were like games they'd make you watch the Dutch version to get an achievement. But that's the past. Grinding is dead".So, about the future. What will the new consoles bring? I didn't expect Sullivan to engage with the question, developers can be wary about moving away from the safe ground of their current project. He thinks for a second. "Even bad games have good graphics these days - it's quite easy to do good graphics," he says. "There are other things to do with the next generation of hardware that developers need to embrace to make a true next gen experience".What things? "Look at the last five or six Criterion games: we strongly believe friends are the heart of it all, we know that Autolog is here to stay - all games should be connected. The cross-platform stuff is interesting, lots of platforms talking to each other, gaming everywhere, making the best out of Kinect and cameras. It's about embracing all that. You can't rely on the fact that the graphics will be better. It should be about next generation game design, not just a prettier experience. The same thing happens in movies – to me The Matrix didn't just look amazing, it was almost like a new experience. Generational change means finding new things to grab your attention".So we end up talking about where Criterion is going, about this studio's role in the future Sullivan envisages. "There's still a lot of stuff we want to do with driving," he says. " Wewillmake another Burnout game at some point. Obviously, as we're working on NFS we're thinking of really good ideas that aren't right for this series; there are ideas that we're going to explore with Burnout. And we wouldn't be making NFS or Burnout games if we didn't think the driving genre had a long shelf life and that we could push the boundaries. There's a lot of new stuff in Most Wanted, a lot for people to get their heads around - and sometimes there's only so much explaining you can do - we've reined in some of the ideas we had for this game, they were a little ahead of their time".Okay, I say, let's imagine you're going to tackle another classic game series, you can take anything you like – what would it be? "When we did Burnout Paradise we did some motorbike DLC and now everyone thinks that we're going to do Road Rash at some point," says Sullivan. "I had a lot of fun playing that game, we think bikes are fun. We might make a Road Rash game…. But then we might make a game without vehicles in it. I mean, we made Black, I was the lead designer – we might make a game about blowing the crap out of each other!"He pauses and smiles, before pointedly adding, "but Road Rash seems like a good fit for Criterion…"• Need For Speed: Most Wanted is released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 2 November
We're halfway through the working week already!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA new Apple iOS Wi-Fi problem has popped up while others remain unfixed &gt;&gt; ZDNetSome Apple iPhone and iPad users are facing a major new problem with Wi-Fi/cellular data use while others are still dealing with&nbsp;earlier, unresolved iOS 6 Wi-Fi problems.The latest annoyance is a real pain-in-the-rump. It turns out that while some of you have been watching videos, playing a game, whatever, on what you thought was a Wi-Fi network, you were actually running up your giant 3G data bill. Apple hasn't commented on this, but on September 30th,Apple quietly released a bug fix for the problem for its Verizon customers.In it, Apple states. "This carrier settings update resolves an issue in which, under certain circumstances, iPhone 5 may use Verizon cellular data while the phone is connected to a Wi-Fi network." Users are loudly saying that is not just a problem with iPhone 5 or Verizon. Instead, they blame iOS 6.Affecting anyone here?There are no "regular results" on Google anymore.&gt;&gt; DuckDuckGoClever video advert from rival search engine DuckDuckGo. The principle of the filter bubble does matter.Flat panel display industry poised for recovery and long-term growth &gt;&gt; DisplaySearchNotable changes: mobile PC screens have gotten smaller (on average), mobile phone screens have got bigger, and OLED TV screens have gotmuchbigger.Google's Android strategy failing in China &gt;&gt; Telecom AsiaShiv Putcha of analysts Ovum:Chinese device vendors are using Android for their own purposes, and are increasingly at odds with Google's preferred vision of Android's developmental direction. As a result, Android is fragmenting beyond Google's control, and Google's Android strategy is rapidly coming undone in China with no immediate prospects for correction.Barring an unlikely accommodation with the Chinese government, we believe that Google's only short-term option is to try and limit Android's Chinese variations within China's borders.The point being that Google Play gets pushed off handsets in favour of local Chinese players. However, Android as a mobile OS is fabulously successful in China. (It's also where all those v2.2 and v2.3 handsets are.) Leading to the conclusion:Google cannot afford to let Android's Chinese variations extend beyond China's borders. If this happens, Google will increasingly face an either/or scenario wherein increased sales of Android come at the expense of the far more lucrative revenue streams from Google Play and Google Search.Yahoo names Google's De Castro as chief operating officer &gt;&gt; BloombergYahoo! Inc.Chief Executive Officer Marissa Mayer named Google Inc. executive Henrique de Castro as operating chief, picking a deputy from her former employer to help revive growth at a web company beset by sagging sales.Second most important role in the company. Top two jobs now held by recent ex-Googlers. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)Asus PadFone 2 released with quad-core processor and ICS | T3Asus has unveiled the new PadFone 2 smartphone and tablet hybrid in Milan today running Ice Cream Sandwich and sporting a larger 4.7-inch HD display and quad-core S4 processor.Not only that, but it's "lighter than the iPad" (quoth the article). Thank goodness for that. Expected to cost about the same as an iPhone 5. (Thanks @pedgington for the link.)There's a spy in your techno-soup! &gt;&gt; The Joy of TechNitrozac and Shaggy nail it again.India spews more spam than ever before, report finds &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityYou can thank India for about one out of six spam messages cluttering your inbox.SophosLabs's most recent "dirty dozen" report, which details the world's top spam-relaying countries, finds that India has topped the charts for the third quarter in a row.Seems out of line with the population of computers in India, and probably says more about the security of those in use. The US was third with 6.5%, China 10th with 3.1%, UK 12th with 2.1%Guardian's n0tice adds location-based curation tool &gt;&gt; Journalism.co.ukOnline noticeboardn0tice, a project that grew out of a Guardian hack day, has had amajor update, adding an Android app, updating its iPhone app and introducing a new location-based curation tool calledFeedWax.The website has also been updated, a campaign to "celebrate or change" high streets across the country has been launched, and this morning n0tice moved from Google Maps to open source platform Open Street Maps.n0tice, whichlaunched in private beta in May 2011, allows anyone to set up and curate a noticeboard and offers the opportunity to earn money as the site is funded by location-based small ads.Obvious disclosure notices (or n0tices) apply.The Federal Circuit to take on software patents ... again &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationIn a welcome move, the full Federal Circuithas agreed to revisita troubling ruling in a case calledCLS Bank v. Alice Corp. This case, along with theUltramercialcase, presents an important opportunity for the courts to insert some long-overdue sanity into the debate over what can and cannot be patented. In light of the Supreme Court's ruling earlier this year inMayo,we think the Federal Circuit has little choice but to throw out the dangerous patents in bothCLS BankandUltramercialand make clear once and for all that ideas that are otherwise abstract cannot be patented simply because they are executed on the Internet or in a computer system.Don't get your hopes up that this will kill software patents. The argument here is about "obviousness", not whether you can patent software implementations in the US. (Thanks @pedgington for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The Reddit user whose identity was revealed in an extensive Gawker exposé has revealed that he was fired from his job at the weekend.Michael Brutsch, a 49-year-old programmer from Texas, said on Reddit that he had been told not to return to work afterGawker revealed that he was Violentacrez, a prolific user linked to posts filled with racism, misogyny and incest.As Violentacrez, Brutsch set up more than a hundred sub-forums (called sub-reddits) where users could share links and images of underage girls, rape fantasy and upskirt photos. Brutsch shut down his Violentacrez username after Gawker reporter Adrian Chen told him he knew his identity. He has since returned to the site with the new handlembrutsch.Under that username, Brutsch said that he had warned his boss of the article before receiving a call Saturday telling him to not return to the office.Brutsch wrote: "All my remote access has been disabled, my health insurance and FSA were cancelled immediately (so they had to drag someone in over the weekend to do that). At this point, if any of the dozens of death threats I've gotten were to make good on their promises, at least my wife would have the insurance."His supporters on Reddit launched a campaign to donate money to the newly unemployed Brutsch and he released his email address on Reddit so supporters could donate money to his PayPal account.AJ Daulerio, Gawker's editor-in-chief, who took over in January this year, said the site now does more long-form, original reporting of the type that exposed Brutsch. He said the site allocates one person to the snarky click-bait stories that made it famous, giving other writers more time to work on original stories."This way if we can stabilize the traffic elsewhere and have the rest of the team occupied with these longer, reported pieces it'll hopefully make a better, more literate Gawker," Daulerio told the Guardian.Some members of the Reddit and Gawker communities believe Chen's piece was a deliberate attack by Gawker against Reddit. Before Chen's piece was published, Daulerio received emails from Redditors who claimed they would boycott Gawker if the piece came out."I never really saw it as a Gawker versus Reddit thing," Daulerio said. "Chen did a great story and that should pretty much stand on its own and I think that's how most people took it."In response to the exposé, numerous Reddit forums censored Chen's article because it violated their rule on identifying site users. Reddit administratorErik Martin told Buzzfeedthe ban was a mistake and lifted it."We're always adjusting our approach, we're always following the lead of our users and community, and we always have to adjust things," Martin said. "We're also trying to maintain this as we want Reddit to be as open a platform as possible. "Users who posts links to, or related to, the article are still being banned by moderators in some subreddits andthe politics forum has decided to ban all Gawker content.Daulerio said he was unfazed by the boycotts. "It's fine, it's perfectly fine," he said.Reddit did not respond to requests for comment.The exposé, and resulting ban on Gawker content in some sub-forums, has reignited the debate on internet anonymity and Reddit's freedom to post what it wants.The sharing site has five rules, two pertaining to content:• Don't post personal information.• No child pornography or sexually suggestive content featuring minors.Reddit was pushed to remove its r/jailbait forum which hosted pictures of underage girls in September 2011 and later the r/Photobucket forum which hosted pictures taken from compromised accounts on the photo-sharing site Photobucket.The site is designed to give users anonymity as a way of promoting free speech, but this has lead to exploitative and racist postings in some darker corners of the site. Some of those corners were frequented by Violentacrez, who created or moderated sub-forums including Chokeabitch, Misogyny and Hitler.Brutsch responded to comments on Reddit on Tuesday and expressedhis views on anonymity in one post: "Anonymity can be used as an enabler. It can also, as in the case of Mexican bloggers covering the cartels, be used in the opposite direction. It is not in and of itself the problem."Brutsch said he was not available to talk to the Guardian because he was preparing for an interview on CNN on Tuesday evening. A CNN spokesperson said he would not be on the show Tuesday evening because of presidential debate coverage but may appear later in the week. The Anderson Cooper show has run a number of stories about Reddit.
Apple has sent out invitations for an event at theCalifornia Theatre in San Joseon 23 October, with the tagline "We've got a little more to show you" – prompting intense speculation that it will unveil an "iPad mini", a 7.85in version of its iPad.The invitations, which had been widely expected – because Apple usually sends them out a week ahead of an event, and theAllThingsD news site had previously pinpointed23 October – use the same palette effect as in the original iPad invitation from January 2010.The invitations were sent only hours afterMicrosoft announced prices for its Surface tablet, which will start at the same price as the existing iPad, but offer 32GB of storage rather than 16GB. The largest model will offer 64GB. However, there are no 3G-capable versions of the Surface, unlike the iPad.Rumours have been growing in intensity through the year that Apple will release a smaller version of the iPad. Leaks from its supply chain have pointed to the possibility of a device, while analysts, bloggers and developers have speculated that it could release a device with a 7.85in screen – which would have half the area of that 9.7in full-size device – by offering a screen resolution of 1024 x 768, half that of the current generation of iPad.That would mean developers wouldn't have to rewrite apps to size correctly on the tablet.However that would also leave questions about the screen resolution of such a device – which would then be lower than the new 7in Amazon Kindle Fire HD and Google Nexus 7, made by Asus.Testimony released in Apple's trial with Samsung earlier this year also showed that Apple executives had previously discussed building a smaller version of the iPad.However the launch in September of the iPhone 5, which has a longer screen, could mean that Apple has some other form factor in mind for a smaller tablet.Speculation has also been growing that Apple will show off new versions of its Macbook laptop line with a smaller 13in screen using its "retina" high-resolution display, and a refreshed version of its iPadmini.
Google's changes toits privacy policieshave been criticised by 30 European data protection commissioners for resulting in 'uncontrolled' use of personal data without individual's clear consent, relating to their use of YouTube and Gmail.The commissioners told Google on Tuesday to give people more detailed control over personal data, and said the changes the search giant introduced in March amounted to breaking European data protection law, because the company was storing without consent cookies and data about sites people visited for between 18 months and two years.The French data protection commissioner, the CNIL, led the inquiry and said that Google in effect let users pick and choose how their data was used among different services such as Gmail, Youtube and Google+ – a dramatic rewrite of the single privacy policy Google introduced in March.CNIL's demand stops short of demanding a wholesale rollback of the changes introduced in March, whenGoogle unified its privacy policies – and data– from about 60 services into a single data store.Google said it would consider its next steps, but said it had not broken the law. Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy counsel said in a statement: "We have received the report and are reviewing it now. Our new privacy policy demonstrates our long-standing commitment to protecting our users' information and creating great products. We are confident that our privacy notices respect European law."Google's latest privacy policy means that users get a simpler experience when signing up for a new Google-owned service. But it also means that Google can build up a more comprehensive picture of the user for advertising – for example, monitoring a person's use of YouTube to help better target adverts within Gmail.However, theCNIL's press releaseis highly critical of Google, noting that it "provides insufficient information to its users on its personal data processing operations", doesn't tell people how long data will be held, and allows "uncontrolled" combination of data across its service.The CNIL notes that for Google users, merely visiting a site which displays one of its "+1" buttons is recorded and kept for at least 18 months and can be associated with other data from other Google services. Data collected via a DoubleClick ad cookie – which is then associated with a unique identifying number – is stored by Google for two years, and can be renewed without consultation.CNIL also criticised the company for being unco-operative in its responses to queries from the commissioners. "Google did not provide satisfactory answers on key issues such as the description of its personal data processing operations, or the precise list of the 60+ product-specific privacy policies that have been merged in the new policy," the CNIL said.The CNIL report was applauded by privacy groups, though the US search company remained unruffled. Sources close to Google indicated that the CNIL report mostly outlined actions that the search giant "should" carry out rather than that it "must" carry out, which is being interpreted as light-touch regulation rather than full-on confrontation.But the CNIL may be biding its time. The UK Information Commissioner's Office said that it would wait for Google's response to the report before deciding what to do next. Bradley Shears, a US lawyer who has watched the process unfold, said: "It appears that the CNIL is providing Google one last opportunity to take the appropriate actions necessary to properly address its concerns before going down the litigation route."Marc Dautlich, a partner specialising in data protection law at Pinsent Masons in London, said: "If Google's get-out is that it's only being told 'should' rather than 'must', then it becomes a question of trust. How does a company purport to be transparent and trusted if they're put to the test and use a legal nicety to avoid it?"There is no set timetable for a response from Google.The CNIL wants Google to give users the chance to decide when their data is combined into services, to give better control over the combination of data. The regulators also want to centralise the change to opt out of use, decide which services their data goes into, and change its tools so that data is only used for the intended purpose – separate those used, say, for security from advertising.The CNIL led the group of 30 data protection commissioners from across the EU, who began examining Google's proposed changes to its privacy policies in February. The company had said in January that it would alter them from the start of March, and went ahead with the changes despite requests from the CNIL to delay them, and warnings from senior European Commission officials that they could be illegal.The CNIL has now called on Google to adhere to the EU's data protection principles. "European Data Protection legislation provides a precise framework for personal data processing operations," the CNIL said. "Google must have a legal basis to perform the combination of data of each of these purposes and data collection must also remain proportionate to the purposes pursued. However, for some of these purposes including advertising, the processing does not rely on consent, on Google's legitimate interests, nor on the performance of a contract."Nick Pickles, director of privacy campaign group Big Brother Watch, said: "Consumers have been kept in the dark about how much data Google collects and what happens to that data, and Google's new privacy policy only further disguised what really happens when you use their services.Pickles added: "It's absolutely right that European regulators focus on ensuring people know what data is being collected and how it is being used. Unless people are aware just how much of their behaviour is being monitored and recorded it is impossible to make an informed choice about using services. This ruling is an important step to putting consumers in control of their personal information and ensuring that companies like Google are not able to easily disregard people's privacy in pursuit of more information and greater profits."Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, said: "It's good to see European data protection authorities take action so that users gain control of their data. This must be backed by strong new data protection powers, for fines based on turnover, and rights to retrieve and to delete your data."The UK's Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) said: "We await Google's response which will be considered by the CNIL, on behalf of the ICO and the other European data protection regulators. A decision will then be made on whether further action is required."
Microsoft's Surface tablet will be priced from $499 for a 32GB version in the US – and £399 in the UK – and go on sale on 26 October in eight countries including the UK, the company said on Tuesday.The announcement came just hours before Apple sent out teaser invitations for an event in San Francisco on 23 October, with the tagline "We've got a little more to show you" – widely expected to be a smaller "iPad mini" along with a revision to its tablet line to incorporate its new "Lightning" connector.Announcingthe long-awaited details of its pricing, Microsoft said that the base model will cost $499 – which gives it the same price as a base-level iPad 3, though that only has 16GB of storage – while a version with an integral keyboard cover will cost $599. A 64GB version with a bundled keyboard cover will cost $699.In the UK, the starting 32GB model will cost £399, the same as the base iPad 3, and the cover with integrated keyboard will cost an additional £100 if bought separately.The prices are thus £399 for a 32GB model with no cover, £479 for the 32GB model with cover, and £559 for the 64GB model with cover.The Surface will go on sale in the US and Canada in Microsoft stores, and will be available for online orders in the UK, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Australia and China.Unlike Apple with the existing iPad line, Microsoft is not offering a 3G-capable version. For its size, theSurface's 1366x768 screenhas a lower resolution than that of the iPad 3, although it is comparable with 2011's iPad 2, which has a 1024x768 resolution, and is priced from £329 for a 16GB model.The Surface is based on ARM chips, using the same British chip architecture as in almost every mobile phone, and runs a new touch-based version of Windows written for ARM called Windows RT. Existing Windows apps will not run on it.However, owners will be able to download pre-approved apps from an online Windows Store – like Apple's App Store for the iPad – which will run on the Surface. The tablet will also come with a copy of Microsoft's Office suite specially written to run on the RT platform.The Wall Street Journalreported on Tuesdaythat Microsoft has ordered production of between 3m and 5m of the devices this quarter, comparable with the total production last year of Amazon's Kindle Fire. Amazon finally stopped selling those at the end of summer.It's not clear whether Microsoft intends to keep producing the Surface tablet, or whether it aims to kickstart a new segment of the tablet market by offering its own product at a keen price. By challenging Apple's iPad – which has so far been the majority seller in the tablet market – it may be trying to build a bridgehead for tablets against Apple.But the introduction of the iPad mini – echoing Apple's move in the digital music player market in January 2004, when it introduced the iPod mini and grabbed a significant chunk of that market – could leave Microsoft stuck competing at the high end.
On Monday the Guardian ran a comment pieceby James Ball onReddit's decision to ban links to the gossip website Gawkerafterone of Gawker's writers confronted, and then revealed the identity of, a prominent user who had run message boards on Reddit with photos of women and underage girls, taken in the street or lifted from Facebook and elsewhere."Rearth" is a moderator on the popular Politics subreddit (and others), who contacted the Guardian after publication and verified his identity. His response and explanation of the actions of Reddit's moderators is below, slightly edited for clarity.We need to be clear about thisWe need to be clear on this: Reddit is not a monolithic entity. It's a collection of communities. There can be very little overlap between the communities of/r/AskHistorians,/r/LeagueOfLegends,/r/fffffffuuuuuuuuuuuuand/r/Hotchickswithtattoos. These communities have all been created by individuals, with any rules the founding individuals wish. To make statements like "Reddit is doing this" is for all intents and purposes meaningless. Creating a community is as simple as going tohttp://reddit.com/reddits/create.For what it's worth, I was strongly against the Gawker ban for the precise reasons James Ball listed. However the consensus amongst the /r/politics mods was that Chen was witch-hunting an individual – not for breaking a law, but for doing something he, Chen, found distasteful. We (as a group) found that a dangerous precedent to set. We feel that Chen has had a long campaign against Reddit, and decided (as a group, despite individual concerns) that we did not want to condone someone attempting to destroy someone's else's life for doing something they didn't like.If Violentacrez had done anything illegal he would have been reported to the police long ago. In fact, he was the first line of defence against illegal content. As the mod in many of the distasteful subreddits he was responsible for removing and reporting illegal content. I'm not calling him a hero, personally I think he's a symptom of theGIFT (Greater Internet Fuckwad Theory), but when you strip back the hyperbole, righteous indignation and misinformation that's being spread, that's the truth of the matter.Witch-hunting is a large problem on sites like SomethingAwful, 4chan and reddit. People have lost jobs, families and even their lives after campaigns started on the internet. Campaigns run without due process or any real justice. Both myself and a number of other mods, together with the admins of reddit, take a very firm stand against witch-hunting. This is the basis for the /r/Politics ban. (Once again, I did not personally agree it was wise.) If laws are broken we are the first people to report this. We donotthink it's our job to prevent anyone from ever beingoffended, as that's impossible to police.Gawker: the block remainsI do not think we will unblock Gawker – not for the foreseeable future, anyway. There would need to be a major change in the way Gawker approach stories like this before they [the mods] would reconsider. We have not formally discussed this, however.As for the creepshots subreddit itself. I only visited it once, and saw nothing that caused me much concern. Certainly it was nothing worse thanthis site. It was distasteful, but only as distasteful as your average Daily Mail sidebar. It had a very small number of readers (about 3,000) until it was linked by the mainstream press.People need to view the Reddit website as more like [free blogs space] Blogger than ["social news" site] Digg. If there was a distasteful blog on Blogger, people would not accuse Google of having direct editorial control over that blog. They also would not accuse readers of a separate blog of condoning the views of the offensive blog.The sections being user-created and moderated makes a huge difference that people always overlook. Chen's concern over "double standards" is almost comical when viewed from this realisation. Different subreddits are completely different animals.We have large and thriving LGBT communities, religious communities, self-help communities, music, TV show and book communities.Just because a few hundred people do something you disapprove of in one dark corner does not mean all these other people are tacitly supporting them.I do believe that Reddit (the company) needs to think about how it wants to deal with problems like this. Reddit (the site) is becoming mainstream now and the owners need to make a choice between being the spiritual successor to &amp;totse, SA and 4chan - or if they want to be the family-friendly front page of the internet.I don't think they can be both.
Previous iterations of Microsoft's Forza driving franchise, while undoubtedly technically impressive, have put one in mind of the company: they've felt a touch corporate and antiseptic. But credit where it's due: the company has gone out on a limb with Forza Horizon, drafting in British developer Playground Games and letting it take the franchise away from the world's race tracks and into an open world. Which, in this case, is a huge swathe of Colorado.Open-world driving games are pretty rare and, gratifyingly, Forza Horizon leaves you wondering why that should be the case. It has a plot, of sorts: you, along with countless others, have gathered for Horizon, a fictional festival that resembles a sort of Burning Man on four wheels.Ford GT40 produced in 1966After a brief race to the festival, you're entered into its events; keep winning them and you earn points towards different-coloured wristbands, which grant entry to more challenging series of races.Plus, there's a popularity mechanic which takes into account of any flashy driving moves (burnouts, drifts, slipstreaming and so on) you pull off in races or on the open road: you start at number 250 and, as you work your way up the ladder, extra events and perks are opened up.Although none of the virtual characters you meet would ever be allowed anywhere near Burning Man under suspicion of being undercover DEA or the like, this format does at least banish the excessively squeaky-clean vibe that tainted Forzas of yore; a top-notch soundtrack also helps matters in that regard.As do tiny touches such as realistically patched tarmac, and even the chance to enter pink-slip street races, Midnight Club-style. Although Horizon is nowhere as gritty as, say,Codemasters' Grid games.BMW M1 from 1981Nor is the feel you get from the cars quite as good as the Grid games – but, crucially, it's infinitely superior to previous versions of Forza. And as you hustle your machinery around Colorado, you discover a whole raft of good ideas: you hear rumours about cars to be found in barns, for example, and must put in a bit of detective-work to locate them – which proves worthwhile when your efforts uncover classics such as a BMW M1.You can earn discounts on car upgrades by smashing upgrade signs randomly encountered by the side of the road. Speed cameras bring about a mini-game in which you try to go by them as fast as possible. Any competitors you encounter can be challenged to impromptu races. And you discover "outposts" which allow you to teleport around the game-world, each of which has a set of PR stunts, which are surprisingly fun to pull off.BMW 2002 Turbo which rolled off the production lot in 1973The official, ranked races, though, aren't enormously imaginative – although they have different entry requirements in terms of car eligibility, and you can effectively set their difficulty level by tinkering with assists and cranking up the AI drivers' abilities, they are just straight races around several laps, albeit on mixed surfaces. But the showcase events offer a bit of variety, encouraging you to race planes and even a hot air balloon. And if you go online, you can find all sorts of bizarre mini-games (reminiscent ofDriver: San Francisco), such as hide-and-seek.The uniformity of the races is a minor gripe, though, since there's so much else to do in Forza Horizon's impressively rich gameworld, and so much glorious machinery on hand in which to do all those things.A 1964 Chevrolet ImpalaIndeed, the game's most compelling aspect is its almost RPG-like popularity engine, which encourages you to see every slight kink in the road as a means to show off. If driving like a hooligan without having to face any consequences – in cars you'll never be able to afford – sounds appealing, then you'll love Forza Horizon. Whether by accident or design, Microsoft has hit upon a format that gives its flagship driving franchise the credibility it previously lacked.
If you were a gamer in the 1980s, you knew Lords of Midnight. Released in 1984, first on the Spectrum and later on the Commodore 64, it was an absolutely singular adventure, a vast epic quest to destroy the evil witchking Doomdark and restore the land of Midnight to peace.Its designer, Mike Singleton, who died last week after having cancer, was already a veteran coder when he envisaged this role-playing fantasy classic. Originally a teacher, he started messing about on early computers such as the Commodore Pet and ZX80, discovering a talent for nippy arcade conversions, adeptly working within the ridiculous confines of these early systems. But in 1983, he approached Beyond Software with his idea for an ambitious adventure, allowing the player to control four separate characters as they traversed a desolate landscape, slaying dragons and taking on Doomdark's armies.The Spectrum was not capable of rendering an entire world to Singleton's vision, so he invented his own system named "landscaping". This involved drawing 32,000 images of the landscape, providing a view for everywhere players could look as they navigated the world, inputting simple navigational commands.And this considerable programming challenge was not the game's only claim to history. It was also one of the earliest titles to feature a day/night cycle, to allow control over more than one character and to successfully combine strategy and RPG elements. The protagonists could beat Doomdark in two ways; by stealthily destroying his ice crown or by defeating his armies. The former was a standard fantasy quest, the latter a military simulation. All this within thousands of times less processing power than a mobile phone.I was obsessed with this game. As a kid with a Commodore 64 in the early 80s, I had played countless blocky arcade game conversions by the time Lords of Midnight arrived, and I was immediately hooked by its comparative depth and ambition. The stark, stately landscapes were enormously atmospheric and somehow the loosely sketched lead characters – Luxor the Moonprince, Corleth the Fey, Rorthron the Wise and Morkin – had real stature and resonance.There was such a sense of literature about the whole thing. Brilliantly, your moves during the day were collated into a text commentary during the night cycle, which would detail the battles taking place throughout the realm. "Night has fallen and the foul are abroad!" read the text as the computer took its turn to manoeuvre Doomdark's troops against you. Such drama, such tension, and in the morning I would discover which of my armies had fallen and who had survived to wander further into the icy nothingness, searching for allies.The packaging, too, was beautiful. Lords of Midnight came with a lavish map and a novella written by Singleton, providing the backstory to the game. It all added to the experience and the immersive magic of the adventure. Lords of Midnight, like many fantasy titles of the time, operated somewhere between reading and gaming. It provided so much, but asked some more from the imaginative participant. Unlike today's role-playing adventures which effectively molly-coddle or batter us into a state of amazed supplication, Lords of Midnight and its sequels Doomdark's Revenge and The Citadel, required the gamer to become part of the fiction, an active interpreter, a student of the lore.I have also never forgotten the cruelly capricious nature of this world. The way that my mighty warriors could fight off a whole army, only to be attacked and slayed by wolves if they wandered into the wrong rocky pass. It could feel horrendously unfair, but it worked, because Singleton set out to create an uncaring world, a cruel slate, every bit as majestic and unyielding as Middle Earth orWesteros. It was Lords of Midnight that sent me, an unwilling schoolboy reader, to Tolkien and Ursula K Le Guin. Nobody gives video games much credit for literary stimulation, but it happens, and I think it started here.This story doesn't end with Midnight. Singleton went on to code games until the current era. He made the brilliantly tense post-apocalyptic adventure Midwinter, as well as jobbing on games by LucasArts and Codemasters. But he ended his career on a nostalgic note, working on an iOS port of Lords of Midnight with longtime fan Christopher Jon Wild, who has writtenmovingly about his relationship with Singleton on his blog. The iPhone version remains unfinished and Wild is not sure now that he is up to the task.As a gamer of more than 30 years, there are few games I remember actually unpacking and poring over – in the same way that music fans would scour the record sleeves of new releases. Lords of Midnight is one example. I had the map on my wall, I had a notebook, in which I scribbled my tactics and discoveries; it was where I also noted my trading missions in Elite – another game that relied on the collaborative imagination of coder and gamer.Singleton was an archetypal games coder of the 8bit generation. He had a vision of the epic adventures he wanted to create and he refused to be limited by the hardware on offer. Instead, he constructed his own idiosyncratic systems to conjure a craggy desolate realm from nothing. The video game industry is so young, we have not had to face losing too many of our heroes. But that is what has happened this week.
This week's show celebratesAda Lovelace Dayon 16 October.Aleks Krotoski is joined by a panel of women working in and around the tech industry to discuss the lack of women in many parts of the sector.On the panel is the chair of the government Digital Advisory Board and member of the Cabinet Office Efficiency and Reform BoardMartha Lane-Fox, social software consultant and writer and Ada Lovelace Day co-organiserSuw Charman-Anderson, mobile media specialistHelen Keegan, and the Guardian's digital correspondentJemima Kiss.
The main beneficiaries of the boom in free-to-play social mobile games have been their developers and publishers, with in-app purchases now a booming revenue stream on iOS and Android. Now a new game calledHum This!is trying to help charities benefit too.Released today by British developerDigital Giving, it's a social music game that sits neatly in the middle of two of the biggest social/mobile hits in recent memory: Draw Something and SongPop.The game involves humming, whistling or singing a song chosen from the game's catalogue for up to 10 seconds, then sending the recording to a friend to guess what it is.The goal is to construct "Hum Runs" that are as long as possible and win monthly prizes, while the in-app currency – "notes" – can be bought in quantities of 800 for £1.49. The game is available in free or paid versions, with the latter costing £1.49 and coming with 1,500 notes.Digital Giving says that 30% of the net proceeds from Hum This! will go to two charities: War Child and Nordoff Robbins – 15% each.There are some big-name backers for the game too: HMV, O2 and Ticketmaster, who will all be promoting it to their customers and providing prizes. For example, the first monthly prize is "two concert tickets of your choice" for the longest Hum Run, with runners up getting HMV vouchers."We're excited that it's a way of engaging a whole new audience that traditional charity communications may not reach and we hope as many people as possible download and enjoy the game," says War Child's director of fundraising Ben Knowles in a statement.Hum This! will only be lucrative for its charity partners if the game reaches a wide audience. As a comparison, SongPop currently has 3.9m daily active users across Facebook and iOS/Android, while Draw Something has 2m – both figures are fromAppData, which only counts players who have connected the games to their Facebook accounts.This is far from the first example of a partnership between a social games company and charities. Zynga has been running campaigns for several years in its Facebook games, includingraising $1.5m in five daysin early 2010 in an appeal following an earthquake in Haiti.More recently, the company announced that it waslending out some of its developersto help the organisers of the Half The Sky movement launch a social game to help their efforts to turn "oppression into opportunity for women worldwide". It's due to launch on Facebook in November.Other examples include Sojo Studios' Facebook gameWeTopia, which funds real-world projects with the money made from its virtual item sales, andRaise The Village, a FarmVille-style iOS game where players' purchases were turned into real goods for a village in Uganda.Edited on 17 October 2012 to clarify that 30% of the net proceeds are being donated to the two charities – 15% each – rather than 15% between the two.
Tuesday, then. How was your Monday night? Any gaming?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow US manufacturers, not Chinese dumping, killed Solyndra &gt;&gt; QuartzHere's the truth about Solyndra, which is now suing a passel of Chinese companies for allegedly dumping subsidized solar panels on the US market: When you try to optimize for the wrong scarce resource, you're dead.Solyndra made tube-shaped solar collectors because they were good at optimizing what was, at the company's inception in 2005, a scarce and extremely expensive good: the pure, crystalline polysilicon needed to make a solar panel. Solyndra's "big idea" was to change the shape of the solar panel so that it could get the same performance using significantly less silicon.At first, this seemed like the right bet: In 2008, the cost of polysilicon reached $400 a kilogram. Today that same kilo will cost you $30.Bonus point for the use of the word "passel". (Thanks @arebee on Twitter for the link.)Analyst skeptical of $249 price for iPad Mini &gt;&gt; ComputerworldClaims by a German website that Apple will price the iPad Mini starting at [euro]249 were met today with skepticism by an analyst who two months ago projected the opening price would be $299 in the U.S.Yeah, well.Special Report: How Starbucks avoids UK taxes &gt;&gt; ReutersOver the past three years, Starbucks has reported no profit, and paid no income tax, on sales of £1.2bn in the UK. McDonald's, by comparison, had a tax bill of over £80m on £3.6bn of UK sales. Kentucky Fried Chicken, part of Yum Brands Inc., the no. 3 global restaurant or cafe chain by market capitalization, incurred taxes of £36m on £1.1bn in UK sales, according to the accounts of their UK units.Yet transcripts of investor and analyst calls over 12 years show Starbucks officials regularly talked about the UK business as "profitable", said they were very pleased with it, or even cited it as an example to follow for operations back home in the United States.How do you want your latte while you wait for your hospital appointment?Graphene-made e-paper by 2015 and anticancer drugs by 2030 &gt;&gt; Wired UK"A roadmap for graphene", published in the journal Nature, proves that the one atom-thin super-conductive material has plenty of future uses outside of electronics, though it will be an integral part of the imminent future development of devices. That's because the type of graphene needed for things like touchscreens is of a lower, more easily manufactured quality.Graphene is super-cool, though still a little way off being in everyday things.Apple's new iOS 6 ad tracking feature is 'broken,' says one source &gt;&gt; Forbes...it seems that for people who updated their iPhones via wireless networks, Apple's new Advertising Identifier is not working.That's a big deal for advertisers, for which iPhones and iPads are a rich channel for mobile marketing. Without being able to identify users-or more accurately, their phones-they can't track whether those ads produced a sale or other "conversion" such as an app installation. And they may not to spend a lot on iOS ads until they can do that again. "It's crucial for the advertising market," says Ravi Kamran, CEO of the apps marketing platform Trademob, which discovered the problem. "It drives the whole ecosystem."So it's bad, except when it's not working, when it's bad. When Google does ad tracking, it's good. Except when it's not working, when... it's good.Global notebook sales tank in recent months &gt;&gt; The RegisterGlobal notebook shipments took it on the chin in the third quarter of this year, with Acer, Asustek, and Toshiba seeing sales plunge by 15% to 25% when compared to the previous quarter.One notebook vendor, however, bucked the trend, with sales of its notebooks climbing nearly 30% during the same period. Care to hazard a guess as to which company that might be?Year-on-year, total notebook sales were down 11.6% and sequentially by 4.5%. Notebooks make up about 75% of all PC sales.Hardware Failure Analysis &gt;&gt; Kynosarges WeblogBased on a Microsoft detailed report (linked in the blogpost):Perhaps more interesting are the report's unexpected results:Underclockingsignificantlyreduces hardware failures, by 39% to 80%. This really shouldn't be happening. Manufacturers apparently sell a lot of hardware that doesn't quite meet advertised specifications, or else is inadequately integrated with the system (e.g. poor ventilation).Laptops are 25% to 60%more reliablethan desktops. Portable systems have much tougher operating conditions - smaller cases with greater potential for heat buildup, physical movement and battering while active - but evidently their sturdier design overcompensates for these conditions.What are the cheapest and easiest upgrade paths to Windows 8? &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:If you're planning to upgrade to Windows 8, these are the current answers to the questions you're most likely to have. I plan to update this post several times as more details emerge and some of these products move from "pre-order" to "ship."You should read this article even if you plan to skip Windows 8 and stick with Windows 7. If your new PC comes with Windows 8, you can spend a relatively small amount to secure downgrade rights that could save you a very large amount later.Read and bookmark if you are even faintly interested by Windows 8.Microsoft Windows 8 sales expectations low says Topeka &gt;&gt; Business InsiderAlthough October is expected to be the sweet spot for the notebook ramp for Windows 8, and further follow through is likely in November, we were warned of idle facilities in December. One of our contacts does not expect Windows 8 to be material until the second-half of 2013. Similarly, the enthusiasm around the Ultrabook ramp has also deteriorated as the cost structure remains too high under Intel's specifications.Ultrabooks surely ought to be a real growth area for laptops, but so far they've not hit the spot. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Demand for white-box tablets keeps growing despite keen competition &gt;&gt; DigitimesDemand for white-box tablets rolled out by China-based makers remains strong currently despite the launch of US$199 models by Amazon, Barnes &amp; Noble and Google, and the dominance of Apple's iPads, according to industry sources.Some white-box makers in Shenzhen are shipping 200,000-300,000 tablets a month, and a number of large-scale operators are even shipping one million units a month, buoyed by their tactics of optimizing hardware specifications, while keeping device prices low, noted the sources.Are most of these perhaps being made in and staying in China? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
In the weeks since Mark Zuckerberg trumpeted Facebook's growth to 1bn monthly users, there has been a lot of focus on the social network'sstruggle to convince investors of its worth.But if almost daily reports on user privacy are any indication, Facebook should be just as concerned about its relationship with users, who are increasingly miffed about what the site does or doesn't do with their data.On Monday, for example, came a dispatch onFacebook's labyrinthian suite of privacy controls, and how they still display private information.But the biggest splashes in recent weeks came in the form of alleged privacy breaches within the site: one rumor that Facebook was scanning private user messages to equate conversation with page "likes", and another that claimed private messages were being posted to public-facing user timelines.Facebook reps will tell you that such rumors come with the territory of being a hugely popular site; however, the site's historically clunky evolution has meant that the deployment of new features – the timeline – and refreshed scrutiny around old mechanisms – a long-standing technology that analyzes the links sent in private messaging – has resulted in confusion and, in turn, suspicion. Maybe that's why when more than 625,000 people in Zuckerberg's subscriber basereplied to his October 41-billion-followers announcement, one theme stuck out among the well-wishes, as illustrated by this message from a user named Neville Unvalla:Mark, while Facebook has transformed our lives over the last few years, the only thing I would ask is to not constantly change your privacy policies and to give users COMPLETE control of their private information!When French media reported in late September that a glitch had made private messages visible on user timelines, the story was quickly picked up in the US. The rumors went global, and though since disproved they persist, almost in the manner of conspiracy theory.Among several users who wrote the Guardian with such allegations (and screenshots) in response tothis storywas Caroline Ardrey, 25, a doctoral student at Oxford."There are lots of people who are really angry about having their privacy abused, not least me," wrote Ardrey. She remains convinced that Facebook invaded her privacy and that of her friends.In a phone interview with the Guardian on October 10, Facebook's Pan-Euro communications manager Iain Mackenzie said a rash of similar allegations arose last year but that they "didn't gain the same traction" as recent reports."We did a really high priority investigation of it," which included a review with the site's engineers, Mackenzie said. "To have [private messages] publish to [private walls], somebody would've had to make a technological mechanism that was never created."Simply put, here's the explanation: people spoke differently on Facebook when Zuckerberg first built it; it was college-kids-only, after all. But when the company cast a wider social net – employers, parents, distant relatives, far-flung friends – the tone changed. And not knowing exactly how those old public messages were going to be displayed on public-facing timelines years later resulted in confusion and, later, suspicion that borders on conspiracy theory."Facebook doesn't exist in isolation," Mackenzie said. "There are bad things and many good things going on in the online world. It's not surprising that people look at the service that's closest to them and are at least receptive to these myths."'I've got nothing to hide, so it doesn't worry me'Another topic of scrutiny Mackenzie acknowledges was a recent story that reported that thecontent of private Facebook messages is analyzedby the network in order to compute a number score on shares, likes and interactions around a news story, public figure or topic. This is different from liking a Facebook page, which still takes direct user interaction. But avideo postedby Polish programmers showing them gaming the system resulted in Facebook's quick acknowledgment that a bug did in fact exist.Still, analyzing public and private conversations to put a number score on shares and likes around a topic "has been a part of the platform possibly as long as Facebook has existed," Mackenzie added.The problem, it seems, is that the rumors attempting to deconstruct how Facebook uses data haven't historically been met with clarity from the social network itself. The site has long been able analyze, display and, essentially, put a number score on what users say and do, but it takes programmers publicly manipulating the system to address it. And Facebook doesn't actually post users' private messages to public timelines, but whatever reassurance the network has presented on the issue hasn't been enough to completely quell the conversation that continues on about it.More transparency on the network side is needed, but it also must be said that millions of users have overlooked and adapted to the site's many changes without asking the important questions they're asking now. And more importantly, despite their vocal protests, they're not leaving Facebook. In the end, the benefits of human connection outweigh the data users give up.Indeed, users like Ardrey will continue to use Facebook as the site processes even more changes to the platform  – most recently, a fresh attempt at e-commerce with the"gifts"platform. The goal here is that the act of buying gifts will become quietly ingrained in Ardrey's user experience, just as messaging and posting and liking things that are important to her have become.For her part, Ardrey is still convinced private messages were displayed publicly, but she feels safe using Facebook for now."I don't consider it a risk at the moment," she said. "At the moment, I've got nothing to hide, so it doesn't worry me."Further reading:*The best reporting around Facebook privacy (ProPublica)
Call of Duty Elite, the social online gaming service for Activision's blockbusting shooter series is to go completely free. Introduced last year to provide fans of the series with stats, challenges and linear content, Elite originally offered some free functionality together with a premium subscription package. With the release of Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 on 13 November, however, all the Elite features will be free.All, that is, except for map packs, the regular download packages containing new multiplayer environments. As with previous Call of Duty titles, four of these will be released in the year following the launch of Black Ops 2, and they'll be available separately or for one discounted price via a season pass. The DLC will appear on xbox first, at 1200 each or 4000 points for the season pass."For us it simply comes down to the fact that Call of Duty is at its best when our community is united," said Activision CEO,Eric Hirshberg, speaking exclusively to The Guardian. "This is why we're returning to four map pack drops per year as well as why we're making services such as leveling clans and Elite TV available to a wider Call of Duty community for Black Ops 2, not just to Elite premium subscribers."From the start, our goal with Elite was to make multiplayer a more social, more connected experience. And we have accomplished that, but for our premium members. We've come to the conclusion that Elite has more value as a community-wide platform driving engagement and connectivity, rather than as a paid members-only service".For Black Ops 2, Elite developer Beachhead will be evolving some key features as well as bringing in some fresh additions. The Player HQ area will house all the gameplay stats, including heat maps of recent multiplayer encounters, as well as challenges. Here, users will also be able to manage the new 'Pick Ten' create-a-class system, which lets players create custom soldier classes using points rather than the the usual set slots. There's also a Clan HQ where players can join or start new clans, and gain entry to clan competitions.There will also be support features for the game's popular Zombie mode, allowing fans to track their personal stats and compare them against undead fanatics across the world. "Zombies Leaderboards and stats are probably among the most high profile new features," said Hirshberg. "The Zombies community for Call of Duty is like no other, and they've asked for this going back to the original Elite beta.  So, we're thrilled to deliver. The team is really excited about this."The linear content section of the service, Elite TV, is also returning, with an emphasis on videos showing developer tips, hints and stately guides. "We've learned a lot with our first year of Elite TV," said Hirshberg. "One of the things we've learned is that by far the most compelling content to our fans is content that helps them become better players. People also want content that makes our community the stars. So you will definitely see a greater community focus here."You can expect to see weapon and map tutorials on a whole new level.  There will also be programming devoted to topics like Treyarch's new 'Pick 10' system as well as a variety of features designed to ease new fans into the basics of multiplayer.  And of course we'll be delivering tips and tricks for more advanced players to continue to hone their skills as well".According to Hirshberg, the social sharing element of Elite is also being updated. "Starting with Black Ops 2, players will be able to share custom classes," he said.  "If you lose a match you can visit your Recent Matches history to review how your nemesis bested you. So you can click one button and copy their loadout over to your own custom class settings. One more click sends you directly to the game."Additionally, we're introducing push notifications to allow users to stay informed of certain events and communications on the go.  Fans will also have the ability to share screenshots and videos directly to their Elite feed.  And lastly, with the emphasis of Elite as your personal Call of Duty HQ, players can not only keep up on the latest news and information, but also share them to various social networks".According to the press release, Modern Warfare 3 users will still get the two-tier service and subscribers will receive the extra content until their subscriptions run out. Presumably then, the service will be free on MW3 as well.With iPad support also on the way, Activision is looking to create much more of a pervasive service this time round, reflecting the emerging trend for cross-platform functionality in games. Although it suffered from a few technical problems at the outset, Elite has proved a popular service with over 12 million users, two million of those subscribing to the premium version. Some industry watchers are surprised that Activision has moved away from a monetised social gaming system – however, close rival EA does not charge for its own equivalent, Battlelog, available with the Battlefield 3 shooter.It seems that, like information, social functionality wants to be free.
A screenshot captured just after Apple put the iPhone 5 on its website may point to the starting price of the as-yet unreleased – and unannounced – iPad mini.The picture, caught by sharp-eyed reader Kristian Tapaninaho at about 21:20 on 12 September, shows the revised UK Apple Store page with a £249 starting price for the device.Is this the starting price of the iPad mini in the UK? (A link to the full screenshot is included at the bottom of the post.)Tapaninaho previously sent the screenshot to the Guardian, and has nowblogged about it.Apple is widely expected to announce a smaller version of its market-leading iPad tablet on 23 October, although the company has not yet issued invites or given any indication that it has a product in the pipeline. But multiple sources have indicated to the Guardian that they expect to see a new product in the category.Most expectations are that it will be half the size of the existing iPad, which has a screen measuring 9.7in diagonally; rescaling would mean an iPad mini would have a screen measuring 7.85in diagonally, but with a total of half the screen area of its bigger sibling.And contrary to earlier information from sources last week, other sources have told the Guardian it now looks increasingly likely that the new tablet will include 3G and possibly 4G capabilities.The price spotted by Tapaninaho chimes with some other prices apparently leaked online anddisplayed by Mobilegeeks.de, which shows prices in euros for devices starting with Wi-Fi only and 8GB of storage priced at €249.Converting that from euros gives a base price of £201; adding VAT at 20% gives £242 - though Apple, like most merchants, usually prices just below the next £10 increment, pointing to a £249 base price.That will leave a price gap compared to the two principal competitors in the sector, Amazon's Kindle Fire and Google's Nexus 7. The Kindle Fire, which will be going on sale in the UK, starts at £169 for an ad-free 16GB version and £209 for an ad-free 32GB version, while the Nexus 7 costs £159 for an 8GB version and £199 for a 16GB version.There is a clear demand in the market for smaller tablets, as evidenced by Carphone Warehouse which said on Monday that the Nexus 7 was its best-selling Android tablet ever.Graham Stapleton, chief commercial officer for the group, said in a statement: "It's clear that there is a massive demand amongst our customer base for smaller tablets. We're seeing a real shift in what customers are using their tablets for, with more and more watching content on the go. It's now common to see people using their tablets during the morning commute or catching up on the day's news in a local coffee shop, and smaller devices make it easier to handle.He added: "We've seen that 59% of total tablet sales in our stores are sold as either connected or tethered, to allow access to the internet on tablets that don't have inbuilt 3G connectivity."That implies that a mobile-capable iPad mini could do well in that space.The pricing details leaked onMobilegeeks.deare said to have come from the internal computer system of the German retail chainMedia Markt.Those show versions of the iPad mini with storage offerings of 8GB, 16GB, 32GB and 64GB. They also suggest that it will come in white or black versions, and with a 3G-capable - and, possibly, 4G-capable – version. That could make it attractive to mobile operators which could sell it alongside the iPhone, or on its own.By contrast the Kindle Fire and Nexus 7 are both so far only available in Wi-Fi-only models.Tapaninaho has a link to theoriginal screenshot taken on his iPad.
The third largest mobile operator in the US is falling into Japanese hands, in the latest multibillion deal in an increasingly concentrated industry. Japanese telecoms company Softbank will buy up to 70% of Sprint Nextel for $20bn, giving the US company more firepower to compete with its larger rivals.After days of heated speculation, Softbank said on Monday it would buy $8bn of shares directly from Sprint and an additional $12.1bn of shares in the market. It expects to complete the deal by mid-2013.For Sprint, the deal represents a much-needed injection of cash. The US mobile operator has a debt pile of $14.5bn and is struggling in a market dominated by bigger players. Sprint chief executive Dan Hesse, who will remain chief executive of Softbank's new US subsidiary, New Sprint, said: "There couldn't be a better time for this infusion of cash." He said the funds could be used to grow the business "both internally and externally."Macquarie analyst Kevin Smithen said: "[It's] not a bad outcome for a company many investors told us was going bankrupt as late as March." Sprint's shares have risen 15% since it confirmed it was in advanced talks with Softbank last Thursday.The deal will also transform Softbank – with about 90m subscribers – into a global wireless player to rival Vodafone or T-Mobile owner Deutsche Telekom. The combined group would also benefit from the increased scale in buying handsets and telecoms equipment.But investors were unimpressed, sending Softbank's shares down 20% since the news broke. The biggest concern is the possible debt burden Softbank will be taking on. The Japanese company undertook a leveraged buyout of the Japanese arm of Vodafone in 2006, and still has more than $10bn of debt on its books.Critics add that it would also be entering a market where it has no experience.Softbank chief executive Masayoshi Son said he understood that some people considered the move too risky, but said: "For us to not challenge ourselves may be an even greater risk."Son built Softbank into Japan's third-largest mobile carrier by revenue in just a few years, partly by consolidating smaller players.The deal is the biggest overseas acquisition by a Japanese company, and is part of a growing trend for business owners keen to expand beyond their saturated market. Japanese companies have been buying overseas assets at a record pace – spending more than $65bn so far this year, according to data provider Dealogic – fuelled by a strong yen and cheap borrowing costs.
"Imagine how much easier life can be if you just take what you want," speaks my guide, as he leads me out of the island's tribal temple and into another mission of frantic gunplay and machetes in the dark. Far Cry 3 might be a little heavy-handed with the storytelling at times, but the points that it presents are so valid that it barely matters.Choose your own misadventureFC3 is a trip – a power trip, a sightseeing trip, and a head trip. I'm sent out into territory controlled by Vaas, a deranged local warlord and told to kill, and I do. Each mission, contained within the vast open world, is essentially a puzzle as walking into the middle of a gunfight is a surefire way to get killed in short order.Accessing the situation and plotting the best route – whether that's quiet backstabbing, well-timed distractions, artfully controlled destruction or all three – is the method for success.I opt for stealth more often than not, as most players will. The combat system is solid and visceral, with ranged weapons acting as a loud counterpoint to the trademark melee takedowns – catch a guard by surprise, or sneak up on him, and he's as good as dead.I spend minutes sneaking through the undergrowth, hiding behind burnt-out cars and discarded shipping crates, before bursting out and taking the high ground. I stab a sniper in the guts, drag his body behind cover, grab his rifle and free a caged tiger by shooting the lock off its prison – in the chaos as it tears through its captors, I pick off survivors while they run to safety. I feel powerful, I feel clever, and I feel dangerous.This isn't even a story mission – this is a group of guards defending a base that I came across in the wilderness. FC3 is a hell of a thing.The sudden gifting of power is the game's core theme, shining a harsh light on what first-person shooters have been giving us for years as a matter of course. The protagonist Jason is deliberately, almost painfully an everyman. The opening sequence sees his proficient ex-military brother Grant shot in the neck, Jason frantically trying to stop him bleeding to death by tapping A to apply pressure to the wound, then fleeing into the jungle after he fails to keep him alive. In any other game we'd be taking control of Grant with his wealth of combat experience. Instead, we get his brother.Quite why Jason is suddenly so good at killing people is often questioned, and the unspoken answer to that question is that he's the lead character in an action game. Before the player arrived and took control, he wasn't, and as he meets his friends after he's come under new management (as it were) they note the change, and they're a little disturbed. Jason isn't behaving normally at all. Jason is a violent protagonist because you've made him into one, and the game isn't shy about telling you that.All grown upI'm given four and a half hours to explore the game, and I brush against maybe a 10th of the enormous map – moving through it using trucks, cars, hang-gliders and boats but mainly progressing on foot, as driving a car down the large dirt roads that connect settlements attracts the attention of enemy patrols and leads to desperate roadside gunfights.There are echoes of Far Cry 2 here, with the random mobs of machine-gun armed goons who chase you down at every turn. But here Jason can take over the countryside on behalf of the Rakyat, a group of warrior-people who take him into their ranks. With the Rakyat in place, fast-travel points are established and territories fall under their control, making them safe to navigate through.Having spent a fair amount of time on the previous titles, it's clear to see that this is the game that its sequels were supposed to be. Far Cry 1 was a standard first-person shooter stretched out thin; Far Cry 2 was an open-world game with guns, and too many lines of sight for enemies to abuse. Something about the environment, and the movement of the character within it, feels correct.Some bits stick out, of course. Coloured rocks covered in sigils are deposited around the map and unlock access to Trials of Rakyat, kill-frenzy style closed missions with an online leaderboard and prizes available for performing above the odds. Hang-gliders sit unattended on the top of cliffs, ready to be taken and flown between islands. An on-rails grenade launcher section after an escape from a burning mansion feels like every other one you've done before in every other action game. The story, while tight and involving four hours in, hints at something massive and unwieldy just over the horizon.Down the rabbit hole we goIt would be easy to explain away the jarring elements in this otherwise seamless experience with the central conceit – that it's just a game, after all, that none of it is real. That's one reading of the story, certainly, and it covers a multitude of sins. But the narrative of the game layers more and more on top of the player, deliberately piling too much weirdness on them until they stop asking questions and just go with it.Jason is going mad – thanks to stress, and tiredness, and loss, and shock, and the fact that he's frequently drugged into hallucinatory visions. As the line between what's "real" – within the game world, anyway – and what isn't becomes increasingly blurred, a new boundary emerges: how much of Jason is the player? How do we separate our actions as the character from the character's internal drives? How comfortable do we feel taking pleasure in such violent acts?You don't need to play it as a highfalutin exploration into the nature of control, obviously – as mentioned above, it's an incredible action game (I'm making a lot of assumptions here based on early play; if it keeps up the pace it's going to be very, very good). But FC3 asks some pretty interesting questions.Proactive horticultureIn a scene that will draw comparison's with the game's spiritual cousin,Spec Ops: The Line(a PTSD-ridden anti-war shooter released earlier this year) Jason is given a flamethrower by a man who claims to be from the CIA but might just be a conspiracy nut with a lot of professional-looking equipment in his basement. He's told to go and burn down drug plantations to attract the attention of bigger, more important warlords to the island, so he does.As well as burning crops, the flamethrower burns people – groups of soldiers that might have posed a problem beforehand are now easy pickings, as Jason leaps out from cover and immolates whole squads of them. Combat, always a careful combination of recon and timing, becomes far too easy and there's a jolt of pleasure in that because it's been so difficult beforehand.And then Jason says "Man, I fucking love this gun!" to no one in particular, and you realise that Jason's enjoying this as much as you are and you're playing a game while Jason is burning men to death in a drug-field.It's not subtle, but it's there. That's what takes Far Cry 3 from being an excellent videogame into something much more powerful, a comment on a medium that's only now starting to find its feet in the wider world of entertainment. In 10 years, games as revolutionary as this will be old hat. Enjoy it while it lasts.• Far Cry 3 will be released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 30 November
UK games chart, week ending 13 October 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (43)VITA (2)32 (–)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (32)PC (9)13 (–)Pokemon Black Version 2(3+)DS (100)14 (2)Resident Evil 6(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)25 (–)Pokemon White Version 2(3+)DS (100)16 (4)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (93)Xbox 360 (6)PS3 (1)27 (–)Xcom: Enemy Unknown(12+)Xbox 360 (53)PC (26)PS3 (21)18 (3)Borderlands 2(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (28)PC (5)49 (5)F1 2012(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (46)PC (2)410 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (76)PS3 (15)PC (9)4411 (10)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)912 (9)Pro Evolution Soccer 2013(3+)PS3 (69)Xbox 360 (29)PC (1)413 (11)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)2014 (7)Rocksmith (12+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (42)PC (2)315 (12)New Super Mario Bros. 2(3+)3DS (100)916 (13)Gran Turismo 5 Academy Edition (3+)PS3 (100)317 (–)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (36)PC (3)Wii (2)4218 (6)NBA 2K13(3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (46)PC (1)PSP (0)219 (14)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Wii (24)Xbox 360 (22)DS (14)PS3 (12)1720 (16)Dead Island Game of the Year Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (33)PC (1)15UKIEGames Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
The US Federal Trade Commission is preparing a case against Google that could lead to a full antitrust lawsuit similar to the action taken against Microsoft at the end of the 1990s, the Guardian has learned.The initiative means Google could face antitrust proceedings on both sides of the Atlantic in its two biggest markets – potentially stopping its expansion into new areas of business.The New York Timesreported on Fridaythat the FTC is preparing a case with a draft memo running to more than 100 pages that looks at the question of whether Google manipulates its search results to favour its products, and whether it makes it more difficult for rivals' products to appear prominently in those results.FTC sources confirmed to the Guardian that its staff are preparing the dossier, which could lead to a head-on clash between the US government and the search company. The agency has beeninvestigating Googlefor more than a year, looking at the position it holds in the US search market, and how it is using that position in relation to its other products such as Google Shopping and Google Places.That echoes the huge antitrust battle that occurred between Microsoft and the US department of justice in 1998, when the US software company was accused of using its Windows operating system monopoly to push its Internet Explorer browser to the disadvantage of rivals such as Netscape.The European Commission is already negotiating with Google over similar accusations that the US company, which has a far bigger share of the search market in Europe than in the US, favours its own products such as YouTube over those of rivals when determining search results. Google's market share is 90% in Europe compared to about 65% in the US.The competition commissioner,Joaquín Almunia, warned in Septemberthat if those negotiations fail, the commission could take Google to court over its antitrust concerns. The two sides have been negotiating through the summer.Some unconfirmed reports say Google has offered to label its products when they appear in searches – but that solution does not satisfy companies which have complained to the commission about Google's practices.Shivaun Raff, who runs the British vertical search engine Foundem, and was one of the original complainants to the commission, told the Guardian: "The harm being caused by Google's preferential placement is not only about consumer deception; it is primarily about the competition-crushing power of Google's ability to divert substantial volumes of traffic and revenues away from competing services and to its own. Because of this, clear and conspicuous labelling alone will not be sufficient to solve the problem."There is no clear timetable for a settlement between Google and the commission.Meanwhile, Google executives will be aware of the history of Microsoft's antitrust battles just over a decade ago. In the 1998 case, Microsoft was found guilty of abusing its monopoly in Windows, and was ordered to be broken up. It got the breakup ruling nullified on appeal, but had to submit to antitrust scrutiny under a regime that has only ended this year. The cultural impact on Microsoft, however, was colossal, causing it to second-guess its moves in a number of markets including search in the early 2000s. That created the opportunity for companies such as Google to grow rapidly.Google told the NYT: "We are happy to answer any questions that regulators have about our business."For an antitrust case to succeed, the US government would have to show that Google had an effective monopoly in one field – almost certainly search – and it was trying to use that monopoly to win market share in another field at the expense of rivals. Furthermore, it would have to show that consumers had been harmed by the second action.If Google is found guilty of having a search monopoly and using it to expand into other markets, it could come under an antitrust oversight regime similar to which Microsoft had to work under over a decade ago. However, before the FTC can proceed with the case, a majority of its five commissioners would have to agree it has a case to answer.In the case of Microsoft, the judgeaccepted the DOJ's argumentsthat Windows constituted a monopoly, that Microsoft was trying to build a monopoly with Internet Explorer, andthat consumers were harmedby the narrowing of choice and the raising of the barriers to entry for web application developers.In a case against Google, there is clear evidence that the company is seeking to break into new markets such as shopping and local information. But key questions for any FTC case would be proving that it has an effective monopoly in search, and that consumers have been harmed by its actions.In the latter case, any case might turn on complaints from rival companies – even small ones – that complain they have seen their potential forestalled by Google's move into their fields allied to what they see as favourable placing of its own products above their own.
Zune failed to take on the might of the iTunes music service, but now Microsoft is back for another bite at the cherry or, more accurately, the Apple. The software company has announced Xbox Music, an all-in-one digital music service that will make 30m tracks available to users via Xbox 360, as well as PCs, tablets and smartphones running Windows 8 or Windows RT.The new platform is split into three strands. A free streaming service will provide ad-supported access to the library, but this will be limited to a certain number of hours after six months. Alternatively, a premium, unlimited, ad-free streaming option is available for £8.99 a month. Customers will also be able to purchase and download any track from the catalogue.Launching on Xbox 360 on Tuesday and other platforms later in the month, the cloud-based service will allow users to synchronise their music across multiple devices. A Smart DJ feature will provide users with recommendations, as well as personalised playlists and instant mixes, while the display shows artist information and discographies – all reminiscent of the successful Spotify digital music service. Microsoft says it will also be offering a cloud-storage option later in the year so customers can "scan and match" tracks they already own, opening them up for free use on the Xbox Music platform.Although Microsoft's Zune music service failed to challenge in the digital music sector, its media player axed in late 2011, the company may be in a stronger position this time. Xbox Music will be made the default music service on Windows 8 PCs when the OS launches on 26 October, giving the corporation a huge potential audience. It will also be an integral part of the redesigned Xbox 360 dashboard when it updates this autumn. Microsoft has noticed that console owners are increasingly using their machines for other forms of entertainment rather than just games. Last year, the companyrevealedthat more than 42% of Xbox owners watched more than an hour of video content a day on their machines.The key proposition with Xbox Music is its pervasive design. With free, subscription and purchase options, as well as artist-based playlist features, it is effectively taking on iTunes and Spotify simultaneously, while also challenging other emerging cloud-based music services such as Google Music and the Amazon Cloud Player. With social sharing features also set to arrive in early 2013, Microsoft is determined to leverage every feature of digital music consumption into the service."The launch of Xbox Music is a milestone in simplifying digital music on every type of device, and on a global scale," said Microsoft's president of interactive entertainment business, Don Mattrick. And if the future of entertainment consumption is all about seamless cross-platform functionality, it's certainly a step in the right direction. The weakness in the chain, however, is the Windows smartphone platform, still dwindling in a distant third place behind Apple and Android devices. However, at a press event to mark the launch on Sunday night, Microsoft executives were promising Xbox Music apps for Android and iOS devices early next year. That will make it a much more powerful proposition in a marketplace where fragmentation and incompatibility continue to disorientate music fans.
Google has celebrated the 107th anniversary of Winsor McCay's Little Nemo in Slumberland with one of the search engine's most elaborate doodles ever.The doodle recreates the adventures of the main fictional character from the illustrator's comic strips, which first appeared on 15 October 1905 in the New York Herald.Widely regarded as one of the great figures in the comics form, McCay's bold and stylistic innovations in the early part of the 20th century redefined what the medium could do and set a standard followed by Walt Disney in decades that followed.Born in Michigan in either 1869 or 1871 – the date is disputed – McCay received some basic art training while attending business school before going to work in the printing and engraving industry in Chicago. He later moved to Cincinnati, where his first major comic strip series was A Tale of the Jungle Imps by Felix Fiddle, which appeared in the Cincinnati Enquirer over more than 40 instalments.Little Nemo, based on the adventures of a boy of around six-years-old, ran in the New York Herald from 1905 to 1911. The strip, which ran only on Sundays, features Nemo's adventures as he tries to reach the Princess of Slumberland, daughter of King Morpheus, who desires Nemo for a playmate.McCay was hired by William Randolph Hearst in 1911 and went to work on Hearst's New York American, a morning newspaper, as an editorial cartoonist. He also started to experiment with animated cartoons and creating the classic Gertie the Dinosaur as well as a short Little Nemo film.McCay died on 26 July 1934 of a cerebral embolism.
Google will be told on Tuesday to unravel the controversial changes introduced in March to its European privacy policy, legal sources have told the Guardian.The French data protection commissioner, the CNIL, will be holding a press conference on Tuesday to announce the results of its deliberations together with the data protection chiefs of the other European Union countries.Asexclusively revealed by the Guardian last week, they have determined that Google's changes breached EU law because they did not give users any chance to opt out of the changes.Next, the CNIL – one of the more aggressive European data protection commissioners – will tell Google to undo those changes, and recreate the setup that existed before, said Chris Watson, a partner and privacy expert at the London law firm CMS Cameron McKenna."By putting the CNIL in charge of this, the EU was going for blood," said Watson. "It was a declaration of intent."The UK's ICO, he suggested, would have taken a softer line with Google. "The point is that Google is an international company which is leveraging its power in the browser and its other services in a way that affects national businesses all over the EU. There's great political importance in the data protection commissioners doing something, because if they think there's a breach and they don't do anything about it, what's the point of having them?"Bradley Shears, a US-based lawyer who specialises in digital privacy law and has campaigned for increased privacy for users of services including Facebook, said he expects the CNIL to find that Google broke EU privacy law, and to oblige it to unwind the changes.Shears told the Guardian: "Since Google had the technical capability to combine the data of all of its users' accounts it should have the ability to reinstate the previous barriers that acted like a digital Chinese wall between its services that better protected user privacy."He added: "Since Google refused to heed the EU's prior warnings that changing its privacy policies may violate data protection laws it would not surprise me if restrictions are placed on how Google may utilise the user data profiles it has created since the new policies went into effect. This [EU] decision may restrict Google's ability to fully monetise its users' personal data across its platforms and may cost Google tens of millions of dollars in lost revenue."Shears noted that "The EU's decision may create a domino effect and lead regulators in the US and other parts of the world to impose similar restrictions on Google's ability to intermingle and monetise user data." In the US, Google had to agree in October 2011 to privacy oversight by the Federal Trade Commission for 20 yearsafter being accused of violating its own privacy policies and using "deceptive practices" in setting up its Buzz social network.In the changes, trailed in January and thencarried out in March, Google brought together separate "silos" of data collected from services such as its search service, YouTube and Maps into a single datastore so that it could tailor adverts and content more closely.Google said then the new policy would simplify the user experience, and said it was confident it had obeyed "all European data protection laws and principles".But it was warned by the justice commissioner Viviane Reding that the changesmight breach EU law.There have been suggestions that trying to separate the data back into individual services would be like "unscrambling an egg".Watson said that he believes that Google will in fact be able to do that: "To suggest that they couldn't would be like Microsoft's defence when it was accused of using its Windows monopoly for the Internet Explorer browser – that it couldn't separate them. It could. If Google's defence is that they can't, they're going to have a fight on their hands."Google declined to comment on the forthcoming CNIL report, but said: "We are confident that our privacy notices respect the requirements of European data protection laws."Separately, Google has been in intensive talks for months with the European Commission's competition arm. It is accused of anti-competitive behaviour in the way it orders its search results, uses other sites' content, and controls some elements of advertising.Reports last week said that Google has offered to "label" its own services where they appear in search results – though early reaction from affected companies suggested that would not be enough.
And so Monday rears its unwelcome head. This weekend I played Forza Horizon and had brief glimpses of XCOM and Dishonored. What an embarrassment of riches. And you?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows 8 is Coming Soon &gt;&gt; YouTubeMicrosoft would like you to know this. Lot of emphasis on touch in the shots.FTC staff prepares antitrust case against Google over search &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe agency's central focus is whether Google manipulates search results to favor its own products, and makes it harder for competitors and their products to appear prominently on a results page.The staff recommendation is in a detailed draft memo of more than 100 pages that is being shared with the five F.T.C. commissioners, said two people briefed on the inquiry.Together with the EC negotiations, and the expected decision from France's CNIL that Google's EU privacy changes broke EU law in March, this is a very difficult time for Google.SNL skit skewers complaints about the iPhone 5 &gt;&gt; CNET NewsAsked if they would like to complain about a product made in America, one of Chinese workers (SNL's Fred Armisen) said: "What does America make? Does diabetes count as a product? If not, we have to get back to you."(Video only works in the US.)Exclusive: Apple subsidiary AuthenTec actually DID patch its Windows security software (in September!) &gt;&gt; VentureBeatNow, I'd appreciate it if AuthenTec had made that known on its corporate website, not just the support site. And there seems to be no direct link from AuthenTec's corporate website to its support site. In addition ... it'd be nice if Apple had returned my calls, or if the person at AuthenTec knew that the software had already been patched.All that aside, however, the fact remains: the software had been patched, and I wrote a story saying it was not. So ... I was just plain wrong.Panorama confronts an internet troll &gt;&gt; BBC NewsFrom February; now a topical subject again (see below for more)Unmasking Reddit's Violentacrez, The Biggest Troll on the Web &gt;&gt; GawkerAdrian Chen:Jailbait defenders would often argue that if 14-year-olds didn't want their bikini pictures to be posted to Reddit, they should not have taken them and uploaded them to their Facebook accounts in the first place. If Brutsch did not want his employers to know that he had become a minor internet celebrity through spending hours every day posting photos of 14-year-olds in bikinis to thousands of people on the internet, he should have stuck to posting cat videos.Exclusive: AMD to cut up to 30% of workforce &gt;&gt; AllThingsDArik Hesseldahl:Days after warning of ahuge sales and earnings miss, chipmaker Advanced Micro Devices is close to announcing a significant reduction in its workforce that could be be made public as early as next week.According to sources familiar with the company's plans who asked not to be identified, AMD will announce next week that it will cut between 20 percent and 30 percent of its employees, which given AMD's headcount of about 11,700 workers would amount to between 2,300 and 3,500 jobs.Google's African affair: an internet giant puts its money where its mouth is &gt;&gt; memeburnAmong other initiatives:Not wanting to leave the "dumb phone" owners out in the cold, earlier this year Google launched GMail SMS, a service that lets you send and receive emails as SMSs. Previously Gmail users were only able to access the service via a PC or a smartphone. So it made sense for the search giant to pick Ghana, Nigeria and Kenya as the countries where it would launch the service. Clever Google -- it's just introduced itself to a huge group of mobile-only people it would previously have been irrelevant to.Android tablets also make up 49% of the (very small) tablet sales there; the iPad is 46%.A message to Eric Schmidt and Android: put up proof of profits or shut up &gt;&gt; TechPinionsFormer lawyer John Kirk:So where are Google's [profit] numbers for Android? They have them. They're just not sharing them. Why do you suppose that is?When a company has favorable numbers, they shout them from the mountain tops. When a company has numbers that are unfavorable, they remain stoically silent. This is the industry norm.- Apple seldom talks about Apple TV- Samsung stopped reporting their tablet sales numbers- Amazon never reveals sales or profit numbers for the Kindle Fire- Microsoft actually does reveal the exorbitant amounts they lose on Bing. Go figure.When a company says nothing about a product's profits, they are telling us something. And that something is not good. Their silence speaks volumes.Microsoft is required to give the profit/loss for its "Online Services" division in which Bing lives. So that's that it figured.Convergence now means picking a side &gt;&gt; Trusted ReviewsGordon Kelly:Convergence is great, right? Your phone is your camera, your GPS, your games console; your TV is your web browser, your social hub, your on-demand media centre... and everything works together. It should be amazing, but that isn't how it's panning out. In reality convergence is exposing a sinister dark side: segregation by brand.Today you don't buy a device, you buy into an ecosystem.Excellent observations.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The assassin Corvo crouches on the rafters watching the scene play out in the room below. Two men, one target and a world of possibilities. A crossbow bolt from above, a blade to the throat or something more subtle? After all, it's not just about the kill. There's the exit strategy to consider.Dishonoredis a game about decision-making. How to reach the target? How to eliminate the target? How to escape? Arkane Studios has evolved its first-person swords-and-sorcery formula last seen inDark Messiah of Might and Magicand crafted a masterpiece in gaming freedom. While a twisting revenge narrative and rich steampunk aesthetic provide a strong backbone to the game, it's the sandbox nature of the assassinations that proves most intoxicating.Combining stealth melee action with supernatural powers, such as teleportation and time dilation, the player has a powerful, varied toolbox at their disposal. Experimenting to find the most elegant solution to the current problem is hugely rewarding and, cleverly, Arkane has ensured that choice does not come without consequence. Corvo's actions will echo throughout the city of Dunwall and eventually determine the outcome of the storyline itself. The message: choose wisely.
It's a shame that while the latest instalment in the near-universally praisedNBA&nbsp;2Kseries is certainly a highly polished and impressively deep basketball sim, it doesn't feel quite as good as its immediate predecessors.2K13has everything in the right place; it's undoubtedly one of the finest representations of NBA basketball that's ever been developed. Gameplay is frenetic and thrilling, and easily tweaked to forgive novice players or challenge veterans as needed. The control system offers an almost unfathomably large number of ways to outplay your opponent, while the "My Career" mode fleshes out the self-indulgent joy of guiding a created character to fame and glory in entertaining ways. Even the slick presentation, overseen by rapper Jay-Z, feels smartly placed and exciting (providing you like Jay-Z).What seems lacking is any great leap forward. The numerous tweaks and adjustments are almost all wisely handled, but anyone with a well-worn copy of2K12may wind up feeling a little underwhelmed.
The traditionalFablegames, with their complex RPG mechanics, aren't the sort of titles you'd expect to find using Microsoft's Kinect motion sensor, a device best known for its simplistic dancing and sports titles. But forFable: The Journey,developer Lionhead has tried to prove the two can work together, but with mixed results.The title puts players into the role of reluctant hero Gabriel, who must drive a horse-drawn cart and use magic to defeat an ancient evil. So far, soFable. But here, the game is entirely on rails and plays a little like an interactive movie, with pretty visuals, a strong story, impressive voice acting and the series' trademark British humour.But the real star is Gabriel's horse Seren, who you'll develop a genuine bond with throughout the adventure. Unfortunately, despite the developer's best efforts, the Kinect controls don't always work. Whereas one moment deadly accuracy is displayed when shooting a goblin-like Hobbes from afar, the next might result in missing an immense troll staring you in the face, annoyingly leading to you being killed for no discernible reason.WhileFable: The Journeyis by no means a bad game, you can't help but feel it would have been far better with a controller.
Price £17,675MPG up to 56.5Top speed 125mphFor Britain, this has been the year of the bike, of Bradley Wiggins, Sir Chris Hoy,Strictly Come Dancing's Victoria Pendleton. We've had the nation's first Tour de France victory, a&nbsp;welter of Olympic medals, sideburns, tears and vastly increased bike sales. The amusing Skoda ads that accompanied coverage of the Tour de France this summer – think extreme things two-wheeled going on all over the place while a Skoda sails serenely through it all – left us in little doubt: the Czech brand aspires to be the car of the year of the bike.The car manufacturer not only supplies nine top cycling outfits with their team vehicles, but is also official sponsor of the Tour de France, Giro d'Italia and Tour of Britain. To see life at the sharp end of the sponsorship, I&nbsp;spent a day on the Tour of Britain with John Herety, the directeur sportif of Rapha-Costa-Condor, one of the UK's leading squads. Herety's Skoda Superb not only carries all the spares the riders might need but is also a communications centre where Herety takes in information from the race's internal radio system and forwards it to his six riders, all the while fielding calls from journalists and sponsors.It is also a mobile snack bar (Herety is constantly handing out energy gels and drinks as his charges drop back from the peloton) and a four-wheeled wardrobe (it's where riders keep their rain capes, overshoes and arm warmers). Like all former professional cyclists, he is disturbingly adept at multi-tasking while driving and has a driving style that can be frankly terrifying – for example when he urgently chased down the lead group along narrow Dartmoor lanes.The Superb has much to recommend it, whether as a cycling team vehicle, family getaway car or, as in my case, transport for a journalist covering the Tour de France; this summer theObservercovered the Touren Superb. One reason it is so popular is the immense space available in the back – this is critical in cycling, as it's the domain of the mechanic, but outside the race convoy, the epic rear space has other blessings: before the Tour started, the Superb transported four of us – two adults and two long-legged adolescents, plus luggage, to the north of Scotland for a family funeral. It swallowed us all and seemed to be begging for more. The tinted glass proved particularly popular with the teenage occupants. This was nothing to do with keeping the sun out – this was the summer of 2012, lest we forget – but for that tinge of gangsta-style glamour.The Superb has all the other qualities you'd expect of the modern diesel: buckets of power married to a&nbsp;fuel consumption as parsimonious as the diet that enables Bradley Wiggins to lose enough weight to climb with the best in the Alps and Pyrenees while maintaining the power that wins all those time trials. The bigger family estates now seem to have passed the tipping point where you enjoy the endless space but pay the price with a lorry-like driving experience. The artistry of the Superb is it pushes right up to that cusp without going over it. It's massive, but it's still in touch with the tarmac.The perks of a HertzHertz is taking some of the stress out of secondhand car buying withHertzRent2Buy, a new online used-car sales programme selling 1,000s of well maintained, late-model vehicles at competitive prices direct to the public. The icing on the cake is that prospective buyers can test drive a vehicle for up to 10 days for free, if the car being test-driven is purchased.Most of the Rent2Buy models are sold at prices cheaper thanParkerssuggested values, so there is every chance you will be driving off in a bargain. The cars are all fully serviced as you would expect, with many still under manufacturers' warranty, and usually have from 12,000 to 50,000 miles on the clock.Sexy at SixtAnd if the idea of buying a "pre-loved rental runaround" doesn't appeal, you might do better heading over toSixt. The family-run car and van rental outfit has recently expanded its services in the UK with a range of high-end luxury vehicles. We are talking the likes of Aston Martin DB9, Ferrari California, Porsche, Land Rover, Rolls Royce and Bentley. These premium marques will now be available to rent for both short- and long-term periods.The luxury fleet is available from a number of London's Sixt depots, including the newly revamped centre at Heathrow airport where customers can take advantage of last-minute vehicle upgrades. What better way to start your holiday?For more information, go tolondon.sixtluxurycars.com.
Fable: The Journey, Xbox 360 (Kinect)Fable The Journey Screenshot 2.jpgStarting with an admonishment to, "Sit up straight up – and don't cross your legs", you might think you'd stumbled into a Swiss finishing school.But this is merely the latest game to shoehorn Microsoft's Kinect peripheral into its interactions. Part of the Fable franchise, it sensibly sticks to simple arm movements to steer your horse and open chests in this on-rails tour of Albion. Aiming spells fares less well, the faintest hint of action leaving Kinect baffled, so it's a shadow of past Fables, but possibly the least dreadful Kinect game.Microsoft, £34.99XCOM: Enemy Unknown, Xbox 360, PC &amp; PS3XCOM Enemy Unknown Screenshot.jpgAs usual, aliens are invading. Only this time, you have to co-ordinate the entire international effort to thwart them, from managing each nation's panic levels and budget, to building a HQ replete with laboratories and interceptors ready to shoot down UFOs and ferry in squads of customisable soldiers to mop up the unfortunate survivors. This last phase provides the game's focus, taking place in demanding, tactical turn-based encounters, impressive in their depth, variety and scope. It eventually starts to feel repetitive, and suffers from some sizable technical glitches, but XCOM is still a complex, tense and absorbing  piece of strategic ET-singeing.2K Games, £29.99-£39.99Pokémon Black And White 2, Nintendo DS &amp; 3DSPokemon Black 2.jpgWhether you end up with Pokémon Black 2 or its identical sibling with different monsters, White, you'll be capturing and coaching Pokémon, battling rival trainers and trying to defeat naughty Team Plasma. It's easier than Pokémon Black/White, has few new monsters and a simpler plot, giving it a whiff of potboiler. There are extras, like the PokéStar studios mini-game and medals to be won at tournaments, and it's still a massive game, whose mechanics are as ludicrously addictive as ever – just one that may not be quite as appealing to more seasoned Pokémon trainers.Nintendo, £29.99Games newsSpy HunterElectronic Arts' longstanding tradition of releasing annual updates of its franchises is coming under renewed scrutiny by gamers since it emerged thatFIFA 13for Wii is not an update at all, butFIFA 12with a new soundtrack, while the Vita version is in realityFIFA Football, which launched with the console in February. A spokesman for EA confirmed the games had "no new modes or features" …World Rally Championship 3(Xbox, PS3, PC, Vita) is out this week for admirers of very slightly low budget point-to-point racing and muddy cars, along withMadagascar 3: The Video Game(Xbox, PS3, Wii, DS, 3DS) managing to match the film's stodgy mundanity with a set of forgettable mini-games;Spy Hunter(3DS, Vita), the 80s arcade near-classic remade in shiny 3D with bigger explosions andHarry Potter Kinect(Xbox) serving up a fresh, portion of disappointment for Kinect owners.
Whoa, what's that? It's where you'd expect the handbrake to be, but it doesn't feel like a handbrake. It's round, and smooth, it's a mouse, that's what it is – the sort you use to operate your computer, not the little rodent. I came out for a drive and I've found myself in the bloody office. There's a button on its side, too, maybe a curser will appear on the windscreen, I'll be able to click on things in the road ahead, drag them out of my way, double-click on one of those G4S prisoner vans to open it up, release the passengers, just for a giggle… Oh, I see, you have to press the button to release the handbrake, that's all. Obviously.Actually, I quite like this hand mouse, it feels good, fits snugly into my palm. Maybe I'll put my left hand there when it's not required, caress it like a small turtle. And it's symptomatic of the new Panda inside, there's a pleasing tactility about it. A bit cheap, yes, and plasticky, but you want to touch, likeAmy Childs, offTowie…It's not cheap cheap like the original Panda. Remember? That&nbsp;was basically a sardine tin with a&nbsp;little two-cylinder engine and deckchairs inside. There was&nbsp;a&nbsp;lovely utilitarian charm about&nbsp;it, but this is something different, a&nbsp;more grown-up car you might actually consider taking somewhere farther than up the road. You won't fall in love with it, as you might well have done with the original, or perhaps you have done with the new Fiat 500. But it's&nbsp;still a very likable car. And it's both cheaper and more practical than the cuter 500.I'm trying the TwinAir model, which costs a bit more but which&nbsp;emits less CO2 than the magic 100g/km, so it's free to tax and there's no congestion charge. It&nbsp;would make sense most in London. Plus it makes a rather pleasing fluttering farty sound when you put your foot down, amusing to small boys (or grown men who are essentially still small boys at heart, which most are, I find).To be honest, it's not massively different from the model it replaces, the first generation new Panda (as opposed to the original). Nip'n'tuck I'd call it, not extensive cosmetic surgery. It's actually a bit bigger in all directions, and more comfortable. The ride is better, it's smoother, quieter. More refined, you might say, though not too much, we're not talking ladette to lady here. Amy Childs, remember, she still applies, outside as well as in. And when you factor in the flatulence… No, I'm not saying that Amy farts, just that the Fiat Panda remains cheerful as well as cheap.Fiat Panda 0.9 TwinAir 85hp LoungePrice£11,250Top speed110 mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.2 secondsCombined fuel consumption67.3mpgC02 emissions99g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating7/10
It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps, taking in much-loved children's characters, William Shakespeare, ancient Egypt, eBay's new same-day delivery service, Everton FC and more.As ever, the list doesn't include games, because they get theirown separate post, which this week includes excellent iOS titles like Crazy Taxi, Real Football 2013 and Topia World Builder.Looking for Android apps? They get theirown separate posttoo. Read on for this week's iOS selection:It's The Great Pumpkin, Charlie BrownReleased by book-apps publisher Loud Crow, this is a Halloween-themed story featuring Charlie and his Peanuts friends, which includes footage from a 1966 TV special, and the voice of Charlie Brown himself, voice-actor Peter Robbins. A Peanuts avatar-maker, virtual pumpkin carving and piano playing are thrown in for good measure.iPhone / iPadBBC iPlayer RadioBrits who were disgruntled at the lack of whizzy radio features in the most recent update for the BBC's main iPlayer app may be mollified by this new standalone app for the broadcaster's radio output. It streams live stations over 3G or Wi-Fi, has a slick EPG and radio tuner-style dial, and offers on-demand shows from the last week. Still no downloads though for offline listening.iPhoneRockmelt: Explore the Best of the WebRockmelt started life as a social-skewed desktop web browser, before pirouetting onto mobile devices. This new iPad app is as much a Flipboard-esque article reader as a web browser, pulling in editorial from a range of sites and making it available for offline reading. Facebook and Twitter personalisation is included too.iPadRomeo and Juliet: Explore Shakespeare/Macbeth: Explore ShakespeareOkay, so this is cheating, since two apps in one entry takes this roundup to 21 apps for the week. These belong together though: two excellent attempts to bring Shakespeare plays to the iPad by Cambridge University Press and developer Agant. Expect full audio performances with actors including Fiona Shaw and Michael Sheen; glossary definitions, word clouds, themelines, study activities and deep search features.iPadThe Magazine: For Geeks Like UsThis is the work of Marco Arment, who's best known for making reading app Instapaper. This is his move into digital magazine publishing, commissioning four 500-1,000 word features for each bi-weekly issue, focusing on technology and related fields. Hisblog post about the projectis worth a read too, as he pitches it for "an audience bigger than a niche but smaller than the readership of The New York Times".iPhone / iPadBad Piggies Best Egg RecipesAngry Birds publisher Rovio launched its Bad Piggies Best Egg Recipes printed cookbook in 2011, but now it's been turned into an iPad digital edition. It includes 41 egg-related recipes, with step-by-step instructions, photos and some interactive easter eggs starring the birds and pigs from its games.iPadPyramids 3DIt has been, as you can see, a very big week for iOS apps. This is the latest release from UK/US book-apps publisher Touch Press, offering 3D tours of three Giza pyramids and eight tombs, with digital restorations of wall paintings, high-res photos of artifacts to spin around, and all manner of experts delivering their knowledge on ancient Egypt.iPadeBay NowThis app is US-only for now, and in fact it only works in San Francisco at the moment. Still, it's a sign of where eBay is heading: same-day delivery of products bought from retailers including Toys R Us, Macy's, Walgreens and Home Depot, ordered and paid for from an iPhone app.iPhonePhotosetPhotoset came as a bit of a surprise: a brand new app from blogging company Tumblr designed to "create and share beautiful photosets on your iPhone or iPad". The idea being you arrange photos and then share them to Tumblr, Twitter and other social sites, as well as via email.iPhone / iPadPrometheus – Weyland Corp Archive Second Screen AppAn unwieldy name for what's a pretty interesting idea: an app designed to be used alongside the Blu-ray disc of Ridley Scott's Prometheus film, synchronising with the action and serving up screen tests, motion galleries, interviews and artwork, as well as a "Live Lookup" feature tapping IMDb for info on actors. And you might think "Oh, can't people just WATCH THE FILM", but this is more akin to DVD extras, designed to be used on second, third and later viewings.iPhone / iPadBAMM.tvThe BAMM.tv website has been filming bands and musicians performing live for some time now, but now all that footage is available through an iPad app in HD quality. You can browse the sessions, read liner notes, create playlists and find out more about the artists – all within a virtual venue environment.iPadCraftsyThe Craftsy website specialises in video courses for all things craft-related, from jewellery-making and cake-decorating through to gardening and knitting. Now those courses are available in an iPad app, where you pay for them using in-app purchase, then can watch as often as you like, while asking questions to the instructor if you get stuck.iPadDishonored Official Map AppThis could perhaps have gone in the Best Games post this week, but it's strictly an app: a "digital companion" to console game Dishonored, which is currently receiving rave reviews. Published by DK, it provides maps and a guide to collectible items in the main game.iPhone / iPadDC Super Friends Haunted HeroesThis is a book-app based on DC Comics' stable of superheroes – well, the child-friendly version anyway, including Batman, Superman and a cast of villains. As the name makes clear, spookiness is the focus, just in time for Halloween, as the DC Super Friends investigate a haunted house. Photo-manipulation, digital stickers, puzzles and colouring accompany the main story.iPadFlock – Photos TogetherY'know how the latest TV ads for Sony Ericsson's new Xperia smartphone make a big deal out of its tap-to-share photos feature? Well, developer Bump just made an app that does (sort of) the same thing for iPhones, with some more social bells and whistles. The idea being that friends take photos on their different phones, then it creates a shared album for all of them automatically.iPhoneDisney Creative StudioHere's an artistic app that looks set to appeal to parents as well as their children: "Let real Disney artists teach you how to draw your favourite Disney characters". The app uses a mixture of connect-the-dots, colouring and tracing to accomplish this, so even kids will be able to draw a Mickey Mouse that looks like, well, Mickey Mouse.iPadEverton FCEverton's official club app was already available on iPhone, but its universal upgrade including iPad has made it, as far as I'm aware, the first Premier League football club to have an official app for Apple's tablet. Blues should expect a mixture of news, videos and player profiles.iPadRead with Biff, Chip and Kipper: LibraryBritish parents should recognise Biff, Chip and Kipper: their early literacy books are apparently being used in 80% of UK primary schools. Now they've gone digital with this app, adding voice narration, interactive activities and the ability to tap a word to hear it pronounced. Each book costs £3.99 in-app, although if your wallet is flush, a separateComplete Series appbundles in all 48 titles for a single download fee of £149.99.iPhone / iPadXfinity TV PlayerAnother US-only app: you need to be a Comcast or Xfinity TV customer to use this TV-on-demand app. It's a pure player for accessing the Xfinity catalogue of TV shows and films, including content from channels like HBO, Starz, Showtime and Cartoon Network. The app can be used anywhere over Wi-Fi – part of the US cable industry's attempted march to a "TV everywhere" strategy.iPhone / iPadPlayground.fmOne more US-only app to finish this week, from music startup NoiseToys. This is a bit like personal radio service Pandora, except the stations – or playlists – come from other users rather than a recommendation algorithm. Playground.fm users can create playlists from their iTunes collections or Spotify Premium catalogue, then share them with others. How do artists get paid? Playground.fm will pay US royalties body SoundExchange whenever someone plays a track that they don't own.iPhoneThat's our selection, but what new iOS apps have you been using this week? Make your recommendations in the comments section.
Crowdfunding website Kickstarter is opening up to UK projects on 31 October, with creators and startups already able to prepare their projects on the site in advance of the launch date."We thought the three-week gap would give everyone plenty of time to build and tweak their projects before launching," explain Kickstarter's co-founders Perry Chen, Yancey Strickler and Charles Adler in ablog post, following atweet in Julypromising an Autumn launch for the UK.There won't be a separate Kickstarter site for the UK. Instead, British-originated projects will simply appear alongside others on the main Kickstarter site. Until now, UK citizens have only been able to pledge to Kickstarter projects, rather than run them.Kickstarter launched in 2009 as a way for people and companies to raise money directly from the general public, setting a target for each project, offering rewards depending on the amount pledged, and only collecting the money if they reached that goal.It quickly became the most prominent crowdfunding site, initially thanks to eager adoption by musicians, filmmakers and artists.In recent times, the site has emerged as an alternative to seed funding for technology startups and games developers, through some high-profile projects.Examples include smart-watchPebble(which raised $10.3m on Kickstarter); Android games consoleOuya($8.6m); gamesDouble Fine Adventure($3.3m) andWasteland 2($2.9m); and virtual reality gaming headsetOculus Rift($2.4m).Meanwhile, Amanda Palmer recently smashed the Kickstarter record for a musician byraising $1.2mfor a new album, book and tour.In truth, though, Kickstarter is as much about tens of thousands of smaller successful projects. The site'sStats pagetracks these on a daily basis, revealing that at the time of writing, 30,867 projects have hit their funding targets on Kickstarter, raising a total of $325m. 21,021 of those raised between $1,000 and $9,999.Technology is currently the fifth most lucrative project category on Kickstarter, with 445 successfully funded projects raising $21.8m at an average of $49k apiece. By contrast, 8,950 successful Music projects have raised $49.3m at an average of $5.5k per project.Brits will be dreaming of becoming the next Pebble, Palmer or Ouya, but Kickstarter cannot be taken for granted as a funding source. The same Stats page reveals that 42,921 projects have failed to hit their targets – 58% of the total ever launched.What's more, research by entrepreneur Jeanne Pi and economist Ethan Mollick earlier in 2012 found that while successful projects tend to surpass their goals by "relatively small margins", it's a different story for unsuccessful projects. "Projects that fail to fund tend to fail by large margins," wrote Pi in ablog post."Only 10% were able to reach 30% of their funding goal. And only 3% made it to 50% of their goal. In other words, when you fail, you fail big; adding insult to injury."Kickstarter has also faced scrutiny for its management of the site, and specifically over its responsibility for projects that don't deliver on their promises.For creative projects, this can be self-policing: if people let down their fans, it does them no good. Josh Dibb from indie band Animal Collective recentlyapologised to fansfor raising $26k on Kickstarter in 2009 for an album that has still not been released three years later, for example.The Android-based Ouya console raised $8.6m on KickstarterKickstarter has also taken steps to ensure technology projects don't rip off users,announcing new rulesin September 2012 to ban "photorealistic renderings of a product concept" in its Hardware and Product Design categories, with the aim of preventing companies from attracting pledges for a beautiful computer-generated product image that turns out to be shoddy in the flesh.The site also now requires project creators to answer a Risks and Challenges section, explaining what may threaten their project's successful delivery, and how they are qualified to overcome them."Before backing a project, people can judge both the creator's ability to complete their project as promised and whether they feel the creator is being open and honest about the risks and challenges they face," explained the co-founders at the time.There are alternatives to Kickstarter.IndiegogoandRocketHubare already available globally, and the formerraised $15m of venture capital fundingin June 2012 to further its ambitions.CrowdfunderandCrowdcubeare UK-based crowdfunding sites. In the US,Fundableis planning to help startups sell equity stakes to small investors, rather than simply run pre-order campaigns for new products.Meanwhile, UK-basedPledgeMusichas focused on music artists, helping the likes of Martha Wainwright, Ben Folds Five and Ginger Wildheart. It recently worked with Universal Music on acampaign for a BB King box-set– less a case of the record label being strapped for cash, and more about using crowdfunding as a way to gauge fan demand for the product.Kickstarter's launch in the UK could draw project creators away from some of these other sites, but it may also spark a rising tide that floats all the boats, at a time when more creatives and startups every month are mulling crowdfunding as an alternative to traditional sources of investment, whether they be VC firms, angel investors, record labels or film studios.
Sony has treated its web-based PlayStation Store to a major – and no doubt, PlayStation 3 owners would contend, much-needed – redesign. It will go live on 17 October, perfectly timed for the games industry's crucial Christmas sales period, and amounts to a tacit acknowledgement by the Japanese company of the increasing importance of digital downloads in comparison with traditional disk-based games.Gordon Thornton, vice-president of Sony Network Entertainment Europe network operations, explains the company's motivation behind the redesign: "We wanted to create a PlayStation experience, and we wanted to address some of the issues that consumers were telling us about the old version, which were around search and navigation – they wanted us to make it easier for them to find content." Sony took pains to emphasise that the move was consumer-led – according to its Game Store development manager, Elliott Dumville, "The essence of this is driven by what consumers are telling us – it's not just that we read articles in the press, forums, blogs and so on. We've been getting to know our consumers better, getting to understand their needs, likes and dislikes as far as shopping for games and other content on the web is concerned."So what is new?Sony PlayStation StoreThe most obvious alteration to the PlayStation Store is a new home page, titled What's New, which scrolls sideways, carousel-fashion, and looks an awful lot more inviting than the old home page, featuring cutouts of games characters, screenshots, videos and a parallax effect which comes into play when you scroll. "It's an all-new user interface," says Dumville. "What's New always covers a mixture of content, and what we asked was: 'How do we make the products the stars of the store?' So it's a more HD experience – every page of the carousel has one 'hero' title."Perhaps more importantly for digital shoppers, the site's structure has been improved. "One of our design principles was that we always want people to know where they are, so they never hit a dead end," says Dumville. Thus, if you do scroll to the end of a section, you're given a number of options to go to what Sony reckons are other parts of the site you might be seeking. The main menus at the left of the PlayStation Store are split into what Dumville calls "above the line and below the line" sections – so are essentially two menus in one.Sony PlayStation StoreOne particularly welcome upgrade for more decisive digital shoppers is a proper filtering system. Dumville says: "You can filter by game type, price (such as seeing what's available for under £10), online multiplayer games, release date, accessories and so on." And Sony has ripped out the old search engine, with its familiar but ugly and rather daunting on-screen keyboard, with a much friendlier and more intelligent system, which encourages you to build searches one letter at a time, and tries to anticipate what you're seeking. Dumville, for example, searched for Call of Duty Black Ops: Rezurrection by simply inputting R, E and Z. And he admitted: "One of the challenges for the existing store was if you were looking for an add-on to a game, you'd have to head to multiple places." Basic stuff, for sure, but given the popularity of downloadable content these days, at least one cardinal sin previously performed by the store has been rectified.Sony PlayStation StoreDumville and Thornton confirmed that the PS Vita and PSP Stores will remain separate entities from the PS3 store – you'll have to select a menu option for each from the home page. "That comes from a lot of feedback that told us people don't want to be distracted by things they aren't interested in," says Dumville. "Most consumers at the moment are looking for PS3 content."It would be easy to argue that the redesigned PlayStation Store is merely what it should have been in the first place, but Sony deserves credit for listening to its consumers and taking the trouble to fix it. It's certainly impressive as such things go, in that it looks and feels inviting (surely, a greater inclination to browse will lead to more impulse purchases), and is much quicker, easier and more logical to navigate. And Dumville and Gordon promise that Sony will continue to update it, on a more or less fortnightly basis, with a flow of content including streaming trailers, and structural tweaks if consumers demand them.PlayStation Store: key improvements• Carousel-style, content-rich, side-scrolling menus.• Full filtering system.• Much friendlier and more intelligent search engine.
It's time for our weekly roundup of new games for smartphones and tablets, this time covering iPhone, iPad, Android and Windows Phone.The week's pick of new and notable games spans driving, football (from both sides of the Atlantic), first-person shooters, board games and robots. Read on for the selection.Crazy TaxiSega has ported its marvellous driving game Crazy Taxi to iOS, and specifically the Dreamcast version of the game, complete with its Bad Religion and Offspring soundtrack. As before, the game involves charging round a city collecting and dropping off passengers, while leaping off hills whenever possible. 16 mini-games are thrown in for good measure.iPhone / iPadWild BloodGameloft has brought its Unreal-powered Arthurian action game to Android, as you control Lancelot in his quest to unseat the turned-mad King Arthur. It's a big game, with 2GB of free space required for the install – but the sumptuous graphics are worth the download wait. Online deathmatching and capture-the-flag modes are also included.AndroidReal Football 2013Hot on the heels of FIFA 2013's App Store release comes Gameloft's Real Football 2013, with its own FIFPro licence for player names and likenesses, and an emphasis on developing your club, stadium and commercial businesses alongside a winning team. That's in the context of a freemium game, so it's free to download and play, but you pay for virtual cash using varying quantities of real money, from £1.49 up to £69.99.iPhone / iPadNFL Pro 2013And another Gameloft sports game for good measure, this time covering the other kind of football, with helmets and touchdowns and dodgy refs. We're not sure if the latter make it in here, but the game itself – another free-to-play title – has crossed from iOS to Android. It's got an official NFL licence, and similar features for developing the infrastructure around your team.AndroidBabel Rising 3DThe latest Xbox-branded game for Windows Phone comes from Ubisoft, and sees you in the shoes of a "great, almighty, and very angry deity" picking on a tribe of humans to ensure they don't get the Tower of Babel built. An interesting spin on the god-game genre.Windows PhoneKumo LumoForget taking it to the cloud, as Microsoft might say. In this game, you ARE the cloud, floating above a virtual world raining on forests and poleaxing enemies with lightning bolts. The visual style is strong and original, and it's a free-to-play game – in-app purchases are used to boost your prospects with virtual gold purchases.iPhone / iPadTopia World BuilderThere's a lot of buzz around Topia World Builder because of the involvement of Glenn Corpes, one of legendary god-game Populous' co-creators. This takes some of that series' ideas and applies them to touchscreen gaming, as you shape a virtual world with your fingers, spawning animals and tweaking the landscape as you please.iPhone / iPadSuper Bunny BreakoutAtari and Zynga, together at last? It's a meeting of minds that has surprised plenty of people, but the results look like they may be fun. This is a 2012 update on the Breakout brick-busting formula, except with a plot involving a team of rabbits trying to break out of an "Evil Animal Testing" lab. 40 levels and plenty of power-ups ensure it feels modern rather than retro.iPhone / iPadPlague IncTwo days after launching, Plague Inc has already zoomed past 100k downloads on the Google Play store, albeit as a free download. It's the latest game from Miniclip, and gets players to "bring about the end of human history by evolving a deadly, global Plague whilst adapting against everything humanity can do to defend itself". Which is cheery. An in-app purchase removes ads and unlocks bonus features.AndroidShadowgun: DeadzonePolished shooter Shadowgun has spawned a new spin-off for Android, although it's in beta for the moment, and only available for devices with Tegra 3 processors (this link may helpif you're wondering if that's true of yours). The focus here is on online deathmatching, with four playable characters, two modes and two maps.AndroidLeague of Evil"Flip, dash and wall-jump your way to destroying the League of Evil," suggests the Google Play listing for Noodlecake Studios' new game, which offers well-crafted pixel art, 160 levels and some tight controls. Oh, and lots of acrobatics, with a chiptune soundtrack. It looks as excellent as the existing iOS version.AndroidMonopoly Millionaire for iPadMonopoly has been one of the most popular mobile games since long before the app store era, but now EA has rebooted the digital version of Hasbro's board game once again. The emphasis here is on speed, as you race for a million in a board tilted towards luxury lifestyles. Multiplayer is supported on one device or via local Wi-Fi.iPadChaos RingsOther developers will be keen to see if Square Enix can make decent money with an £8.99 price on the Google Play store for its RPG, which has been ported from iOS. It sees you playing through four scenarios with a pair of characters each, with battles and plotlines in equal measure.AndroidWorld Series of YahtzeeAnother revamp of a well-established board game (well, dice'n'paper game) from EA, although this one's free-to-play. Will Yahtzee fans balk at the idea of buying in-game "stacks" for real money? That remains to be seen, but the game itself sounds good fun, with power-ups and combos. The initial game is ad-supported, but you can pay £1.49 to remove those.iPhone / iPadContre JourThis isn't a native app: it's an HTML5 version of existing mobile hit Contre Jour, which has been created in partnership with Microsoft for its Internet Explorer 10 browser and Windows 8 OS. That means it's good for tablets, including multi-touch controls and use of hardware acceleration. Now, all you need is a Windows 8 tablet running IE10...HTML5Girls Like Robots"Girls like robots. And robots like girls. Just don't surround robots with girls; it makes them freak out," explains the App Store listing for Adult Swim and Popcannibal's new game. Moustaches, pies and lasers also find their way into the gameplay for this tile-based puzzler, which offers 110 levels of robotic girly action.iPhone / iPadBen 10 Game Generator 3Ben 10 remains a popular brand among children, and the previous two Game Generator games have picked up a thriving audience. This third iteration continues the formula: 50 top-down levels filled with traps, enemies and obstacles. However, the twist is the inclusion of a level editor for children to create their own levels and share them with other players – and download their creations too.iPhone / iPadGrumble and Piccolo's Fishing TripThere are lots of gem-swapping games available for smartphones and tablets, but how about starfish-swapping? The game focuses on a pair of Chinstrap Penguins catching fish and other sealife for their customers, with match-three gameplay boosted by canny use of power-ups. I went to a press event which included this earlier in the year, and ended up absorbed for 20 minutes, so hopefully it'll find an audience.Android / iOSDeath DomeModern-day app stores are pretty unhealthy places, given the number of population-ravaging viruses on the loose in mobile games. Glu's freemium Death Dome is the latest action game that sees humankind getting a bit... mutanty. Infinity Blade appears to be a big inspiration for the gameplay, with its enormous monsters to battle and skills/looting mechanic.Android / iPhone / iPadGreed CorpGreed Corp has found a popular audience on PC and console, but now it's available for Android devices too. Expect turn-based strategy in a steampunk setting, with solo and multiplayer modes, online high-score tables and 36 maps to play on. The link above is for Android smartphones, but aseparate HD versioncaters for tablets too.AndroidThat's our selection, but what are you playing this week on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations, or provide feedback on the games we've chosen, by posting a comment.
