In 2006 Dr Simon Colton, a researcher in computational creativity at Imperial College, London, started to explore whether a computer program with the capacity to create art could be taken as seriously as a human artist.Where did the idea for the program you callthe Painting Foolcome from?As a hobby I wrote software that would turn a photograph into a more artistic piece, but six years ago I brought it into my field of research. I realised that the Painting Fool was a very good mechanism for testing out all sorts of theories, such as what it means for software to be creative. The aim of the project is for the software itself to be taken seriously as a creative artist in its own right, one day.How does it work?The Painting Fool produces artwork in a number of ways. The first is the simplest one: the software paints according to user-defined input, such as a photograph. But last year I had an exhibition in Paris called No Photos Were Harmed that challenged the public perception of computer art. I presented a couple of pieces, one of which wasThe Dancing Salesman Problem, where the figures were generated by a context-free design grammar, which is similar to the grammatical structure of natural language but for images.I've also paired the Painting Fool with emotion-detection software by Maja Pantic, a colleague of mine, so it paints pictures in different styles according to the subject's mood, like theReally Sadpicture of me, where it chose muted colours and graphite pencil. Each of these projects tries to challenge a notion about computer programs - that they can't be imaginative, that they can't appreciate how the output might affect people.How will you know when it is taken seriously as an artist?People want to know artwork has been constructed with an intelligent thought process, so perhaps once the software produces pieces that are culturally valuable, that get people talking, and are not necessarily anything that I'm keen on aesthetically or conceptually, that would be a good indication of its independence from me.
A computer piracy website, secretly supported by one of Rupert Murdoch's companies, openly promoted advice on how to hack BSkyB's rivals, according to documents obtained by theObserver.Emails obtained by this newspaper also reveal that a senior employee of NDS, the Murdoch company, insisted he was personally responsible for setting up The House of Ill Compute (Thoic) site. NDS says it paid Thoic's chief hacker, Lee Gibling, for information allowing it to monitor and prosecute software pirates legitimately.But the documents provide a new perspective on potentially toxic allegationsthat resurfaced in a BBCPanoramaprogrammebroadcast last week – more than a decade after they first materialised – and which triggered a ferocious rebuttal from Murdoch and his News Corp empire.The allegations come as the media regulator Ofcom assesses News Corp's near-40% holding in BSkyB following the phone-hacking scandal that saw the closure of Murdoch'sNews of the Worldnewspaper. At its peak in 2000, Thoic claimed it was receiving as many as 3m hits a day.The website's first "ezine", a downloadable magazine, was published in 2001 and shared with theObserverby one of its members. It features two articles about how to hack Sky rival OnDigital's SECA software system, which was developed by a French broadcaster, Canal Plus, as a rival to NDS's technology. OnDigital, later rebranded as ITVDigital, was set up by terrestrial broadcasters Granada and Carlton in 1998 and went into administration in 2002.The articles, by a hacker known as Barrell, describe the programming necessary to facilitate the hack and explain the need to phone OnDigital so that the company could send a signal to the hacker's set-top box.Barrell advised: "The way to guarantee this is to phone od [OnDigital] while logging and say any of the following, your card is not working, swap a channel, upgrade your package etc. PLEASE PLEASE do not all phone od as soon as this guide is released, stagger it over a few days, weeks, otherwise od will think something is up when a few thousand people start phoning up."Another article, "Installing a chip in a CFT2100 box", explains how to "decrypt" the pay TV networks of cable operators NTL and Telewest, so that viewers can watch them for free. An email, dated 5 February 2001, sent to Gibling, and copied to Ray Adams, NDS's head of security, shows Thoic's members discussed how hackers could learn in its online forums to program software allowing them to hack into cable television.NDS, which built the software for Murdoch's pay TV platforms around the world, admits paying Gibling tens of thousands of pounds and providing him with computer equipment, but insists this was for his help in tracking computer hackers so that it could protect its own security systems.The company's supporters argue the focus on Thoic is disproportionate because pirated OnDigital cards were being offered for sale on other internet forums and online sites.They also argue claims that the collapse of OnDigital was due to software piracy are wrong because a multitude of factors, not least the high price it paid for live football rights, were really to blame.But NDS's critics are likely to ask how it was ignorant of the fact that technical guidance on how to hack Sky's rivals was being openly promoted on the site or, if it was aware, what steps it took to inform its rivals.NDS points out numerous courts have rejected allegations it was responsible for TV piracy.Adams toldPanoramathat "Gibling developed it [Thoic] and developed it himself" and he "would have arrested" Gibling if he had known OnDigital's code had been published on the site. But in one email, sent on 9 February 2000 to his NDS colleagues, Adams insists: "I created Thoic and still consider it my baby."Gary Walker, a moderator in the Thoic forums who went under the handle BigBird, confirmed the site regularly released OnDigital codes, allowing the system to be hacked. "I think there is a case for a public inquiry into what happened," Walker said.NDS said: "It is simply not true that NDS used the Thoic website to sabotage the commercial interests of OnDigital or indeed any rival."It added: "Like most companies in the conditional access industry – and many law enforcement agencies – NDS uses industry contacts to track and catch both hackers and pirates. This is neither illegal nor unethical. The information NDS has gained has often been shared with our competitors and non-pay-TV customers and law enforcement agencies."Last month News Corp and a venture capital firm announced the sale of NDS to Cisco in a $5bn deal.Adams did not return calls.
How do hackers hack when they have very little to hack with? That was the challenge facing a group of developers at the MIPCube conference this weekend.The idea: they would spend 36 hours coding innovative apps and websites based on TV content, then present the results to a room full of producers and broadcasters. Oh, and the hacking took place on a yacht moored in the Cannes harbour.The problem: APIs. Or rather, the lack of them. A recent Music Hack Day in London saw developers playing with data and content from Spotify, SoundCloud, The Echo Nest, EMI Music, Universal Music, Songkick, Musicmetric, 7digital, The Guardian, Red Bull and numerous other sites or services.For the TV Hack Day in Cannes, the hackers had much less to work with. In the presentation session, developer Syd Lawrence gave the TV industry both barrels as a result."The data coming out of broadcasters is shit. There is no data from your industry out there that we can actually play around with. I honestly think you should start to change that," he said."You have companies charging for TV listings. In my eyes, TV listings would be a good thing to put out there to get people watching your shows. Apparently, you would rather charge for them."And that wasn't all. "Radio is so far ahead of TV," said Lawrence, referring to available data. "If you work in TV and are to do with the data, just think that radio is beating you! That's all you need to know."Enough negativity though. The hacks that were presented to the audience met an exceedingly warm reception, with plenty of laughter and applause.Aral Balkan's Grab Magic used Kinect and an iPhone to enable people to physically reach out and "grab" screenshots from something showing on TV, and save them on the phone. "Sometimes the best UI is no UI," he said while presenting.Martyn Davies' When hack was a simple search box to type in a TV show name to find out when its next season starts, while Lawrence's VOD Do You Vant to Vatch involved a similar search box, but this one pulled in actual shows from services including iPlayer and YouTube.Lawrence also made Zeebox Trends – which accessed an "undocumented API" from social TV app Zeebox to show what percentage of users are watching specific shows in the UK – and Rcmmndr 2.0 Beta, which provides film recommendations based on the user typing in a movie that they like.Lazy Shoppr by Dave Williamson was a way for his wife to do the shopping while watching TV, while Russell Smith's Watchd was an analytics tool for broadcasters and producers, to analyse Twitter buzz around a show, but also to tie that to specific moments.Lawrence Job's Feedback was also a B2B hack that analyses Flash and JavaScript events in online videos. He also worked with John Lyons on Relive TV – an iPad app to rate shows as they're being watched – a bit like the worm tools that have been used for political debates – while also leaving comments.They were also behind Dev TV, a hack for deaf TV viewers that analyses keywords in the closed captioning text like "boom" and vibrates their phones in sync.These aren't commercial apps or services, necessarily, but that's not the point of a hack day. The idea was to give the TV industry attendees a sense of what's capable when working with developers – or at least what would be possible if they provide more open data and content for those developers to work with.The event was organised by Rewired State and Reed Midem, withmore information on each of the hacksavailable on the former's website.
It's hard to believe that only a decade ago the apogee of mobile gaming was downloading a crippled version of  Pac-Man for a fiver. These days you'll find decades' worth of surprisingly decent mobile entertainment, much of which costs less than a packet of crisps.Star Wars: Falcon GunnerYou're gunner in a Millennium Falcon quad laser turret unleashing hot plasma at waves of Imperial craft while listening to deliciously familiar sound effects and speech samples. Flailing motion control makes this a game to be enjoyed strictly in private.iPod, iPhone &amp; iPad, THQ Wireless, £1.99Coco LocoIn a manner familiar to millions of Angry Birds fans, Coco Loco has you catapulting little creatures at teetering structures to liberate friends and crush enemies, aided by a limited set of special abilities and splendid onscreen contraptions.iPod, iPhone &amp; iPad, Chillingo, 69pGRave Defence HDConga lines of post-apocalyptic zombies traverse the screen while your turrets try to stop them. Uneven levels have a sudden tendency to chuck beasts at you that demand very specific preparation, which feels cruel at the end of 15-minute rounds.iOS &amp; Android, Bulkypix, from £1.66Call ConnectPresented with a tiny, colourful, 60s-style telephone switchboard, your job is to connect incoming calls to the right coloured terminals, then disconnect them afterwards. Its rapidly escalating speed puts you either in "the zone" or the Game Over screen.iPod &amp; iPhone, G Bowtell &amp; SA Freeman, 69pBuzz WordsYet another word-spotting game, this time livened up by combos that multiply your points for words with letters overlapping those previously found, against the clock, with occasional miscreant ladybirds to be disposed of before they reach the bottom row.Windows Phone 7, M80 Games, 79pIncobotoProd and make tiny Inco hop around beautifully rendered, silhouetted worlds to unlock sun gates, returning light to the universe. Muster the patience to retry your way through its fussier moments and you'll find a delightfully whimsical and very pretty game.iPad, Fluttermind Ltd, £2.49Traffic Wonder HDDraw a route for multiple vehicles to follow through city streets, returning each to a colour-coded destination while avoiding collisions. What starts as a jaunt quickly gives way to tense campaigns of trial and error, leading to deeply rewarding victories.Alejandro Nino, iOS, 69p, Android, 99pWaking MarsExplore ancient Martian cave systems by planting strange native flora to gain access to new areas, before discovering that extraterrestrial gardening can have unexpected side effects.iPod, iPhone &amp; iPad, Tiger Style, £2.99Bug Village HDBuild, decorate and feed your growing insect township either by waiting hours for tasks to complete or buying coins to hurry it up. Not a game so much as a layered set of tasks designed to part unwary players from real-world currency.iOS, Windows Phone 7 &amp; Android, Glu Mobile, freeLight The FlowerUsing a plan view of a sequence of rooms, you use mirrors, prisms, sensors and coloured filters to guide beams of light towards house plants and strategically positioned stars while avoiding the furniture, in this comfortably metered and absorbing challenge.iPod, iPhone &amp; iPad, Chillingo, 69p
I met a zedonk once, in Colchester. She was at the zoo, and had come about after a zebra and a donkey had, you know, done it. A&nbsp;hybrid in other words (in&nbsp;the biological, rather than automotive, sense). She was a funny-looking thing, like a donkey wearing stripy tights. Quite nice, but&nbsp;I remember thinking that there&nbsp;could be more exciting combinations. Like a shat – a shark-bat combo (I was only about seven&nbsp;and my understanding of biological classification, species, genera, animal husbandry etc was&nbsp;limited). Or a dingodile (watch your babies).I don't think I thought of crossing a tiger with an iguana. Which is what Volkswagen has done to get the name Tiguan. Possibly it was thinking of the power and stealth, the efficiency and the rare precious beauty of the big cat, combined with the resilience and forky-tongued cunning of the lizard. To be honest, I can't really see much of either animal in this car. It's a compact crossover – like aPeugeot 3008or aNissan Qashqai(heaven knows where that name came from).But we get along pretty well. The Tiguan is nice to drive – the two-litre diesel engine on this one is responsive without being irresponsible. Ride and handling are excellent – bordering on fun, even. It's easy to forget you're not driving a Golf. Except that you're a&nbsp;little higher up, so you've got that extra swagger and smug confidence (though all that quickly disappears when trying to manoeuvre in a tight underground London car park). And there's more room inside – for stuff and people or even animals. It's all quite cleverly flexible, too, so you can move things around if you've got fewer people and more stuff/bigger animals. You'd maybe get a dingodile in there if you encouraged it (gently) to curl up its tail.Inside, it's classy and neat, and all the buttons and dials make sense. From the outside, it's not going to win any prizes for innovative design, but it's handsome enough, in an understated kind of way. Classy, again. A bit posher than a Qashqai, I'd say (which is probably why it's a&nbsp;bit more expensive).While it's not a car that's going to stir your soul, it's also one it's hard to find anything wrong with. Apart from the name. Tiguan – pah! There's nothing of either a tiger or an iguana about it. So what should it be then? Well, it has some of the practicalities and load-carrying capabilities of a beast of burden, but&nbsp;it's more likable and attractive than your average ass (UK meaning), it has some pace to it, the elegance of an African equid&nbsp;perhaps… That's&nbsp;it – it's really a Volkswagen&nbsp;Zedonk.Volkswagen Tiguan SE 2.0 Litre TDI 4MotionPrice£26,353Top speed125mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.9 secondsAverage consumption47.1mphCO2 emissions158g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating5/10
When Friends Reunited was launched in 2000, Mark Zuckerberg was writing software programs in high school and tweeting was strictly for the birds.The school reunion site, set up by husband-and-wife Steve and Julie Pankhurst in their suburban semi in Barnet, north London, pioneered the social networking phenomenon in Britain – not that anyone called it that back then.Credited with rekindling classroom romances and blamed for breaking up marriages – invariably at the same time – within a year it had 1 million members and by 2005 it had 12 million – half of the UK households that were then able to access the internet.It spawned a top-selling 80s compilation CD; a sister site about family history, Genes Reunited, and grand plans for spin-off television shows.But then came Bebo. And MySpace. And Facebook. And Twitter, a whole host of social media rivals that left Friends Reunited, handicapped by a lack of innovation and debilitating changes in ownership, at the bottom of the class.Now it is back, although in its new incarnation you might wonder why it is called Friends Reunited at all. School's out and, in the spirit of the Alice Cooper song, the site's original concept has been blown to pieces.Owned by online publishing group Brightsolid, part of the Dundee-based Beano publisher DC Thomson, it was relaunched last week as a "share the memories" site, heavy on nostalgia but no longer so interested in tracking down who you sat next to in geography.Positioning itself as "the place to remember when", it wants people to collect and share their "most cherished moments", from "heart-warming personal experiences" to the Queen's silver jubilee and Live Aid, with photo archives from the Press Association and the Francis Frith Collection."It is unashamedly nostalgic, it is not trying to be anything else," said Matt Bushby, head of Friends Reunited. "It's about broadening where we were before – that school reunion piece – and making it about every blast from your past, everything you remember and want to connect around."The makeover recalls the latest social networking craze, Pinterest, except instead of pinboards you create a "memory box" that you can share with as many – or as few – people as you like.Friends Reunited was in danger of disappearing into a memory box of its own after it peaked in 2005 when it was bought by ITV in a deal worth £175m. The broadcaster's then chief executive, Michael Grade, described it as one of the "great unsung jewels in the crown". But four years later, outflanked by a new generation of free social media sites, it was sold to DC Thomson for just £25m.Despite its troubles it is still an instantly familiar brand. A YouGov poll commissioned by Brightsolid suggested 96% of UK adults online had heard of it. Small wonder they decided to hang onto it.The ITV deal netted Steve Pankhurst an estimated £30m, which bought him, in his own words, "the freedom of doing fuck all". It also included a five-year non-compete clause, although Pankhurst invested in a "couple of start-ups" last summer as a self-styled "cowboy angel investor"."Quite frankly in this age of Facebook and Twitter it seems like a lifetime ago when TVs were in black and white," said Pankhurst on his blog about the launch of the site. "I get introduced to people now as its founder and people smile politely like they would to an elderly relative, say 'That's nice' and then quickly change the subject." Pankhurst described the relaunch as "risky but very brave" but tends to shun publicity and declines an invitation to discuss it further.As well as amassing a fortune for its founders, Friends Reunited sparked a media feeding frenzy. There was the man reunited with his mother after 53 years; another reunited with his cat after a decade (it turned out his university flatmate had kept it). A bigamist was uncovered after his wife of 20 years saw him post on the site that he was about to get married in Italy; it also helped police track down a cocaine dealer and trap a paedophile.Tales of marriages that had been broken up because of childhood romances that had been revisited through the site were legion. There was the first Friends Reunited baby, and an alleged Friends Reunited murder."It facilitated something that you can now do easily elsewhere — on Twitter you will have old school friends getting in touch all the time. Pre-Twitter, and pre-Facebook, you weren't able to do that," said Richard Bacon, who has more than 1.4 million Twitter followers and presented a BBC documentary about internet "trolling" – insults and bullying online – earlier this month."It makes me nostalgic for the days before social media became increasingly dark, the negative side to it, which has been getting worse and growing," added Bacon."There is still something fundamentally quite exciting about seeing what your old school friends are doing, seeing what they look like, and the schadenfreude of finding out the kid who got all straight As has got a dead-end job."And schadenfreude's exact opposite, "success sadness", which was once coined asErfolgtraurigkeit. Unlike Facebook – 845 million users and counting – it is unlikely to catch on.But will Friends Reunited's new reincarnation take off? "It has a huge advantage in that it is not starting from scratch," said Dan Crow, chief technology officer of Songkick, a social network for gig-goers based around the corner from Friends Reunited in Shoreditch. "It already has a fairly substantial number of people using the site [a reported 1.5 million people a month] and they can potentially take advantage of that. If these people visiting the site like what they find and see value in it, they can spread the word and tell their friends and build it that way."But for James Herring, co-founder of PR agency Taylor Herring, whose clients have included Google, Bebo and MySpace, it is a "massive challenge"."What they have to do is unlock those memories gathering dust in people's attics, the pre-digital photographs and home movies that people haven't got around to putting online. Everyone's got five or six boxes of these things that haven't seen the light of day. What they have to do is galvanise people to get all their stuff out and transfer it digitally."Herring suggests a "huge brand partnership" with a high street name such as Snappy Snaps to encourage the digitisation of the nation's unseen attic archive.He added: "This time round it has pretty much got to get it right or it might as well shut up shop."
First it was the death of the pope – tweeted to the world from an account that belonged to the holy father's number two. Later came tweets announcing the deaths of Fidel Castro and Pedro Almodóvar.The tweets flew around the rumour mill of social media. All, however, were hoaxes, the work of Tommaso De Benedetti, one of the world's most creative and successful fake tweeters."Twitter works well for deaths," said De Benedetti, speaking for the first time about his desire to expose how unreliable social media can be as a news source.A Rome schoolteacher, who showed up for an interview with the Guardian pushing his two-year-old son in a pram, De Benedetti, 43, defines himself as a "normal person". But in the Twittersphere he has recently played the parts of Afghan president Hamid Karzai, a Spanish minister and  Syrian president Bashar al-Assad."Social media is the most unverifiable information source in the world but the news media believes it because of its need for speed," he said. False tweeting is a growth industry, and despite Twitter's placing of a blue tick on the verified accounts of the famous, users continue to trip up. In January even Twitter was fooled into briefly verifying tweets purporting to be by Wendy Deng, Rupert Murdoch's wife, in which she flirted with comic Ricky Gervais.De Benedetti has form dating back to his days fooling Italian newspapers into publishing his fake interviews with writers, often American, including John Grisham, Arthur Miller, Gore Vidal, Toni Morrison, Derek Walcott and Philip Roth.His game was rumbled when a journalist asked Roth in 2010about criticisms he had levelled at Barack Obama in the Italian newspaper Libero. The writer denied giving the interview.De Benedetti denied he was a simple hoaxer fooling papers for money. "I wanted to see how weak the media was in Italy," he said, claiming he was only paid between €20 and €40 for an interview. "The Italian press never checks anything, especially if it is close to their political line, which is why the rightwing paper Libero liked Roth's attacks on Obama." Half the time, he added, he suspected editors knew he was peddling made-up interviews, but took them anyway.After he was exposed, De Benedetti turned to the internet, writing an email to the International Herald Tribune criticising the Libya war and signing it Umberto Eco. "I phoned the Tribune after they published it to let them know," he said.Next he faked an email from Mexican writer Paco Ignacio Taibo to the Italian bishops' conference newspaper Avvenire, in which he praised the pope. Avvenire splashed it on the front page.His first Twitter venture was an account in the name of Swedish writer Henning Mankell. "Mankell denied it after Swedish papers started quoting it," De Benedetti said. A fake feed he set up for Italian prime minister Mario Monti was followed by the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy. De Benedetti's account for Hamid Karzai drew a denial from the Afghan leader, while his fake tweets from Assad denying the veracity of leaked emails waswere briefly picked up by the Guardian.A fake announcement of the pope's death by the Vatican's number two, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, was followed by reports in another false feed of the death of Pedro Almodóvar, prompting a tweet from the Guardian's world account saying that the rumour was being looked into. Through two accounts, De Benedetti announced the death of Fidel Castro.De Benedetti has used a fake account for Cristóbal Montoro, Spain's hapless finance minister, as a vehicle for numerous announcements. "Montoro has repeated that the account is not real but 3,000 people still follow it," he said. "On Facebook you are limited by access to 'friends', but on Twitter you can be sure people will follow you and it is being used as a real-time source of information without checks."As a final flourish, De Benedetti clicks on the fake Twitter account he has created for Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, and slips in a photo of Indian politician Sonia Gandhi. "I can just change the profile with Gandhi's details and all the followers of my fake Jong-un feed become followers of my fake Gandhi feed," he said. "It's so easy."Five fake tweets from De Benedetti@CardBertone: His holiness Benedict XVI has passed away. We announce the news with great pain and consternation. 8 March 2012@PresHamidKarzai: The attack agains Afghan civ is an act of war. 12 March@presMarioMonti: The news of the death of Fidel Castro has been confirmed to me by EU vicepresident Olli Rehn. 6 March@MinistroMontoro: The Spanish government announces the death of the director Pedro Almodovar. 23 March@PresAssadSyria: Documents published yesterday by a Uk newspaper are hoaxes created agaist Syria and my family. 19 March
Microsoft has shown a new demo of Kinect Sesame Street TV, an innovative interactive TV project that will make its debut on the Xbox 360 console later this year.Josh Atkins, senior designer at Microsoft's Soho Productions studio, showed the demo to an audience at the MIPCube conference in Cannes, and explained how the company hopes to get children participating rather than merely watching from their sofas.The two demos involved Sesame Street characters Cookie Monster and The Count talking to children from their TV screen, and then reacting to their movements detected by the Kinect's camera.Here's the new demo. It shows The Count telling two children to stand still while he counts to 11 – that day's number. When one is unable to resist moving, he reacts accordingly. Atkins provides the explanation:The show will be based around seven key actions: jumping, throwing, waving, clapping, pointing, speaking and standing still.Atkins was keen to stress that "participation is actually optional", since children will be able to watch episodes of Kinect Sesame Street TV without getting up and jumping around. "If kids just wanna sit and watch we don't consider that a bad thing," he said.However, Atkins also suggested that more programmes will be made with this kind of interactivity. "The future of TV is inherently interactive. It's not just a process of sitting on the couch, putting your feet up and watching your favourite show."Microsoft isn't saying just yet how the episodes will be delivered to children and their parents, or how much they'll cost.Atkins apologised for having to be cagey on these points. "Think of it like TV. However TV is delivered, that's how it will be delivered." Kinect Sesame Street TV will be joined by another similar concept, Kinect NatGeo TV, which is being developed by Relentless Software.Here's another demo from his presentation, which shows Cookie Monster interacting with the same two children.
Twitter's UK general manager Tony Wang expects broadcasters to start using the microblogging service in more "artful" ways beyond showing hashtags and account handles on-air."Broadcasters are not the ones to choose whether to have social TV. It happens whether they like it or not. But they have a choice about how to harness that social TV energy," he told the MIPCube conference in Cannes.Wang cited stats showing that 80% of under-25s are using a second screen to communicate with friends while watching TV, while 72% of them are using Twitter, Facebook and other mobile apps to comment on the shows they watch.He added that Twitter sees three distinct strategies from broadcasters when it comes to social TV: some are doing nothing, others are doing something, and a few are doing "artful" things on-air. "It's the past, present and future of social TV."Wang outlined three common tactics in the "do something" category: on-air hashtags, Twitter handles and live-tweets from stars.Examples: tweets using the hashtag #oscars spiked massively when broadcaster ABC showed it on-screen, while Piers Morgan adds between 650 and 700 new followers a minute when his @piersmorgan handle is shown on-screen during his CNN show.Meanwhile, CBS saw the number of daily tweets about its Survivor show quadruple in 2011 after presenter Jeff Probst began tweeting while it was on-air.Wang hit back at comments made in January by the BBC's director of policy and strategy John Tate, whotold a London conferencethat "interactivity has its place but you don't want to overdo it – shows like Sherlock and Frozen Planet on the BBC are very intense for the viewer and need people not to be distracted."Wang disagrees, and showed a series of tweets during his MIPCube speech from fans of Frozen Planet saying how much they were enjoying it, or providing feedback on the show."People are definitely engaging with the shows whether it's a social programme... or something that's more intense and serious, as that BBC article had mentioned," said Wang, who claimed social media both attracts new viewers to shows, and retains their interest over the course of a series.Wang finished off by giving some examples of more artful use of Twitter by broadcasters, including Fox News encouraging viewers of the Republican presidential debates to tweet candidates' names plus #answer or #dodge to vote on whether the candidates had been facing or dodging questions.The broadcaster analysed the data during the debate show, and during breaks showed graphs on-screen to show who was perceived as dodging which questions.Twitter is also seeing more broadcasters experiment with drama shows, where additional storylines are played out through tweets from fictional characters."Living out a parallel storyline during breaks between seasons and breaks between episodes," he said. "The storylines continue off-air and onto Twitter."
Outfit7 is the mobile apps startup thatmade its namewith Talking Tom Cat: a virtual pet on iPhone that repeated people's words back to them in a squeaky voice.He has since spawned a sequel, as well as a series of other Talking Friends apps on iOS and Android. Are they popular? Just a bit."We have now passed 360m downloads, and we have a little bit more than 100m monthly active users," says Narry Singh, the company's executive chairman."The numbers seem to be rocketing upwards at a slightly faster trajectory than last year, and we have very aggressive and ambitious goals for 2012. Over the holiday season, we averaged 1m downloads a day."In many ways, Talking Friends is comparable to Rovio's Angry Birds – both hugely popular digital brands now, that are being taken more seriously by the biggest players in the media and entertainment industries, rather than scoffed at as potentially short-lived novelties.Outfit has been talking to media and entertainment companies about possible partnerships, although Singh says announcements on the results won't be made until later in the year.He citesZynga's IPOas one key tipping point for encouraging the bigger beasts of the entertainment world to talk to companies like Outfit7 whose businesses are built on digital characters and virtual items sales."The transparency of some of the metrics in their S1 filing has done more for the industry than perhaps a lot of other things that people want to talk about in the mobile world," he says. "The Zynga IPO benefited all of us."Singh also says that media giants have realised that upstarts like Outfit7, Rovio and Zynga's now have a reach far in excess of their traditional networks, whether TV, online or other media."If you look at our monthly actives, we're already twice the size of America's largest TV network," he says. "Furthermore, we have a granularity of understanding about our users that they have only fantasised about in the analogue world."He pauses. "It helps that some of the CEOs of the largest media companies in the world have grandchildren who are obsessed by Talking Tom Cat... They realise that the next Harry Potter will not come from Hollywood or Bollywood, but from a mobile app."Global growthOne of the most startling things about the growth of Angry Birds and Talking Friends is its global nature, as characters find a fanbase through digital distribution on app stores far quicker than any company could roll out local marketing campaigns.Singh notes that when Outfit7 recently hired its first team member in South Korea, the company already had 19m users there. Globally, meanwhile, it took Outfit7 11 months to reach its first 100m downloads, but the last 100m took three months."The real question in this industry is not whether you can succeed for two or three months, but whether you can stay the course over two or three years," says Singh, suggesting that it's only once an apps company reaches hundreds of millions of downloads that it can hold out serious hopes of avoiding being a one-hit wonder.Singh is also bullish about the dozens of developers - "50 or 60 last time we counted" - making their own Talking Friends clones, of varying quality. Singh claims that their cumulative downloads ever is less than Outfit7's average monthly downloads, and pegs the reason as quality - particularly details like facial expressions.Having 100m active users to cross-promote new apps to doesn't hurt, of course. Outfit7 has a dedicated "discovery" team that works on cross-promotion as well as app store optimisation."It's a reasonably unique team for the industry: we could almost spin them off into a separate company, which would be highly valuable in its own right," says Singh, who adds that a recent survey of 100,000 Talking Friends users found that 45% have two or more of the apps."There's a certain feeling of collectibility, like Pokemon," he says. "When you get one character, you feel like getting another one, then another. It's that psychological need to collect, and own, and curate."Outfit7 is clearly looking to use its network and cross-promotion skills to work with IP from other companies, as well as providing a platform for brands to promote their products.Singh says that Outfit7's analytics show that Talking Tom Cat drank more than 1.7bn virtual glasses of milk in 2011, while his compatriot Talking Ben was knocked out 2.8bn times. Engagement stats to conjure with when targeting brands like Nestlé, Pepsi or Nike.Blockbuster marketingSingh also talks about the typical blockbuster film's marketing campaign, which clusters around its cinema release in a "hyper spike"."What studios are realising is that 6-12 months before the movie is released, they could have been releasing snippets of the characters to start building awareness, or even test various storylines," he says."Then, when you used to have that wonderful later spike of several hundred of millions of dollars worth of DVD sales - a spike that has collapsed - there is another batch of mobile apps waiting to happen."It's an appealing pitch, and one that is unlikely to be falling on deaf ears at the studios, especially those who have started doing this sort of thing away from mobile. Disney's latest Muppets film, for example, was seeding YouTube videos a long time before its release.What's interesting is how Outfit7 will prioritise any new brand and content partnerships with its own-IP apps. The short-term win is making apps for big movies, but the long-term success may come from developing new characters, making them a hit on mobile and then looking to turn them into films.That brings us neatly onto Rovio, the other monster own-IP success story from the apps world, and a company that acquired its own animation studio to position itself for the latter opportunity.Singh highlights one difference in the two companies' strategies: their approach to licensing and merchandising deals. While Rovio has signed off onmore than 20,000 Angry Birds products, Outfit7 has yet to launch, say, Talking Tom Cat plush toys."We are taking a different approach," says Singh. "We are not going to inundate the hell out of the market in the first 12 months. We will come out with our first batch of products this year, but we will pace this out very carefully and correctly. We don't have any external investors who are pressuring us into short-term gains, so we are taking a much longer-term view of building a consumer brand."The company added Andy Mooney as an adviser in February 2012, and is drawing on his experience in former roles as chairman of Disney's consumer products division, as well as chief marketing officer at Nike. It has also inked partnerships with licensing agency Beanstalk and talent agency William Morris Endeavour"I'm very bullish: I don't think apps is a flash in the pan," says Singh."There will be consolidation in the industry as the apps that aren't doing well drop out, but the companies with that network effect will grow faster. The way mobile and media and entertainment are working together will only get more interesting and more lucrative."
There's a Canadian mobile phone executive who is probably humming a happy tune right now and has a little extra spring in his step this morning. However he doesn't work for Research In Motion (RIM), the BlackBerry maker which last night announced a $125m quarterly loss as it saw revenues fall by almost 25% (and drop in real terms by $1bn) to $4.19bn, below even pessimistic Wall Street analyst forecasts.No, the happy man will be Stephen Elop, the Canadian in charge of Finland's Nokia, who will have read the news that RIM is "withdrawing from consumer markets" with, one expects, delight.Update:RIM insists that it is not "withdrawing" from consumer markets but that it is instead "refocussing on core strengths".For Nokia, which has been trying for the past year to talk up the prospects of its new smartphone range running Microsoft's Windows Phone - and which sees a crucial launch next month in the US of its new Lumia 900 device - the news that it will only have to fight against two entrenched ecosystems, in the form of Apple's iPhone and Google's Android is the best possible.Bleak futureMeanwhile for RIM, the future abruptly looks bleak. If Thorsten Heins, its chief executive for only ten weeks (though he was previously its chief operating officer, and has been with the company since 2007) is serious about abandoning the consumer business and focussing instead on businesses, RIM doesn't have long to live.Update:RIM says Heins is going to "focus on the core" - that is, the business sector.But even that won't necessarily save it. Here's why. It has already seen its share in businesses eroded: companies have discovered that they can lock down employees' smartphones from central systems far better now than they could in 2007/2008, when RIM had its heyday. Then, the iPhone truly was a consumer-only device which you really wouldn't trust in a corporate environment. And Android hadn't even been released.Now, though, back-end servers in enterprises can enforce PIN locks on devices and wipe them remotely. Good Technology, one company which provides that back-end enforcement (but not on BlackBerrys) is seeinggigantic growth. RIM might want to go back to the enterprise, but it will find the iPhone and Android phones such as Samsung's hit Galaxy SII waiting for it.RIM's key problem is that enterprises now don't need its encryption on email, because device security can effectively enforce that, and secure connections (such as Google's) make online conversations untappable.Its core strengths, in other words, have fizzled out. They don't exist in the same way any more. Government services in the US are abandoning RIM for the iPhone. Android wins will follow.That means that the only thing it has left is its BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) service - which appeals to exactly those consumers who it is abandoning. But even they are finding new cross-platform solutions: WhatsApp, which works across multiple smartphone platforms, is one of the most-downloaded applications for the iPhone and Android.Exploring possibilitiesHeins has said that he is exploring possibilities. RIM would be a cheap purchase - but who would want it? Microsoft doesn't want a phone maker - it has in effect thrown in its lot with Nokia.Here's what Patrick Spence, RIM's managing director for Global Sales &amp; Regional Marketing, said in a statement this morning: "The claim that RIM has said it will withdraw from the consumer market is wholly misleading. Whilst we announced plans to re-focus our efforts on our core strengths, and on our enterprise customer base, we were very explicit that we will continue to build on our strengths to go after targeted consumer segments. We listed BBM, as well as the security and manageability of our platform, amongst our strengths."Thorsten Heins RIM CEO confirmed on the conference call after the results were announced: "Whilst we announced we would refocus on the enterprise business, we also stated part of competing in the 'bring your own device' segment is to create a compelling consumer offering."Ahead of the BlackBerry 10 launch and throughout the remainder of our FY13, it is critical that we drive BlackBerry 7 sales to sustain the subscriber base. To do this we plan to aggressively incentivize sales of BlackBerry 7 smartphones to both drive upgrades from older BlackBerry products to BlackBerry 7 and to attract feature phone customers to BlackBerry 7 for their first smartphone experience."We have new BlackBerry 7 devices scheduled to come out in the next few months to reinvigorate our position in the key entry level smartphone segment, to support our efforts to continue growing our subscriber base by upgrading feature phone customers to smartphones."We will seek partnerships to deliver those consumer features and content that are not central to the BlackBerry value proposition, for example media consumption applications."Media consumption aside (though look at how valuable having the iTunes Store has been to Apple, and how well Google's Android Market - now renamed Play - ties in users - one possibility is to license BBM to other companies. That could be popular - but WhatsApp is there first, and the carriers want to develop their own "over the top" systems too. Why would you want BBM?Though it's easy to think that it's the iPhone which undermined RIM, it only skimmed off a top level of business user. RIM's real decline began with the introduction of Android at the end of 2008. As multiple manufacturers began making cheap phones that appealed to consumers, offering apps for touch screens, the consumer business in the US began to close off to RIM, even while the proportion of people using smartphones grew - so that nowNielsen saysthat a shade under 50% of US mobile users have a smartphone, but in the past three months only 5% of buyers have been getting a BlackBerry - compared to 43% buying an iPhone and 48% buying a phone that runs Android. (Windows Phone was even less. Nokia has a long way to go.)RIM's problem is that in the US it can't persuade people to buy. Its touch-screen phones haven't impressed: the apps haven't been good enough and the touch-screen experience not enticing. That has meant a collapse in average selling price (ASP) of devices - but a decline too in the number of handsets people buy. When you ship fewer handsets and their price declines, you're entering a death spiral.RIM overall device average selling price. Estimated from RIM results.The surprising point though is that RIM has actually done well in the consumer market - but only outside the US. It is one of the most popular smartphones in the UK. In Indonesiathere was a near-riotas people queued for the new models. In certain Middle East countries, teenagers of opposite sexes love being able to contact each other in a way that would be banned face-to-face. People who love BlackBerry really love it; although the bankers who originally used it dubbed it the "CrackBerry", everyone else who adores its keyboard and no-frills functions will wonder what they've done to offend Heins.Meanwhile the enterprise is being invaded by the iPhone, with Android coming up fast, and Nokia keen to emphasise the enterprise credentials that Windows Phone gives it. What's left for RIM?Phone sales are down:RIM phone shipments growth, year-on-year. Source: RIMAnd so are revenues and profits.RIM revenue and profit, by quarter. Source: RIMAnd just to emphasise how bad the spiral is, Heins wrote off $267m on the value of its older BlackBerry 7 handsets. The market doesn't want them.That brings the total value of writeoffs in its annus horribilis to $931m, including $485m in the previous quarter on the value of an estimated 2m PlayBook tablets, which were launched a year ago amid much fanfare with the intention of riding on the iPad's coattails while also being a proving ground for the new QNX software that will power the new BlackBerry 10 phones expected later this year.The tension shows in RIM's inventory figure - which, after spiking due to a surplus of PlayBooks (since written down) has now begun climbing again.RIM value of inventory, by quarter Dec 2002- Feb 2012. Source: RIMAs a percentage of revenue, inventory is also up:RIM: value of inventory as percentage of revenue and of hardware sales, Dec 2002-2012So far RIM has managed to get 1.35m Playbooks into the channel. Nobody knows quite how many have sold. But they've been a source of financial pain for the company.For Heins, the problem now is where RIM can go. Its unique selling points that saw it through the early years of the smartphone explosion - corporate security and free messaging via BBM - have now been commoditised. Only its keyboard sets it apart - but the number of people who want that seems to be shrinking.RIM worldwide subscribers, millions, March 2002 - Feb 2012In the past three months, the number of global subscribers grew by only 2m to 77m- the first clear indication that growth is slowing. And contrast that to Apple - which in February announced that it had 100m users of its iCloud sharing service, and that that had gone up by 15m in just 21 days. Android, meanwhile, has an estimated 240m phones in peoples' hands - all potential users of Google's adverts and app services.Simiarly, the number of handsets shipped compared to the growth in subscribers indicates that RIM is preaching to the already-converted: the proportion of handsets going to "new" subscribers is now lower than it has ever been. (This does not account for churn, where people leave the service while others join; RIM does not give the churn figure.)RIM: new subscribers as a percentage of handset shipments, by quarter. Source: RIM dataRIM's nightmare though is Nokia's dream. The Finnish company is starting effectively from zero again in the US market with its Lumia 900, which will have a solid marketing push from the biggest carrier, AT&amp;T. It is quite possible that Nokia will pass RIM on the way up. The question now is how far RIM will go down. Horace Dediu, who runs the Asymco consultancy, has a rubric that thephone market doesn't forgive failure: once a company makes a quarterly loss - even once - then customers and carriers never trust it the same way. For RIM, the only comfort is that Nokia has made a loss in the past year too. But the Finnish company definitely has the wind in its sails. It's hard to say that of RIM, which reputedly turned down a buyout approach from Amazon last year. Its shareholders may come to regret that.Update:we regret the error in suggesting that RIM was withdrawing from consumer markets. This appeared in the first version of this article, based on reports on the BBC which in turn were taken from wire services distributed to thousands of media outlets worldwide.RIM said that it was correcting such reports "reactively" where it found they had appeared - rather than sending out a message proactively explaining the situation to the media what its strategy is. In a way, that's a microcosm of its problem.
Video entertainment networkMachinimanow attracts 166m monthly unique viewers, who between them watched 1.4bn videos in February 2012. Aimed mainly at 13 to 34 year-old males, who watch its videos on YouTube, its sheer reach is now leading to partnerships with the traditional TV world.President and co-founder Philip DeBevoise delivered the stats during an on-stage interview at the MIPCube conference in Cannes, explaining how Machinima has evolved from a site focused on original animations created using games like Halo and Call of Duty, to its role today financing live-action shows in genres including sci-fi, comedy and horror.50% of Machinima's audience is in North America, 40% in Europe and 10% in the rest of the world. More than 4,000 producers are making content for its network."We're creating new stars on the network," said DeBevoise. "Our stars and our network come from the audience, so there's a credibility that we have as the voice of that generation and that community which is very real."No wonder US television companies have been getting interested. AMC produced a web-series of digital shorts called Torn Apart to promote its The Walking Dead series, which generated 6m views on Machinima in a couple of weeks, according to DeBevoise.Meanwhile, Lionsgate has co-financed the second series of zombie comedy Bite Me, after its first run was a hit among Machinima's audience. On the brands side, Motorola has sponsored science fiction drama RCVR, whose quality has seen it compared to shows like X-Files and Lost.Machinima is focusing on global expansion in 2012, with the company looking to finance and promote local content in local languages in countries outside North America, while also partnering with established media companies where possible. The company already has an office in London.YouTube remains a key driver for Machinima's business – it was one of the earliest channel partners for Google's video service, and remains its most popular non-music publisher."We really didn't believe that we could really generate scale by forcing an audience to go to a specific destination like a dot-com," said DeBevoise, who also praised YouTube's $100m fund for supporting companies and producers making original content for the service.He was asked on-stage if this means YouTube is creating an alternate universe to cable TV. "I think they possibly might be thinking that," replied DeBevoise.Mobile and social expansion will also be a key focus for Machinima in 2012. The company is currently generating nearly 400m monthly video views on mobile devices, through a combination of YouTube's apps, and its own iOS, Android and Windows Phone apps."iPad is clearly taking off, and that's an important device for our audience," said DeBevoise.
Electronic Arts has announced its official UEFA Euro 2012 tie-in – but in an interesting break from tradition, the title won't be available as a full-price standalone release. Instead, it will be an expansion pack for Fifa 12.The downloadable package will contain all 53 national teams and the eight stadiums due to host Euro 2012 matches in Poland and Ukraine this summer.As in last year's Fifa 12 release, there will also be a live Football Club Challenge mode that follows the action of the real-life tournament, allowing fans to re-enact certain games and change the course of history. So for example, you could get England through a penalty shoot-out or perhaps even beyond the quarter finals. Although to be honest, EA's simulation is quite accurate so you'd best not get your hopes up.The title also features a new Expedition Mode which lets participants build and manage their own custom sides, arranged around a key favourite player, or your own Fifa 12 Virtual Pro creation. Beating teams will allow you to grab their best players, thereby building a super squad of Euro heroes. There are also online multipayer modes allowing players to indulge in their own virtual tournaments.In the past, EA has done quite well out of its champsionship editions, but this is an important acknowledgement that times have changed and that player expectations are more toward DLC expansions than lots of seperate retail releases.Euro 2012 is being released for Xbox 360, PC (via EA's Origin download service) and PS3 on 24 April, priced at £15.99 or 1800 MS points.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's War on Android &gt;&gt; BusinessweekExcellent, long article which suggests that Apple's Tim Cook may be ready to halt all the patent lawsuits. Let's hope so: it's clearly helping nobody. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Google's So Freaked Out About The iPad And Lousy Android Sales That It's Opening An Online Tablet Store &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHenry Blodget:In the year or so since the [Motorola] deal was announced, it has become more and more clear that Larry does, in fact, want to make gadgets. In the latest evidence of this, Google is now planning to open an online tablet store in which it will push Android-based tablets, Amir Efrati of the Wall Street Journal reports. In this store, Google will initially sell tablets that are manufactured by its tablet hardware partners like Asus and Samsung. But the tablets may be co-branded as Google tablets.Will you buy from there rather than, say, a physical store?"Zero-day" exploit sales should be key point in cybersecurity debate &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationFrance-based VUPEN is one of the highest-profile firms trafficking in zero-day exploits. Earlier this month at the CanSecWest information security conference, VUPEN declined to participate in the Google-sponsored Pwnium hacking competition, where security researchers were awarded up to $60,000 if they could defeat the Chrome browser's security and then explain to Google how they did it. Instead, VUPEN--sitting feet away from Google engineers running the competition--successfully compromised Chrome, but then refused to disclose their method to Google to help fix the flaw and make the browser safer for users. "We wouldn't share this with Google for even $1 million," said VUPEN founder Chaouki Bekrar. "We don't want to give them any knowledge that can help them in fixing this exploit or other similar exploits. We want to keep this for our customers."In effect such companies are modern-day arms dealers: you have to hope they stay onside and don't do anything stupid.LG begins mass production of first flexible, plastic e-ink displays &gt;&gt; ExtremeTechLG, that South Korean conglomerate that has mostly spent the last few years fading into Samsung's shadow, has just announced that it has begun mass production of the world's first flexible, plastic e-ink display. This is opposed to the hard, heavy, prone-to-cracking glass-laminate e-ink displays found in devices such as the Kindle and Nook.Exciting. LG isn't explaining in detail how it works, but it looks fantastic.The HTML5 Gendered Advertising Video RemixerYou'll probably want Chrome or Firefox because it uses the &lt;audio&gt; and &lt;video&gt; tags. Brilliant.RIM announces fourth-quarter results: $125m loss (PDF) &gt;&gt; RIMThorsten Heins:I'm very excited about the prospects for the BlackBerry 10 platform, which is on track for the latter part of calendar 2012. Notwithstanding these strengths and opportunities, the business challenges we face over the next several quarters are significant and I am taking the necessary steps to address them.RIM is bleeding very, very badly: a loss of $125m, writedowns on BB7 inventory, a huge drop in revenues, and the slowest growth in subscribers as a percentage of handsets sold ever. If BB10 can staunch the wound, that would go some way to solving its proximate problem. But Heins has to do something Jobs-like now.The Original Pull-To-Refresh Patent &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedFrom 1926. Obvious, really. (The question of how and why Twitter's Loren Brichter patented the "pull-to-refresh" interaction has exercised some geeks in recent weeks.)How many Asus Transformers did Newegg order for its March 2011 launch?A screenshot of the conversation between Jeremy Mason and "Andrea", the online assistant for NewEgg. Before you click through, guess what the figure was for the entire US. (Linked fromthis page.Dell ends smartphone sales in the US &gt;&gt; PCWorldDell has stopped selling smartphones in the US as it tweaks its mobile strategy to focus more on emerging markets and higher-margin products. Dell has nixed its last standing Venue and Venue Pro smartphones and no replacements have been announced. The smartphones had run their course, a Dell spokesman said. "Mobility products have shorter lifecycles than laptops and desktops," he said. Dell will introduce more mobile products in the US later this year, but the spokesman didn't say if smartphones will be among them.This feels like what Dell did with MP3 players, when it thought its heft would let it outdo Apple. Except that in smartphones, the market is far more aggressive and crowded.CSS in Real Life &gt;&gt; Impressive Webs.titanic { float: none; } ....and many more.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
A selection of 12 new apps for you today:Paper by FiftyThreeThere is lots of buzz this week around Paper, an app for sketching and writing that mimics pen and paper. Well, pens: new virtual tools are sold in-app for £1.49 a pop, including an ink pen, marker, pencil and watercolour brush. It's beautifully done, so it'll be interesting to see if it catches on.iPadThe Jungle Book: Disney ClassicsMowgli, Baloo, Shere Khan and co return in this official Disney book-app for iPad. It tells the classic story with help from voice narration, colouring pages, interactive puzzles and – they could hardly leave this out – the Bare Necessities song.iPadZitePersonalised magazine app Zite has made the jump from iOS to Android, pulling in articles from a host of websites and blogs while learning your preferences over time. This version is for Android smartphones rather than tablets.AndroidFibble HDFibble HD is a new iPad game from Crytek. What, THE Crytek? Yes. The company behind games including Crysis and Far Cry has now made a physics-based puzzler for Apple's tablet. Unsurprisingly, the graphics are quite special.iPadCrime CitySocial mobile games publisher Funzio has a new mafia game for Android – a massively multiplayer crime-fest where you build a mob, complete missions and build up loot.AndroidFitocracyHere's a new attempt to gamify personal health, with an app described as "the game you play to improve your fitness... it's time to level up in real life." Based on the existing web service, it tracks your workouts, uses achievements and "quests" to provide motivation, and ties in strong social features to boot.iPhoneCouch-to-50kAnother fitness app here, this time for Android. It's Active.com's app for helping people go from couch potato status to 5km runners in nine weeks.AndroidWallace and Gromit ComicsTitan Publishing has released a single iOS app to contain all its Wallace and Gromit comics, which were previously released as separate apps.iPhone / iPadTiny MonstersSocial mobile games firm TinyCo has launched its latest iOS game, Tiny Monsters. It sees you hatching, looking after and breeding colourful cartoon monsters. As with previous games in this genre, it's free to play but funded by in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadCoral CityCoral City is a new social game for Android from a team of developers drawn from firms including Disney and EA. It takes the city-building social genre and locates it deep under the sea.AndroidBrick BuddiesHats off to developer Flarb, which is spoofing the freemium / virtual pets craze with Brick Buddies. "A virtual pet brick you can feed, pet, dress up, and even travel with", including bonus pebbles and "accurate brick simulation".iPhone / iPadSpaceward Ho!Heaven knows whether it's licensed, but this iPad game should thrill anyone who was addicted to the space exploration game on PC and Mac back in the day. Explore the galaxy, terraform worlds and fend off alien enemies.iPad
There we go - we made it! It's Friday! What you up to this weekend?
An audit of Apple's Chinese factories details "serious and pressing" concerns over excessive working hours, unpaid overtime, health and safety failings, and management interference in trade unions.In the most detailed public investigation yet into conditions at Foxconn factories in China, which assemble millions of iPhones and iPads each year, the independent Fair Labor Association found that more than half of employees had worked 11 days or more without rest.More than 43% of workers reported experiencing or witnessing an accident at the three plants audited. Foxconn is China's largest private-sector employer, and its activities have turned the coastal town of Shenzhen into the electronics workshop of the world.Health and safety breaches found by auditors and published on Thursday included blocked exits, lack of or faulty personal protective equipment and missing permits, which the FLA said was remedied when discovered.Despite several suicides, which raised the alarm two years ago, and an explosion that killed three workers last year, Foxconn still failed to consult workers on safety, with the committees "failing to monitor conditions in a robust manner", the report found.The management was found to be nominating candidates for election to worker committees, with the result that "committees are composed not by those who need representation, but instead are dominated by management representatives". This left workers feeling "alienated" and lacking confidence in safety procedures.In December, 46% of the workforce clocked up to 70 hours per week, although Chinese labour laws say employees should work no more than an average of 49 hours a week, including overtime. The average maximum week was 61 hours, and between November and January more than a third of staff did not receive the statutory one day off in seven.The breaches were discovered during a month-long investigation, described by the FLA – which has previously specialised in auditing clothing trade sweat shops – as a "full-body scan"; 35,000 employees were asked to fill in anonymous forms and auditors patrolled factory floors and examined paperwork.The audit focused on the Guanlan, Longhua and Chengdu plants, which have a combined workforce of 178,000.While high turnover made Foxconn dependent on overtime, workers were often denied pay for extra hours, and around 14% were likely to have worked unpaid time. Overtime was only paid in 30-minute increments, so 29 extra minutes worked was not paid. Foxconn and Apple have agreed to compensate workers, and reduce increments to 15 minutes.While a third of employees surveyed wanted to work more hours so that they could earn more, and half felt their hours were reasonable, Foxconn has agreed to abide by the Chinese legal maximum working week. It will recruit more staff, but also "develop a compensation package" for workers whose hours are cut.Around two-thirds of workers said their take-home pay did not meet their basic needs, and the FLA will now conduct a cost-of-living study in Shenzhen and Chengdu.The use of student interns, supposedly on work experience related to their studies, but who are in fact used to supplement the workforce during holidays, was raised as of "major concern for external stakeholders", according to the report.The FLA found interns working both overtime and night shifts, in violation of the regulations, and said "their employment status remains vague and represents a major risk". Student labour peaks in the summer months, and stood at 5.7% in August 2011.At Chengdu, 5.5% of employees were aged 16 or 17. The average age of all workers across the three plants was found to be 23, and many were migrant workers, with around a third of the workforce living in dormitories."The Fair Labor Association gave Apple's largest supplier the equivalent of a full-body scan," said the independent organisation's chief executive Auret van Heerden. "Apple and its supplier Foxconn have agreed to our prescriptions "and we will verify progress and report publicly."Apple CEO Tim Cook visited a Foxconn factory in Zhengzhou, China, on Wednesday. The company said: "Our team has been working for years to educate workers, improve conditions, and make Apple's supply chain a model for the industry, which is why we asked the FLA to conduct these audits."The working conditions of those who make Apple products have been the subject of increasing scrutiny. The issue was the subject of a major New York Times investigation and a one-man Broadway play by Mike Daisey. The US public radio series This American Life used Daisey's monologue in a show about Foxconn on 6 January, but retracted it two weeks ago, saying that Daisey had fabricated key parts of it, including a claim that he saw underage workers emerging from Foxconn factories. The FLA audit did not discover any instances of child or forced labour.For too many, too little, too lateWang Ling was 25 years old when she ended her life on 7 January 2011 by jumping from her brother's high-rise flat, days after being dismissed from her job as an engineer at Foxconn's Longhua factory. An employee of over six years' standing, she had recently been diagnosed with schizophrenia.It would be easy to dismiss Wang Ling's case as a tragic exception, were it not for the fact that she was the 15th Foxconn employee reported to have committed suicide since the beginning of 2010. There have been at least two since.While Apple began auditing the Chinese plants to which it outsources the manufacture of its consumer electronics in 2006, individual plants and employers were never named, and the toll of suicides at Foxconn continued to mount. Until recently, the nets swathed around Foxconn's factory buildings appeared to be the only measure being taken to catch the jumpers before it was too late.In January, Apple eventually recognised the need for independent audits and appointed to the task the Fair Labour Association, which was established by a coalition of universities, charities and businesses to clean up the garment trade, but is now turning its attention for the first time to the electronics industry.
A report into working conditions at Chinese factories operated by an Apple supplier has revealed "serious" labour violations, including excessive hours, unpaid wages and major health and safety risks.The Fair Labor Association (FLA) said employees at Foxconn, which produces products including iPhones and iPads, typically worked more than 60 hours a week during peak periods but were paid unfair compensation for overtime.Around two-thirds of workers told investigators that their take-home pay was insufficient to meet basic needs.In addition, 43% said they had witnessed an accident at work, leading to fears of poor safety provisions at the plants.Foxconn pledged to cut hours, protect pay and improve conditions in light of the month-long audit, which Apple ordered amid negative publicity over the plight of Chinese workers at the plants.Conditions of 35,500 employees at three factories were investigated as part of the report.In addition, there was a "widespread sense of unsafe working conditions" at the three plants, auditors found.The FLA said it had secured "ground-breaking commitments" by Foxconn to address their concerns.In a statement, Apple said: "Our team has been working for years to educate workers, improve conditions and make Apple's supply chain a model for the industry, which is why we asked the FLA to conduct these audits."
The hero of theDevil May Crygames is a teenage boy's idea of the coolest human being imaginable. By which I mean, he's actually half-human, half-demon, wears a red trenchcoat open over a rippling six-pack, and has a tendency to flip out and transform into a monster. Oh, and his name's Dante, as in the guy with the Inferno. Isn't that every teenage boy's notion of cool personified? Perhaps not, no, but it was definitely mine. Back in 2001, when the original Devil May Cry first exploded on to the shelves in a shower of demon blood and silver bullets, I thought I'd never see anything cooler.Dante's debut was a hack'n'slash adventure with a difference. In other games, the goal was simply to wipe out your opponents. In Devil May Cry winning the fight was a very bare minimum. Your goal was to triumph in style, slicing through your foes with effortless grace, and leaping, rolling and flying from their attacks to finish the battle with not a stitch out of place on that ridiculous red coat. In Dante, you had everything you needed to be a bad-ass: a pair of pistols, a seriously big sword and an endless supply of smart-arsed one-liners. All you had to do was make sure he had the moves to back up his big mouth. Plod through fights mashing the same two buttons, taking hits and generally jeopardising Dante's hairdo and the game would slap a big "D" for "Dull" on the screen and implore you to up the awesome. It was a system that valued style above all else. Which is not to say it skimped on substance. It was just so jaw-droppingly stylish that you hardly noticed it was also a great game.Cool, though, changes. Style fades. In the fast-moving world of games, what dropped a teenager's jaw in wonder 10 years ago now struggles to raise an eyebrow (except in derision). Seen in the cold light of today Dante is less cool and much more tool. He looks like the kind of guy who, if you asked him to describe himself, would spell out "V-I-P P-I-M-P", bite his bottom lip and then awkwardly fist-bump himself. You wouldn't be all that surprised to find out that he actually lived in his parent's loft. Not for nothing has the forthcoming franchise reboot ditched Dante the bling-laden playa for a grimy super-tramp.But given how far the fickle tides of cool have retreated from the preening, peacocking Dante of a thousand panicked teenage man-crushes (or, you know, just the one, I'm OK with that), it's a bold move on the part of Capcom to be re-releasing the first three games now, seven years since the last of them came out on PS2. The philosophy behind the Devil May Cry HD Collection (PS3/Xbox 360) must be either that teenage boys will always find time to be a half-demon pimp, no matter how dated the format, or else that franchise veterans will leap at the chance for one last fling with their hero before his makeover.I'm not sure either is true. For one thing, veterans will know that, of the three games included in the collection, only the first and the third were ever brilliant. The second – Devil May Cry 2 – sold just fine, but toned down the difficulty too far and, most disastrously, lobotomised its wise-cracking hero, who went from trash-talking bad boy to brooding gothic idiot. Of which, it's fair to say, there were already plenty. Thankfully, Devil May Cry 3 – included here in the extended special edition - saw both Dante and the franchise return to form: the lobotomy was miraculously reversed, and the difficulty rose as his enemies remembered to try to kill him again.The games themselves are as rich and challenging as ever, but high-definition has not been kind to them. The grainy textures and sharp edges make it impossible to forget you are playing a game made for consoles a generation or more behind. What was once groundbreaking combat now looks and even feels old-fashioned. A game built not just on kicking butt and taking names, but on looking good as you do was always going to see its appeal fade quickly with its looks. Like a balding, thirtysomething, former teen heartthrob whipped into shape for a farewell tour, this collection does its best to look good for us one last time, but can't quite wish away the years. Even gun-toting, half-demon mercenaries can't do retro.
Android generated less than $550m in revenues for Google between 2008 and the end of 2011, if figures provided by the search giant as part of a settlement offer with Oracle ahead of an expected patent and copyright infringement trial are an accurate guide.The figures also suggest that Apple devices such as the iPhone, which use products such as its Maps as well as Google Search in its Safari browser, generated more than four times as much revenue for Google as its own handsets in the same period.Withroughly 200m Android devices having been activated to the end of 2011, including an estimated 90m during the past two years, it suggests that Google derives slightly more than $10 per Android handset per year.That compares to Google's $38bn total revenues in 2011, almost entirely derived from advertising on PCs, of which there are1.25bn installed worldwide, according to Microsoft. That suggests an average revenue for Google of about $30 per PC per year, though not all will be capable of accessing the internet or will use Google, so the actual figure will be higher.Google has never released figures for revenues it derives from the use of Android handsets, where it makes the software available to handset makers for free and generates revenues from adverts and app sales. The company declined to comment on the Guardian's calculations, which it was shown ahead of publication.The figures emerge from a damages offer that Google made to Oracle as part of settlement talks ordered by Judge William Alsup in the case, in which Oracle is alleging that Android infringes patents and copyright that it owns on the Java programming language. It acquired that intellectual property when it bought Sun Microsystems, which owned Java, in 2010. The trial is due to start on 16 April.The suit began in 2010 with Oracle claiming that Android infringes a number of Sun patents and also infringes copyright in Java. The number of patents has been whittled down to just two.In a pre-trial settlement offer, Google proposed that it would pay Oracle a percentage of revenues from Android, suggesting it would pay $2.8m in damages on the two remaining patents that Oracle is asserting for the period to 2011, and then 0.5% of ongoing Android revenue on one patent which expires this December, and 0.015% on another which expires in April 2018. Thecourt documents(PDF) do not explain how the Android revenue is calculated, but the key source would be advertising revenue. Google also gets a 30% cut from app sales to Android devices.Google said the damages figures matched what had been calculated by a court-appointed expert. The offer does not mean Google accepts that it has infringed the patents claimed by Oracle.The $2.8m offer, at a combined rate of 0.515%, suggests that Android's total revenue since the launch of the first handsets at the end of 2008 through to the end of 2011 was $543m. Patent payments relating to phones are generally made on a per-handset basis at a fixed licence fee for any phones that would be judged to infringe the relevant patents.The figures also suggest that Android could generate more than $1bn in advertising revenues this year. To achieve Android "certification" handset manufacturers have to include services such as Google search, maps, YouTube and other functions. Some companies, including Amazon, have declined to do this.Google has however talked up mobile generally as key to its future. Larry Page, Google's chief executive,said during an earnings call in Octoberthat Google was "seeing a huge positive revenue impact from mobile, which has grown 2.5 times in the last 12 months to a run rate of over $2.5bn."But while some people interpreted that to indicate Android revenue, it overlooked Google's deal with Apple, in place since the introduction of the iPhone in 2007, through which it provides maps and the default search engine for its iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch products, which run Apple's iOS software. Apple's chief executive Tim Cook said the company has sold 315m iOS devices, though nearly half of those have been sold in the past year.In turn, the comparison of total Android revenues from the court documents suggests that iOS has so far generated more revenue for Google than its own handset ecosystem.Oracle rejected Google's offer, saying the proposed damages were too low.The lawsuit began after Oracle bought Sun Microsystems for $7.3bn in 2010 and with it the rights to the Java programming language and its patents. Oracle has complained that Android in effect copies functions of Java without a valid licence.Oracle, a business software maker with $36bn in annual revenue, has said it is seeking hundreds of millions in damages – though it was forced to water down its earlier damages claims after pre-trial examinations led to a number of claimed patents on Java being invalidated.Google, which relies on its dominance of search and advertising for most of its $38bn in annual revenue, believes that even if it loses the case, it won't have to pay more than a few million dollars.A joint statement filed this week provided the latest reminder of the friction between the two companies.In the papers, Google argued that the trial could be shortened from its scheduled eight weeks and sought to appear before a US district judge instead of a jury. Oracle doesn't believe the trial schedule should be revised, nor is it willing to waive its right to a jury trial. Juries typically award larger damages and are seen as more likely to find in favour of the plaintiff in patent and copyright trials.• Article updated to include data about PC installed base and that Google has not released Android data before. Clarified that iOS does not use the Chrome browser. Sub-headline clarified to indicate that Android revenue does not come from handset sales.
I want to buy a desktop PC to do 3D modelling and rendering. I am learning how to use Blender, and I hope to add Unity 3D for game designing, Adobe After Effects and Premiere. I know that to do all this, I'll need to spend a decent amount, but I'm working with a £400-500 budget.Thompson EdoloThe usual adage in computing is: "Fast, cheap, good: choose any two." It's easy to spend £2,500 on a PC for 3D modelling and animation, so you will appreciate that £500 is a challenge. You will need to compromise. That could mean buying a refurbished PC, shopping on eBay, or assembling your own machine, though I wouldn't really recommend that if you have no previous experience.Still, we used to render graphics and create animations a decade ago – possibly using Blender – when PCs were much less powerful than they are today. Blender, now open source, still runs on a single-core 1GHz PC with only 512MB of memory, according to theBlender.org website, and for "good specs" it recommends a 2GHz dual core processor with 2GB of memory. Most mainstream desktop PCs are now better than that. However, the specification for a production machine – the sort of professional rig you have in mind – includes a multi-core processor and 8-16GB of memory. In all cases, you also need a graphics card that supports OpenGL, and as much graphics memory as possible.Running software such as Blender and Adobe After Effects usually involves two different activities: rendering and viewing. The rendering process is compute-intensive, so the faster the processor, and the more cores it has, the better. (If you were making a Pixar-style movie, you'd do the rendering separately on banks of servers, ie a renderfarm.) Viewing is, by contrast, a graphics-intensive process, where the faster the graphics card the better.You should consider which of these is most important to you, though I suspect it doesn't make any practical difference. A high-end graphics card such as Nvidia'sGeForce 580– designed to render games such as Battlefield 3 in real time -- would take most of your budget. I suggest you get the fastest processor you can afford, after carefully checking thebenchmark results, and settle for the best Nvidia graphics card you can get. You can always upgrade the card later, as long as your PC has a big enough power supply.It's probably worth choosing Nvidia because Adobe's latest software now has a Mercury Playback Engine (MPE) that can use an Nvidia card's graphics processor to accelerate playback, effects and rendering. Studio 1 Productions has a useful page,Video Cards for Adobe Premiere CS5 and CS5.5, which lists dozens of Nvidia cards, tells you how many CUDA cores they have, and which cards are not recommended.The processor of choice is an Intel Core i5, which is not as fast as a Core i7 but is more affordable. (It's what I bought for myself.) The current Sandy Bridge versions include support for movie encoding and playback, which is useful with highly compressed video formats such as AVC/H.264, which rely on a fast processor to do the decoding. Later this year, Intel will introduce Ivy Bridge versions of the Core iX chips, which will be smaller, faster, and possibly cheaper. If you wait, there might be some bargain Sandy Bridge desktops on offer.A cheaper option would be the old Intel Core 2 quadcore chip known as the Q6600. Although it is a 2.4GHz processor, it has a reputation for being easy to overclock to 3.0GHz with its standard cooler, and up to 3.5GHz with an accessory cooler. It should give a Core i5 a run for its money, and refurbished or secondhand Q6600-based desktops are available at low prices (currently £215 to £250 on eBay.co.uk). This would free up some cash for a better graphics card.I note that the unofficialBlender Render Benchmark v0.2page has more than 100 results for the Q6600, and the highest placing is sixth. There's also a Core i5 machine in eighth place. Plenty of very expensive dual-processor Intel Xeon workstations are lower down the list….Dell sold lots of model 745 and 755 desktop PCs with Q6600 processors, 8GB of memory and various Nvidia Quadro graphics cards into the CAD (computer-aided design) market. Refurbished models should be within your budget, but I'd resist the temptation. First, they probably won't have enough graphics memory, and second, they will be running Windows XP Pro or Vista, so you would probably want to upgrade them to 64-bit Windows 7.You will need Windows to run Unity 3D and the Adobe software, but you could try dual-booting a version of Linux to run Blender. Windows takes the top 10 places in the Blender Render Benchmark (which is out of date and no longer maintained), but Linux might make better use of your budget hardware.As mentioned, it's not easy to find suitable new desktops, but you could consider a Dell Inspiron 620 MT. This offers a3.0GHz Core i5processor with 4GB of memory, NvidiaGeForce GT 530graphics card (96 CUDA cores; supports OpenGL 4.2) with 1GB of memory, 1TB hard drive and DVD writer for£499 including VAT and delivery. That's not far off the production spec, and I'd expect it to run Blender well.You might be able to get a PC with a similar specification for a bit less, if you look for clearance bargains and so on. But the days of really cheap (and frequently nasty) desktops are disappearing fast, now that the mass consumer market has shifted to laptops. However, laptop processors are much less powerful than their desktop equivalents, because they need to run cooler and consume less power. (A top-end Core i7 runs at 130W; a mobile version might consume as little as 17W, and an Intel Atom only 2W.)Other things being equal, a large tower case is usually better than a small one: it will not get as hot, and it will be easier to upgrade. Also, having a bigger power supply will enable you to install a faster graphics card when you can afford one. Either way, check all specifications carefully before you buy. When you're trying to get high performance on a budget, details matter.
Game Group, the company that owns both of the specialist high-street games retailers Game and Gamestation,has officially gone into administration, after suspending trading on its shares and filing for administration last week. Along with practically everybody in the games media, I've spent a lot of time thinking and writing about this over the past few weeks, going over the potential reasons for Game's failure to compete and its spiralling implications – not just for the obvious victims, its UK customers and employees, but for everyone who buys, makes and sells games. You can read about all of thathereif you're interested, but there's no other way to spin it - this is bad news for all of us.What I haven't seen much talk about is our personal relationship with games retail. Game as it currently stands, with its limited selection of strong sellers and at times rather aggressive emphasis on pre-owned, up-selling and pre-order deposits, bears little resemblance to the Game that I visited when I was growing up. Games shops were actually places that I used to go to hang out when I was a teenager, to browse with friends and occasionally make new ones. It's this experiential side of retail that things like Steam and Amazon haven't replaced, and I really miss it.Our local Gamestation in Edinburgh, before it was swallowed by Game Group, was a two-floor gamer's paradise with new stuff on the bottom floor and a top floor full of T-shirts, figurines, demo stations and racks full of retro games going back to the NES. The most valuable of these items were displayed in glass cases. I remember staring longingly at a mint condition (and very overpriced) copy of the super-rare SNES game Secret of Mana inside one of those cases for about two months. Now and then there'd be someone else staring longingly at it right beside me, and we'd strike up a conversation. The staff were friendly and passionate (as many Game and Gamestation employees still are), and would happily chat for a half hour, trading recommendations and experiences. It was a real enthusiast store. I spent a faintly ridiculous amount of money and time there.After Gamestation's acquisition, whilst games sales were really booming between around 2006 and 2010, a lot of this disappeared. Retro was sidelined and eventually eliminated entirely in favour of a Game-like pre-owned model that focussed on newer games only. The merchandise became slowly more generic until most of the quirky stuff was gone and only the DS cases and Mario plushes remained. I stopped visiting games shops very quickly and started buying online. I attributed the death of the games shop as I remembered it as a necessary complication of my hobby's move into the mainstream, and mourned it only briefly.When I moved to Japan at the end of 2008 though, I discovered a world where the game shop was still an experience. There, alongside the rows of shiny new games at the front of the store, you'd find Dreamcast and N64 and Mega Drive games just an aisle away. Pretty much every games shop apart from the massive Bic Cameras and Yodabashi Cameras superstores gave as much floorspace to older games as it did to the new stuff, with 10-year-old boxes proudly displayed and baskets full of miscellaneous cartridges in which you might find a treasure.Near where I lived in Nagoya there was a second-hand games and CD store, K's House, that looked and smelled like someone's attic, with cartridges and disc cases and mysterious, obsolete peripherals and controllers stacked head-high. Now and then, flipping through N64 games in there, I'd see some Japan-only game that I'd read about as a nine-year-old in a magazine and delightedly hand over ¥500 (£3.80) for it. My shelves are liberally adorned with such curios. God only knows how much money I spent.I could have predicted that the experience of shopping for games somewhere like Osaka's Den Den Town or Tokyo's Akihabara would be exhilarating for any geek, but what I didn't understand about Japanese retail is that most stores were like this. In Britain, shopping is something I do grudgingly and in as little time possible, picking up things online wherever possible. In Japan it became a recreational activity.All of this will probably sound intimately familiar to anyone who collects vinyl. The record shop is perhaps a British equivalent to the Japanese games store. But surely there must be a place for enthusiast shops here, still, alongside the megachains like Game (or whatever Game is replaced with in the coming weeks). If it turns out that the British high street cannot support a games megachain, does that mean it can't support smaller, more specialist shops either? Can't there be somewhere for enthusiasts to shop, too, whilst mums and gifters and more casual browsers pick up FIFA and COD and Just Dance from bigger chains and supermarkets? Bigger retail stores are vital to the health of the games industry, but for a long time they've been all there is.Maybe they do exist, somewhere, and I just don't know about them. Do you?•Keza MacDonald is UK games editor at IGN.com. You can follow her on Twitter@kezamacdonald
A selection of 15 new apps for you today:The Muppets OST Official AppMusic label EMI has launched an official app for the latest Muppets film – or at least for its soundtrack. It includes samples of the songs, character biographies and photos, news and social features.iPhonePiano Dust Buster – Song GameGuitar-training iPad game WildChords has won plenty of fans, but it's not the only app that helps people learn a real-world instrument. Piano Dust Buster is the work of JoyTunes, and sits on your piano while you play along to a series of free songs, with gaming elements to track your progress.iPadBrian Cox's Wonders of the UniverseTelegenic space-boffin Brian Cox has a new book-app for iPad, based on his last two BBC series and their spin-off books. Released by HarperCollins, it includes text, videos, photos and infographics. For more on the app,read our full story.iPadUniversal Movie TycoonWould Vin Diesel have been better in The Fast and the Furious if he'd been wearing granny-pants? Should Bridget Jones have spent more time driving in fast cars? Why didn't Marty McFly bump into E.T. on his travels? Universal Movie Tycoon is a game where you get to make your own versions of famous Universal Pictures films, constructing the studio lot and freeing your creative instincts.iPhone / iPadCrayola Silly Face Swaps HDGriffin Technology's latest Crayola-branded app gets children to put photos of their own faces into pictures, then colour them in. The results can be shared on Facebook, via email or by printing them out.iPhone / iPadTalking PocoyoChildren's brand Pocoyo is hoping to take a leaf out of the successful playbook of Outfit7, whose Talking Friends apps have been huge hits. This app applies the 'talk to a character on your phone' concept to Pocoyo, who'll repeat what you say, play instruments, dance and pretend to be various animals.iPhoneiStunt 2The latest Xbox Live game for Windows Phone is iStunt 2, a snowboarding sequel from Miniclip featuring stunts, ragdoll physics and all manner of achievements. The claim of "retina graphics" may raise eyebrows, mind.Windows PhoneOw My Balls! XLFor some reason, this wasn't one of the new iPad games shown off on-stage at Apple's new iPad launch. That reason being its status as the only iOS app "that lets you kick a dude in the balls". The sequel to a popular iPhone game, it involves booting a juggler through a city by the unmentionables, while making additional use of "fart jetpacks".iPadArt GuideThe Art Fund's new app provides a guide to art across the UK, including more than 600 museums and galleries. There's a wishlist feature to keep tabs on places you want to visit, and it ties into the National Art Pass card for free entry and discounts. An Android version follows on 30 April.iPhoneTimes Tables: SqueeblesThis iOS education app from UK developer KeyStageFun has been ported to Android, teaching children multiplication with the help of some colourful Squeebles characters. 24 are rescued while working through the exercises, with medals and trophies unlocked along the way.AndroidApptroFile this alongside Onavo as an Android app to help you keep tabs on your data usage. Apptro tracks your usage of applications across the month, and maps it against the data tariffs of 20 mobile operators from around the world.AndroidDark Meadow: The PactAdventure game Dark Meadow looked stunning when released as a paid game in 2011, but now it's been rebooted as a freemium title. Its developers used the Unreal Engine 3 platform to make what one review described as "a cross between BioShock and Infinity Blade".iPhone / iPadTime PilesThis is an interesting idea: "a video manipulation app that mixes up your video as you shoot". The idea being that you shoot videos, and manipulate the feed in real-time, including the ability to "poke holes in the present to see the past".iPhone / iPadHoward Stern MobileIt may not be much use to Android owners in the UK, but this new app based on US DJ Howard Stern's radio show is interesting. Why? Because it's an example of the second-screen concept transferring to radio. Where, ahem, the phone is the first screen. Anyway: the idea is a companion to listening to the show with guest photos, web links and other content.AndroidSongs &amp; DragonsDo you run traditional (i.e. tabletop/in-person) roleplaying games? Songs &amp; Dragons is a clever app: providing music and sound effects for dungeon masters to trigger to provide a suitable atmosphere for their players. Wolves, taverns, halflings... They're all here, and hearable.Android
Brian Cox has brought astronomy to a new audience with his books and TV shows in recent years. Now there's an iPad app for that too, combining content from both areas.The app is calledBrian Cox's Wonders of the Universe, and it's the work of book publisher HarperCollins' Collins imprint, which struck a deal with the BBC to include footage from Cox's TV shows Wonders of the Solar System and Wonders of the Universe.Developed by digital agency The Other Media, and draws on the full text and photos used in HarperCollins' official tie-in books for those series, as well as infographics and 3D models of planets, moons and galaxies."We've set a new frontier for digital publishing by positioning Brian's written narrative and related BBC video content in a bespoke 3D environment which changes dynamically as you journey deeper and deeper into the realms of the Universe," says Alex Gatrell, Collins' digital publisher.That whizzy 3D environment comes at a price: the app only works on Apple's iPad 2 and new (third) iPad, with the original model not quite having the processing grunt to cope with it.Launching at a promotional £4.99 price, the app is very impressive, from pinching to zoom in on the universe through to its core user interface of scrolling down a single column of text, with photos, videos and interactivity appearing as you go.The app blends text, photos, videos and infographics"We threw out conventional thinking on multimedia experiences to instead come up with a revolutionary platform that can take complex narratives but deliver them with an intuitive clarity," says The Other Media's managing director George Crabb.Wonders of the Universe is the latest sign that popular science may be the most suitable book category – along with children's picture-books – for a multimedia app treatment on tablets.It's also interesting for that partnership between Collins and the BBC. At a time when every media and creative industry is getting excited about apps, you can imagine conflicts emerging if the various players in a big TV/books/etc project all want to make an official app.Partnerships make more sense. In fact, this app has echoes of what another book publisher, Faber, did with its iPad app for The Waste Land. That involved a partnership with the BBC Arena programme for video interviews of experts talking about T.S. Eliot's poem.The 3D engine and user interface differentiate the app from e-booksThe interactive aspects in the Wonders of the Universe app are also important to differentiate it from a standard e-book. Since the launch of its iBooks 2.0 application, Apple is strongly encouraging publishers making static book-app with a bit of multimedia content to release them as iBooks rather than apps.3D engines, pinchy universes and interfaces that move away from the idea of page-turns all firmly remain in the apps sphere, though.Collins will be hoping that Brian Cox's drawing power will make the new app a commercial success on the App Store, following in the footsteps of Touch Press' The Elements and Solar System for iPad, and Random House / Transworld Digital's The Magic of Reality.The latter, based on a book by Richard Dawkins,sold 23k copies in its first few monthson the App Store with a £9.99 price, generating just under £230k of gross revenues before Apple's 30% cut.In December 2011, Touch Presstold The Guardianthat it had sold more than 250k copies of The Elements on iOS, bringing in more than $2m of revenues for the company.Faber has never revealed actual sales figures for The Waste Land, but did say that itrecouped its development costswithin its first six weeks on the App Store.The Brian Cox app's £4.99 "promotional launch price" is made for popular appeal, although it's not yet clear when Collins will raise it, and to what price point.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGALAXY Note Reaches 5 Million Sales &gt;&gt; SAMSUNG TOMORROW Global BlogNot on its global or UK press sites, but on one of its blogs:Samsung Electronics announced today (March 28th) that GALAXY Note, released in October last year,  has surpassed 5 million sales in just 5 months.   Thanks to the fast selling GALAXY Note, Samsung Electronics has gained about two thirds of the South Korean mobile phone market share, making Samsung the leading mobile phone provider in Korea in addition to China, France, Spain and others.Strictly speaking, analysts say that its 5in size means they'll classify it as a tablet. Note too that these are "sales" to the retail channel - what others call "shipments". However, it still means that the same two companies dominate in the smartphone and tablet markets. This is one of them. For an example of those struggling further down the tablet market, read on…Judge: Asus Transformer isn't infringing on Hasbro's trademark... and Asus reveals embarrassing sales stats &gt;&gt; TechCrunchThe Transformer Prime lives on. And:As a little kicker on the story, court filings have revealed that the device has produced pre-order numbers that are, shall we say, less than legendary… pre-orders for this poster child for Android 4 tablets (and it does look great) total a whopping 2,000 units as of a month ago… That and 80,000 going to retailers worldwide make the device seem rather minor even in comparison to other Android products like the Nook Color and Kindle Fire.(Thanks @pauljreynolds for the link.)Yahoo-Geddon: leaders debate layoffs and more today &gt;&gt; AllThingsDKara Swisher says Yahoo is having a big think about:How and where the company will make large-scale cuts in staff, which I have previously reported were coming and will perhaps be numbering in the thousands; which businesses to sell off and which to keep, including its ad tech unit; the correct structure for the reconfigured entity; and who will be left to run it all when it is all settled. Also up for debate is the best course of a two-pronged effort -- being led primarily by CFO Tim Morse and members of his corporate strategy team -- to renegotiate its search and advertising partnership deal with Microsoft, while also engaging in active discussions with Google about it taking over Yahoo's search business.No explanation of why it might switch back to Google from Microsoft's Bing. But it would be a huge blow to Microsoft if it does.Apple TV isn't coming until 2013, says Asian research group CLSA &gt;&gt; Business InsiderMost analysts say Apple will release an Apple TV this year. Not Asian research group CLSA, which said in a note this morning that it thinks it comes out in 2013.Bored yet with the game of "when will Apple release a TV?" Plenty more where that came from.Readers' Choice Awards 2012: Smartphones and Mobile Carriers &gt;&gt; PCMag.comWhen we asked our readers how satisfied they were with their smartphones overall, Apple and Microsoft customers both rated their phones an impressive 8.7 on our 0 (extremely dissatisfied) to 10 (extremely satisfied) scale. Android, on the other hand, only received a 7.9, the same rating it received in 2011. Apple's score improved from 8.4 last year; Windows Phone, which earned an Honorable Mention in 2011, improved 0.6 points. That's up from an 8.1, which is a big jump in satisfaction.Statistics alert: this is a self-selecting sample, we don't know what the sample size is, whether sample sizes are comparable across the different platforms, and whether there was any gaming of results. Other than that... (Thanks @pauljreynolds for the link)Suddenly Microsoft is the hippest tech company around &gt;&gt; The Atlantic WireWhich brings us to the other aspect of Microsoft's renaissance: good timing. The once-hipper than Microsoft foes, Google and Apple haven't looked so good these days. Google, the once beloved search company, has users uneasy with itsGoogle+ integration, privacy issues and anti-trust concerns. Even Googlersaren't too sureof Google's mission, these days. Apple still produces insane-popular gadgets, but no longer wows reviewers like it once did. The new iPad is still the best tablet out there, but it's not a must-have. Plus, it too has gotten itself into its ownprivacy messes. It also had the misfortune of acting as the face of the last few months ofFoxconn scandal. Though the Foxconn protesters that threatened mass suicide back in January made Microsoft's XBox, thanks to Mike Daisey and Apple's financial successes, Apple not Microsoft absorbed most of the bad PR.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Xbox Live TV: Why Microsoft, not Apple, will dominate television streaming &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineOver the last few months, Microsoft has turned its video-game console into your TV's best friend. Late last year, the company revamped the Xbox's interface, adding a wonderful voice-search feature through the Kinect motion-gaming add-on. Microsoft also added dozens of entertainment services to its Xbox Live online plan, including Netflix, Hulu, ESPN, and on-demand video from cable and satellite services around the world. This week, the company isadding accessto Comcast's Xfinity on-demand service, as well as apps for HBO and MLB.TV.Microsoft is, finally, making everything happen; it's had this plan since about 2001. (Thanks @pauljreynolds for the link.)Google+: The Charge Of The Like Brigade &gt;&gt; TechCrunchDevin Coldewey:Google never said "What you're doing is broken. Use our thing instead." They always said "Did you know you we can do that too, for free?" Did they say Excel was broken when they let you make spreadsheets in Docs? Did they break down email to its bare bones and remake it for Gmail? Of course not. Google was about ubiquity, diversity, and a few memorable little quirks or improvements that set them out from the crowd. To attempt to build something new, a la Apple, with the assurance that company likes to make ("This is the best way, which is why we made it the only way") is not a Google strength. They just aren't good at making new things. Never have been. Making existing things easier, faster, more accessible -- sure. But inventing them? Not so much. So the idea that they were going to invent a new way to share should have rung alarm bells to begin with. Sharing was never broken; Google merely found that they were losing a battle they had not even prepared for. Their declaration of war was a declaration of defeat.Subtle point.Flat-panel TV sales flatten in US &gt;&gt; AllThingsDMarket research firm IHS iSuppli said Tuesday that U.S.-bound shipments of flat-panel TVs will drop 5% in 2012, slipping to 37.1m units from 39.1m units in 2011. And that decline will likely continue for the next few years. By 2013, IHS figures shipments will drop to just below 35m and by 2015, they'll be hovering around 34.2m.This is the environment that smart TV is being launched into: an unpromising one where the market is saturated, and the people who are buying are the "late adopters" of flat TV - and so are unlikely to take advantage of "smart" features.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Yey, Thursday – getting close to the end of the working week. But have you squeezed in any gaming amidst the toil?
Google, the search engine most of us treat as an extra wing of our brains, is experiencing the whip-crack of a long-building backlash. Both US and European authorities are investigating allegations that it manipulates search results to favour its own services. The company is also at odds with parliament over its refusal to remove links that are in breach of privacy. And recent changes to its privacy settings have raised serious concerns about data protection. But where else can you go? There are other search engines out there, but when was the last time you used one?▶ AltaVistaThe one everybody used before Google came along. Technically it no longer exists, but it's still there, a&nbsp;ghostly portal now powered by Yahoo. Searching for "Titanic" fishes up 97m results, compared with Google's 149m, the former confining itself to UK sites. The first four hits in order are: news results, images, Wikipedia (the boat) and Wikipedia (the film). Google, on the other hand, produces an ad for a commemorative excursion, Wikipedia (boat and film) and news results.▶ BingMicrosoft's offering is the No 2 search engine, behind Google and ahead of Yahoo, although the latter is now powered by Bing, as&nbsp;is, presumably, what's left of AltaVista. Bing retrieves 95.7m hits for Titanic – the first three are&nbsp;ads for the ITV drama, a commemorative coin (no thanks) and a game.▶ Ask.comAsk used to be called Ask Jeeves (remember?) and if you're nostalgic you can still use a portal bearing the old name. It doesn't say how many search results it produces, but it has a uniquesidebar feature purporting to provide answers to commonly asked questions about your keyword. These include "When the Titanic began to sink, do you think that the buffet became a bit of a free-for-all?" and "How old is Morris Titanic?" It was subsequently necessary to use Google to determine thatMorris Titanicis an ice-hockey player. He is 59.
Cuts in mobile phone roaming charges are on the way this summer – the latest move by the European commission towards reducing the gap between domestic and foreign call rates almost to zero by 2015, with the rates protected until June 2017.The cost of data services on smartphones will be capped at €0.70 a megabyte, far less than most carriers in the EU charge. Prices on voice calls will also be capped, falling from €0.35 to €0.29 in July and €0.19  in 2014. Text message prices will fall from €0.11 to €0.06.Maximum rates were first imposed on mobile network operators five years ago to tackle what the commission called the "roaming rip-off". Operators were said to be making excessive profits by charging more than triple the normal rate for calls made while in another EU country, and up to five times for calls received.Today the gap between domestic and "roaming" call charges has fallen by about 75% compared with 2007. Now, after talks between MEPs, EU governments and the commission, final agreement is expected in May from the European parliament and member countries for further cuts from July.The move is the culmination of a lengthy struggle between Brussels and mobile carriers,who say they will have to raise prices for other services. Cross-border charges are reckoned to generate up to 5% of revenues.Some carriers welcomed the move. A spokesman for Three said: "This move by EU policymakers is great news for consumers and will help end the gulf that exists between what people pay at home and what they pay when they are abroad in Europe."But Everything Everywhere, which in the UK owns Orange and T-Mobile, said: "We are disappointed … as we feel competition, not the continued use of price caps, is the most effective way to bring down, and keep down, international roaming pricing. Data roaming prices have dropped by 78% over the last three years, and this was achieved without a regulatory framework in place."The international roaming market is only in the early stages of development, and regulation of retail roaming prices will result in lack of competition from new entrants. In addition, the regulation may well lead to the scaling back of essential investment in UK mobile networks."From 2014, customers will be able to sign up for different carriers in different countries while retaining the same phone number.The EU commissioner for the digital agenda, Neelie Kroes, who took on the sector when calls for voluntary reductions were considered insufficient, said: "Consumers are fed up with being ripped off by high roaming charges."The new roaming deal gives us a long-term structural solution, with lower prices, more choice and a new smart approach for data and internet browsing. The benefits will be felt in time for the summer break – and by summer 2014, people can shop around for the best deal."Kroes voiced frustration earlier in the year that all operators are sticking to the high end of the call charges ceilings, in effect blocking wider competition that should drive down prices even further.From July, consumers travelling in another EU country will pay no more than: • €0.29 (24p) a minute to make a mobile call;• €0.08 to receive a call;• €0.09 to send a text message;• €0.70 per megabyte to download data or browse the internet while travelling abroad, charged per kilobyte used.A commission statement said: "These regulated price caps will progressively go down so that by 1 July 2014, roaming consumers will be paying no more than 19 cents per minute to make a call, a maximum 5 cents per minute to receive a call, maximum 6 cents to send a text message and maximum 20 cents per megabyte to download data or browse the internet whilst travelling abroad".The Conservative MEP for South West England and Gibraltar, Giles Chichester, who took part in overnight negotiations with EU officials said he hoped the charges shake-up would encourage the mobile industry to introduce more competition: "It is outrageous that consumers are still paying exorbitant prices when using their phone abroad. Many are still scared to use their phone for simple pleasures like checking websites or using phone apps."He said soon mobile users would be able to sign up to one company for domestic calls and another for calls and downloads while abroad, all using the same mobile, as a further boost to competition. "Mobile roaming charges are being forced down but it regrettable that it always requires EU legislation, rather than action from the industry itself."Mobile phone companies will now have to compete for roaming customers like they already compete for domestic customers. With the costs of just about everything going up, this is a rare piece of good news for consumers this summer."Fiona Hall, leader of the Liberal Democrat MEPs, said: "This is another important step towards ending rip off charges for mobile phone usage abroad. These new rates will apply just in time for families heading off for their summer holidays."
Just in case you haven't seen it, the PlayStation 4 rumours have begun in earnest. US news site Kotaku hasposted claims from a 'trusted source'that the next machine will be called Orbis and is set for release next winter.The console is reported to be built around an AMD x64 CPU and an AMD Southern Islands GPU. The latter is a high-end graphics processor set to appear in theRadeon HD 7900 rangeof cards – the tech is capable of displaying graphics up to resoutions of 4096×2160, as well as true 1080p stereoscopic 3D. The British edition of the Official PlayStation Magazine has alsopicked up on the story, sugesting there's more going on here then scurrilous tittle-tattle.According to the Kotaku piece, the new hardware will seek to control the pre-owned games market. The site's source says that game purchases via Blu-ray disc or PSN will be locked to a specific console which will need to remain online while playing; those who buy second-hand titles may only be able to access a trial version of the content, with the option of paying for a full registration. This reflects rumours of the forthcoming Xbox console, apparently codenamed Durango, which will allegedly also seek to restrict the trade in used titles with similar lock-outs.The name Orbis comes from the Latin term for 'ring' or 'circle' and both OPM and Kotaku make the connection with the phrase Orbis Vitae, or 'ring of life' – which suggests that PS4 and Vita will be very closely integrated. It's likely Vita will be able to act as a second screen and controller for the console, like the tablet pad that's set to be a major part of Nintendo's Wii U proposition. We're also likely to see lots more cross-platform connectivity, with titles running on Vita able to swap data and game saves with PS4 versions.So, what do you think? An AMD architecture would be new for the PlayStation series; PS3's GPU was based around the NVidia G70. Intriguingly, the latest Xbox Durango rumours suggest that Microsoft's next machine willalsobe based on an AMD GPU, thoughcurrent speculationsuggests that it will employ the older 6670 chip.While both Sony and Microsoft have denied that they'll be announcing new hardware at this year's E3 games industry event in June, neither is likely to want to give its rival a heads-up on roll-out plans. Sony has stated that it has a ten year plan for PS3 – but the company is unlikely to want a repeat of the last generation, when Xbox 360 launched significantly ahead of its PlayStation rival, giving it a major headstart on building a user base.
Trefor Daviesis chief technology officer of Timico, and one of the people who last year pushed the idea that the UK needed to begin shifting over to IPv6. He's also had the opportunity to try out O2's 4G system around London - and he likes what he finds. Here are his personal experiences.Fast? Try faster4G is like lightning. It's an eye-opener which seriously enhances the mobile data experience; it's going to change the mobile game.Mobile data is already an important feature in the business communication landscape. As an ISP we see demand for it in the area of machine-to-machine, rapid site deployment, backup solutions for disaster recovery scenarios, and of course straightforward internet browsing and email access from mobile devices.The strategic importance of mobile data has even led Timico to invest in an Ethernet connection direct into the O2 network. We can now offer solution with mobileMPLS(multiprotocol label switching, used for high-performance networks) that sit within the same environment as existing fixed-line MPLS networks. That's ideal for businesses that need security in both fixed and mobile networks.Over the last year or two in the UK the focus in fixed line broadband has been on Fibre To The Cabinet (aka FTTC), or in marketing jargon "fibre broadband". With downlink speeds of "up to" 40 megabits per second (to be upgraded to 80Mbps in April), the technology is revolutionising how people use their broadband connection. (BT markets it under the "Infinity" label; you'll probably have seen the TV adverts.) Add in the growth in high-quality streaming video and gaming services, and it's easy to see how the additional available bandwidth will be consumed.Until very recently the mobile world, in the UK at least, has remained firmly in the domain of 3G – a technology that now seems relatively stone aged compared with fibre broadband.HSDPAmakes the experience more bearable but it is still many megabits adrift of its fixed-line counterpart.The mobile companies are poised to change all this with LTE (Long Term Evolution), otherwise known as 4G. Trials are being conducted in a small number of locations in the UK.  Timico is the first O2 Service Provider partner to be invited onto its London trials.This service is like lightning. It's fast, speedy, call it what you like - it's a life-changer. It's one of those projects that has been a pleasure to be involved in.With only 25 masts around central London, coverage is nowhere near what you would describe as ubiquitous; but this is only a trial. When you're in a coverage area, the speeds are great.I started off in McDonalds at Kings Cross with a dongle fresh out of the box. After installation of the software, which was easy, the dongle performed an automatic firmware upgrade (also easy) using its own 4G connection.4G in McDonald's Photograph: Trefor DaviesAt McDonalds I was getting over 13Mbps down and 540Kbps up, which to my mind was a bit disappointing – though I'm not sure it should have been. I have experimented with O2's 4G at its head offices in Slough and seen much faster speeds both up and down.But what I was getting while sitting at a table in a fast-food restaurant at a train station was faster than I get from my home ADSL2+ connection. You can't really grumble about that.However I knew I could get better. Roaming around town on the top deck of a number 25 bus, near Wardour Street I got 15.5Mbps down, and, amazingly, 25Mbps up. The ping times (how long it takes for connections to sites to reach them, not just how fast the connection to the towers was) for all these measurements were impressive.In torrential rain, I next moved around on foot, dipping into various places to check out the speeds and moving generally towards known good hotspots.In the end I took shelter in a pub called the Devonshire Arms, on Duke Street, just off Oxford Street. Sitting in the window and sipping a cup of tea, I hit the jackpot, with 40Mbps down and 23 Mbps up.4G in the Devonshire Arms pub Photograph: Trefor DaviesI did various tests, including varying the browser for the test - Google's Chrome was much better than Microsoft's Internet Explorer. I also did video calls with both Timico's own VoIP service and Skype.The screenshot shows me running four simuiltaneous BBC iPlayer daytime TV streams. Oh, the sacrifices you have to make to get a blog post written.iPlayer on 4G Photograph: Trefor DaviesThe highest I have seen recorded is 97Mbps in the O2 Arena itself. The 2,600 MHz LTE itself will go to 150Mbps but the dongle tech doesn't currently support this. We do have to remember this is very much a test rather than a production rollout so it isn't going to be perfect but even considering this the experience has been great. The raw speed I saw with O2's 4G was terrific when in good coverage areas.Data allowances: the high-speed elephant in the roomThe amount of data you can download in a very small amount of time is going to change the game. In the US, owners of the new 4G-enabled iPad have already discovered they canburn through a few gigabytes' monthly allowance in a couple of hours. (Note: link may require subscription.) In upgrading the dongle firmware, for example I used 50MB in around a minute. If you consider that until recently a typical "fair use" policy for an "unlimited" data package was 500MB in a month, then you can see that the model is going to have to change. Mobile operators are going to have to increase their backhaul capacity by some orders of magnitude.Next, spectrum allocation for 4G rollout will be very important. Essentially, there are two groupings: high frequency (2600MHz) or low frequency (in the UK, 800MHz). Low and high frequencies have different characteristics: low-frequency signals are better at penetrating walls, but high-frequency ones can carry more data in a given time. So the overall network design represents an interesting (though not insurmountable) challenge for engineers. This makes the forthcoming Ofcom spectrum auction important: there is a mix of spectrum that is going to be optimum for commercial success.As a side note, it will be interesting to see how much the operators are prepared to pay for spectrum. They all think they overpaid for 3G (£22.5bn, followed by gigantic writedowns) but the demand has not been there for most of the time that 3G has been around.The new new thingIt's different this time – and people are starting to get used to paying for the bandwidth they use.From an end-user perspective, the ability to have genuinelyfastinternet access on your laptop, tablet or mobile phone is going to change the computing experience. Whilst Wi-Fi is becoming increasingly common (at least in pubs, coffee shops and other public places) the need to authenticate is still a nuisance. Also, not having to wait whilst a screen loads up on your mobile phone feels like it should be a human right.It is certainly going to drive more business into the mobile environment. Timico, for example, gives all its salesforce an iPad so that they can demonstrate Timico applications and our customer portal on the fly at a customer's premises. An iPad with 40Mbps of bandwidth all of a sudden becomes a low-cost endpoint for a telepresence HD conferencing system.Games for allThe gaming experience is going to be great (I'm not a gamer, but one of my kids would spend his entire live tethered to the Xbox.) Who knows what mobility combined with high speed internet will do for that industry, freed from the shackles of the lounge or the bedroom? City-wide action games? Orienteering for the 21st century?The use of mobile technology for backup purposes will also extend into many more areas of businesses. Typically, 3G is used where only low bandwidth is required, or whereanybandwidth is better than no bandwidth. But 4G becomes a viable solution for offices – even company headquarters.Of course ,with many more people on a production 4G network the average speeds available may well come down (ever tried to download something on 3G at a busy train terminus?) but LTE really is a game changer.And finally...I should finish off with a big thank you to O2 for including me in the trials. It's good to be able to work with such a progressive partner.And now… just wait?
Here's the main thing that bothers me about buzzy social location apps like Highlight and Glancee, which help you connect with likeminded strangers nearby. People evangelising these apps seem to see them as professional networking tools, yet they all use Facebook for their social graph.Why is that strange? If you want to be connected with interesting and relevant people from your industry when in a new city or at a conference, how would Facebook improve your chances? My Facebook Likes tell people a lot about my music, TV and reading habits. Much less about my professional life.That's why an app likeIntroappeals to me more. While it does use Facebook, more importantly it pulls data from LinkedIn and Twitter too – two social networks with much more business-relevant data and contacts for many people."It's a business networking app and matching engine," explains founder Anthony Erwin. "A lot of our rivals are really social plays that aren't really useful for business outside something like SXSW, where there's an overlap between social and business."London-based Intro was actually spawned from his previous startup, mobile dating app StreetSpark, which was purely social. The technology has been rebuilt from scratch, with its matching engine the key feature according to Erwin.People signing up are matched with people from their industry and shown their existing connections: mutual contacts or areas of interest. They can either search for specific kinds of people – think recruitment – or simply wait to be alerted that someone interesting is nearby."You might see that a graphic designer called John Smith is relatively near you, he's part of the London tech scene, and you have five LinkedIn contacts in common, 10 Facebook friends in common, and follow 50 of the same people on Twitter," says Erwin."We're solving a real problem for startups, which is finding the right people – whether that's developers, people to help with PR and marketing, or mentors. SMEs create 90% of all new jobs both in the US and UK, but they have this problem finding the right people."This, you'd think, is exactly the kind of thing LinkedIn should be doing itself: the company's mobile app is slick, but isn't doing anything nifty with location.Not yet, anyway. Erwin admits that it's something LinkedIn may choose to do at some point down the line, but you could argue that the company is just as likely to acquire a location-savvy startup with a decent matching engine as build this functionality itself. By plugging the gap in LinkedIn's app, Intro may well end up as a tempting acquisition prospect.That said, Erwin seems focused on making Intro a sustainable business rather than fishing for suitors. He says the app will always be free, but that premium features may be added in the future – for example better matching, or additional options to narrow down people searches.It's steering clear of outright job listings, although Erwin says early users have been fielding job offers as a result of the app, thanks to the way it matches people with people, rather than people with positions.Intro is also working on a feature called Teleport that enables people to find matches in a city or at an event even if they're not there. "If you're going to San Francisco or SXSW, you could virtually travel there in advance using the app to connect with people and set up meetings," says Erwin.Intro is currently available as an iPhone app, although an Android version is imminent, with Windows Phone to follow."Probably not BlackBerry," says Erwin. "It's the perfect audience, but not many people with BlackBerry phones are using apps. Even if we built it, I just don't think many people would know how to even get onto the app store to get it."Intro is an impressive app, and its use of LinkedIn makes it more appealing for business networking than some of its higher-profile rivals. Its key challenge, though, is scale: its usefulness will rise in direct proportion to the number of people using it. On that score, it's early days.
LulzSec, the hacking group who broke into a number of websites in the spring of 2011, is back – at least in name.Following the arrest and charging in the US, UK and Ireland of a number of people alleged to have been involved in computer break-ins by the group in February, another hacker or group of hackers has taken up its mantle, and has claimed to have broken into a dating website for US military personnel,militarysingles.com.In a post on thePastebinwebsite – commonly used by hackers to boast of accomplishments – those claiming responsibility say they have dumped the email database containing nearly 171,000 addresses and made them available on filesharing networks."We have enacted a series of security procedures in response," Robert Goebel, chief executive of ESingles, which owns the site,told the LA Times. "Regardless of whether it was a true claim or false claim, we're treating it as though it's true just to be safe."He also queried how the hacker, or hackers, could claim to have dumped so many accounts: he knows of only 140,000 registered with the site.Of the claims by the poster to be a "reborn" LulzSec, Graham Cluley, security consultant at the online security company Sophos, commented: "on the internet, anyone can claim to be whatever they want and so it's not particularly surprising".LulzSec had a reputation as a devil-may-care group – driven in part by its former leader, Hector Xavier Monsegur, known as "Sabu", who pleaded guilty last August to a number of offences, and acted for the FBI to help find other hackers.That means that many in the loose hacking collective Anonymous have wished to see the group's ideals reborn, but this time without the oversight of law enforcement.Cluley noted that in some cases the physical addresses of users of the militarysingles.com site were leaked."If you know anyone who has ever used the Military Singles website, it would be a good idea to tell them to change their password as a precaution – and to ensure that they are not using the same password anywhere else."
A selection of 17 new apps for you today:Your Fantastic Elastic BrainLittle Pickle Press and Invention Arts have teamed up for this great-looking book-app to teach children about the human brain. Voice narration, mini-games and a journal feature to track progress aim to make it entertaining as well as educational.iPadTaposé – Collaborative Content CreationTaposé started life as an attempt to bring features from Microsoft's shelved Courier tablet to the iPad. It's a multi-tasking app that splits the iPad's screen, so you can browse websites and look at maps while writing, sketching and highlighting. Collaboration is also a key feature to work with other users.iPadBrowserQuestMultiplayer online adventure BrowserQuest is a collaboration between Mozilla and developer Little Workshop, designed to show the gaming potential of HTML5 and JavaScript. That means it should work as well on tablets as on computers.HTML5Building TitanicYou can't move for Titanic memories this year, thanks to the 100th anniversary of the ship's demise. This iPad app is from National Geographic, and focuses on the construction of the Titanic, offering archive film and more than 100 photos.iPadFludI covered the move of social news reading app Flud from iOS to Androidearlier in March. Now it appears to have made the leap to Windows Phone too. Expect similar ability to customise news feeds according to your tastes, while following other users with similar interests.Windows PhoneThe Official Masters TournamentThis year's Masters golf tournament in Augusta has an official app that will provide a live simulcast of CBS' TV coverage, as well as extra live streams from specific holes on the course during the 2-8 April event. Alas, the live video won't work outside the US, but other features include a live leaderboard, course overview and news – making it a good second-screen option for fans watching elsewhere in the world.iPadGangstar Rio: City of SaintsGameloft has ported its Brazilian Grand Theft Auto wannabe from iOS to Android, letting you explore Rio de Janeiro, meet lots of people... and then shoot them. The game includes more than 60 missions and a soundtrack including M.I.A. and Bonde do Role.AndroidBean Bag Kids Present PinocchioDeveloper Mundomono has launched its second Bean Bag Kids book-app, following up Little Red Riding Hood with another familiar tale: Pinocchio. Its beanbag heroes play the roles, with plenty of interactivity and animation, and additional puzzles offered as an in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadColorsSubtitled "A magazine about the rest of the world", this is the official iPad app for Colors magazine, which is much beloved by creatives for its innovative design and global focus.iPadBabbel language-learning appsNot one app, but a suite of them from Babbel. They're language-learning apps for Android, covering Spanish, English, Polish, Italian, French, Portugese, German, Turkish, Indonesian, Swedish and Dutch.AndroidComedy Central's Indecision Election CompanionPerhaps unsurprisingly, this is only available in the US. It's from MTV subsidiary Comedy Central, and offers a companion to the presidential election campaign with humorous photos, blog posts and sharing features.iPhone / iPadSeesmic ProSocial startup Seesmic has launched a paid version of its Android app, with a key feature being the ability to view Facebook and Twitter streams as a single feed. Another difference to the free version is no advertising.AndroidRowActivBritish Rowing wants to get more Brits, well, rowing. Its RowActiv app aims to provide encouragement, offering training sessions for different fitness levels with audio and video tutorials. The app is free but different modules cost money through in-app purchases.iPhoneLondon UnlockedThis iPhone app provides a guide to London for children, from Big Ben's bongs to unwrapped mummies, marching soldiers and "I-Spy in the sky" on the London Eye. It promises 67 suggested activities – good for parents with bored kids to entertain in the Easter holidays.iPhoneLondon Jack the RipperMaybe don't let the kids use this app, though. It's also a tour-guide for London, but this time devoted to the infamous serial killer. It's an audio-tour, with voice narration guiding you around Whitechapel in Jack's footsteps.iPhoneMadame Tussauds - OfficialJust like buses, it seems London tourism apps come in threes. This is the official app for Madame Tussauds – although not just the London attraction, but 11 others around the world. The app offers news, offers, ticket sales and a photo feature.iPhoneNewsyMobile video news app Newsy has launched versions for Windows Phone, Symbian and MeeGo, offering two-minute recaps of hot stories drawing on various sources.Windows Phone / Symbian / MeeGo
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows 8 shutdown made easy, by way of Microsoft &gt;&gt; InfoWorldShut down, restart, and log-off used to be simple actions from the Start menu in Microsoft Windows, but in Windows 8, theStart menu sleeps with the fishes, and turning off your PC from the legacy desktop involves several less-than-intuitive steps. Imagine my surprise then when I discovered, hidden in a dark corner of the company website, a couple of Microsoft-approved apps that do everything you might want.Microsoft has to release apps to let you shot down / restart / log off in Windows 8? This is wrong, wrong, wrong.Apple: iPad battery nothing to get charged up about &gt;&gt; AllThingsDSo here's how things work: Apple does, in fact, display the iPad (and iPhone and iPod Touch) as 100% charged just before a device reaches a completely charged state. At that point, it will continue charging to 100%, then discharge a bit and charge back up to 100%, repeating that process until the device is unplugged. Doing so allows devices to maintain an optimum charge, Apple VP Michael Tchao told AllThingsD today.It's as though THE MACHINES ARE LYING TO US.A Pinterest spammer tells all &gt;&gt; Daily DotAfter he read our article about his process of spamming Pinterest through thousands of bot accounts, Steve, who declined to give his last name, contacted us with an offer to clarify some of his methods. He proved his identity by providing a screenshot of his Amazon Affiliate account--the same final-fantas07 that we discussed in the aforementioned article.  We were shocked by some of the facts Steve shared. For instance, he makes $1000 a day, and out of his thousands of spambots, Pinterest has only deleted one.Sosomeoneis making money out of Pinterest.How the Daily Mail Conquered England &gt;&gt; The New YorkerNot technology at all. You know what? It's worth reading anyhow. Also, the Mail has a website:Clarke and his staff built the site by instinct. "I didn't look at that many Web sites for design ideas," he told me. Formally, they stuck with what they knew, developing a publishing system that allows them to put together the home page with the glue-pot flexibility of a newspaper, rather than having to slot stories into a template. The home page is hectic, with hundreds of stories competing for the reader's attention. It is unusually long--literally, like a scroll--as are its headlines. (Both tactics help to bolster its search-engine rankings.) It uses far more pictures, and in larger sizes, than its competitors. "The site breaks all so-called 'usability rules,' " Clarke said. "It's user-friendly for normal people, not for internet fanatics."Note: extremely strong language.Apple Has 163 Reasons To Release Fabled 'iPad mini' &gt;&gt; AppAdviceThe rumour that won't go away gets a fresh outing:Two weeks ago, a Samsung executive with inside knowledge of Apple's affairs repeated the all-but-forgotten 7.85-inch iPad mini rumor, and same-day (re)reports of contracted display manufacturers added considerable volume to the mini mania. Still, rumors are just rumors, and they aren't particularly convincing in and of themselves. It doesn't matter how many sources echo some generic sentiment. What does matter is a rumor's singular specificity. In this case, it's that pesky 7.85 inches. And what makes everything even more convincing is that the leaky sources never sought to explain why that number's so darned significant! So, allow me.The analysis is, definitely, intriguing, though it's based on what Applecoulddo rather than why it wouldwantto release a smaller tablet. Has the "iPad mini" moment arrived yet? In the iPod market, it only happened after Flash MP3 players started getting some traction at the low end. That's just not happening outside China for 7in tablets. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)ACCC to seek orders against Apple for alleged misleading iPad "4G" claims &gt;&gt; Australian Competition and Consumer CommissionThe Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will be making an application to the Federal Court in Melbourne tomorrow at 9:30am for orders against Apple Pty Limited and Apple Inc (Apple) for alleged contraventions of the Australian Consumer Law (ACL). The ACCC alleges that Apple's recent promotion of the new "iPad with WiFi + 4G" is misleading because it represents to Australian consumers that the product "iPad with WiFi + 4G" can, with a SIM card, connect to a 4G mobile data network in Australia, when this is not the case.Can't see Apple winning this one. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Think twice before installing Chrome extensions &gt;&gt; SecurelistWith Brazil loving Chrome, the bad guys are creating extensions which take over your Facebook profile.You're probably asking yourself how the bad guys are turning this malicious scheme into money. Well, it's easy: they have total control of the victim's profile, so they created a service to sell "Likes" on Facebook, especially focused for companies that want to promote their profiles, gaining more fans and visibility: 1000 likes earn R$ 50.00 (around U$ 27.00) Of course, to sell the "Likes" they use the profile of the victims. Be careful when using Facebook. And think twice before installing a Google Chrome extension.(Thanks @pauljreynolds for the link.)October 2007: Daedalus Capital's Coleman says Apple 'is going to $600' &gt;&gt; BloombergAt the time, Apple had sold barely any iPhones, andits stock price was $184.70. In 2009 it fell back below $100 as the financial crisis hit. What is Stephen Coleman doing now?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Let's get some mid-week chatterboxing kicked off! Who's going to start?
Apple has offered refunds to Australians who bought a new iPad 3 after the maker admitted it does not work on the country's 4G network.Australia's consumer watchdog found Apple had misled customers with its  recent promotion of the new "iPad with WiFi + 4G".In a statement, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) said Apple had "represented to Australian consumers that the product 'iPad with WiFi + 4G' can, with a sim card, connect to a 4G mobile data network in Australia, when this is not the case".Australia does have 4G service on the Telstra network but the new iPad connects to 4G on the 700MHz and 2100Mhz frequencies, neither of which is used by Telstra.The ACCC has taken Apple to court alleging its advertising broke four sections of Australian consumer law.The new iPad is compatible with some 4G networks in the US and Canada. It is incompatible with all European 4G frequencies, including those proposed for the UK.The ACCC is seeking a court order for Apple to publish corrective advertising on its website and in newspapers, and for Apple to stop branding it as "iPad with WiFi + 4G".Australia was the first country to sell the new iPad, launching it on 16 March. The ACCC has said in court  it wrote to Apple outlining its concerns the day before the launch.Apple says it will place a clarifying statement at  point of sale and send emails to customers offering them a refund if they bought the iPad 3 thinking it was compatible with Australia's 4G network. It is resisting an ACCC attempt to force it to put stickers on its packaging.Telstra has not promoted the new iPad as 4G compatible. Instead it has marketed it as the "new Ipad on our data + tablet bundle".Another major Australian carrier, Optus, advertises it as a Wi-Fi and 3G device.
In app terms, 2008 feels a world away. Apple launched its App Store in July that year, and issued a press release trumpeting 10m downloads in its first weekend. Fast forward to March 2012,and a single game – Angry Birds Space – was hitting the same three-day milestone, albeit on iOS, Android and PC/Mac.Times have changed, though. Apps are big business, and the scale of a hit is on a different level. In August 2008, Super Monkey Ball's 300k iPhone sales in 20 days was big news. In 2012, it took seven weeks for Draw Something to reach 35m downloads and spark a $180m acquisition of its developer OMGPOP.Simon Oliver was one of the early success stories, with his Rolando game making him "Britain's first app millionaire" according to Carphone Warehouse, which has enlisted him as a judge for its 2012 Appys awards.He agrees that the industry has changed hugely between 2008 and now. "A lot of the big guys are involved now compared to the early days, when it was mainly people having a little bit of a punt," he says."The games guys like EA weren't there at the start with any real presence, there were no banking apps or any of these apps that provide a significant service. It shows how much of a phenomenon it's become."Oliver says that his involvement in the Appys has made him realise that one key change is in usage habits for smartphones and tablets – the latter, of course, a device category that still wasn't on the radar of consumer-focused developers in 2008."You've got people doing internet banking, documents and presentations on a phone or an iPad, and as the power of these devices has increased, you have things like iMovie and iPhoto too," he says. "We're seeing more and more ways in which tasks previously associated with PC functionality will shift to these touch-interface devices."After Rolando and its sequel, Oliver made a switch to PlayStation 3 for his company Handcircus' next game Okabu, self-publishing it on Sony's PlayStation Network store.It came out in October 2011 to a mixed critical reception – its Metacritic rating is 59/100 – but was only the first step to creating a world that would spawn several games on different platforms."We wanted to retain ownership of the IP so we could build something that we knew would work across different platforms," says Oliver. "That's been our focus since October, working on a prototype for a new free-to-play game set in the Okabu universe, for iOS and Android."Okabu was a PS3 game, but its world is spawning a new mobile titleOliver had a ringside seat at one of the big, early moves into freemium gaming on iOS, when Rolando's publisher ngmoco announced in the summer of 2009 that it was pivoting into free-to-play games – a move that eventually led to its $403m acquisition by Japanese social games firm DeNA."When ngmoco decided to go free-to-play, I didn't know how to make games like that," says Oliver. "All the games I'd played as a kid had been based on that pay-up-front model, and looking at Rolando, it felt very hard to turn a level-based platform game into a free-to-play title. But ideas have been bubbling away for the last couple of years…"Oliver warmly praises Triple Town, Words With Friends and Draw Something as games that do a good job with the free-to-play model, and play to the strengths of the mobile and tablet platform rather than trying to ape other devices.Triple Town sparks a separate conversation though. As someone who has publicly spoken aboutthe importance of games developers retaining ownership of their IP, Oliver has views on the recent controversies around mobile game cloning.Triple Town's developer Spry Fox is suing publisher 6waves Lolapps (6L) for the latter's similar Yeti Town, claiming that it had showed Triple Town under NDA to 6L when the companies were considering a partnership.Meanwhile, Tiny Tower developer NimbleBit criticised (but stopped short of suing) Zynga for its Dream Heights game, suggesting that rebuffing the latter's acquisition feelers had led Zynga to develop a clone instead."On one hand, developers have a much more balanced relationship with publishers than they used to, but there has been a breakdown in trust where there is an element of fear around showing a prototype to another company," says Oliver, speaking generally rather than about these specific cases."Even when people have ownership of their IP, that's not always enough to protect it, if a bigger company can put a team together and build something straight away."That said, Oliver hasn't been put off seeking a publishing partnership for the new iOS and Android Okabu game – he says it's at prototype stage now, and that he's been showing it to several publishers and social platform owners (DeNA and GREE would be examples of the latter)."It should come out later this year. We're looking for the right partner. A lot of these companies are realising that it's good to be able to leap on things that have potential as quickly as possible."Voting for the2012 Appys awardscloses on 31 March.
Facebook has threatened tosue companiesthat force their employees to reveal their Facebook login details. As laudable as this is, I worry that it will fail to accomplish its primary objective – protecting Facebook users from employer snooping.Increasingly, firms configure the computers and devices on their internal networks to trust "self-signed certificates". These cryptographic certificates are the same files used by your browser to establish secure, eavesdropping-proof connections to websites and to validate software updates, and to generally validate the identity of remote machines and guard the files they send you from tampering and spying.Firms have legitimate (ish) reasons to install these certificates. Many firms treat the names of the machines on their internal networks as proprietary information (eg accounting.sydney.australia.company.com), but still want to use certificates to protect their users' connections to those machines. So rather than paying for certificates from one of the hundreds of certificate authorities trusted by default in our browsers – which would entail disclosing their servers' names – they use self-signed certificates to protect those connections.But the presence of your employer's self-signed certificate in your computers' list of trusted certs means that your employer can (nearly) undetectably impersonate all the computers on the internet, tricking your browser into thinking that it has a secure connection to your bank, Facebook, or Gmail, all the while eavesdropping on your connection.Many big firms use "lawful interception" appliances that monitor all employee communications, including logins to banks, health providers, family members, and other personal sites. Even firms that don't require self-signed certificates in their employees' computers may use keyloggers, screenloggers, and other spying tools to watch what you do and capture your passwords. If your employer, school or institution gets to control the software on your computer, you can't know that it's not snooping on you at all times. Just ask the kids in theLower Merion School District, whose school-issued laptops were loaded with software that let school administrators covertly watch students at home and at school through the computers' webcams.Some may argue that employees who don't want to be spied upon should not use company premises for personal business. There's a grain of truth to this, but it's a small grain. After all, America is "the land of the 55-hour work-week", where personal time to conduct personal business is most often found in snatches between work at your employer's premises.Besides, there are plenty of contexts in which "company property" would not excuse this level of snooping. If you met your spouse on your lunchbreak to discuss a private medical matter in the break room or car park, you would probably expect that your employer wouldn't use a hidden microphone to listen in on the conversation – even though you were "on company property". Why should your employer get to snoop on your private webmail conversations with your spouse during your lunch-break?This was what I was getting at in my essayWhat's Inside the Box?: if we totalise property and elevate it above human rights, privacy and dignity, we end up in a situation where many of the devices in our lives, from the thermostats that have the power to freeze us or cook us, to the lease-purchase prostheses that let us live our lives, to the contract-subsidised mobile phones that have the power to watch our every move and record our every breath, are all designed to lock us out from controlling them – or even knowing what they're doing.
Aleks Krotoski is joined by Charles Arthur and Gia Milinovich to discuss sexism in the technology industry.We discuss the new internet gallery at Bradford's National Media Museum, and look at how the UK budget will impact on the technology industry.
A few weeks ago, I went into the Bath branch of Game to buy an Xbox 360 copy of Lego Star Wars. It's an old title, but part of an immensely popular series; I figured there was a chance it would still be stocked – especially as it has been re-released as part of the budget Xbox Classics range.Inside, however, I found one slim shelving unit selling the current top 20 releases, while the rest of the store was given over to endless racks of pre-owned titles. The game was a gift, I didn't want a second-hand copy, but there was simply no new back catalogue stock to be had. I left and bought it online. So much for the high street retail experience.On Monday, the Game retail chain went into administration, ending 20 years of business and a once dominant institution. Immediately 277 of the 600 UK and Ireland stores were closed by administrator PwC, with the loss of more than 2,000 jobs. The Bath store, in the city's pristine new shopping centre, is one of the casualties. According to industry news source MCV, several potential buyers are circling the company, but whatever happens, Game's vast empire, which often included two or more stores in the same town, has fallen. PwC partner Mike Jervis blamed "high fixed costs, an ambitious international roll-out" for the crisis – but was there a deeper malaise? Does this signal the end for bricks and mortar games retailing?Here's a quick recap: high street spending is spiralling downwards due to plunging discretionary incomes and the long, inexorable rise of internet shopping. On top of that, in the games sector, the industry is moving to a digital model in which titles are bought online then downloaded directly to consoles and PCs. A seeming fait accompli for retail stores."The transition to digital has been faster than many people anticipated," says Lisa Byfield-Green an analyst at Planet Retail. "With that many shops, Game could not keep pace. Any future for the company will involve a much smaller store base – whether that means being split and bought by different companies, or someone deciding to take on Game as a whole."Once, there may have been a respite. The five-yearly console cycle could have spiked interest and gathered some sales momentum, but that, too, is over. The costs of developing and maintaining the current machines has led both Microsoft and Sony to lengthen the lifespan, filling the gap with peripherals such as Kinect and Move. But without a showcase hardware launch in seven years, the specialist stores have suffered. "Games retailers can't rely on the console cycle in the way they could 10 years ago," says Patrick O'Brien, principal retail analyst at Verdict Research. "And looking into the future, we're talking about hardware coming out that doesn't require physical media at all."Despite the gloom, however, we are notnecessarilyfacing the imminent death of high street video gaming retailing. Let's start with the whole issue of digital downloads. A few weeks ago there were rumours that the next Xbox console might not feature an optical disc drive, which led some to speculate that the console would abandon physical media altogether, making all its games available for digital download via the internet.In some ways that seems sensible. Game publishers would save a fortune on physical distribution and make a far better cut on every copy sold, by dealing directly with consumers. Console manufacturers, who would provide the online stores, could also use a similar model to Apple, which generates a healthy 30% on every iPhone app sold.But this is unlikely right now. "The average Xbox title is anything up to 8 gig and some of the PS3 games are 15-20GB," points out Nick Elliott, founder of Barkman Computers, an indie retailer that has managed to survive in this business for 25 years."I don't think the broadband infrastructure we have in this country is ready for that." According to Ofcom, average broadband speeds in the UK are around 7.6Mpbs, but research from price comparison portaluSwitchsuggests a third of households are below that, meaning that downloading a full console title may take several hours.Andrew Ferguson of Thinkbroadband.com claims, the system could handle full-game downloads on a massive scale, but that there would be problems. "The large unlimited providers like BT Total, Sky, Virgin Media and TalkTalk are likely to be able to cope, though the incidence rates of congested areas will increase, particularly if usage rises faster than upgrades can be ordered, which often can take a few weeks or a couple of months to go live." And with lots of smaller providers attempting to complete on price in the unlimited downloads space, usage increases will inevitably lead to slow-downs and disgruntled customers.Rather than going digital-only, then, it's probable that Microsoft plans to switch from DVDs to SD cards or some other proprietary memory card format. This would offer considerably more storage (vital for the next generation of titles – already we're seeing Xbox titles on multiple DVDs), without the need to endorse the Sony-led Blu-ray format. And with the PlayStation Vita using cards like these already, it's likely the PlayStation 4 will follow suit whenever its announced.This hybrid model would keep bricks and mortar retailers in a loop that they are already doing their best to cling on to. Apart from running their own online stores, most game shops also sell cards containing points, which can be used to buy games in the Xbox Live Arcade, Nintendo eShop and PlayStation Network online services. Game also had deals in place with Sony and Microsoft to sell download cards for specific digital titles.This made a lot of sense: browsing virtual retailers, as anyone who's ever used the App Store will attest, is not always the most intuitive experience. It's fine if you know what you want, but not so great if you want to browse and discover new stuff. Being able to walk into a Game shop and find cards selling titles such as Braid, Castle Crashers and Limbo made these indie gems more visible to casual players. If this scheme was widened it might allow smaller chains and indies to get in on the digital marketplace.And if consoles did switch to memory card formats in future, there are other possibilities for high street stores. One model could see consumers bringing their own blank memory sticks into stores to have the latest digital titles downloaded on to them; okay, it involves leaving the house, but it would mean you wouldn't have to wait hours for a game to download via your own broadband connection. In the US, Nintendo has attempted something similar with the 3DS console, setting up special Wi-Fi-based Nintendo Zones in stores such as Best Buy, allowing gamers to download exclusive content such as demos and money-off coupons to their handheld consoles.So if there's a potential new retail model in place, why couldn't Game hang on? What went wrong? "Game's management have to take some of the blame," says O'Brien. "They didn't really create very exciting shops – and they never implemented a clear multi-channel strategy. Although they have a 'click and collect' service, it is offered at different prices to in-store stock. Instead of allowing you to reserve/pay for store stock online to pick up, you have to buy online and wait for it to be delivered to the store – even if there are copies of that game available in store, apparently –which is a pretty shabby implementation. Compare this to Argos, where you can reserve and pick up from store stock immediately."Game also attempted to grow its empire at exactly the wrong time. In 2007, the company bought out rival chain Gamestation, adding 200 stores to its bloated regime – a year later the economy collapsed, leaving the chain with miles of retail space and no doubt a few long, cripplingly expensive leases.The retailer also turned to pre-owned sales to bump up profits, and saw excellent returns by re-selling second-hand titles. But this alienated many publishers and developers who felt excluded from the value chain. "Game, as a business, has relied heavily on pre-owned sales" says Elliot. "This was frustrating for publishers who couldn't sell much product in after release because game had enough copies that had been traded back in – these were the very same publishers that Game turned to for support when they hit a rough patch."But then, of course, Game isn't the only troubled retailer in this arena. "The entertainment sector's really difficult at the moment," says Byfield-Green. "Toys R Us released some results last week that said their entertainment sales were down 8.7% during Q4 2011 which has obviously impacted their figures. Even Amazon has said that game sales during the fourth quarter were lower for them. And obviously, specialists – who only have those items to offer – are going to be impacted more than anybody else."Smaller chains and indies are also suffering, making cutbacks, giving space to pre-owned, slicing into the pitiful returns on new game sales. According to Mark Harrison, the owner of Maidenhead-based store 24-7 Games, the trade price for a major console title is around £37; "If I want to sell them at the magic 'below £40' price point I'm making £2 a copy". And when a big title arrives, supermarkets can massively undercut everyone else by selling at a loss to get customers through the doors, or by tying in the product with other in-store membership deals and purchases.But then the specialists do have a weapon – and this is the one bright spot in the whole story. In the book sector, which has seen a similar tale of decline and loss due to competition from supermarkets and digital distribution, a new generation of stores has come out fighting. The answer is deceptively simple: play to your strengths, offer something customers can't get at Tesco or online."What we've seen with other successful chains is an element of retail theatre," says Byfield-Green. "You've got to give people a reason to come into a store. We've seen it a lot in the US. Barnes &amp; Noble has a tie in with Angry Birds, where people can bring their Nook eBook device and get exclusive content when they visit a store. In the UK, Foyles are growing their sales and their store base, but they're relatively small and they're able to tailor their stock to their local customers. That's where the national chains need to re-focus. You have to give local customers what they want. If you do that, there's always room for specialists."That's the thing. Going into Game felt like shopping at a high street cross between Amazon and eBay – it was confusing and unattractive. The staff were often great, but the environment sucked. About 10 minutes up the road from the Bath branch of Game there's an indie bookstore namedMr B's Emporiumthat offers an interesting selection of carefully aggregated titles; plus, when you buy a gift token, the recipient can come into store for a"reading spa"receiving personal staff recommendations based on their interests and preferences.Apple stores have perfected this whole idea of customer engagement, not just with its Genius bars and personal setup workshops, but just with providing dozens of MacBooks and iPads to play with. I know how effective this is, because my sons run into the Bath store every time we pass, to play Lego Indiana Jones on the small bank of iMacs. "Dixons have followed this recently, creating 'playtables' of products for people to get hands on time with in an inviting environment'" says O'Brien. "Game alienated many of its core gaming customer base with a limited range, high in-store pricesanda curious unwillingness to engage with them. As a result, Game stores became specialist stores that didn't really feel specialist at all."But the "retail theatre" conceptistransferable to games. "In my store we have three 50-inch plasma screens, we have all the consoles set up so people can try the games, and we hold competitions," says Harrison. Based in a large shopping centre, he recently worked a deal with the owners of the mall to temporarily take over an empty unit next to his store. For the Easter weekend he's turning it into a dedicated Skylanders shop, based around the hugely popular Activision adventure game and range of toys. "It's all worked out really well," he says. "The centre have given us the store because they appreciate the extra footfall, Activision has spent a couple of grand providing two actors in Skylanders costumes so children can get their photos taken – even the local paper has got involved. It's something we've put together at minimal cost but it will bring people in over the Easter weekend."It doesn't even have to be that ambitious – it can just be about how to present stock to the customers. "Just like in a book store, when you have a new bestseller you shelve it near similar titles, or something you have on offer," says Elliot. "You have to attach other products to the transaction. And expertise is important – we do recommendations, we talk to our customers, find out what they've liked recently and we make recommendations."Where does all this leave Game? The future is extremely uncertain for the surviving stores. "I see two likely outcomes," says Ben Parfitt, a reporter at MCV. "A company could acquire the new-look slimmed down Game.GameStopremains the favourite in many people's eyes, though I think there are valid questions to be asked about its hunger for a retail acquisition. It has stated categorically that it sees growth in the UK via digital and its website."There is also a lot of momentum behind the RBS-led consortium, although I think we can be sceptical about the idea of a state-owned retailer. Then there's OpCapita, which has the funds and very much believes in its plan for Game."Alternatively, there is no acquisition, leading to the eventual closure of all stores and an end to The Game Group. Sadly I think this remains very much a possibility."I grew up as a gamer in the 80s, hanging out in smoky arcades and ramshackle independent game shops – they were the geek equivalent of music stores such asRough TradeandSister Ray. There is still a value in that, still a value in being able to hang out, discover new games and be with other people who enjoy them. Indeed, as social media extends to mobile devices via apps such as FourSquare and handheld console concepts such as StreetPass and Near, we're getting into the idea of being out there again.What has happened to the Game group needs to be a lesson, not a requiem, for high street retail. Whatever happens, it doesn't have to mean game over.
A selection of 16 new apps for you today:MadonnaJust in time for the release of her new album MDNA, Madonna has a new iPad app – the first artist to get the tablet treatment using Mobile Roadie's DIY platform. Like the iPhone and Android versions, it offers news, videos, song clips and social features.iPadTemple RunTemple Run has been a monster hit on iOS with more than 45m downloads. Now it's finally on Android too, displacing a number of dodgy fake versions that appeared on Google's Play store in its absence. The real deal remains fun, as you run and leap through treasure-hunting environments.AndroidZoho DocsGoogle Docs has some online competition in the form of Zoho Docs, and now the battle has expanded to Android. People with Zoho accounts can access their documents, spreadsheets and presentations.AndroidYorkshire PostJohnston Publishing's Yorkshire Post has made the leap to iPad with an app that charges readers £7.99 a month via Apple's iTunes subscriptions system. The app blends content from the newspaper and its website, including a full digital replica of the daily paper.iPadCaptain's ConquestThis is interesting: a massively multiplayer piracy game for Android, where you sail the virtual seas and visit ports based on locations in your real-world city. Social features include the ability to form fleets with friends.AndroidGQ Style UKGQ's fashion spin-off is published every six months as a print magazine. Now it's an iOS app too, charging £5.99 for each digital issue. It promises readers that it'll "guide you safely through any style and fashion pitfalls that might befall you".iPhone / iPadApparatjikRock band Apparatjik may qualify for supergroup status, given that it includes members of Coldplay and A-ha. It's also innovative on the apps front, having launched an augmented reality iOS app for its new album.iPhone / iPadTrendablTrendabl is a fashion-focused social app for iPhone that gets people to upload photos of their own clobber, while following "Tastemakers" to see what they're recommending. The latter include Diane von Furstenberg, Nicky Hilton and Barneys NY. Pics can be shared to Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr too.iPhonePro-Direct SoccerzoneSports store Pro-Direct has teamed up with Nike for this iPhone app, which pulls in social updates and videos from Nike-sponsored players like Wayne Rooney and Cristiano Ronaldo, while showing off the latest boots and kit to buy.iPhoneiPoeSubtitled 'The Interactive and illustrated Edgar Allan Poe Collection', this adds illustrations and animation to some of Poe's spookiest stories, complete with an original soundtrack and a choice of English, Spanish or French text.iPadEbuzzingWant to keep pace with today's viral videos? Ebuzzing aims to help. It tracks videos that are causing a stir on social networks and serves them up from sources including YouTube and Dailymotion.iPhone / iPadKyte Phone BetaKyte Phone promises to turn "any Android into a kids-friendly phone", restricting children to calling numbers approved by their parents, and using apps and games unlocked for their use. There's also a website dashboard to keep tabs on their activity.AndroidSecrets and Treasures in Muswell HillThis app wants to persuade more residents to shop locally in Muswell Hill by sending them on a treasure hunt, solving puzzles to win prizes. It also includes 'archive postcards' showing how the area used to be, which can be accessed by users who aren't there right now too.Android / iPhoneCurzon Memories AppMore location-based UK goodness with this app, based on the Curzon Community Cinema in Clevedon. It gets people to scan QR codes around the building to hear stories from local people. There's a manual interface to access everything if you're not in Clevedon too.iPhoneCamden TownOne more? Why not. This app wants to be "the perfect companion for a trip to Camden Town", offering YouTube video tours from local celebrities (Wayne  Hemmingway, Suggs) as well as tips, discounts and a personalisable map.iPhoneRed Bull Kart Fighter World TourRed Bull has released a top-down iOS karting game, with a global tour solo mode and a same-device multiplayer mode.iPhone / iPad
HTC is shutting down its free HTCSense.com cloud service in order to "renovate" it – a move which may be the first time a company has destroyed a public cloud service that it intends to re-create.The move,announced in the HTCSense.com page, isexplained by HTC as follows:HTCSense.com is undergoing a renovation to improve the services and value we deliver to customers like you.Until the new services are ready, features previously available on HTCSense.com will be shutting down. If you have been using HTCSense.com to sync your Contacts, Messages, Footprints or Call History, you can download your data through 30 April 2012. After 30 April, your data will no longer be accessible and will be deleted.That gives the (unknown number of) customers of HTCSense just over a month to download their data, a process which is done through a zip file.HTCSense.com is warning customers it will delete their data after 30 AprilBut the company has also annoyed customers who only found out through media reports; it does not seem to have alerted customers through email of the plans.The service was launched in October 2010 with the purpose of backing up user data such as text messages and contacts, plus a personal checkin service for location-specific notes. It could also be used to help to locate lost (or stolen) handsets and to change ring volume (if lost) or post messages on the lock screen (if lost or stolen).In that sense, it closely resembledNokia's Ovi service– which has since been discontinued in that form.HTC has sold millions of handsets since the service was launched, but it is not known how many people signed up to the service. Users who contacted the Guardian had a variety of uses for the service – from its calendar service to its phone location service.The Taiwanese manufacturer, which is struggling to regain lost share in the Android handset market to Samsung at the high end and rivals such as ZTE at the lower end, has not explained why it has to destroy the service in order to renovate it. Apple's current iCloud service has been through a number of incarnations, starting as the free iTools service in January 2000 before transitioning to the paid-for .Mac service in July 2002, and then later to MobileMe, before becoming the free iCloud service in autumn 2011.But HTC's biggest challenge for its HTCSense service will have been Google's own cloud services for Android phones, which include cloud syncing of contacts and apps, as well as location functions through Google Latitude.An HTC spokesperson told the Guardian that "HTCSense is being renovated to add enhancements to customer experience. As part of that, some of the information stored will need to be deleted."
Tim Cook, the new chief executive of Apple, has made his first visit to China since taking over from the late Steve Jobs.The visit is widely seen as a precursor to Apple ramping up its investment in the world's most populous market. Cook held a series of high-level meetings with Chinese government officials and has visited the company's stores in the country.An Apple spokeswoman in China said: "Tim is in China meeting with government officials. China is very important to us and we look forward to even greater investment and growth there." But she refused to provide any further details of the trip.Cook visited Beijing's Joy City Apple Store to the excitement of locals who posted pictures to Chinese microblogging site Sina Weibo. Apple  has only five stores in mainland China and one in Hong Kong, and analysts reckon Cook is likely to pump more money into opening new stores. "Cook will certainly be talking about increasing the number of stores. In the past they were planning an accelerated store rollout programme," said Robert Clark, an analyst at Electric Speech, a telecom consultancy in Hong Kong.China is the world's largest mobile market and already Apple's second biggest market overall, but the firm has been losing ground there to rival Samsung in smartphones and has yet to introduce the latest version of its top-selling iPad to the country. In the last quarter of 2011, Apple captured three quarters of China's tablet PC market, while its iPhone ranked fifth in the country's smartphone sector, according to industry figures.China also poses a serious of headaches for Cook, with  claims of poor working conditions at Foxconn, which assembles its iPhones and iPads and has been beset by a series of suicides. At the beginning of Cook's visit to China, an activist group based in Hong Kongpublished an open letter, demanding "that Apple ensure decent working conditions at all its suppliers". The Students &amp; Scholars Against Corporate Misbehaviour (Sacom) demanded an end to "poverty wages" and excessive and forced overtime."They describe their daily routine as work, eat and sleep. They described themselves as machines that repeated the same monotonous motion for thousands [of[ times a day," the letter said. "With all its success in the global marketplace, Apple undoubtedly has [the[ ability to rectify these problems."
A spate of racist comments directed at Premiership footballers and broadcast on Twitter has prompted concerns about use of the social media network.In the past week, two cases have come to court involving students who sent outoffensive messages insulting the former Liverpool striker Stan Collymoreand the Bolton Wanderers midfielder Fabrice Muamba, who collapsed during a recent FA Cup tie.A variety of laws are being used by the Crown Prosecution Service to deal with offenders as police forces move swiftly to deal with high-profile cases. A number of footballers and celebrities are reported to have closed their accounts on the micro-blogging site after becoming targets of abuse.In the two latest cases, a Newcastle University law student Joshua Cryer, 21, admitted using the social networking site to bombard Collymore with abuse in an attempt to "snare a celebrity" by provoking a reaction.He was charged under section 127 of the Communications Act of sending grossly offensive messages, which included racist taunts, to the former England player. He was sentenced to a two-year community order with 240 hours' unpaid work and ordered to pay £150 costs to the court.Liam Stacey, a 21-year-old biology undergraduate at Swansea University, pleaded guilty to a charge under the Crime and Disorder Act of making racially aggravated comments.Lisa Jones, prosecuting, told the court: "Fabrice Muamba collapsed on the pitch and was believed to have died. Shortly after, Stacey posted on Twitter: 'LOL, Fuck Muamba. He's dead'." Stacey is due to be sentenced this week and has been told he could be jailed.The prosecutions demonstrate the determination of law enforcement agencies that what occurs online should be subject to everyday rules and regulations.The practice of online bullying and baiting, known more generally as "trolling", has been condemned repeatedly by ministers.Before attending a Downing Street summit last month tackling homophobia and racism in football, the culture secretary Jeremy Hunt said: "The behaviour of crowds has been that something that was socially acceptable 20 years ago is now socially unacceptable. Unfortunately, it seems still to be socially acceptable on Twitter." The term "Twacism" – for "twitter racism" – has gained a limited currency online.Legal action may not involve major investigations by police or prosecutors since offenders tend to be easy to track down through their social media accounts and faced with the evidence often plead guilty.But they do involve abuse that might otherwise not have been broadcast beyond the confines of a living room or pub. Commenting after Cryer's conviction, Wendy Williams, head of the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) in the north-east, said: "In recent months we have seen a number of similar cases in the north-east, in which people have been racially abused through social networking sites."Ironically, the strongest evidence in each of these cases has been directly provided by the defendants themselves. When a person makes such comments digitally, they effectively hand police and prosecutors much of the evidence needed to build a robust case against them."Other recent examples involving racial abuse on Twitter include two 17-year-olds who were given final warnings by the police over comments directed at Newcastle United's Sammy Ameobi.Last month, a Sunderland fan, Peter Copeland, was given a suspended prison sentence after pleading guilty to two offences under the Malicious Communications Act. It was said  he had sent out "grossly offensive" racist comments.Collymore, an active campaigner against racism, has been raising awareness of inappropriate remarks on Twitter and played a significant role in the arrest of Stacey. He has tweeted: "If you see anyone tweeting racist tweets today, or any day, please report them to your local police. They will listen and act. Thank you."The Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) said  there had been more than 2,000 prosecutions last year under section 127 of the Communications Act. The DCMS said: "The fundamental principle for internet-hosted material is that what is illegal offline is also illegal online."A CPS spokesman said: "Cases are prosecuted under different laws. We review the evidence given to us and decide what is the most appropriate legislation to charge under."Twitter says  it does not moderate or filter content on its site but insists  it has a set of rules intended to protect users and promote good behaviour. A spokeswoman said: "Twitter is a neutral platform, but we have rules that outline what users can and can't do. We do not pro-actively monitor content, but will review all reports of violations, and act on a case-by-case basis."
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTop 5 Browsers in Europe from Feb 2011 to Feb 2012 &gt;&gt; StatCounter Global StatsChrome is on an upward path that looks likely to overtake both Firefox and Internet Explorer within a couple of months.Free Wi-Fi to be made available at London Overground stations &gt;&gt; Guardian Government ComputingPassengers travelling on London Overground are to get free internet access after the body that runs the train network, London Overground Rail Operations Limited, signed a deal with The Cloud to roll out Wi-Fi at its stations. The contract will give travellers one hour of free online access every day, at any station on the network. The Wi-Fi rollout, which will cover all 56 London overground train stations, will begin in the summer and is expected to be completed by the end of the year.Nobody outside London wants Wi-Fi at stations, right? (And say hello to Guardian Government Computing, a great showcase for content aimed at professionals.)I Apologize if Anyone Felt Killed &gt;&gt; Rectified.nameWilliam Moss:Apologies are an under-appreciated art. Most apologies crafted in the name of public relations sound intrinsically weaselly, often because the people making them are preoccupied with saving their prior reputation rather than getting past the mistake and rebuilding trust. I was reminded of this when I read Mike Daisey'sstatementfollowing L'affaire Daisey, which I reckon I don't need to further explain to this audience.Lovely takedown of "passive apologies", of which Daisey's "apology" was a classic example. Note also the addition about steamrollers and North Korea.Guardian Open Weekend: your views &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukVery cool interactive from the Guardian's first Open Weekend.Sasha Frere-Jones: Good Things About Twitter &gt;&gt; The New YorkerJust read it. Who'd have thought The New Yorker, the home of long-form journalism, would have such a marvellous exposition of the value of 140-character discussion.The Future Of Mobile: slide deck &gt;&gt; Business Insider IntelligenceHenry Blodget and his team take you through some home truths about the smartphone market. Nothing dramatic, yet all very clear reinforcements of the main messages about the mobile market: you ain't seen nothing yet.New iPad versus 5 tablet competitors: which runs hottest? &gt;&gt; Wired Gadget LabYou need not fear heat blisters when handling the new iPad. Apple's new tablet is neither a burn risk, nor even particularly hot in the grand scheme of competing devices. We know because we tested the iPad against five other tablets. Sure, the new iPad, like all electronics hardware, heats up when pushed to its limits. This is just a matter of physics. Processors, batteries and back-lit displays generate heat under load. Consumer Reports proved this when itrecorded a temperature of 116 degreesFahrenheit on the back of the new iPad - this after plugging the tablet into a wall socket and playing a demanding 3-D game,Infinity Blade 2, for 45 minutes. This little stunt spurred a lot of online chatter, but it didn't explain whether the new iPad's heat generation is above and beyond that of other tablets on the market. So Wired decided to investigate.Turns out the Acer Iconia Tab A200 is coolest, then the iPad 2, then new iPad, BlackBerry PlayBook, Kindle Fire, and Asus Transformer Prime - the latter at 98.5F, just short of core body temperature.Burning All My Books &gt;&gt; Terence EdenI somehow acquired two copies of Machiavelli's "The Prince". What I want to convey to you is that I have a deep and abiding love for books. That is why I must burn them. Every time I find an ebook copy of a book I have on my shelf, the ebook version is downloaded - redundantly backed up - and placed in my Calibre library. The physical book is burned.Don't worry; as he says, it's not really Fahrenheit 451 in there. He gives them to charity shops. An interesting discussion ensues in the comments about which is more sustainable - an ebook reader or a book.The Free Universal Construction Kit &gt;&gt; F.A.T.Ever wanted to connect your Legos and Tinkertoys together? Now you can -- and much more. Announcing the Free Universal Construction Kit: a set of adapters for complete interoperability between 10 popular construction toys.Great idea. Needs work on the acronym if it wants to appeal to parents buying it for children though.Apple iPhone 4S vs Nokia Lumia 800 vs Samsung Galaxy S2 vs BlackBerry Bold 9900 - which has the best battery? &gt;&gt; RecombuGood test. Spoiler: the BlackBerry did best in real-world tests, followed by the Nokia Lumia. That iPhone 4S and Samsung were a long way behind them - though the iPhone did best in music and video playback tests, followed by the BlackBerry and the Lumia. Looks like it's a BlackBerry if you're going to be away from a charger, then.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Tuesday! How is every one? Any cheeky Monday night gaming yesterday?
Google's latest doodle pays tribute to one of the pioneers of modern architecture, Mies van der Rohe, who was born 126 years ago on Tuesday.He died 42 years ago, but his steel and glass buildings can be found in most major American cities. His most famous buildings include the Seagram building in New York, the Museum of Fine Art in Houston, the Martin Luther King library in Washington DC and the National Gallery in Berlin.Ludwig Mies van der Rohe was born in Aachen, Germany in 1886. Along with Walter Gropius and Le Corbusier, Mies was regarded as one of the masters of modern architecture. He was appointed director of the Bauhaus School of Architecture.The Great Depression of 1929 meant there was little money for building and the rise of the Nazis meant there was little taste for Mies' modern style of architecture. The style of Bauhaus and Mies was seen as not "German" enough after 1933, and the Nazis closed the school.Mies emigrated to the US in 1937, where he was appointed head of architecture of what was to become the Illinois Institute of Technology. His designs, and those of the students he influenced, have dominated American city centres from the 1950s until today.
A cross-party committee of MPs and peers has urged the government to consider introducing legislation that would force Google to censor its search results to block material that a court has found to be in breach of someone's privacy.In a report published today, the joint Commons and Lords committee said Google should proactively monitor its search results, highlighting evidence given by Max Mosley, the ex-Formula One boss who said he had spent at least £500,000 in 23 countries attempting to remove traces of a video filmed covertly by the News of the World from the internet.Google was criticised by the committee for its "totally unconvincing" objection to requests to filter its search results. The search giant argued that such a policy could threaten the unfettered flow of information online.The committee was set up by the prime minister in May last year to examine privacy and free speech after the controversy over the increasing use of injunctions, including one taken out by the footballer Ryan Giggs. The report, which has been widely trailed, warns against a new privacy law and sets out recommendations for an "enhanced" press regulator.The report's most pointed language is reserved for internet companies – such as Google, Facebook and Twitter – which the committee said had presented numerous challenges to the rule of law in the UK."Google and other search engines should take steps to ensure that their websites are not used as vehicles to breach the law and should actively develop and use such technology," the committee said. "We recommend that if legislation is necessary to require them to do so it should be introduced."The committee gave a clean bill of health to high court privacy injunctions, but said that they should routinely apply to websites such as Twitter and Facebook as well as newspapers. They urged the attorney general to be more willing to launch contempt of court claims against internet users if they are suspected of breaching privacy injunctions online, after it was found that the Giggs injunction was tweeted about more than 75,000 times when it finally collapsed in May last year.In a series of recommendations on the future of press regulation, the committee said the reformed Press Complaints Commission should have the power to fine newspapers and determine the prominence of printed apologies. It urged advertisers to withdraw funding from newspapers and major blogs that opt out of the reconstituted regulator, and threatened "statutory oversight" from a body such as Ofcom if the industry cannot agree a credible package of reforms.John Whittingdale MP, chair of the committee, said: "The committee spent some time debating whether additional laws to clarify the right to privacy were necessary or desirable."However, we concluded that the existing position, where each case is judged by the courts on an individual basis, is now working reasonably well. We are concerned that individuals with grievances about invasion of privacy should have an alternative to costly legal action available to them.It is clear that media self-regulation under the PCC did not work. We therefore wish to see a stronger self-regulatory system that is seen to be effective and commands the confidence of the public."A Google spokesman said: "This is a really important issue for which there are no easy answers, particularly when balancing freedom of expression and tackling unlawful content."Google already remove specific pages deemed unlawful by the courts. We have a number of simple tools anyone can use to report such content, which we then remove from our index."Requiring search engines to screen the content of their web pages would be like asking phone companies to listen in on every call made across their networks for potentially suspicious activity."
Twenty years ago this month, 100 American web geeks opened their inbox to find a bizarre email. Inside the message were two attachments. The first wasa photograph of the Telephone Chords, an a capella quartet comprising four hirsute IT researchers. The second:the Chords' recordingof an old barbershop favourite, Let Me Call You Sweetheart.But the attached content wasn't the weirdest thing. It was the attachment itself. This was the first functional attachment ever, or at least the first one most people could actually open. People had sent attachments before, but they were mostly useless because recipients couldn't open them unless they shared the sender's email system. This was the first time someone had sent something that was compatible across most email programs. And that someone was the quartet's tenor: a short, tubby man standing on the far right of the photograph, raising his bushy eyebrows and wearing a bright yellow cardigan.Two decades and a day later, Nathaniel Borenstein's cardigan is now grey. But his eyebrows are as bushy as ever, and he sits cross-legged on a sofa next to London's Regent's Canal, scratching his ankle, and laughing about his brainchild. Each day in 2012, we send around a trillion Mime attachments (the technical term forthe standardisation systeminvented by Borenstein and his collaborator Ned Freed) but in 1992, Borenstein says, it was a niche sport."There were several people who said: this is just an obscene waste of bandwidth," remembers Borenstein, then working for telecoms giant Bellcore (Telephone Chords: geddit?). "It was considered antisocial to send too big an email. People found it inconceivable that rather than posting a film photograph in the mail, you would prefer to scan and transmit them over a slow modem. They didn't see that in time you wouldn't scan the pictures, you'd use a digital camera; you wouldn't have a modem, you'd have high-speed internet. I would tell people: 'Some day I'm going to have grandkids, and I'll want to email&nbsp;people pictures of them.' And people laughed."Laughing is something Borenstein does a lot of. He spent last weekend training to be a laughter yoga instructor. He laughs at himself, a lot: "The second of [Buddhism's] Four Noble Truths tells us that the cause of all suffering is attachments," Borensteinwrote in a recent blogpostresponding to criticisms of his invention. "I bristle at this gross exaggeration. Surely attachments are responsible for no more than 25% of human suffering." Onhis website(underneath the heading: "If You Want To Know More Than This, You're A Stalker") he has publisheda psychological assessmentof his sunny character: according to the Myers-Briggs scale, Borenstein is 53% "extravert", 95% "intuitive", 63% "feeling", and 84% "perceiving"."The reason I put the profile there is that it's an unusual profile for a technical person," he smiles. In fact, he thinks it helps to explain why he helped create worldwide attachment compatibility. "I took another test that placed me on a scale between extremely dominant and extremely submissive. I was dead centre. And this is a very good position to have for someone who works in standardisation. In standards work, you have to be good at effecting compromise. You have to have a feel for people, and what would please them, but you also have to be willing to be definite, or assertive. Our achievement wasn't figuring outoneway of sending an attachment. It was getting 100 other email geeks to agree on thesameway of doing it."One thing they couldn't agree on was what to call it. "I hate the name attachment!" reveals Borenstein, still bristling after 20 years. This was because he didn't want the attachment to actually be an attachment: he wanted pictures and audio included within the body of an email. "I beat myself up about it," he says. "One of my mistakes was not to distinguish well enough between those two models. The result is that if I put a picture in the body of an email today, and send it on a Mac, you'll still see it as an attachment symbol on many PCs. That's the second-most embarrassing mistake I made."What was the first? "Every Mime object wastes 19 bytes," he confides, referring to the fact that every attachment includes 19 bytes of redundant coding. "Overall, we're wasting seven petabytes a year. But I only dislike it on aesthetic grounds: what's 19 bytes out of a 3MB email!" Any other regrets? Just one: "I went over the recording really carefully recently – and I think I missed a couple of notes."At a Telephone Chords reunionlast week, he finally got the chance to correct his&nbsp;mistake.On 1 April 1993, Borenstein suggested to fellow programmers that he had found a way to attach simple physical objects to emails. The example he chose was the head of the then-US vice president Dan Quayle,which he suggestedwould be fairly easy to code because Quayle was not the brightest, and so his head was probably no more than nitrogen oxide cased in a layer of iron. It was a April fool, obviously, but 19 years on, it's now a conceivable concept: these days you can attach codes that, when sent to a 3D printer, will create physical objects. Did Borenstein underestimate the potential of his invention? "I did foresee that there would be many more Mime-types than we could then envisage," he says. "But I didn't think there would be as many as there are. As of last month, there are 1,309. I started with 16." One thing he predicted that hasn't yet come true was the attachment of smell. "I could imagine that once the technology became cheap enough and widespread enough, advertisers would want to include scents. But the transport of matter was just a joke. And yet – while it's still not the case that we can take you apart and send you over email – it's getting much more believable. You can definitely foresee a company sending organs around. It's mindboggling."These days, many people foresee another mindboggling possibility: the death of email. Bored of spam and viruses, some say email has become too cumbersome and formal, and think the ease of communicating via social media is a logical next step. Last December, Thierry Breton, CEO at IT giant Atosannounced plans to abandon internal email, and instead rely on instant messaging and Google&nbsp;documents.Borenstein thinks its a silly idea. He recently wrote a blogpost that made several tongue-in-cheek predictions about the tech world in 2012. A recurrent theme was the failure of Atos' new communications strategy. "An employee of Atos in the US fails to receive an email notice of his child's illness at school,"reads the entry for November, "and files a lawsuit against his employer." December: "The Atos board of directors fires CEO Breton. However, because they notify him by email, he shows up at work the next day, unaware. He is promptly escorted&nbsp;out by security personnel, who turn out to have been using email&nbsp;all along."Borenstein admits social media will eventually replace large email mailing lists, but he still thinks email will always be the best way of contacting specific individuals. "When you have a great article which you want to share with your friends, social media beats the hell out of email. But if you want to send a very sensitive communication specifically to me, I find it hard to imagine that you want to put it on your social network, because it's more prone to accidental exposure." He citesthe recent case of a bigamist's two wivesfinding out about each other via Facebook's "people you may know" feature. "I'm sorry," Borenstein apologises. "But if you're going to be a bigamist, or cheat on your spouse, you probably don't want to use email for it, and you sure as hell don't want to use social media. Facebook thinks if you know two people, they should meet. Which is true for most people, but not for bigamist who's cheating on two people at once."More seriously, he says that too much business data – 85%, by his estimate – is stored in email form (and most of that in attachments), which makes a move away from the format harder. In fact, he is so convinced of email's medium-term future that, in his current role at email firm Mimecast, he is working on data-mining software that will instantly detect what you're writing an email about, search your inbox for related messages, and then make real-time suggestions for what else to include in the message.Spam is an issue, he acknowledges, but he thinks the problem could be solved by a system of micropayments that – in layman's terms – would allow&nbsp;spam recipients to fine the people clogging their inbox. "My favourite idea involves what's called 'attention bonds'. These would let you attach to your mail a promise to pay the recipient a certain amount of money if they think it's spam. Spammers aren't going to be able to attach those bonds, because they'd be zapped every time."When television came along, he notes, people predicted the death of radio. "But 70 years later, radio seems fine. It just broadcasts different kinds of things. It's still growing. Similarly, email, which some people say is dying, continues to grow. And most dying things don't really do that."But even if they did, Borenstein would still die happy. One of his four daughtersgave birth last year to his first two grandchildren– twin girls – and at long last the attachment has finally performed the task Borenstein created it for. "Actually, I didn't send the photo myself – my daughter did," he laughs. "And it was just an ultrasound image, and they were only about four cells big, so it was a bit of an anti-climax. But that was the message that fulfilled my life's dream."• This article was corrected on 28 March 2012 because the original incorrectly called petabytes pedabytes.
