The archiving service Politwoops, which tracks and retains tweets deleted by politicians, has been blocked from accessing Twitter after the social network accused it of “breaching its terms of service”.Funded by the Washington DC-based nonprofit Sunlight Foundation which campaigns for transparency in government, Politwoops has been collecting deleted tweets since 2012, creating an invaluable archive of all the things elected officials wish they could make disappear down the memory-hole.But, on 1 June, Twitter cut off access to the site, prompting Politwoops to issue a statement confirming that it was “dealing with an issue” and had “appealed through Twitter’s support process”.On Wednesday,Twitter confirmed in a statement to Gawkerthat it had indeed blocked Politwoops from the site.The statement read: “Earlier today we spoke to the Sunlight Foundation, to tell them we will not restore Twitter API [application programming interface] access for their Politwoops site.“We strongly support Sunlight’s mission of increasing transparency in politics and using civic tech and open data to hold government accountable to constituents, but preserving deleted Tweets violates our developer agreement. Honoring the expectation of user privacy for all accounts is a priority for us, whether the user is anonymous or a member of Congress.”But while the American Politwoops is dead, the site’s overseas counterparts are alive – for the time being, at least. TheBritish Politwoops, for instance, continues to track and report tweets made and then deleted by British MPs, and to share those through the@deletedbyMPsTwitter feed. But the Guardian understands that the fate of those feeds, too, lies in the balance.The news of Politwoops’ demise has reawakened a debate about Twitter’s commitment to third party apps on the platform. In January,a popular Twitter app was temporarily removed from saleafter it breacheda 2012 ruleinstituted to stop apps from getting too popular without Twitter’s permission.The rule was widely seen as an attempt to kill off third-party Twitter clients, and eventually force users onto the official Twitter app. Twitter cannot display adverts on third-party apps, and it has no control over which of its new features get rolled out when. That announcement was also the source of Twitter’s infamous “quadrant” guidance, when the company attempted to explain which uses of its API were acceptable, and which weren’t.
Can I get an invitation?Can I get an invitation to upgrade to Windows 10, when it’s ready? Where is the link?OlgaIf you are running Windows 7 or Windows 8, you should already have had an invitation to “reserve” a copy of Windows 10. If not, run Windows Update to see if any updates are available for your PC. The one you want is KB3035583. This puts a small white Windows logo – the GWX or Get Windows 10 app – in the system tray on the right hand side of the Taskbar. Alternatively, you should be able to find the invitation by going to Windows Update in the Control Panel (via System and Security).If you are running Windows XP, Vista, or any other version of Windows then you will not get a free upgrade offer. However, you will be able to buy a copy for a maximum price of $119 (Windows 10 Home) or $199 (Windows 10 Pro).It remains to be seen whether Microsoft will offer launch discounts to XP and Vista users. I wouldn’t bank on it. Such users have already ignored cheap upgrade deals for Windows 7 and 8, either of which would have got them Windows 10 free.Related:Microsoft Windows 10 free upgrade: five questions answeredCan I cancel my reservation?How do I cancel my acceptance to Windows 10 free?mattyphyllisTo cancel your reservation, right-click on GWX, the white Windows icon on the Taskbar, select “Check your upgrade status” and then “Cancel reservation”.Can I cancel and reapply?Can I apply for a reservation and then cancel it? Then can I reapply for the reservation?dragothunder wolfYes, but it’s better to leave it until you’re sure you want it, as long as you do that before July 29 next year. That’s when the free upgrade offer ends.The point of “reserving” the upgrade is to allow Microsoft to download Windows 10 – probably 4GB or more – to your PC in the background over a period of time. It doesn’t want to download the code to 400m (or whatever) PCs on the same day. Indeed, even if you reserve Windows 10 now, you may not be invited to install it for days or weeks after the official launch on July 29.Is my PC compatible?Is there going to be a Windows 10 upgrade advisor?Andrew SThere already is. Run the Get Windows 10 app, click the menu and select “Check your PC” or “Your PC is good to go”. This will warn of any compatibility problems that Microsoft has found, bearing in mind that there are millions of devices and tens of millions of Windows programs that Microsoft knows nothing about. (Anybody can write software for Windows without telling Microsoft.)If you have any unusual hardware or software, hold off installing Windows 10 until the “early adopters” have found the major problems and Microsoft has had a chance to fix them.How much memory do I need?What is the recommended memory size for Windows 10? My Acer W7 laptop has 3GB fitted, and I use a further 4GB as ReadyBoost (which doesn’t seem to make much difference).RobinMicrosoft reckons 32-bit Windows 10 will run in 1GB and the 64-bit version in 2GB. While this may be true, I’d recommend doubling each number, ie 2GB and 4GB. However, if you are running the 64-bit version of Windows 7 in 3GB, 64-bit Windows 10 should run slightly better. You need the 64-bit version to support more than 4GB.ReadyBoost was an interesting idea but turned out to be not worth the effort.Can I upgrade both my PCs?I have a desktop PC and a laptop. Can I upgrade both for free?RoyYes. It doesn’t matter if you have two or 20 PCs, or more. The free offer applies to every PC that is running a “genuine” copy of Windows 7 or 8, with a few exceptions. For example, the offer does not apply to corporate or education copies installed under some volume or site licensing deals. (Enterprises on Microsoft’s Software Assurance scheme get Windows 10 free anyway.)Is it Windows 10 Home or Pro?I have Windows 8.1 Pro. Will the free download be Home or Pro?TimIf you have a Home version, you will get Windows 10 Home, and if it’s a Pro version, you will get Windows 10 Pro. Microsoft always does like-for-like upgrades, where possible. However, there isn’t a Windows 10 Ultimate, so I believe people who bought Vista Ultimate (me!) or Windows 7 Ultimate (not me!) will be downgraded to Windows 10 Pro.Can I go to 64-bit Windows 10?Will I be able to go from 32-bit Windows 8.1 to 64-bit Windows 10?JohnNot directly. If you let Windows Update upgrade your system “in place”, it will always do it on a like-for-like basis: 32-bit to 32-bit; 64-bit to 64-bit. If you want to move from any 32-bit version of Windows to any 64-bit version, it always requires a “clean installation” from a DVD or USB drive or whatever. This will delete your old operating system, programs and data, so you will have to re-install everything from scratch.From the preview versions, it looks as though Microsoft will at some point enable Windows 10 to import backups made using Windows 7’s backup program. But, frankly, I’d make a fresh start.Can I downgrade later?If I upgrade to Windows 10 and do not like it, will I be able to go back to Windows 7 or 8?millrambr82Yes: Microsoft aims to enable you to “roll back” to your old operating system, if required. However, I wouldn’t rely on this. In my view, it’s essential to back up your old system before installing a new one. You should also use the option to create “recovery media” with your old system, so that you’re not totally dependent on the “roll back” working.You and you alone are responsible for preserving your own data.How can I avoid Windows 10?I most definitely DO NOT want to upgrade to Windows 10. How can I make sure this quasi-enforced upgrade does not happen? And how can I get rid of that nagging “reminder” on my Taskbar?DoloresNobody is forcing you to get Windows 10. If you don’t want it, don’t reserve it or install it.To remove the reminder, right-click on Start and select Properties. Next, go to the Taskbar tab, click the button that says “Customize ...”, and find GWX, the Get Windows 10 app. The drop-down menu offers the option to “Hide icon and notifications”.If you want to go further, run Windows Update and click “View update history” to see all the updates you have installed. Look for, or search for, KB3035583, select it, and then click to uninstall or change it. Windows will ask “Are you sure?” Just click “Yes”. It will never bother you again … unless you re-install KB3035583.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
SoundCloud has struck a deal with licensing agency Merlin that it says will help independent labels start making money from plays of their songs on the streaming service.It’s a significant partnership for SoundCloud, since Merlin negotiates streaming deals on behalf of more than 20,000 labels and distributors, including well-known labels such as Beggars Group, Domino, Ninja Tune and Warp Records.These labels will now be able to make money from the service’sOn SoundCloud initiative– which involves running advertisements around its partners’ audio, and sharing the revenues with them – in the US, as well as elsewhere in the world once it expands globally.Related:10 things we learned from a day of indie labels talking digital musicThe scheme launched in August 2014, and has since paid out more than $2m to 100 partners, consisting of individual artists as well as labels –including major label Warner Music Group.Merlin-affiliated labels will also be able to access new content-management tools on SoundCloud, including the ability to track how their music is being listened to (and uploaded) by fans on the service, which claims 175 million monthly listeners.“SoundCloud has carved out a niche not only in functionality but also, I think, in terms of its users and where it sits in the market. This is not another service aiming to be a ‘silver bullet’ for the music industry,” Merlin chief executive Charles Caldas told the Guardian.“The labels we represent perform particularly well on SoundCloud ... It is a meeting point between people who are fans of new music in general, and a lot of adventurous people who are active in the way they curate that music.”SoundCloud chief executive Alexander Ljung said that independent music remains a priority for his company. “Ever since day one, we’ve been really strong and really established in the independent community,” he told the Guardian.“We built a lot of great tools for those creators to use the web, and a lot of great ways to reach an audience. But we’ve really been longing for this last step: enabling them to make money off of their music.”The deal comes at a sensitive time for SoundCloud, which has faced more criticism in recent months than at any point in its history, on account of not paying royalties to labels or publishers that aren’t part of the On SoundCloud schemeMajor labelSony Music recently started removing songs by its artists from SoundCloud, citing a breakdown in licensing negotiations and “a lack of monetisation opportunities” on the service.SoundCloud did recently strike a deal with some music publishers through the US National Music Publishers Association – a version of that contract hassubsequently leaked– although the company remains in negotiations with the third and largest major label, Universal Music.Even some independent labels, who’ve traditionally seen beyond royalties to note SoundCloud’s value for promotion and analytics on listeners, have been speaking out in recent months –suggesting that they’d rather fans listen on Spotify and other streaming services that pay royalties.Merlin’s Caldas accepted that there has been impatience from labels to start getting paid by SoundCloud. “As the value of the streaming market grows, people are starting to realise that consumption is the new sales. Anywhere that people are listening to music is actually the end-game now,” he said.“This notion that everything is promotional: that way that people used to talk about YouTube as a ‘promotional channel’. When that becomes the destination for music fans, it needs to compete in the marketplace with all the platforms that are monetised.“So part of this is looking at where all this goes longer-term, and seeing that the challenge is to take all of these destinations where music is consumed – particularly in the volumes it’s starting to be consumed on something like SoundCloud – and finding out how to build value around that.”Related:British songwriters body BASCA takes aim at Google and SoundCloudSoundCloud’s Ljung said that On SoundCloud, as well as his company’s plans to launch a paid subscription service in the coming months – Merlin’s deal covers that too – will prove to independent labels that it can make them more money.“We’ve always been about giving creators as much control and flexibility as possible. That, together with the promotional value that people get from SoundCloud, means that a lot of people use it. And people have been making money indirectly from SoundCloud for a long time: booking gigs and so on,” he said.“But they do want to know how they can also make money directly. It’s always been fairly obvious that this is where it’s going. There are some people that think it should be happening faster, and some people who are less concerned. Doing a deal with Merlin is definitely a huge step forward in opening up a lot of monetisation opportunities to tons of indie creators.”Caldas declined to say whether Merlin has taken an equity stake in SoundCloud as part of the licensing deal, as it did in Spotify in that service’s early days.However, in the announcement of the SoundCloud agreement, he is quoted as saying Merlin’s members “can participate fully in the long term value of SoundCloud’s future”, which hints that equity was part of the deal.
Chinese technology firm Xiaomi has become the world’s second largest wearables manufacturer in less than a year, data shows.Xiaomi’s recently released fitness tracker the Mi Band, launched in the second half of 2014, sold 2.8m copies in the first quarter of 2015,data from research firm IDCshowed. Xiaomi accounted for 24.6% of the wearables market, making it second only to Fitbit’s 3.9m devices sold and 34.2% of the market.Only 11.4m wearable devices – a category that includes fitness trackers and smartwatches – were sold globally in the first quarter of the year, but that marked a 200% increase year-on-year from 3.8m in the first quarter of 2014.“Bucking the post-holiday decline normally associated with the first quarter is a strong sign for the wearables market,” said Ramon Llamas, IDC’s research manager for the wearables sector.Garmin placed third behind Xiaomi with 700,000 devices, Samsung fourth with 600,000 and high-profile fitness tracker maker Jawbone came fifth with just 500,000 devices.Xiaomi’s success over the last few quarters was primarily driven by sales within its home market of China, where it found success with smartphones. Its Mi Band, headphones and rechargeable battery packsrecently went on saleoutside of China in the UK, US and parts of Europe. Its smartphones haveyet to expand beyond Chinaand a few select developing market.‘Price erosion has been quite drastic’The Mi Band significantly undercut the market leader Fitbit on price, costing under £20. But the big change from a year ago has been the introduction of devices such as the Jawbone Up Move and Misfit Flash costing £40 with similar capabilities to those costing more than £100.“As with any young market, price erosion has been quite drastic,” said Jitesh Ubrani from IDC. “We now see over 40% of the devices priced under $100, and that’s one reason why the top five vendors have been able to grow their dominance from two-thirds of the market in the first quarter of last year to three quarters this quarter.”What these numbers do not take into account is sales of the Apple Watch, which launched at the end of April and sold in March. While other smartwatches from Google and Pebble have been on sale for the last three years, none of them have shipped in volume.“What remains to be seen is how Apple’s arrival will change the landscape,” said Llamas. “The Apple Watch will likely become the device that other wearables will be measured against, fairly or not.”Analysts expect that Apple managed to sell in the region of 5 to 10m Watches in the second quarter of this year, with estimates putting total Watch sales for the year in the region of 30m. That would make Apple the top wearable manufacturer.Apple’s Watch is the highest priced smartwatch from a major manufacturer currently available, and will test willingness of consumers to pay a premium for wearable technology.The wearable market is highly likely to become polarised in the next year between the cheaper, sub-£40 market lead by Xiaomi and others, and the premium £300-plus market with Apple Watch as its poster child.•Xiaomi: It’s China’s Apple, though you’ve probably never heard of it
The Pebble Time is a smartwatch focused on doing notifications on the wrist and telling the time, but when paired with an Android smartphone it’s a lot more capable than with an iPhone.That’s because the way Google has designed notifications on Android and integrated them into its Android Wear watches has left the door open for third-parties.The Pebble Time is better on Android because of Wear, even if it isn’t an Android Wear watch. Apple, meanwhile, has closed off its platform and made it harder for third-parties, offering its own smartwatch instead.This review will explore what the Pebble Time smartwatch is like when paired to an Android smartphone. For more information on the hardware of the watch, and what it’s like when used with an iPhone, see:Pebble Time - iPhone review: the simple but effective answer to Apple WatchThe watch is simple and understated. A stainless steel bezel around a plastic watch and an always-on 1.25in colour e-paper screen. The Time is 9.5mm thick, takes standard 22mm watch straps and is waterproof to 30m.There is no touchscreen, instead three buttons on the right-hand side scroll through and select items while one button on the left-hand side acts as the back button. They are simple, effective and can be used without looking at the watch.Setting upThe Pebble Time app from the Play Store handles settings, apps and watchfaces.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianI had to manually pair the Time with the smartphone in Bluetooth settings before firing up the Pebble app to start the setup procedure. I picked a language for voice control – UK English in my case – and two minutes later the watch was ready to go.NotificationsThe Pebble’s primary focus is notifications. Unlike on iOS, the Time has deep ties into the notification structure of Android.It can display anything that sends notifications to the Android notification shade, allowing users to scroll through a whole email, text message or chat. The screen is clear and easy to ready in all conditions, which makes it surprisingly satisfying.Reply to messages via voice, canned responses or emoji, something the Time cannot do when connected to an iPhone.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOnce done dismissing the notification on the watch removes it from the notification shade on the phone. You can also reply to messages using canned responses, by selecting emoji from a long list or by voice dictation using Google’s voice recognition. There is no keyboard.The Pebble uses Google’s Android Wear notification system, which means tweets can be favourited or retweeted, emails can be archived, or any other action that the developers of the app on the smartphone have created can be triggered.Replying to notifications can only be done the moment they arrive, however. If they’re cleared by going back to the watch face you cannot dig them back up from the notification list and still reply.Voice dictations work really well; I found the Pebble’s microphone performed better than some Android Wear watches. Scrolling through a list of emojis can be tedious, however, as there’s no favourites menu or recently used list.The biggest issue with the Pebble Time on Android is that it cannot mute the phone when displaying notifications on the wrist. Android Wear watches can effectively silence the phone so that only one or the other vibrates, bings and bongs when new messages come in.To achieve a similar result the connected Android phone has to be set into its do-not-disturb mode, which the Time ignores. If the connection with the phone is lost you simply end up missing calls or messages.Music controlsMusic controls work well for the default music app, which you can set via the Pebble Time app, but isn’t reliable when trying to use another app such as Pocket Casts.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Pebble app allows the user to select their default music app for music controls, which can pause, play, skip tracks and change volume as well as displaying track information.They can also be used to control other music apps currently playing, such as a podcast app. But when trying to start playback again from within Pocket Casts, for instance, it always started the default music app playing instead.The Pebble app store has over 6,500 apps and watchfaces to download, most focusing on doing one small thing well. Many of the apps have more options on Android than they do on an iPhone, as their companion apps running on the smartphone have greater freedoms.Battery lifeThe Pebble Time easily outlasts any other smartwatch per charge. I got between five and six days of use out of the Time between charges, which was around a day longer than when connected to an iPhone.The impact on the smartphone’s battery life was negligible – the Pebble app didn’t even show up in the battery usage monitor.Pick an emoji, any emoji, as long as you have enough patience to scroll past the first few.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Pebble Time is available in black, white and red, costing $199 (£130) – a stainless steel version will cost more at a later date. For a comparison, Android Wear watches cost from £100 and up, with the Sony Smartwatch 3 costing £130 and the LG Watch Urbane £260.VerdictThe Pebble Time is one of the best smartwatches available, but it’s not perfect.The screen is great – clearly readable in all conditions and crisp enough to display the text and simple images needed. The battery life is equally good, typically lasting over five days, while its integration with Android is excellent.But compared to an Android Wear watch, which is equally easy to use, it’s often not quite as capable. That won’t be a problem for many, but it has strong similarly priced rivals worth considering too.The Time is the Casio of Android-compatible smartwatches – small, light, discreet, and the easiest to live with. And, yes, it’s better on Android than with an iPhone.Pros:always-readable e-paper screen, long battery life, waterproof to 30m, light, comfortable to wearCons:cannot reply or action notifications after initial alert, no recently used emoji list, not as capable as Android Wear, cannot mute the phoneOther smartwatch reviews•Pebble Time on the iPhone: the simple but effective answer to Apple Watch•LG Watch Urbane review: big, bold and a bit gaudy•Sony Smartwatch 3 review: great design, good screen and decent battery•Motorola Moto 360 review: beautiful smartwatch spoiled by poor battery life•Asus ZenWatch review: a sophisticated-looking Android smartwatch
Hatred is a game that longs to be hated, but it’s difficult to work up the enthusiasm for a half-hearted eye-roll.It’s been controversial but, honestly, most of the controversy has been about the feuding around the game rather than the game itself. Now that it’s here, it’s officially about as dangerous as the interactive movie Night Trap, which caused a similar fuss over nothing in the 1990s. We’re at a point in gaming history where we’ve seen everything from GTA to Carmageddon to Hooligans: Storm Over Europe to JFK Reloaded to three Postal games to Super Columbine Massacre RPG … so a potty-mouthed guy in a trenchcoat deciding to play Human Robotron isn’t so much shocking as endearingly quaint. No matter how hard it tries, how stabby it gets, playing it begs only one question: is this all you’ve got, you sulky bastard?And it is. Hatred is just a twin-stick shooter; no more, no less. Actually, a lot less. There’s no wit and no weight. That’s not simply a sniffy knee-jerk dismissal based on the theme. For those lucky enough to have missed the scandal, Hatred is about a really angy guy who wants to take revenge on humanity by shooting as many passers by and cops as possible.Plenty of excellent games have taken us into this territory before, but the charms of, say, Syndicate and GTA have always had little to do with their missions, and more to do with their sly, knowing humour. Carmageddon and Quarantine were hilarious in their splattery cruelty. I’ll even make a case for the start of Postal 2, a mostly rancid game, but one with some good ideas, such as the way early violence actually is a choice – there’s nothing stopping you obeying the rules and standing in a boring queue to buy milk if you choose. (That doesn’t last, but while it does, it’s a clever conceit.)Virtual murder can be fun and cathartic, with no convincing evidence that it contributes any more to real-world violence than getting too many squiggly Tetris pieces.Here, whether we set aside moral qualms or not, gunning down civilians in their hundreds has all the heft of popping bubblewrap, minus any of the raw satisfaction. Hatred has nothing to say and no emotional core beyond the angsty nihilism of a fourteen-year-old boy sick of being asked to take out the rubbish bins.At the very least it could have been a vaguely enjoyable shooter. It’s not. The action alternates between crushing boredom and tooth-grinding irritation, and it’s not helped by the mostly monochrome Sin City-style visuals that look punchy in isolated shots but really don’t work as the bullets fly. Areas are often pitch black, with characters and objects regularly lost in shadow. You’re playing a gangly guy with long black hair, wearing a long black coat. Even with the ability to highlight items/enemies in red, you spend much of your time squinting and stumbling around scenery like a murderous Mr Magoo.As a shooter, it’s weak. Bugs are as numerous as the main character’s assault rifle rounds. Controls are floaty, fiddly and frequently unresponsive, with death often coming from off screen or seemingly at random – there was a particularly notable moment when an entire gas station just spontaneously combusted.At least it’s a short game, though a surprisingly tough one, largely thanks to our villain protagonist having made the poor life decision to go about his rampage in a city where 80% of the population are cops and much of the rest openly pack heat. He also soon proves to have been surprisingly cheap when it comes to buying body armour and ammo. Tsk. Spree killers these days. Amateurs. Did all those murder simulators back in the 90s teach us nothing?The result is this odd hybrid where you can’t simply cut loose, but the mechanics offer nothing for more tactical play – proper cover, for instance, or any illusion that the AI is playing fair in hunting you. It’s almost adorable seeing the furious shadows of confused enemies clustering on other floors of buildings – so close, yet so far. But that’s really it. It’s such an empty, forgettable game that even by the midpoint of the first level its assault on decency becomes little but a list of irritating sins against enjoyable twin-stick shooters. At least in that, it can get a murderous rage flowing through frustration. Perhaps that counts as a win of sorts?The simple fact is that Hatred isn’t worth hating, or even getting slightly irked by. It is a game destined to be quickly forgotten – a bland monochrome rehash of another title that made only a glancing impact on the world almost two decades ago (Postal, 1997).At its worst, it’s the gaming equivalent of a drunkard shouting abuse from a park bench. At its best … well, the drunkard has leapt up and now he’s wielding a plastic knife. Rage against political correctness if you like, but don’t support this tired game as part of your ideology – there are so many better uses of your spare time. Hatred isn’t so much a game you uninstall from your PC as a naughty boy that you wearily send to bed without his supper.Destructive Creations; PC; £12
It’s Thursday everyone!
She swallowed the dog to catch the cat/She swallowed the cat to catch the bird/She swallowed the bird to catch the spider/She swallowed the spider to catch the fly/I don’t know why she swallowed the fly/Perhaps she’ll dieIt’s happened: David Cameron is prime minister, and he’s following through onhis promise to ban effective cryptography.The Snooper’s Charter (AKA the “Investigatory Powers Act”) will require internet giants like Facebook and Google to make some provision to decrypt and deliver to the police the messages their users exchange. Defenders of this bill, including MI5 (who should know better), make this out to be a simple and effective measure to protect the nation.The reality is that this cannot possibly make us any safer, cannot possibly catch any serious criminals, and will, as a matter of iron-clad inevitability, lead to a cascade of more intrusive measures.Let’s start with the spider that David Cameron is asking us to swallow, and move on to everything else we’ll have to swallow to catch it.Apple, Google, Facebook and all the other big internet companies are now taking steps to enable end-to-end encryption. That means that each of their users will have software on their own devices that scramble their messages so thoroughly that if all the hydrogen atoms in the universe were made into computers that tried to guess the key until the stars grew cold, they’d run out of universe before they ran out of possible codes.The big internet companies can’t know what’s in those messages unless they put deliberate flaws in this encryption/decryption software they distributed. They could break the software they distributed to everyone, but the more people there are in possession of your shameful secret, the faster it will be discovered and your code discredited, your business hurt and your management team punished by brutal lawsuits and market action.So they could try to sneakily force devices owned by “bad guys” to update their software with nonfunctional crypto. This is a little more plausible, but the result is the same – eventually they will be caught. After all, one of the threats information security has to guard against is that someone will sneakily change the software you use – infect your computer with a virus that allows criminals or industrial spies from rival nations to get inside your most precious secrets. Companies want their customers to be able to independently verify that they are running byte-identical versions of the software that does the encryption and decryption, and the only way to sneak broken software on to targeted systems is by making all computers more vulnerable.You can see why companies hate this. Finance startups like Eris Industries havealready announced that they will shutter their UK officesand do their work elsewhere, because you can’t seriously propose to handle millions in other peoples’ money if you’re not allowed to use the best locks we know how to create – especially when your offshore competitors are not bound by the same stricture.But that’s just for beginners, because, having swallowed a spider, the UK security establishment is going to have to swallow a bird to go in and get it. That’s because smart terrorists will seek out software that can be independently verified. Instead of using Facebook’s in-built crypto (or Android’s, or Apple’s, etc), they’ll run a free, open, best-of-breed program like theGnu Privacy Guard(GPG) to scramble their messages. They don’t even have to give up Facebook! Just encrypt the messages before sending them – job done.So the state has to control your use of software. They have to stop you from gaining access to working crypto, which is some of the most widespread, widely used software extant today. Every time you see a little padlock in your browser bar, you’re using crypto. There’s really only one kind of crypto that anyone uses: crypto with no known defects. There’s really no such thing as “strong” and “weak” crypto. In the very early days when computation was literally billions of times more expensive than it is today, programmers sometimes used shorter keys to accommodate underpowered computers – but today, the best technical practice is to use keys of sufficient length as to make it impractical for anyone to break them through brute force. “Weak crypto” is like “slightly fatal.”It’s a safe assumption that any criminal who represents such an existential threat to the UK as to warrant these measures would be sufficiently motivated to seek out and install working software. Otherwise, the Snooper’s Charter is only proof against lazy and haphazard terrorists. Installing software isn’t rocket science.There are millions of packages, sites, products and services that have good crypto. Blocking all these sinister dens of iniquity – like Github and Ubuntu and Openssl and Cyanogenmod – makesChina’s Great Firewalllook trivial by comparison. The Great British Firewall: the bird that catches the spider.But that’s not enough, either. A thumbdrive, passed from hand to hand, could carry all the crypto that anyone would ever need to communicate in perfect security; a VPN would let Britons tunnel outside of the Great British Firewall to get at working code. To stop this, computers need to be redesigned to run like Iphones or PS4s, locked so that they’ll only run software that’s (cryptographically!) signed by the manufacturer, who, presumably, would get permission from Ofcomp for each package in their stores, ensuring that everything is designed to fulfill the mandate of allowing the state to listen in on anyone’s communication, at any time. Computers that only run state-approved software: the cat that catches the bird.And even then, the terrorists are still in business. Cheap, Raspberry Pi computers, the size of a pack of gum, wide open to any code of your choosing, can easily traverse the borders of a modern nation – even if you wanted to institute border checks like the old Soviet searches for “unauthorised radios” that could tune in unapproved stations, modern computers are so small that no border service could hope to catch them. Invasive material border-searches: the dog that you have to swallow to catch the cat.David Cameron says that the state has always been able to get a court to order a business to turn over customer information, and all he’s doing is keeping this principle intact. But Whatsapp isn’t like a insurance agency with our applications in its file-drawers – it’s like a cafe where we pop in for a chat. Cafes have never been required install hidden microphones in the salt-cellars that could be activated with a court order. The state has never had the power to listen in on all our conversations.It’s not only impractical to attempt to seize this power – it’s genuinely totalitarian. It’s more than we can – or should – swallow.
Hackers extorted an international company based in Brisbane for a ransom paid out in bitcoin but then escalated their demands by threatening online attacks on a senior employee’s child, Queensland police have said.The company, which police refused to identify, paid the hackers an initial ransom worth thousands of dollars after its computer system was hacked and sensitive data stolen earlier this year.When the company refused a further larger ransom demand and contacted police, hackers then “profiled a senior member of the organisation, identified their family and threatened to discredit members of his family through online attacks particularly targeting a child”, police said.The case prompted acting assistant commissioner Brian Hay to warn that businesses should never give in to extortion demands but also be wary of posting personal information on social media that could be exploited as leverage by cyber criminals.“This was a very serious attack on an organisation and quite traumatic for the business, the victim and his family,” Hay said.“We are strongly urging business to ensure their computer systems are secure and protected from hackers, that they adopt a policy of not paying ransom demands and carefully consider the information posted on social media.“Organisations need to think about putting in place a strategy to counteract or respond to these type of incidents. But the one message that I cannot stress enough is to never comply with extortion demands and report these matters to us immediately.”
Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer at Facebook, has writtenan emotional poston the social networking site about mourning for her husband, David Goldberg, who died in an accident last month.“Today is the end of sheloshim for my beloved husband—the first thirty days,” Sandberg wrote. “Judaism calls for a period of intense mourning known as shiva that lasts seven days after a loved one is buried. After shiva, most normal activities can be resumed, but it is the end of sheloshim that marks the completion of religious mourning for a spouse.“A childhood friend of mine who is now a rabbi recently told me that the most powerful one-line prayer he has ever read is: ‘Let me not die while I am still alive.’ I would have never understood that prayer before losingDave. Now I do.”Sandberg explained that she has spent the past month “lost in a void”, but said she wants to “try and find meaning” in the tragedy that has occurred. “I am writing: to mark the end of sheloshim and to give back some of what others have given to me. While the experience of grief is profoundly personal, the bravery of those who have shared their own experiences has helped pull me through. Some who opened their hearts were my closest friends. Others were total strangers who have shared wisdom and advice publicly. So I am sharing what I have learned in the hope that it helps someone else. In the hope that there can be some meaning from this tragedy.“I have lived thirty years in these thirty days. I am thirty years sadder. I feel like I am thirty years wiser.”Goldberg, 47, was CEO of SurveyMonkey, a commercial service for conducting online polls. Heslipped while exercising on a treadmillduring a family vacation at a villa near Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, and died as a result of striking his head.Hundreds of Silicon Valley’s most prominent executives attended a memorial service for Goldberg last month, including Hewlett-Packard’s chief executive, Meg Whitman, LinkedIn’s CEO, Jeff Weiner, prominent tech investor Reid Hoffman, Yelp chief executive, Jeremy Stoppelman, and PayPal co-founder Max Levchin.Barack Obama alsoextended his sympathies to Sandbergand in a signed post on the White House Facebook page said: “His [Goldberg’s] skills as an entrepreneur created opportunity for many; his love for his family was a joy to behold, and his example as a husband and father was something we could all learn from.”Thanking friends and family for their support, Sandberg ended her post:I am truly grateful to the many who have offered their sympathy. A colleague told me that his wife, whom I have never met, decided to show her support by going back to school to get her degree—something she had been putting off for years. Yes! When the circumstances allow, I believe as much as ever in leaning in. And so many men—from those I know well to those I will likely never know—are honoring Dave’s life by spending more time with their families.I can’t even express the gratitude I feel to my family and friends who have done so much and reassured me that they will continue to be there. In the brutal moments when I am overtaken by the void, when the months and years stretch out in front of me endless and empty, only their faces pull me out of the isolation and fear. My appreciation for them knows no bounds.I was talking to one of these friends about a father-child activity that Dave is not here to do. We came up with a plan to fill in for Dave. I cried to him, “But I want Dave. I want option A.” He put his arm around me and said, “Option A is not available. So let’s just kick the shit out of option B.”Dave, to honor your memory and raise your children as they deserve to be raised, I promise to do all I can to kick the shit out of option B. And even though sheloshim has ended, I still mourn for option A. I will always mourn for option A. As Bono sang, “There is no end to grief . . . and there is no end to love.” I love you, Dave.
Internet radio serviceDash Radiohas signed up more than 1 million users since its beta launch in 2014 as a way for people to listen to streaming radio stations.Now it’s emerging from that beta with new iOS and Android apps, and $2m of seed funding from investors including former Facebook executives, music and radio industry veterans, and US sports stars.“We want to make radio good, and take it back to its roots,” founder Scott Keeney – known as DJ Skee in his career as a radio DJ – told the Guardian ahead of the launch.Related:Streaming music service Deezer adds 20,000 podcasts and radio shows“The core of what we are doing is very simple: taking something that’s worked for 100 years and just making it digital, getting rid of the massive amounts of advertising, and focusing on people as the best curators of music.”The latter comment shows that Dash Radio sees its competition as more than just traditional FM radio stations. It will also compete with “personal radio” services like Pandora and MixRadio, as well as the programmed playlists on Spotify and other streaming services.Dash Radio currently has more than 60 channels created by musicians including Snoop Dogg and Odd Future, record labels, brands and music tastemakers.“All these stations are run like traditional radio stations: we are powering what we feel are the best content creators in each field, whether it’s DJs, artists, brands or labels,” said Keeney.Apple is also reportedly signing up musicians to front radio-style channels in its imminent relaunch of its Beats Music streaming service, withDrake, David Guetta and Pharrell Williamsexpected to be among its roster.Keeney said Dash Radio is not assuming that the most talented artists will make great DJs, however. “We’re not a big fan of doing artist-branded channels: this isn’t just about going out and getting big names. Snoop’s station isn’t a Snoop Dogg station,” he said.“It’s called ‘Cadillac Music’ for people to drive to, and when you listen there’s very little hip-hop music actually. Snoop’s become as much of a DJ as he is an artist: he told me it was always his dream to own an FM station, but it didn’t work out.”Unusually for a streaming radio service, Dash Radio will not make its money from traditional advertising in between songs. Instead, it will work with brands to create “pop-up stations” available for a limited time – for example, one currently focuses on the Entourage film.“We don’t believe that traditional 30-second spots work: people turn off the second the ads come on, and their biggest gripe is the amount of commercials: an average of 15 minutes per hour,” said Keeney.“It doesn’t work: people tune out, especially in the digital space. That whole model is going to crumble. Our pop-up stations are co-branded content, but done in a meaningful way. Entourage has one of the best soundtracks of any TV show ever, so it’s a station that people want to hear.”Dash Radio’s mobile app.Photograph: PRDash Radio also plans to explore ticketing and other ways of making money based on the data from people listening to its service, added Keeney.The company’s investors include former Facebook executives Kevin Colleran and Dave Morin and sports stars Adrian Peterson and Ronny Turiaf; with advisers including an array of music and radio industry veterans.“It’s a diverse range of people, because we think we have the potential to take on what is an $18bn-a-year industry in the US alone for radio broadcasting. We wanted to go out and get people from tech, music and the business side, and sports, which is going to be a big vertical for us in the future,” said Keeney.“They’re all the best in what they do, and since on the licensing side this is such a crazy space, we’ve got some of the best lawyers on our side too, to make sure we’re always compliant, and always legal.”Dash Radio is launching as a website andiOSandAndroidapps, with plans to expand onto connected hi-fis (via a partnership with Sonos) and connected cars (via a deal with US telco AT&amp;T in the coming months.“A lot of people look at us as an app. We’d argue we’re not an app: we want to be anywhere people consume audio, and the car is a huge element of that,” said Keeney.“We’re rolling out support for Apple CarPlay, we’ll be in Android Auto soon: we’ll be pretty much anywhere that people are listening to music.”This, too, will put Dash Radio up against streaming services like Spotify and Deezer, which are getting more radio-like with programmed playlists and – both announced recently – the addition of spoken-word content like podcasts.Related:Spotify's new features see it step up competition with AppleMeanwhile, Apple has been poaching radio experts for its upcoming relaunch: not justRadio 1’s DJ Zane Lowe, butseveral of the producers that worked with him at the station.“We see other people trying to get into this space, but we’re very confident about who we are. We don’t want to be anything more than broadcast radio,” said Keeney.“Something like Spotify? We don’t compete with those guys at all. There’s a very clear distinction between what we do and what they do. We want to be the best at radio broadcast.”Competing for that honour is an increasingly crowded market, with Pandora, Sirius XM and iHeartRadio in the US, and companies as varied as TuneIn and MixRadio globally, all in the mix too.A startup like Dash Radio can’t just be better curated than those services – a big challenge in itself – but has to also punch above its weight in persuading brands to spend money on its platform rather than its rivals.Keeney seems undaunted. “A lot of guys have come out with services calling themselves radio: they’ve almost bastardised the word. We want to be the best radio network in the world,” he said.
Verizon, the US’s largest wireless telecom company, is developing technology with Nasa to direct and monitor America’s growing fleet of civilian and commercial drones from its network of phone towers.According to documents obtained by the Guardian, Verizon signed an agreement last year with Nasa “to jointly explore whether cell towers … could support communications and surveillance of unmanned aerial systems (UAS) at low altitudes”.That $500,000 project is now underway at Nasa’s Ames Research Center in the heart of Silicon Valley. Nasa is planning the first tests of an air traffic control system for drones there this summer, with Verizon scheduled to introduce a concept for using cell coverage for data, navigation, surveillance and tracking of drones by 2017. The phone company is scheduled to finalise its concept by 2019.Nasa’s new UAS (unmanned aircraft system) traffic management operation is intended to enable safe low-altitude drone flights within the next four years. At the moment, there is little to stop operators flying wherever they want. The agency would like technology that will automatically “geo-fence” drones to keep them away from sensitive areas likethe White House, ground drones in bad weather, help them to avoid buildings and each other while flying and decide which droneshave priority in congested airspaces.According to the documents, obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, the purpose of the agreement is to “jointly explore if cell towers and communications could possibly support Unmannned Aerial Systems (UAS) Traffic Management (UTM) for communications and surveillance of UAS at low altitudes”. The focus is “exploratory” since “the requiremements and technology paths [for commercial drones] have not been clearly defined by the FAA”.In February, the Federal Aviation Authority released its proposals for regulating commercial drones. The FAA proposal would allow drones weighing up to 55lb to fly within sight of their remote pilots during daylight hours at heights below 500ft and at speeds of less than 100mph.“The problem is that we really cannot add any more capacity to the regular air traffic control system,” says Missy Cummings, professor of aeronautics at Duke University. “Radar coverage at low altitude is very spotty, and we don’t have the technology or the people to put a tracking device on each drone.”Nasa is considering monitoring drones with a range of sensors including radar, orbiting satellites and cellphone signals. The UTM system is also likely to be cloud-based, meaning that drones will need an internet link to download information about weather, traffic and restricted zones. That combination makes using the existing phone networks very attractive. “Cellphone technology will help to communicate information about other aircraft and we can already track phones like crazy,” says Cummings. “It’s a nice alternative to saturating an already broken air traffic control system.”“I don’t see a privacy problem with leveraging cell towers,” says Ryan Calo, a law professor at the University of Washington, where he teaches a class on robotic law and policy. “If a centralised place is keeping track of these things, we would have some accountability. I don’t believe anybody thinks we should have anonymous drones the way we should have anonymous web surfing.”Drones would still need on-board sensors to navigate and avoid obstacles in the event that their data connection failed or they flew too far from a cell tower. One of Verizon’s advantages is that it is the largest provider of wireless communications in the US, with an estimated 12,000 to 15,000 towers across the country and the most extensive high-speed 4G LTE network.But building a robust air traffic control system that can follow and respond in real time to thousands, or even tens of thousands, of drones is a massive undertaking that would stretch Nasa’s shrinking budget. “The whole Nasa UTM effort is incredibly underfunded,” says Missy Cummings. “I don’t see any real advancements coming from that program until the government puts a lot more money behind it.”In the meantime, Nasa is turning to industry for help. In a presentation last September, John Cavolowsky, director of Nasa’s Airspace Operations and Safety program, wrote: “All demonstrations are to be planned with strong, cost-shared partner involvement.” Last February, Nasa invited interested businesses to a workshop on the future of UTM. In its agreement with Verizon, Nasa reveals: “The workshop was very well attended with cellphone companies such as AT&amp;T and Verizon. To date, only Verizon has stepped forward to pursue collaboration with Nasa regarding the potential use of cell towers.”Luckily, other large technology companies were more receptive. Google and Amazon, which are currently building rival delivery drones, have also signed agreements with Nasa to test their systems at Ames. The Guardian has obtained copies of both contracts. Nasa will commit $450,000 to putting Google’s self-driving cars through their paces at Ames, as well as sharing data with Nasa fromProject Wingdrone simulations, experiments and operational tests.The Amazon project is even more ambitious, with Nasa conducting $1.8m of tests of Amazon’sPrime Airdrones as well as producing algorithms, technical papers and concepts to help shape the UTM project. In return, Nasa will approve drone and crew certification, organise the field trials at Ames and conduct “mishap investigations” if anything goes wrong.The real benefit for Google and Amazon, however, is likely to be further down the line. In its agreement with Amazon, the space agency notes: “The UTM system could be developed and tested to accommodate both [Amazon’s] delivery operations and those of other operators.”That worries Ryan Calo. “You don’t want Nasa to maximise this for delivery,” he says. “Nasa should be thoughtful from the outset about creating a versatile infrastructure that doesn’t privilege one particular application. If you only listen to Google and Amazon, you maybe end up sweeping other stakeholders aside.”@meharris• This article was amended on 5 June 2015 to clarify that the funds committed to Nasa’s collaborations with Amazon and Google come from Nasa and not the two tech companies, and to clarify that Verizon is “scheduled to finalise its concept” by 2019 rather than “hopes to finalise its technology” by then.
The cord has been cut and the line has gone dead. The American bank JP Morgan has announcedthe company is getting rid of voicemail for some employeesin an effort to cut costs and save time. Each line costs JP Morgan $10 per month to maintain, which admittedly is not much on the scale of its profits but, in a world dominated by email, text and instant messaging, voicemail is now as pointless as a pigeon with a pager. So don’t bother leaving a message after the beep. Here are six reasons why we wouldn’t care if voicemail hung up on us for good:1. No one checks their mailRemember that time six years ago when you went on holiday and returned to a full mailbox? And you still haven’t cleared it. Or listened to the messages. Time to face the facts: you will never log into your voicemail again. And the people who left you messages are probably still angry with you. Or dead.2. The only person who leaves a message is your motherAnd there’s a good chance the message is a 12-inch version of the inside of her jacket pocket with a grim backing track of supermarket checkout beeps, crisp crunching and bland observations about the weather.3. There is a (red flashing) light that will never go outIt has the atmosphere and hue of a panic button and serves only to remind you that you have a message you don’t want to hear. “It totally stresses me out when I come in to a wee red light on my phone,” confesses Annie Millar, an employee at a major bank. “I usually ignore it.”4. Hundreds of hours are wasted listening to someone hanging upThink of the hours, OK seconds, it takes to call your voicemail, scroll through the options, get to the offending message … and find that it’s a recording of a person hanging up. Or worse, someone leaving an insanely fast number that you have to listen to a thousand times before you give up and return to the simpler pleasures of WhatsApp. “Going through all the menu options and actually getting to the voicemail takes longer than listening to the message,” observes Millar. “What’s the point?”5. It’s boring!Like all mail, voicemail is, by and large, disappointing. One hopes for the love declaration, glamorous invitation or promotion. One gets the bill, meeting confirmation and cold call. “The worst is when someone says: ‘Hi, it’s so-and-so, call me back,’” says Tina Edwards, a music broadcaster and journalist whose voicemail prompt, incidentally, is a week out of date. “I want a bit more titillation over what we’re going to be talking about.” Emails are so much quicker to delete.6. You get a faster reply on InstagramVoicemail, ironically, makes it harder to get hold of people. Think of all the recorded messages out there announcing the person you want to speak to is on holiday. Until 29 May,six years ago. Yet there she is on Twitter, Instagramming her lunch. Instant message her and she will replyinstantly. Leave her a voicemail and you will probably never hear her voice again.
Apple has issued a voluntary recall of its Beats Pill XL speakers, after discovering that the device’s battery can overheat and catch on fire.While the company claims that this is “rare”, it is nevertheless asking customers to stop using the speakers and return them,claiming a full refund of £215 in the UK, and $325 in the US.“Apple has determined that, in rare cases, the battery in the Beats Pill XL may overheat and pose a fire safety risk. The recall does not affect any other Beats or Apple products,” explained a statement from the company.“Because customer safety is the company’s top priority, Apple is asking customers to stop using their Beats Pill XL speakers.”The speakers were launched by Beats Electronics in November 2013, several months before Apple bought the company – founded by Dr Dre and Jimmy Iovine – for $3bn.While product recalls of this type are rare for Apple, they have happened before. In August 2004, the companyrecalled some of the lithium ion rechargeable batteries for its 15-inch PowerBook G4 laptops, after safety concerns over a fire hazard caused by possible overheating.In August 2006,Apple recalled more laptop batteries made by Sony, which were prone to catching fire. In November 2011, meanwhile,Apple issued a recall for its first-generation iPod nanomusic player, which had launched in 2005, over similar fears that the battery could catch fire.
Instagram is opening up its advertising to all businesses regardless of size to expand its money-making efforts, meaning more ads in user feeds.The companyalso saidthat it was going to expand its advertising targeting features based on user interests, age, gender and demographic, using the photos they take as well as integration with Facebook’s behavioural ad profiling.Companies will be able to buy ads on Instagram directly or via Facebook.The new ads go beyond simple photos or videos to “carousel ads”, which will show a series of images to “tell a deeper story”, according to the company.An example of Instagram’s carousel ads, which could turn up in feeds soon.Users will also be able to interact with ads, buying products, downloading apps or signing up for services directly from Instagram.“These updates completely change the character and nature of Instagram advertising,” said Debra Aho Williamson, principal analyst at eMarketer. “New ways to target and an API are both things that advertisers have been asking for for a long time.”Instagram started offering ads in the US in 2013 and expanded into the UK with Waitrose, Rimmel and Channel 4 among othersin September 2014. Adverts were initially based on branded accounts with simple photos, but now support videos and more advanced ad formats.Facebook’s mobile ad revenues, which include Instagram, have been rising rapidly in the past years. They totalled $7.4bn in 2014 up 135.7% over 2013, accounting for 17.4% of the global mobile ad market and putting Facebook second only to Google’s 38.2% share, according to data from eMarketer.Facebook is pitching Instagram as a premium magazine-like advert environment, but whether users take to the ads, orsimply gloss over them or worse, has yet to be established.Instagram boasted that of 475 advertising campaigns run on the service, analytics firm Nielsen measured them as 2.9 times more successful than standard online adverts.Mobile platforms offer a potentially lucrative advertising space. Most mobile services contained within their own apps can avoid ad blockers and other anti-advertising technology commonly used on a desktop computer meaning users have no choice but to view them or leave the service.•Instagram users turn flash into cash, as companies eye new advertising market
On Tuesday, Bethesda stuck a 24-hour countdown on its website, and Twitter blew up like a nuclear warhead. The ticker was, of course, leading us toward the official announcement of Fallout 4, which is set for release on PC, Xbox One and PS4. And, after seeing the trailer, that sound is my head exploding with excitement like aradroachblasted with a plasma rifle.When it comes to post-apocalyptic open-world video games, the Fallout series is the genre’s gruesomely mutated king. Heavily inspired by the Mad Max movies as well as end-of-the-world fiction like A Boy and His Dog, its combination of 1950s Americana and desolate, nuclear-grade violence, has struck a chord with millions of gamers. Desperately scavenging for irradiated Nuka Cola in a collapsed house before a robot with a flame thrower jumps you shouting “you ready to die for your country you commie son of bitch?!”, is just one of the crazed moments these games throw at you with nihilistic abandon.So ahead of that official confirmation, here’s some of what we want to see from the next instalment.Customisable vehiclesWhen you wander the Wasteland, you see cars, motorbikes, trucks, and aeroplanes scattered everywhere. A lot of the time they are just metallic husks, or highly explosive nuclear wrecks, but isn’t it time that at least some of them are useable? We’ve seen other factions throughout the series employing various modes of transport – it’s time for Bethesda to put us behind the wheel. So far, only Fallout 2’s Chevy-like Highwayman has been driveable. In the trailer, there are huge ships on what look like stilts, blimps, and something like a fighter jet. Despite the garage screenshot doing the rounds, we haven’t quite seen anything equating to a personal vehicle yet.Being able to repair and customise vehicles with scavenged parts will mean we’re able to look awesome firing a 10mm machine gun at raiders while belting along astride a customised squad bike. Of course, Fallout shouldn’t mutate into a full on Mad Max game, there’s already one of those on the way, but it would be a very useful addition, making world travel a lot quicker and more exciting.Fallout 4: can we have more customisable cars like Mad Max does please?Photograph: Moviestore/REX Shutterstock/Moviestore/REX_ShutterstockBoston here we comeWhere a Fallout game is set doesn’t just change the name and aesthetic, it shapes the culture of those living in the environment. A lot of the inhabitants seem to cling on to their pre-war identities whether that be cowboys, gangsters, white-picket-fence suburbanites, or even Elvis Presley. Wherever Bethesda decides to set the next game, it needs to be somewhere with deep history and identity to play around with.It’s now official: after speculation and a leaked casting call document, the trailer has conformed Boston as the setting of Fallout 4. This isn’t surprising, since the city has been mentioned in previous games. Massachusetts is known as the Commonwealth Region, and is home to The Institute, a mysterious research facility that mutated out of MIT. In Fallout 3, we discover that the resident scientists have developed human-like synthetics and AI, and that there exists an underground movement to free sentient androids from their creators. We’re a little concerned that this will lead to that old sci-fi cliché of AI and robots turning against their creators. Hopefully if this happens, Bethesda will manage a suitably warped take on the trope.From the trailer we can see Boston is a visually arresting backdrop, with its huge sky scrapers towering over historic red brick buildings and a long history ready to be moulded and twisted in true Fallout fashion. As well as MIT, there’s Ivy League stalwart Harvard, which would be the perfect birthplace for new shady institutions as well as an outpost for established groups such as the Brotherhood of Steel, and Followers of the Apocalypse. Boston’s long history of engineering, dockyards and railways also seems to be addressed in the trailer. That floating sky ship looks an awful lot like the USS Constitution.It would also be interesting to see some quest lines or DLC taking place somewhere fairly unique like New Orleans, with its more European style architecture. Or perhaps a trip to post-apocalyptic Hawaii fighting off robots on the beach, while a green-glowing sea laps against the sand. Beautiful.A new cast of companionsFallout 1 and 2 and Fallout: New Vegas all allowed you to meet interesting computer-controlled companion characters – both human and robotic – and adopt them into your clan, and we’d like to see that concept renewed. Discovering the weird backstories of your interesting colleagues was always a key part of the games – mostly because the world outside of your own character’s experience is such a mystery. Just finding out where someone grew up sheds light on a previously unknowable area of lore. Bethesda has also created a world with a huge variety of potential followers, robots, animals, mutants, dogs, robodogs, cyborg dogs … they all make the combat more interesting (by adding another style of fighting to your arsenal) and keep you entertained on a narrative level with well-written dialogue. From the new trailer we can see an adorable Alsatian dog companion.A boy and his dog, heading out into the irradiated wastelands of Fallout 3.Photograph: BethesdaMore music, more radio stationsFallout has always used music incredibly effectively in crafting its atmosphere, bringing seminal 50s R&amp;B group the The Ink Spots to a whole new generation. The titles and subject matter of the songs like Civilization, Orange Coloured Sky and Ain’t that a Kick in the Head providing an ironic commentary on the action. The addition of radio stations in Fallout 3 and New Vegas was a stroke of genius. Being able to blast a radscorpion to pieces with Bing Crosby crooning in the background is a glorious concept. However, we’d hope for much more extensive playlists this time round to avoid repetition. A wider variety of stations, genres and DJ personalities would also be a great addition.Varied environmentsCreating a game in a post-apocalyptic world makes it tougher to rely on vegetation to create variety – but not impossible. We’ve seen mutated animals throughout the series, so why not giant killer plants? There have been small areas of dense vegetation in the series – a vault overrun by plants, an area dominated by religious fanatics following a man called Harold who’s mutated into a tree (and may well return in the forthcoming title) – but never anything expansive. A richer eco-system would certainly make the world more dangerous – having to avoid super mutants while also staying out of the gaping maws of radiated Venus fly traps will be fun. Indeed, the new trailer shows a wider variety of environments including trees – all over the place! Perhaps a change of weather could be introduced, too. Skiing through the nuclear winter season at Aspen would make a pleasant break.Tighter controls on the VAT SystemThe combat system in the last two Fallout games was not universally adored. It often felt you were shooting wildly and blindly, biding time before you could use the slightly bug-afflicted Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting (VAT) system, which allows players to focus in on specific parts of enemies with a percentage chance of hitting them. Many have called for VATs to be scrapped but we think the answer lies in streamlining general combat, giving more weight and impact to weapons and hand-to-hand encounters. The skirmishes would feel a bit more like a first-person shooter rather than an interruption in a role-playing game – which won’t suit everyone. But if VATs were much scarcer, you’d have to save them up and use them tactically, accompanied by an animation of your character looking like the Wasteland warrior they are.It’s man versus machine in Fallout: New Vegas and man needs a more robust combat system.Photograph: BethesdaThe return of dark humourWhether it’s the regular Monty Python references or the appearance of strange characters like Tabitha the super mutant in her heart shaped glasses or the psychopathic toaster, twisted humour defined the early Fallout series, as well as Bethesda’s Elder Scrolls titles. However, later entries in both franchises have been somewhat lacking on that front: Skyrim was brilliant but also, well, a bit po-faced. Fallout 4 needs to be more Shivering Isles than grim Nordic blacksmith in terms of twisted comedy potential.Hand-crafted quests over dynamic missionsWell-written, hand-crafted quests are going to be vitally important. The Radiant Quest system used in Skyrim sounds brilliant on paper: infinite quests, randomly generated and a little different each time. But the reality was a lot of fetch quests in similar looking caves. Bethesda may be tempted to bring that system across to Fallout 4, but there’s an argument for abandoning dynamic quests altogether and opting for a smaller range of authored challenges. Technically, this would mean a finite range of things to do, but cutting down on tedious fetch tasks could be worth the sacrifice. It is, after all, possible to spend hundreds of hours in Bethesda games without the Radiant Quests sending you off to fight rats in order to get some dour farmer his favourite bracelet back.
Social photo sharing servicePinterestis introducing a “buy button” allowing users to purchase products pinned to its boards.The site and mobile app has long been the destination for browsing aspirational products, such as home ware, clothing and gadgets, but until now there has been no purchase option for users.Pinterest co-founder and CEO Ben Silbermann announces ‘buyable pins’ at a San Francisco event.Photograph: Pinterest press packPinterest co-founder and chief executive Ben Silbermannannounced the introductionof “buyable pins” at a San Francisco event at the company’s headquarters, and said:“Pinterest is already designed to work like a catalogue, so we wanted to find a way to weave buyable pins into the pages people already know. Buyable pins are a simple and secure way to buy the products you love right from inside Pinterest.”So-called buyable pins will come with a blue “buy it” button in the top right hand corner of the post, with a price point and options to search for different colours and costs.Users will then be able to click on the button to purchase an item. Payment will be via credit card orApple Pay, and processing is to be handled by payment enterprises Braintree (owned byPayPal) and start-upStripe.Pinterest itself will not hang on to users’ credit information, but will store personal information to make repeated purchasing simpler.In ablog post, engineering manager Chao Wang explained that buyable pins will be rolled out acrossiOSproducts (Apple iPad and iPhone) in the coming weeks in the US, with desktop andAndroidversions to be released later.Brands which will place buyable products on Pinterest includeMacy’sandNeiman Marcus. Smaller retailers will also be able to sell to users thanks to partnerships with e-commerce companiesShopifyandDemandware.Pinterest’s video advertising campaign for ‘buyable pins’.Pinterest’s move into a direct online shopping experience, competing with the likes of Amazon, is a long time coming.The company, which launched its first iteration in 2010, has avaluation of $11bn(£7.2bn) and is thought to have 75 million users in the US aloneaccording to comScore, although official figures have not been released.According to Pinterest’s general manager for monetisation, Tim Kendall,87% of usershave gone onto purchase a product (outside of Pinterest) they have seen pinned.Pinterest will not take a cut from retailers’ profits, but instead aims to make money from the venture by selling promoted buyable pins and advertisements.The venture has been trailed online with aYouTube videoand the hashtag #PinItBuyIt.•Pinterest 2015: men, mobile, and Apple Watch – but definitely not a social network
Microsoft’s Skype chat service is vulnerable to a simple booby-trapped text message that causes the app to enter a crash loop that permanently breaks the app on iPhone, iPad, Android and Windows.Reminiscent of Apple’s iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch and Mac crash bug, the Skype vulnerability is caused by a much simpler and more common text string “http://:”.The text string, which could easily be sent in error when attempting to manually enter a web address, causes the app on the recipient’s device to crash without displaying the message.Booby-trapped text message crashes an iPhone Skype app sent via a Mac.If the message was sent from a Skype app on a vulnerable device, the sender’s Skype will also crash and suffer the same ill effects. Skype for Mac and Skype for Windows 8.1 do not seem affected.Skype said it was aware of the problem and was working on a solution.During testing, the Skype for Mac app sent two of the booby-trapped text messages, but subsequent attempts to replicate the crash failed to send. It is possible Skype has stopped the messages going through.Skype message crashing Android app on send.The Skype apps pull a history of chat messages on startup and login, which means that deleting and uninstalling the app cannot solve the issue.Users affected by the bug can get around the issue by asking the sender to delete the message, or by sending a series of photos or messages to push the booby-trapped text into the archive.Apple’s iPhones, iPads and the Apple Watchhave been plaguedby a “text message of death” that crashes Apple’s devices when sent via Messages and a variety of other apps includingSnapchat and Twitter.The iPhone crash, which has still not been fixed a week on fromits discovery, is caused by a bug within a core system common to all of Apple’s devices that handles text. When presented with non-Latin characters in a specific sequence – including those from Arabic, Chinese and Marathi – the CoreText system chokes, causing it to fail and bring the entire operating system to a halt.Skype’s bug is not caused by the same system. Instead it is likely to do with the web address handling system choking on “http://:”, which is not a valid URL.•iOS bug lets anyone crash your iPhone with a text message
The moment will be familiar to a generation of Jaws fanatics. Early in the movie, after the first mangled victim is discovered, the highly strung police chief Martin Brody is certain a great white shark is lurking in the waters surrounding Amity island – but it’s the Fourth of July and the mayor insists that the beach has to stay open. With the expectation of more carnage in every viewers’ mind, the camera cuts to a beachside arcade, and one machine in particular. On the cabinet screen we see the visually arresting depiction of a shark thrashing about in its bloody death throes, before the camera draws back to the player operating a harpoon-gun shaped controller. It’s effectively Brody’s nightmare, and his objective, rolled into one flickering image on an ancient coin-op display for a few redolent seconds.In a movie filled with legendary cinematic moments, this brief sequence is a minor one, but as with many other elements of Steven Spielberg’s 1975 picture, it was also prescient. The director, a keen games player and watcher of pop culture trends, foresaw an era in which Hollywood would be seduced by the popularity and the visual spectacle of the emerging video game arcade scene. He got the appeal of these new entertainment machines, but he also understood how computer graphics represented a new way to present narrative to audiences – even if, in Jaws, it was a few seconds of footage.Sega’s early ‘electro-mechanical’ arcade game Killer Shark, as seen in the movie JawsAs for the game itself, the image we see is not quite what it seems.Sega’s 1972 electro-mechanical release Killer Sharkuses no digital computer graphics at all. Instead the image of the shark is actually produced by a series of slides on two metal wheels. The player sees the terrifying fish projected on screen, and a strobe lighting effect gives the appearance of movement. If the player shoots at the section of the screen that the shark image inhabits, the discs swap and the death sequence is played out.Formed in the early 1960s, Sega Enterprises was a pioneer of these new machines, which combined incoming screen technologies with the traditional shooting galleries found in fairgrounds and early pinball arcades throughout America. Founder David Rosen had served with the US military during the Korean war before setting up a business importing US made coin-op machines into Japan. He immediately understood the potential of this new technology, and, after merging his company with Japanese manufacturer Nihon Goraku Bussan in 1965, he designed Sega’s first entry into the medium, Periscope. Released in Japan in 1966, this naval shooting game featured a realistic periscope as a sighting mechanism, allowing players to shoot at chain-mounted cardboard ships that chugged along on a painted ocean background. It was a worldwide hit, prompting a slew of similar electrical shooting titles, often withbeautifully elaborate cabinetsto augment the very basic visuals.Related:Jaws, 40 years on: ‘One of the truly great and lasting classics of American cinema’At this time, a young Steven Spielberg was being introduced to computer technology by his father, Arnold, an electrical engineer who helped pioneer the concept of personal computing while working at General Electrics. In the 60s, he took his son to see the GE-225 mainframe computer he’d helped design, the first machine to run the formative BASIC programming language. Spielberg was fascinated, sparking a lifelong interest in computer and video game technology, and during the filming of Jaws in 1974, the director spent much of his downtime playing early Atari coin-op Pong against actor Roy Scheider. That game would also crop up in Frank Perry’s contemporary western, Rancho Deluxe, released several months before Jaws. In that film, Jeff Bridges and Harry Dean Stanton are seen playing the game, their faces reflected in the screen as they talk.But it was Jaws that situated games, not just as an interesting visual diversion, but as a narrative signifier – something that could comment on the themes of the film. And it was only the first of Spielberg’s movies to draw on gaming aesthetics and concepts – indeed, he would later go on to co-design and produce several game titles, including LucasArts adventure The Dig and Nintendo Wii title Boom Blox. In 1995, he formed Dreamworks Interactive, overseeing the development of seminal military shooter, Medal of Honor.The appearance of Killer Shark in Jaws would be followed several years later by a slew of Hollywood movies looking to explore the early 80s boom in arcade culture. The likes of Tron, War Games and the Last Starfighter not only depicted arcades and video games, they also borrowed the narrative ideas, technology and conventions of the medium. But in a more subtle way, both Jaws and Rancho Deluxe previewed an era in which games would become a convenient cultural touchstone. Suddenly, movies started to use arcades as shorthand for “where the kids hang out”, or just revelled in the exhileration of a young entertainment industry – hence the cathartic scene in George A Romero’s Dawn of the Dead, where the survivor is let loose in the mall’s arcade.Nowadays, of course, action films have utterly appropriated both the graphical technologies and the narrative techniques of video games. Young directors like JJ Abrams and Duncan Jones were gamers before they were film and TV makers and have brought with them the language and impulses of interactive media. Meanwhile, CGI artists move seamlessly between the movie and video game worlds, their skills largely transferable in an era of special effects and shared cultural ideals. Spielberg has now signed up to direct a movie translation of Ready Player One, a dystopian novel about a future society in which people exist almost entirely within game-like virtual worlds.In those fleeting seconds showing a swirling, thrashing shark, Jaws heralded a new era of video game appropriation. It foreshadowed the complex multilayered relationship between films, games, computer technology and arcade culture, that would infest 80s cinema, but also inform the interactive artform. Later in 1975, Atari founder Nolan Bushnell allegedly approached Universal for permission to produce a game based around Jaws, by then a global smash hit. The studio apparently refused, so Bushnell set up a subsidiary, Horror Games, and released a coin-op called Shark Jaws – with the word “Shark” displayed a lot smaller than “Jaws” on the cabinet – to cash in on the phenomenon. It would be one of the first attempts at a licensed video game tie-in, preempting what would become a major element of the games industry.Jaws, then: not only an amazing movie about one man’s struggle against authority and nature, but also about one director’s prescient understanding of a new electronic culture that would change everything.
The Oculus Rift virtual reality headset won’t be commercially launchinguntil the first quarter of 2016, but the company behind it – Facebook subsidiary Oculus VR – is pressing on with creating films for the device.Having created a Story Studio division staffed by veterans from Pixar and Industrial Light &amp; Magic andlaunched a short VR film called Lostin January 2015, Oculus has announced details of its second animation.Henry– “a heartwarming comedy about a loveable hedgehog” – will be available later this year for anyone who owns an Oculus Rift development headset, and will be free for anyone buying the final model in early 2016.“Henry the hedgehog is an original character created for virtual reality by Story Studio’s new consulting production designer Kendal Cronkhite, who designed the look of the Dreamworks Madagascar films, and Bernhard Haux, previously one of Pixar’s top character artists,”explained Oculus in a blog post.The film, directed by another former Pixar creator, Ramiro Lopez Dau, will premiere in Los Angeles on 28 July, six months after Lost made its debut at the Sundance Film Festival in January.When Oculus – which was bought by Facebook for $2bn in 2014 – launched Story Studio, its chief executive Brendan Iribe said the aim was to “support and inspire the community” of filmmakers exploring virtual reality.Oculus Rift, together with Google Cardboard, Samsung’s Gear VR and other headsets in development, is sparking a flurry of creativity beyond the games industry, which was the first market targeted by these devices.Related:The return of virtual reality: 'this is as big an opportunity as the internet'In January,filmmaker Chris Milk talked to the Guardianabout his work on VR documentaries about the Millions March protest in New York, and the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan.“With virtual reality, I’m not interested in the novelty factor,” he said. “I’m interested in the foundations for a medium that could be more powerful than cinema, than theatre, than literature, than any other medium we’ve had before to connect one human being to another.”Video distribution channels are also experimenting with virtual reality: notably YouTube, which recently launched a series of “360-degree” videos on its service.“We don’t know how long VR is going to take and how large it’s going to be. We don’t know. But we know it’s somehow going to play an important role, and we therefore must have focus on it and have people working on it,” YouTube’s head of content and business operations Robert Kyncltold the Guardian this month.
Oops, sorry guys!
According tothe latest figuresfrom communications regulator Ofcom, 71% of British children aged 5-15 have access to a tablet in their home, including 34% who own their own device. .Now Amazon is hoping to boost the latter figure with the UK launch of its dedicated children’s tablet: theFire HD Kids Edition, which originally launched in the US in October 2014.The tablet is a rebranded version of Amazon’s existing Fire HD tablet, with a rubberised case to protect it if dropped (or thrown in a tantrum), and a built-in subscription for unlimited access to a catalogue of children’s apps, e-books and videos.Related:10 children's app trends for 2015Pre-orders for the device, which will cost £119 or £139 depending on whether parents want 8GB or 16GB of memory, have started in the UK and Germany today, with shipments due to start on 18 June.Amazon is making a calculated appeal to parents’ distrust of in-app purchases and advertising within children’s apps on iPad and Android tablets, promising that its Fire for Kids Unlimited service will bar apps using either feature.Buyers will get a year’s free access to the service, and will then pay between £1.99 and £4.99 a month after that point – if they are members of Amazon’s Prime membership scheme – depending on how many children they have.Non-members will pay between £3.99 and £7.99 a month, with the subscription service also available on Amazon’s existing range of Fire tablets.Partners include traditional media brands like Disney and Nickelodeon, as well as children’s apps developers like Toca Boca, Oceanhouse Media and Dr Panda. Children will be able to browse the catalogue by character and theme, as well as the individual books, videos and apps categories.Amazon told the Guardian that the content will not be divided by age group, but that Fire for Kids Unlimited will learn the habits of children over time, ensuring that the content they prefer bubbles up to the top of its menu system.Parents will be able to set time limits for their children’s screen time, including the ability to set different daily limits for the individual categories; block entertainment content and leave education content unlocked; and specify that their children must spend a certain amount of time reading ebooks in a given day before they can play games or watch video.There will be no internet access on the device unless parents specifically “white-list” individual apps like YouTube, or unlock the tablet for web browsing, Amazon confirmed.This is not the first tablet launched for children. In 2013,Samsung launched its Android-based Galaxy Tab 3 Kids device in the UK, going head-to-head withTesco’s family-focused Hudlthat Christmas.Apple and Google have also launched features aimed at parents and children as part of their iOS and Android software and app stores.In 2013, Apple added a dedicated Kids section to its App Store, andlaid down new rules for developersoffering their apps through it, covering privacy policies, advertising and “parental gates” blocking internet access and in-app purchases without a parent’s permission.Related:Parents! Focus less on worrying about Minecraft and more on understanding itIn May 2015,Google launched its own family features for Android’s Google Play store. They included a filter for child-friendly apps, clearly-labelled age ratings and notifications for use of in-app advertising, and dedicated pages for brands like Peppa Pig, Star Wars and Frozen on its store.Both companies – and Amazon – have faced regulatory scrutiny of how children are using their devices. All three have been investigated by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) over in-app purchases made within children’s apps.Amazon is the first to experiment with an all-you-can-eat subscription service to sideline these issues. That one-year built-in offer – not to mention its promise to replace the Fire HD Kids Edition at any point within two years if a child manages to break it – is likely to have strong appeal for parents.That said, the children who the device will be bought for may quickly spot what’s missing from the offer – it seems Minecraft, by far the most popular game for children on tablets in 2015 – is not included in the subscription.
Apple chief executive Tim Cook has delivered his sharpest attack yet on rivals Google and Facebook, with a speech criticising their advertising-supported business models for their disregard for users’ privacy.Cook also used his speech to the EPIC Champions of Freedom event in Washington to fire a broadside at governments pushing for backdoors to encryption systems used by Apple and other technology companies on national-security grounds, describing the prospect as “incredibly dangerous”.Related:Secret report urges treaty securing US web firms' cooperation in data sharingThe speech,as reported by TechCrunch, did not pull any of its punches. “I’m speaking to you from Silicon Valley, where some of the most prominent and successful companies have built their businesses by lulling their customers into complacency about their personal information,” said Cook.“They’re gobbling up everything they can learn about you and trying to monetise it. We think that’s wrong. And it’s not the kind of company that Apple wants to be.”While Cook did not name companies specifically, he made a clear reference to Google’s recently-launched Google Photos service, to hammer home the intended targets of his comments.“We believe the customer should be in control of their own information. You might like these so-called free services, but we don’t think they’re worth having your email, your search history and now even your family photos data-mined and sold off for god knows what advertising purpose,” he said. “And we think some day, customers will see this for what it is.”Apple is not immune from scrutiny on these grounds: its App Store distributes the apps of these companies to the iOS devices bought by its customers – Google Photos launched for iOS last week – so the company is providing one of the key distribution networks for these “so-called free services”.Apple has also faced other kinds of questions about privacy: for example in November 2014, when security researcher Jeffrey Paul discovered thatseveral of his personal files had been automatically uploaded to Apple’s iCloudstorage service without his permission.Related:Apple CEO Tim Cook challenges Obama with impassioned stand on privacyCook has attacked Google and Facebook before. In September 2014, hepublished an open letter to customersabout privacy, in which he stressed Apple’s lack of interest in building “a profile based on your email content or web browsing habits to sell to advertisers” or trying to “read your email or your messages to get information to market to you”.Portraying rivals as building their business models on privacy intrusion – Google and its Android platform in particular – has a clear commercial benefit for Apple, as it tries to sell more of its iOS devices.There are other areas in which Apple’s civil-liberties beliefs are more aligned with those rivals though: especially when it comes to governments’ desire to weaken the encryption technology used by these companies.“Some in Washington are hoping to undermine the ability of ordinary citizens to encrypt their data. We think this is incredibly dangerous,” said Cook, talking up Apple’s use of encryption in its iMessage and FaceTime services for messaging and video-calling.Related:Apple's Tim Cook attacks Google and Facebook over privacy flaws“If you put a key under the mat for the cops, a burglar can find it, too. Criminals are using every technology tool at their disposal to hack into people’s accounts. If they know there’s a key hidden somewhere, they won’t stop until they find it,” said Cook.“Removing encryption tools from our products altogether, as some in Washington would like us to do, would only hurt law-abiding citizens who rely on us to protect their data. The bad guys will still encrypt; it’s easy to do and readily available.”This is not the first time Cook has spoken out about encryption in this way. In February,Apple’s chief executive gave an impassioned speechat a White House-organised cybersecurity summit.“If those of us in positions of responsibility fail to do everything in our power to protect the right of privacy, we risk something far more valuable than money. We risk our way of life,” he said then.Five injured in chlorine gas leak at Apple data centre
The Internal Revenue Service failed to implement dozens of security upgrades that might have prevented the hacking of more than 104,000 US taxpayers, according to J Russell George, treasury inspector general for tax administration, at a Senate committee hearing on Tuesday.Related:IRS says breach provided hackers with information on 100,000 taxpayers“It would have been much more difficult if they had implemented all of the recommendations we made,” George told the Senate finance committee about the data breach.The data breach occurred in Get Transcript, a system set up to make taxpayers’ interactions with the IRS more convenient and allow them to download their tax “transcript” online. The hackers, who attempted to download transcripts from around 200,000 questionable email domains, made about 104,000 successful downloads. To successfully download the transcripts, the hackers must have passed a security screen that asked for required information including a social security number, date of birth, tax filing status and street address.The hackers must have obtained this information from somewhere other than the IRS, according to the agency’s commissioner, John Koskinen.The two witnesses present at Tuesday’s hearing, George and Koskinen, took pains to remind lawmakers that cybersecurity is an increasingly complicated challenge.“What worked yesterday, what worked a year ago might not be working today, so you continually have to attack that problem,” said Koskinen.“This incident provides a stark reminder that even security controls that may have been adequate in the past can be overcome by hackers, who are anonymous, persistent and have access to vast amounts of personal data and knowledge,” said George.The officials said the IRS needed more resources to tackle escalating hacking issues. “Securing our system and protecting taxpayers’ information is a top priority for the IRS. Even with our constrained resources as a result of cuts to our budget totaling $1.2bn since 2010, we continue to devote significant time and attention to this challenge,” said Koskinen.The IRS has struggled to attract the best minds in the technology sector, said Koskinen. “I was just talking to our IT head – we have lost two senior sophisticated IT people because they did not want to go through the normal government process,” Koskinen said during the hearing. Later he explained that the normal hiring process can take three to five months.The IRS can currently hire 40 people through a program that allows it to pay more for talent and expedite hiring. But that authority is due to expire, and Koskinen said it is “critical for the small number of people we need who are going to be world-class experts at dealing not only with technology but with security”.Of the 168 positions filled through the program from 1998 to 2013,over half were information technology positions. According to Koskinen, the annual cost of the higher salaries under the program is $400,000 to $500,000 a year, which he said outweighs the costs of potential future data breaches.“The pay increase differential is relatively modest, we only got about three people who have taken advantage of it,” he said.The staffing troubles at the IRS do not stop with its technology department.An increased number of attacks similar to the recent breach are coming from “criminal syndicates in eastern Europe and Asia”, according to Koskinen.“We have 300 fewer criminal investigators than we had four or five years ago,” he pointed out. In February, theIRS had 2,402 investigators, 63 fewer than in September 2014. The year prior, the number of investigators had shrunk by 3%. “Expedition, finding and tracking those people down, is much more difficult. And as a general matter, we don’t get a lot of cooperation [from the foreign governments].”Related:The $42 phone call: IRS budget cuts mean half of taxpayers will be ignoredAddressing reports that the recent data breach was orchestrated by hackers residing in Russia, George said: “I want to make clear: that’s not the case. It’s beyond Russia.” When prompted to clarify, he continued: “The domains are located in nations other than Russia, in addition to Russia.” He did say that the investigation pinpointed some countries where unauthorized access of transcript data came from, but because of the ongoing investigation he would not disclose them publicly.Despite the many bipartisan pledges to assist the IRS with preventing future cyber-attacks, a dislike for the agency was felt throughout the hearing.Georgia senator Johnny Isakson pointed out that his tax information includes details about how much money he makes, what church he goes to and gives money to, his stocks and bonds, and how much he owes on his house.“I just want to put things in perspective,” he said. “That information is a lot more private, a lot more personal ... and much more dangerous to the average American citizen than whatever the NSA ever does, and they are looking out for our physical safety. I just had to make that statement.”According to South Carolina senator Tim Scott, his constituents are “incredibly concerned about the IRS”.“This breach will only add more fire to people who are absolutely petrified by the IRS,” he said. “And now having their information exposed to criminal elements, criminal cartels, is even more disconcerning.”“No one at the IRS is under any illusion that we are not at risk,” Koskinen told him.“This is a federal, state, local, global problem. And I don’t see it ending anytime soon,” George said in the final moments of the hearing. “Just as soon as IRS increases their security posture, the bad guys will increase their efforts to overcome those.”“’There is no magic silver bullet that tomorrow morning is going to put this all to an end,” said Koskinen. “We need to continue to be diligent, we need to continue to do everything that we can with our systems, with our security, with our monitoring of it.”
If it’s not on Instagram, you haven’t eaten it. Roast dinners, soufflés and salads, no food escapes an Amaro filter these days.Now Google is responding to the appetite for “food porn” by developing an artificial intelligence project to calculate the calories in your latest Instagram post.Announced at theRework Deep Learning Summit, the prospective tool called Im2Calories, aims to identify food snapped and work out the calorie content.The Google researcher Kevin P Murphy said the AI technology will analyse the depth of pixels in an image and employ “sophisticated deep-learning algorithms” to judge the size and shape of a foodstuff.According toPopular Science, the company has recently filed a patent for the technology.“To me it’s obvious that people really want this and this is really useful. OK fine, maybe we get the calories off by 20%. It doesn’t matter. We’re going to average over a week or a month or a year.“Now we can start to potentially join information from multiple people and start to do population-level statistics. I have colleagues in epidemiology and public health, and they really want this stuff,” said Murphy.Incomments to Cnet, the Google spokesman Jason Freidenfelds said algorithms for Im2Calories were still being researched, and that there were no definite product plans currently.Calorie counting and food hygiene apps are popular with both iOS and Android users, and food has become the surprise hit of social networking, with Instagram accounts dedicated to food photographyracking up thousands of followers.•10 recipe apps to help you cook up memorable meals
Would-be cybercriminals who lack the technological prowess to actually hack into their targets computers themselves can now overcome that hurdle, thanks to a new “ransomware-as-a-service” tooldiscovered on the darknet by researchers at McAfee.Branded as “Tox”, the tool lets anyone, regardless of technical ability, automatically create ransomware: software which encrypts a victim’s hard drive and demands payment before decrypting it.The most notorious example of ransomware, named Cryptolocker, ran wild in the first half of 2014. It demanded a ransom paid in the cryptocurrency bitcoin, rising as high as 2 bitcoin ($2000 at the time), or the victim’s documents were lost forever. In November 2013, a US police force fell prey to the scam and ended up having to pay a ransom equal to £832 at the day’s exchange rates.But Cryptolocker was disruptedin a simultaneous US-EU raid in June 2014, seizing the command and control network which had been used to run the software remotely. After the raids, which also took out a related piece of malware called Gameover Zeus, reports of new infections have died off.Tox threatens to revive the problem. But unlike Cryptolocker, which had the hallmarks of a co-ordinated criminal operation, Tox lets would-be criminals roll their own ransomware. Any user can register on the darknet site and choose to create their own cryptolocker-style software. They get the option to set the ransom amount, in US dollars, as well as add a personal note.The site then automatically generates a downloadable virus, which can be downloaded and then shared however the attacker desires. And the whole thing is funded by Tox taking a 20% cut of any ransom paid.“We don’t expect Tox to be the last malware to embrace this model. We also anticipate more skilled development and variations in encryption and evasion techniques,” writes McAfee’s Jim Walter.Tox shows how the hidden side of the tech industry follows the same trends as the surface side. The trend of “software-as-a-service” – charging on a regular basis for programmes, rather than one fee upfront – has grown to the point that Microsoft’s next version of Windows – Windows 10 – will be sold in that way.Popular enterprise software such as Microsoft Office or Adobe Creative Suite have been sold as services for some time now. What other trends from the enterprise will virus writers follow in the future?
Five people have been taken to hospital after a chlorine gas leak at Apple’s large data centre in Maiden, North Carolina.The building was evacuated by the hazardous materials response team, and five workers were treated on site before being taken to a nearby hospital. All five were later discharged.Chlorine is used as a sterilising agent for the water often used in liquid cooling systems for computers and servers. But when exposed to air in concentrated quantities it evaporates, creating chlorine gas, which has been used as a chemical weapon in the first world war and several subsequent conflicts.Chlorine gas attacks the lungs, reacting with the water in mucosal layers, creating hydrochloric acid which irritates the lung tissue and causes fluid build up, shortness of breath and eventual drowning.The workers were treated for dizziness and shortness of breath, and given oxygen at the scene,according to reports.“Five workers at our Maiden data centre were taken to a local hospital following possible exposure to fumes, which may have been released during a spill of a chemical used to clean the cooling systems,” said Apple in a statement. “The spill was quickly contained and poses no threat to anyone else at the facility.”The data centre in North Carolina is one of several that Apple operates using renewable energy and, at 183 acres, is one of its largest. It is currently being expanded and is tasked with handling iCloud, iMessage and iTunes data, powered by a50 megawatt solar power plant.Apple also employssolar power within parts of its productionline, including the sapphire screen manufacturing plant formerly owned by GT Advanced. The factory in Arizona suffered afire last weekisolated to the solar array on its roof.Apple’s data centre in Maiden.
With more than one billion monthly viewers, YouTube is the biggest online video service – but in 2015, there are plenty of companies hoping to take a bite out of it.Videos uploaded directly to Facebook are currentlybeing watched more than 3bn times a day; startup Vessel isoffering big YouTube stars more money if they give it three-day exclusivityon new videos; andSnapchatandSpotifyhave both expanded into video.All this, plus the likes of Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime, Sky, HBO Now and BBC iPlayer in the streaming TV space; Yahoo sniffing around YouTubers; andAmazon paying nearly $1bn to buy live-streaming video service Twitch, with its growing community of gamers and music fans.Related:Snapchat adds entertainment and news with DiscoverAs YouTube’s head of content and business operations, Robert Kyncl admits to keeping a close eye on all this, but maintains that competition is a rising tide floating YouTube’s ship as well. “Every company on earth is moving into video,” he says during an interview with a small group of European journalists, including the Guardian.“Look at large companies: as they grow, as they get larger their growth rate slows down. What’s happening with YouTube: as we are getting larger, our growth rate is accelerating. We believe that it’s happening because of the rise in competition and a massive increase in the mainstream-ness of online video,” he says.“Video is one of the most attractive places to be. Everybody wants to be in. So okay, we’re in the right place: it would be kinda bad if nobody wanted to enter our space.”Kyncl admits that YouTube’s challenge is staying “really sharp and on your toes” in the face of this competition, but also delivers a warning to those rivals.“It’s really difficult to do what Netflix or YouTube has done, which is to drive revenue. Netflix has done it through subscriber acquisition in a paid model, we’re doing it through an advertising model,” he says.“It’s a very difficult thing: a lot of people can build up a lot of consumer engagement, but to actually monetise it and drive revenue back into the content ecosystem in a meaningful way is incredibly hard.”YouTube versus NetflixKyncl draws a distinction between the free world of YouTube and the paid-subscription world of Netflix, suggesting that the two are co-existing happily.“If you think about advertising-supported video globally, it’s a little bit above $200bn a year in revenue. If you think about subscriptions, it’s little bit above $200bn. Equal markets. Somehow we’re not eating each other’s lunch,” he says. “Even if all the firms grew really large, we’re not really bumping into one another anytime soon.”Related:Vessel founder: ‘Companies realise it’s a chance to redefine the next generation of TV’YouTube’s parent company Google never breaks out how much money its online video service is making – not a policy Kyncl is willing to break during this interview beyond claiming that YouTube is “generating tremendous amounts of revenue”.How tremendous? Some analysts have taken guesses: in February, the Wall Street Journal suggested thatYouTube’s revenues rose from around $3bn in 2013 to $4bn in 2014– lower than thepredictions of $5.6bn a yearthat some analysts were predicting in 2013.There’s an ongoing debate about whether creators could be making more money on YouTube: the pitch of companies like Vessel is that they could be, elsewhere. YouTube’s response has included packaging up its most popular channels for advertisers in its Google Preferred initiative, to boost ad revenues.YouTube’s Robert Kyncl, interviewed via Hangout. Screenshot: Stuart Dredge/The GuardianPhotograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianIt’s also setting aside more funding for its top creators, so they can produce new shows that are exclusive to YouTube – one recent example being Minecraft gamer Stampy, whosenew Wonder Quest show was commissioned exclusively by YouTube.“What we’ve been doing is focusing on our top creators: we look at the ones who develop large audiences of millions of people following them on YouTube. We look at that as our great advantage: they have a great following, and can tell that following there is something great and new coming from them,” said Kyncl.These stars are being courted by traditional TV firms as well as YouTube’s online rivals, but Kyncl’s pitch to keep them involves warning that taking their audience back to TV may be harder than they think.“If they have to do something for TV, they have to take their audience from one platform to another platform. That’s a really hard thing to do,” he says. “What we’re looking for is engaging with people who have large audiences on YouTube who can tell their people to watch it right here on YouTube, with no leakage from one platform to another.”Related:PewDiePie, Zoella and who else? What the UK watched on YouTube in 2014YouTube will continue to cherry-pick digital stars to invest in from its community, with Kyncl citingBritish vlogger Zoella– whose online fame has translated into a best-selling book – as a prime example.“If you think of someone like a Zoella, her following is very strong. She’s a strong influencer over her audience,” he says, before stressing that “I’m not suggesting we’re doing something with Zoella, I’m just using her as an example of someone who has tremendous power”.It sounds like YouTube would like to do something with Zoella, though. “Us betting on folks like that makes a lot of sense, and makes it unique. And the things we look for are the things that would be native to them, and wouldn’t depart necessarily from what made them great,” says Kyncl.“You want to do adjacent things rather than complete leftfield. We’re going to learn a lot: we’ll figure out how far people can stretch, what it takes to do scaled-up productions, and what kind of support they need.”Freedom of speech and regulationDuring the call, Kyncl also talks about another kind of support: “the serious side of YouTube” manifesting itself in its support for freedom of speech around the world.It’s a topic that has been controversial on several fronts in recent times, with YouTube blocked several times in Turkey by courts there – in 2014 due to videos alleging official corruption that were uploaded to the site, and in 2015 due to videos showing images of a hostage being held by militants.YouTube was also criticised over a film calledInnocence of Muslims, whose anti-Muslim content sparked violence in the Middle East and death threats to actors, as well as a copyright claim that initially forced YouTube to remove the video.How to balance the global nature of its service with censorship and other regulations in individual countries? It’s a question that Facebook, Twitter and any large online service faces, not just YouTube.Related:YouTube and Google win lawsuit in free speech battle over anti-Muslim film“We operate a global service in English, but don’t necessarily do business in every single countries. We analyse countries and whether it makes sense to put people on the ground, build up a sales force and our content partnership presence, and do all the collecting society deals,” says Kyncl.“When we do, we have to obey by the local laws. It’s kinda tough to do business in a country if you don’t. But there are also countries where we don’t operate, and therefore we don’t believe we should operate under their laws.”This strategy carries a risk for YouTube of seeming like it is prepared to disregard freedom of speech if it sees money in a particular country. This, too, is a dilemma for Facebook and Twitter.Kyncl adds that YouTube will continue to argue its case in courts when it disagrees with an interpretation of laws in countries where it does do business, and will continue “building products and support and code to allow for the distinctions” around the world.“It’s really complex, but it’s a fascinating thing and it’s absolutely worth doing, because it enables a lot of the good things in the world that otherwise wouldn’t happen.”What about freedom of speech as it relates to comments? YouTube’s comments section has a reputation for toxicity, with one of its most popular stars – gamer PewDiePie –famously turning off his comments while criticising YouTube: “I go to the comments and it’s mainly spam, it’s people self-advertising, it’s people trying to provoke.”Should YouTube be doing more? “We have a lot of efforts underway in that area. It’s really important, and it’s tied to how the identity is displayed. If people are using a hidden identity, it’s easy for them to make less desirable comments,” says Kyncl.YouTube’s challenge is to balance freedom of speech – which in many countries with repressive regimes must surely include freedom of anonymity (or, rather, pseudonymity) – with the ability to deal with people who persistently misuse that freedom for harassment purposes.“One of the hardest things to do is scaling openness, whether you run an internet platform or whether you run a country. Egypt was trying to scale openness. It was not an open country, then it became [open], and there was a lot of chaos through that openness,” says Kyncl.“It’s the same thing for us: when you’re scaling openness, there is a tremendous amount of awesome stuff being uploaded all the time, and sometimes you get less desirable things. It’s the same with comments.”“Our product group is working on a whole bunch of solutions that would make it more pleasurable, but at the same time it has to be authentic. How do you keep it open, but at the same time decent and collaborative and constructive? Having those tenets is very important. We think about that a lot, and we’re working on it.”•Part one: YouTube talks mobile, virtual reality and music
YouTube is a decade old, and for the first half of its history at least, was a service for watching online videos on your computer. In 2015, as it looks forward to the next 10 years, YouTube’s emphasis is firmly on a smaller screen.“For us, most of our focus is on mobile: product development for mobile, content development for mobile, making sure mobile video works on carrier networks all around the world. It’s all mobile, mobile, mobile,” says Robert Kyncl, YouTube’s head of content and business operations.Kyncl is talking over a video call – Google Hangouts, naturally – to a small group of European journalists, including the Guardian, about YouTube’s past, present and future. Mobile quickly looms large in the conversation.Related:TV industry faces its ‘ketchup’ moment: ‘Mobile is now the first screen’“It’s a very difficult place to figure out, yet at the same time a massive opportunity, because consumers love engaging with those devices,” says Kyncl.“We think it’s all about mobile, and that’s where we’re putting most of our efforts across the board … We think that phone is the remote control for your life, and it’s definitely the remote control for your video.”According to YouTube’s own stats, half of its views are already on mobile devices, with mobile “watch time” growing nearly 100% in the past year, compared to growth in overall YouTube watch time of 50% in that period.“I think the future, mostly, in advertising-supported video will be around mobile,” says Kyncl, before drawing comparisons between people’s viewing habits on the device that’s in their hands compared to traditional screens.“Look over the last 70 years: most movies and TV shows have been developed for very large screens, either movie theatres or TVs. They were not interactive, they were not commented on, there was just no activity around it,” says Kyncl.“That business is not growing. It’s a flat business, and it’s actually slightly declining. It’s a no-growth business at this point. The business that is growing tremendously is online video.”This, unsurprisingly, is a message that YouTube is pitching hard to brands and advertising agencies, as it tries to persuade them to shift even more of their spending to online – and, indeed, mobile – video.Related:‘Traditional TV viewing for teens and tweens is dead. Not dying. Dead.’“If you’re an advertiser, you’ve really been able to get your reach and influence over the last 70 years by partnering with TV channels. That is where you get your reach, and that’s what influences culture,” he said.“Today, there is a very growing influence on culture from the internet firms, YouTube included, and there’s a tremendous amount of growth on mobile. If advertisers want to capture the future of video and participate in this growth, they should partner with the firms that are doing incredibly well in mobile video. We’re certainly one of those.”YouTube’s mobile efforts are not just about the big, developed markets with lots of advertising budget, such as the US. In fact, the company sees mobile as its engine for growth elsewhere in the world, too.“Today, one of our big activities around the world is making YouTube accessible to as many people as possible, and we’re striking a lot of agreements with telcos in emerging markets who can reach another billion people,” says Kyncl.“We’re working with them to make video – including YouTube and other services – a lot more cost-effective to access. Many of those folks won’t have TVs, they won’t have tablets. They’ll just have phones.”Mobile may be YouTube’s big growth area, but the company prides itself on getting in early to new technologies: itstarted supporting videos shot in 4K resolution in 2010, for example. In 2015, it isexploring 360-degree video and virtual reality.Kyncl is wary of talking up VR too much. “I think it’s extremely nascent. What you’re seeing is basically first announcements and first moves in the products of something that’s going to take a long time to develop in a big way,” he says.“We don’t know how long VR is going to take and how large it’s going to be. We don’t know. But we know it’s somehow going to play an important role, and we therefore must have focus on it and have people working on it.”Related:Virtual reality documentaries 'take the middle man out of journalism'Kyncl praised theGoogle Cardboardinitiative, which provides build-it-yourself cardboard VR headsets designed to use smartphones as the screen. “It’s a very basic and simple thing, but it makes you think about video differently,” he said, adding that YouTube intends to continue experimenting with 360-degree videos with some of its creators.“We have a whole bunch of efforts underway like this to keep on trying, and you roll it out to users and start to see traction. That’s the beauty of having more than 1 billion people [watching] – you start to see traction,” he said.“We may see traction coming out of India and not Europe, or out of Latin America and not the US … The short answer [to whether VR will be big] is: I don’t know. We don’t know. But we know it’s going to be important in some fashion.”YouTube is also working on subscriptions, on several fronts. In November 2014, itlaunched a beta of YouTube Music Key, a subscription streaming music service. Meanwhile, in April 2015, YouTube confirmed plans tolaunch “an ad-free version of YouTube for a monthly fee”later this year.Music Key’s beta has been extended until September, but Kyncl claims to be relaxed about the delay in a commercial launch. “We’re still going through some development. The launch is coming in a few months from here: there’s a little bit of a delay, but nothing too serious,” he says.“We have been collecting a lot of feedback and working with that. We got a lot of really great feedback, and thought it was better to address most of it than to launch without [addressing] it … We’re a lot smarter about the product from the heaviest users.”The ad-free subscription for YouTube as a whole is the company’s other big push into paid content in 2015, which it hopes will be more successful thanits introduction of “a la carte” subscriptions for individual YouTube channelsin 2013.Related:YouTube: the most popular cats from its first 10 years“We have not been scaling it. It’s there, it’s available for people to take advantage of, but we have not been actively scaling it,” says Kyncl, referring to the old a-la-carte channel subscriptions feature.“We are focusing on the one subscription that we have discussed earlier [in the year – the new pay-to-remove-ads subscription] and making sure that we roll that out … We just can’t do many different subscriptions, and do them well, and grow them large. So we’re focusing on one big effort today.”Even so, he maintains that YouTube remains, at heart, a free, advertising-supported service. “Our free ad-supported business is growing incredibly fast. We’ll always have that: that’s our core, and we’ll never stop focusing on it,” he says.“It’s in Google’s DNA to be in the ad-supported business. Subscription is an add-on. It’s an adjacent business that we’re building.”•Part two: YouTube talks Competition, original content and freedom of speech
Pirate Bay co-founder Fredrik Neij has been released from prison, marking an end to the incarnation of the notorious pirate site’s crew.Neij was released from prison in Skänninge, Sweden, on 1 June,according to reports, after serving two-thirds of a 10-month prison sentence for his involvement with the Pirate Bay and enabling copyright infringement.Operating under the alias TiAMO, the Swede was instrumental in the operation of the Pirate Bay and was involved in the 2009 trial that saw him and fellow co-founders Peter Sunde and Gottfrid Svartholm Warg convicted of copyright offences.The 37-year-old was sentenced in 2012, but fled Sweden for Thailand. He was eventually arrested by Thai authoritiesin November last year,while attempting to travel between Laos and Thailand, and transferred to Swedish custody.Sunde was releases from prison in November 2014, after serving five months, while Warg is currently serving a 42-month prison sentence in Denmark for unrelated computer crimes after serving time for his involvement in the Pirate Bay.Unlike Sunde, who haspublicly denouncedthe Pirate Bayin its current incarnation, Neij plans to appeal the Swedish government’s seizure of the Pirate Bay’s domain name, of which he was the holder.The piratebay.se domain seizure did little to take the site offline, as it simply switched to a series of new web addresses and continued to operate.The on-going Dutch case against the Pirate Bay, which continues to facilitate copyright infringement, could end up promoted to the European court of justice in the near future.The attorney general for the Netherlandsstatedthat European law should be clarified to determine whether the Pirate Bay is breaking the law in its current form, before the local case, brought by anti-piracy group Brein and is now with the Dutch Supreme Court, can proceed.•Pirate Bay co-founder: ‘not even Johnny Depp can make pirates look cool’•Pirate Bay co-founder Peter Sunde: ‘In prison, you become brain-dead’
Netflix is testing pre-roll trailers before its original shows, according to reports from users.However, the company is keen to emphasise that the trailers, which promote other Netflix original shows, are “not adverts in the traditional sense”,according to a statement given to the Verge. The company also reaffirmed its promise to users that third-party adverts will never be shown on the site.The trailers are being shown before and after Netflix’s self-produced TV shows, such as House of Cards and Marvel’s Daredevil, and cross-promote other shows made by the video-streaming company.Regardless of what they promote with the trailers, Netflix may face an uphill battle convincing viewers that pre-roll adverts – which necessarily delay watching the content they actually want to see – are an acceptable intrusion.Cord Cutters News, which first reported the trials,says that various formats are being tested. “Some users are reporting that they are able to skip the ads, while others say they could not; some users are reporting 20- second ads, and others are seeing longer ads; however, all reports say the ads are for Netflix shows.”
Price £88,967Top speed 168mphFuel economy 91mpgIf you turn left off the A66 at Brough and pick up the old twisting road that heads towards Sedbergh, you pass through the heart of theHowgills– a series of green, treeless mountains. It is breathtaking, unforgiving scenery. At the base of Cautley Spout, one of the deep rocky clefts that slices through the fells, we pulled up outside theCross Keys. It’s been an inn for 400 years and looks as old as the hills that dwarf it. It does brilliant ham and eggs and an amazing rabbit pie. But it doesn’t do booze. It’s a temperance pub. We thought they were joking at first. I ordered a lemonade and my friend had a pint of milk, which seemed wrong on so many levels. But, as we had driven here in a car which itself is almost teetotal when it comes to the hard stuff, it sort of made sense.Porsche’s new Panamera S E-hybridis a 410bhp supercharged V6 car. It can hit 62mph in a shade over five seconds and has a top speed of 168mph. It has barely there CO2emissions of 71g per km – that’s about a third of what a Porsche 911 pumps out – and will do more than 90 miles to the gallon. It is, as my granny used say, a real Frugal Dougal. And, despite spending a week with the Panamera, I could never get over the whale-and-plankton fact that such a big car could have such a tiny appetite.Rear view: there are few external clues as to the Panamera’s hybird drive-train.But there is noDerren Brownhoodoo here. This hybrid Porsche has two engines – the mighty V6 is paired with a 94bhp electric motor. If you fully charge the car’s 9.4kWh lithium-ion battery pack, you can drive using only this for about 22 miles. The electric propulsion is totally silent and this adds to the sense that some strange trickery is at work. Turn the key – silence. Press the throttle – silence. It feels like you are slipping on ice, rather than driving. Surely you shouldn’t have to check the dash’s ignition light to know whether your engine is actually on. And then the black arts really get underway – using this stealth engine alone you can drive at up to 84mph – in a Porsche with four seats, in Benedictine silence.You can charge the battery using a conventional domestic socket – we unwound the flex and plugged into the outdoor socket of the pub to top up over lunch. It would take eight hours to do this fully – which would be a long lunch with no booze. A fast charger, however, could do the job in just two hours and, while you drive using the petrol motor, the car tops up its batteries as best it can using its regenerative braking system. If you use the V6 alone you’ll only get about 30mpg – which is poor but not terrible for a supercar and the combined engines mean at least you won’t suffer from range anxiety (#firstworldproblems).Inside story: the lavish interior.All the extra gadgetry means the S E-Hybrid is at least 300kg heavier than a regular Panamera. That’s like having a baby elephant sitting in the passenger seat, all the time, and all that extra poundage makes the car feel sluggish and laboured at slow speeds. The faster you go the more secure and compelling the drive, like a boat hefting itself out of the water. Once at cruising speed, all that power matched with the active air suspension leads to a ride as soothing as a Bing Crosby lullaby.Inside the Panamera is huge, your baby elephant could wriggle about in comfort on its individually adjustable seat. The car even has a boot – not something Porsches normally bother with. So, all in all, it’s a very clever car. But would it be a wise move to buy one? No, of course not. The V6 diesel version is 25 grand cheaper – you’ll need a lot of 8-hour lunches to save that – and being simpler has at least 25 things less to go wrong.Cars in CoventryThe cars are the stars: some of the many vehicles taking part in Motofest 2015.Photograph: PRToday is the final day of the Coventry Motofest – a three-day festival dedicated to the city’s motoring heritage involving pop-up motorsport displays, demonstration events, static displays, live music and fringe events. It’s well worth going along to have a look if you are in the area. Highlights include: a 1.5-mile sprint circuit on Coventry’s ring road, which will host a wide range of race cars and motorcycles;  Rob Austin, one of the most popular drivers from the British Touring Car Championship and his Audi 4, plus all the teams from the Renault Clio Cup series; BTRDA Rallycross association cars including Gary Simpson’s BMW E30 Supermodified car and Gary Pusey’s Subaru Impreza Clubman Supercar; the Rover-BRM gas turbine race car; the Jigsaw Racing fleet of Le Mans Triumph Spitfires; a cavalcade of heritage vehicles from Jaguar, plus many live music events. For more details, go tocoventrymotofest.comEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
It is what Lego fans have been waiting for, and its absence is perhaps what has allowed the block-building hit Minecraft to flourish so spectacularly. And now, after weeks of rumours, it is here. Well, almost.Lego Worlds is an open-world construction and exploration game in which the landscapes and everything in them are constructed with digital Lego bricks. Players are able to modify an array of pre-built worlds, or construct their own using virtual Lego sets. Each landscape is populated with Lego vehicles, mini-figs and creatures – all based on real-life playsets. And many more building options are set to follow.Launched onto the PC gaming platform Steam on Monday, the ambitious project iscurrently available in “Early Access” mode, which means it is unfinished and only has a portion of the planned features. Although players can build and modify worlds, as well as drive vehicles and ride horses and dragons, there is currently no online multiplayer mode – a vital element in the success of Minecraft and other similar block-building games. Developer Traveller’s Tales, which has been responsible for the hugely successful Lego-branded series of action adventure titles including Lego Star Wars and Lego Marvel Super Heroes, has promised that the feature is incoming. Lego Worlds is expected to remain in Early Access until the end of 2015.The game will feature a range of classic and modern playsets as well as popular mini-figsPhotograph: Warner BrosAlthough currently limited, the game has already proved popular on Steam, with over 90% of the 518 user reviews coming in positive. “It’s the Lego game that they should have made years ago,” writes one user.Lego has certainly tried to explore the creative elements of its legendary toy with previous games. In 2010 the company released Lego Universe – a massive multiplayer online world, based around user-creativity. However, the title was quietly abandoned in 2012, and recently a developer on the project stated that the overheads of managing and moderating the user-created content were prohibitively high – allegedly because the company had to check every user model toensure it was family friendly. It is not yet clear how Lego, a staunchly family-friendly brand, will deal with the twin spectres of customisable virtual environments: namely penises and swastikas.Right now, Lego Worlds features procedurally generated environments which, like Minecraft, means that the program can create unique new landscapes each time it loads up. These are populated with a small array of animals and vehicles including horses and helicopters. In the final game, Traveller’s Tales is set to create more diverse locations, with specific biomes such as deserts and tundras (again, like Minecraft), and will include a greater selection of digital playsets.The pricing model is not yet clear. Publisher Warner Bros has said that the current £11.99 cost is a reduced price. It’s possible that the final release, due sometime in 2016, will provide a basic array of pre-loaded playsets, but that others will be available as downloadable content. Lego, of course, has access to an array of licensed content from Star Wars to the Hobbit, Batman and Marvel heroes.Often referred to as “digital Lego”, Minecraft has turned large-scale creative gaming into a multimillion dollar industry. The game, created by Swedish studio Mojang was released in 2011 and now has over 100 million registered users. In 2014, Microsoft bought the developer for $2.5bn dollars, and fans are waiting to see what the corporation has planned for the game going forward.But Lego is making aggressive moves to corner the market in constructive digital play. It has alsoannounced Lego Dimensions, an action adventure title that lets players combine real-world models with on-screen action, in a manner similar to the hugely successful Skylanders and Disney Infinity titles.Although Minecraft has faced plenty of competitors and similar open-world building titles in the past, with newcomers like SkySaga and Roblox bringing in a wealth of added features, it has remained dominant. Given that Lego has already partnered with Mojang on a range of licensed real-world playsets based on the game, Lego Worlds is surely its most intriguing rival.
Facebook is offering users the ability to encrypt password reset emails for the first time, using the popular PGP email encryption standard.Users who want to take advantage of the new security standardscan tell Facebook their public key, and the site will then ensure that any sensitive emails that it sends out, such as password resets or other notifications, will be encrypted. The company will also cryptographically sign messages it sends, which allows users to verify that the sender genuinely is Facebook.In a blogpost,Facebook explained how the feature will work. “Today we are gradually rolling out an experimental new feature that enables people to add OpenPGP public keys to their profile; these keys can be used to ‘end-to-end’ encrypt notification emails sent from Facebook to your preferred email accounts. People may also choose to share OpenPGP keys from their profile, with or without enabling encrypted notifications.”The encryption standard Facebook is using, PGP (which stands for “pretty good privacy”), is seen as the gold standard of email encryption. The Edward Snowden revelations revealed it to be one of the few encryption standards which national security services had failed to undermine in some way, despite its 20-year history.The standard is a form of what is called “public key cryptography”, where every user has pair of keys, one designed to be shared widely, and the other to be kept utterly secret. Messages are encrypted using the public key, and can then only be decrypted using the private one.Giving the public key to Facebook thus solves two problems: it lets the site encrypt users’ emails, and it also aids dissemination of public keys.Gnu Privacy Guard (or GPG), the specific version of PGP that Facebook has chosen to use, remains a notoriously difficult tool to employ, and it seems unlikely the encryption options will be widely used in the near future.But the move underscores Facebook’s goal to roll out tools which will help vulnerable subsets of its userbase. The company says : “it’s very important to us that the people who use Facebook feel safe and can trust that their connection to Facebook is secure; for instance this is why we run connections to our site over [encryption standard] HTTPS with HSTS, and why we provide a Tor onion site for people who want to enjoy security guarantees beyond those offered by HTTPS.”Philip Zimmermann: king of encryption reveals his fears for privacy
What do smart jeans that let you make a call, a small dot that allows people to control a computer or phone without touching anything and a project to make passwords history have in common? They’re all made by Google.The search company showed off a series of prototypes and projects from its Advanced Technology and Projects (Atap) division – the forward looking development house Google inherited from Motorola when itbought the company– as part of its I/O developer conference.Atap’s previous high-profile projects have includedProject Tango, a depth-sensing smartphone and tablet, and the modular smartphone conceptProject Ara, which promises to reinvent the way smartphones are made and sold, allowing them to be upgraded or altered to suit the situation by using small, plug-and-play modules.Both Tango and Ara’s latest developments were shown off this year: Ara got a working prototype while Google announced a partnership with Qualcomm to make the Tango smartphone a reality. But it was Google’s other projects that took the spotlight.Project JacquardProject JacquardHave you ever wanted to control your smartphone, TV, computer or tablet by rubbing your thighs,Shooting Stars-style? Google’s working on it.The company’s smart fabric is laced with conductive wire that acts like a touchscreen layer which detects the changes in conductance when touched. The woven textile monitors touch and can be used like a laptop trackpad to control any number of functions.The Android-maker has partnered with Levi’s to create smart clothing that will integrate Jacquard’s technology into special touch-sensitive areas. Quite when you’ll be able to buy touch-sensitive jeans was not announced, but Google’snot the only oneworking on smart clothing.Project SoliProject SoliNot content with making everything a touch-sensitive control panel, Google stole a page out ofLeap Motion’s books and made a radar system capable of registering hand gestures made in mid-air.The small radar sensor can be embedded into almost any surface, according to Google, creating a control zone in the air above it. Trialists of the technology reported that Soli was more accurate than Leap’s technology, while its small size means it could be fitted to anything, from smartwatches to coffee machines.Leap Motion, while impressive in concept and technology, failed to prove its worth in computer or gaming control, and users often found holding their hands in the air in front of them for any extended period of time difficult and even painful. Google hopes embedding the technology in other products for short, sharp interactions can negate these issues.Project AbacusAbacus is its name, password killing is its game.Photograph: Info/Getty ImagesPasswords are broken. The number of login details people need to remember these days makes keeping separate, hard-to-break passwords in your head almost impossible.Google’s Project Abacus is attempting to kill the password and replace it with human interaction. The premise is simple: each of us has a unique usage pattern, from the way we hold and move a device to our typing cadence and touch patterns on a keyboard.Abacus attempts to capture and quantify that information and use it to verify that a user is who they say they are without requiring a specific set of login details.After running a series of trials with 33 different universities across the US, Google reckons that the technology is viable and 10 times more secure than than using fingerprints.In its current form, the technology works similarly to Android’s smartlock feature, which uses facial recognition, among other things, to attempt to seamlessly identify the user.If it can’t safely figure out if the user is who they say they are, it will ask for a password, but if the technology works it simply lets them into the phone or app.Different apps could also have different security settings, requiring more stringent verification for banking apps, for instance. The multifactor system would also be incredibly hard to fake.•Google to launch modular smartphone with switchable parts
Bitcoin wallet application Blockchain has rushed to release an update after a critical bug left multiple users unaware that they were sharing a bitcoin wallet, leaving their cryptocurrency completely unsecured.The bug affected users running Blockchain’s app on Android version 4.1 or older,the company says, and it “resulted in one specific address being generated multiple times, leading to a loss of funds for a handful of users.”Blockchain advises users who fear they were affected to update their app, create a new bitcoin address, and transfer their funds out of the affected wallet.The flaw apparently came about through a series of bad development choices which all failed in the worst way possible. Bitcoin wallets are typically created by randomly generating a public address and a related private key. As a result, it is important for address and key to be truly random, or else it may be possible to guess the private key by looking at the public address.To that end, Blockchain used two sources of random numbers, in what ought to have been a belt-and-braces approach: it pulled a random number from the Android operating system’s built-in random number generator, and then connected to online service Random.org to get a second random number, which it combined with the first.Unfortunately, on some Android phones (reportedly including devices from the Sony Xperia range), the built-in random number generator failed to report back to the blockchain app. Normally, this should have been survivable, because the app used a second source of random numbers.But on 4 January, Random.org strengthened the security of its website, requiring all visits to be made over an encrypted connection. The blockchain app, however, continued to access the site through an unencrypted connection. So rather than getting a random number, as expected, it got an error code telling it that the site had moved.It then used that error code as the random number, every single time.A representative from Blockchain told the Guardian that “the issue we identified related to an extremely rare case where address entropy could create multiple duplicate addresses (meaning more than one wallet essentially was in custody of the address simultaneously). We immediately disclosed the issue and released a fix.Blockchain denied that the incident was a total cryptobreakdown, and said that “only a very small number of users were affected; we’ve counted just three users who have reached out related to the address in question, which is an extremely minor amount compared to the 3.5 million wallets we have.”The magnitude of the error sparked shocked reactions from information security professionals.I’m just sitting here like 😱‼️ at the foolish audacity of acquiring remotely generated entropy for your Bitcoin app over plaintext&mdash; Melissa ␇ (@0xabad1dea)May 29, 2015Wallet relied onhttp://t.co/tbMRgU4EP2, which wasn&#39;t random? Just another day in the Bitcoin clown show.https://t.co/3QkFk04qVE&mdash; Root Labs (@rootlabs)May 30, 2015In the meantime, Blockchain has asked users who think they may have been affectedto contact its helpdesk.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatestiPhoneand iPad apps and games. All these apps have been released for the first time – ie not updates – since the last roundup.All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if Android is your platform of choice, check theBest Android Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!Google Photos for iPhone and iPad.AppsGoogle Photos (Free)Google had been rumoured to be breaking out photos from its Google+ service for a while, but last week it happened. Photos is a cloud-storage service with 15GB of free space, promising the ability to quickly find images with text searches; and clever editing and sharing features.iPhone / iPadMixRadio (Free)MixRadio started as Nokia’s streaming music app for Windows Phones, but now it’s available on iPhone too. It’s not full Spotify-style “on-demand” listening, but rather a collection of crafted playlists by theme and mood, as well as the ability to whip up stations on the fly based on the artists you type in.iPhoneMake My Day by Lonely Planet (Free + IAP)Make My Day is the latest app from travel brand Lonely Planet, focusing (for now) on six cities: London, Barcelona, New York, Paris, San Francisco and Tokyo. It promises to help you “plan your perfect day” with things to do in the morning, afternoon and evening – chosen by experts to go beyond the obvious tourist hotspots.iPhoneInbox by Gmail (Free)This smart email app has been out for a while, in truth, but last week Google opened it up to everyone, not just people with an invite. It’s the latest attempt to tackle email mountains with clever filters, and the ability to see “highlights” without opening emails up. You’ll need a Gmail account to use it.iPhone / iPadKorg iM1 (£14.99)If you love making electronic music, this is 15 quid well spent on Korg’s appy reworking of its M1 music workstation, which launched in the late 1980s. The company has painstakingly replicated the device’s hardware as software here, complete with its expansions and the ability to plug in a MIDI keyboard.iPadMoleskine Timepage (£3.99)Don’t Moleskine make things to write on in the real world? Well, yes, but now the company has taken a new turn into calendar apps. This is a well-designed example too, from typing in appointments to integration of travel time, directions and weather. An Apple Watch extension puts your diary dates on your wrist too.iPhoneGoogle Cardboard (Free)One of Google’s announcements at its I/O conference recently was the expansion of its Cardboard virtual reality initiative to iOS: you can now get a cardboard VR headset to slot your iPhone into, with this app helping you set it up and find a few things to watch in 360 degrees.iPhoneSpark (Free)Readdle is the latest developer trying to crack the problem of email overload – a sentence I feel I’m writing every fortnight at the moment – with this app aiming to help you work through your inbox, search its archives and quickly reply to messages. It too comes with a companion Apple Watch app.iPhoneEndless Spanish (Free + IAP)This is the latest children’s app from Originator, which makes the excellent Endless Alphabet and Endless Numbers apps. Here, the emphasis is on learning Spanish – key words accompanied by characterful animations from the “Endless” troupe of monsters to help children remember them.iPhone / iPadGifLab (Free + IAP)People are watching animated gifs in their hundreds of millions, but creating the things hasn’t always been easy. GifLab is one of the apps hoping to change that: a slick tool to turn your own video clips into gifs for sharing via social networks.iPhone / iPadCapitals for iPhone and iPad.GamesCapitals - Free Word Battle (Free + IAP)I’m still working my way through developer NimbleBit’s Letterpad word-puzzles game, but Capitals may trump it. It’s a multiplayer word game that, like Words With Friends, is designed to play asynchronously with different friends at once. You have to find words from a hex-map of letters, defending your capital and attacking your rival’s. Hugely moreish.iPhone / iPadGeometry Wars 3: Dimensions (£3.99)The first Geometry Wars game was a console hit, but this action franchise is just as suited to touchscreens. This latest version is a frenetic shooter that sees you working your way through 50 levels in its adventure mode, and testing your reactions in its separate battle modes. It’s colourful, challenging and a treat for the eyes.iPhone / iPadTil Morning’s Light (£4.99)There’s a new mini-boom in haunted-house games on mobile devices, with this – from Amazon’s in-house Game Studios – one of the best around. You play teenager Erica Page, finding her way through a genuinely-spooky cursed mansion solving puzzles and fending off creepy enemies.iPhone / iPadSkiing Yeti Mountain (Free + IAP)In the list of efficient ways to search for a Yeti, skiing down a mountain surely isn’t high. In this game, though, it’s your method of choice as you swoop down pixelly slopes in search of a monster. The developer has got the feel of its touchscreen controls just right: this is fab.iPhone / iPadBiz Builder Delux (£3.99)This is the latest mobile game from Kairosoft, the Japanese developer that made its name in the west with Game Dev Story, and has since honed its addictive simulation-game formula into a fine art. Here, you’re building a business, developing products and attracting shoppers. You’ll happily run your battery down to nothing playing it.iPhone / iPadLara Croft: Relic Run (Free + IAP)Mobile hit Temple Run was arguably influenced – at least a bit – by Tomb Raider. So now it’s fun to see Lara Croft returning the favour in a new endless-runner game that takes its cues from Temple Run. Vehicles, weapons and boss battles mean it has plenty of its own ideas to add though.iPhone / iPadDesktop Dungeons (£7.99)This is one of the bestroguelikegames I’ve played on tablets: a well-balanced mix of hardcore dungeon-exploring and mobile-friendly session times as you explore its single-screen levels. There’s a lot to enjoy here: as good for newcomers to its genre as hardened looters.iPadFarmVille: Harvest Swap (Free + IAP)A lot of people will turn their noses up at the sight of social games firm Zynga slapping its FarmVille brand onto a Candy Crush-style match-three puzzle game. I suspect plenty of other people will be keen to try it out: a familiar-but-polished take on the swapping genre – with the usual in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadChaos Rings III (£14.99)Square Enix’s Chaos Rings games have plenty of fans on mobile, so while this may seem expensive (by app standards) it will find a decent audience. It’s a meaty RPG that looks to have the same quality of story and combat that made its predecessors hits.iPhone / iPadSproggiwood (£7.99)It’s a good week for roguelike fans (if not for their wallets) with the mobile port of PC game Sproggiwood. Based on Finnish myths, it has the genre’s usual procedurally-generated dungeons, battling and looting, but does a good job of wrapping a story around the action.iPhone / iPadThose are my choices, but what have you been impressed by oniOSin the last couple of weeks? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatestAndroidapps and games, covering smartphones and tablets.All these apps have been released for the first time – ie not updates – since the last roundup. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest Android Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if iOS is your platform of choice, check theBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!AppsGoogle Photos (Free)Google had been rumoured to be breaking out photos from its Google+ service for a while, but last week it happened. Photos is a cloud-storage service with 15GB of free space, promising the ability to quickly find images with text searches; and clever editing and sharing features.MixRadio (Free)MixRadio started as Nokia’s streaming music app for Windows Phones, but now it’s available on Android too. It’s not full Spotify-style “on-demand” listening, but rather a collection of crafted playlists by theme and mood, as well as the ability to whip up stations on the fly based on the artists you type in.MicrosoftWord/Excel/PowerPoint(Free + IAP)Three apps in one entry here, to ensure they don’t crowd out some of the good stuff lower down. These are all welcome releases if you’re a heavy Microsoft Office user though: new Android smartphone versions of each tool’s existing tablet app.Periscope (Free)Will people really care about live-streaming smartphone broadcasts beyond the tech bubble? Twitter hopes so: its Periscope app is now going head-to-head with rival Meerkat on Android as well as iOS. You can broadcast from your phone or watch other people’s streams, tapping hearts to show your approval.Inbox by Gmail (Free)This smart email app has been out for a while, in truth, but last week Google opened it up to everyone, not just people with an invite. It’s the latest attempt to tackle email mountains with clever filters, and the ability to see “highlights” without opening emails up. You’ll need a Gmail account to use it.Layout from Instagram (Free)Another welcome iOS-to-Android port: this standalone app from Instagram is a simple way to turn several photos into a single, square collage, then share it to Facebook, Instagram or to your device for use on other social networks *coughTwitter*. It’d be nice if this was built in to Instagram itself though.Sago Mini Space Explorer (£1.99)Sago Sago makes marvellously characterful apps for pre-school children, and this is one of its first four to be released for Android. It gets kids to take Harvey the dog on a space exploration mission, tracing their finger on the screen to guide him to yellow markers for fun animations. Playful and fun.Make My Day (Free)Make My Day is the latest app from travel brand Lonely Planet, focusing (for now) on six cities: London, Barcelona, New York, Paris, San Francisco and Tokyo. It promises to help you “plan your perfect day” with things to do in the morning, afternoon and evening – chosen by experts to go beyond the obvious tourist hotspots.Wildlife Trusts’ Nature Finder (Free)Now something for people travelling around the UK in search of the local fauna: an app from the Wildlife Trust with maps and lists of its nature reserves and events – more than 2,000 places and 10,000 events a year – to help you explore the countryside.LumiKids Park (Free)Another app for children, here, from brain-training startup Lumosity. It’s a collection of simple learning games for 2-5 year-olds helping them practise their sorting, attention and visual-motor coordination skills without stressful goals.Skiing Yeti Mountain for Android.GamesSkiing Yeti Mountain (Free + IAP)In the list of efficient ways to search for a Yeti, skiing down a mountain surely isn’t high. In this game, though, it’s your method of choice, as you swoop down pixelated slopes in search of a monster. The developer has got the feel of its touchscreen controls just right: this is fab.Biz Builder Delux (£2.99)This is the latest mobile game from Kairosoft, the Japanese developer that made its name in the west with Game Dev Story, and has since honed its addictive simulation-game formula into a fine art. Here, you’re building a business, developing products and attracting shoppers. You’ll happily run your battery down to nothing playing it.Lara Croft: Relic Run (Free + IAP)Mobile hit Temple Run was arguably influenced – at least a bit – by Tomb Raider. So now it’s fun to see Lara Croft returning the favour in a new endless-runner game that takes its cues from Temple Run. Vehicles, weapons and boss battles mean it has plenty of its own ideas to add though.Desktop Dungeons (£7.91)Available for Android tablets, this is one of the bestroguelikegames I’ve played on mobile: a well-balanced mix of hardcore dungeon-exploring and mobile-friendly session times as you explore its single-screen levels. There’s a lot to enjoy here: as good for newcomers to its genre as hardened looters.FarmVille : Harvest Swap (Free + IAP)A lot of people will turn their noses up at the sight of social games firm Zynga slapping its FarmVille brand onto a Candy Crush-style match-three puzzle game. I suspect plenty of other people will be keen to try it out: a familiar-but-polished take on the swapping genre – with the usual in-app purchases.Chaos Rings III (£14.99)Square Enix’s Chaos Rings games have plenty of fans on mobile, so while this may seem expensive (by app standards) it will find a decent audience. It’s a meaty RPG that looks to have the same quality of story and combat that made its predecessors hits.Nihilumbra (Free + IAP)Already critically acclaimed on PC and PlayStation Vita, this offers an absorbing take on the platform genre with a creative twist: the ability to paint’ colours onto the world as you travel through it, to help you get past obstacles.Sproggiwood (£7.74)It’s a good week for roguelike fans (if not for their wallets) with the mobile port of PC game Sproggiwood. Based on Finnish myths, it has the genre’s usual procedurally-generated dungeons, battling and looting, but does a good job of wrapping a story around the action.Queen: Play the Game (£2.29 + IAP)No, not the reigning British monarch – that licensing deal hasn’t yet been signed. This is an official mobile game for Queen the band, complete with music clips and photos from their official archive. The games are a mixture of trivia questions and other puzzles: fans will love it.Breath of Light (£2.40)Finally, something relaxing for Android gamers in need of a breather from all that rogueliking. This is a puzzle game involving moving rocks to guide a flow of energy round a mystic garden – complete with a suitably woozy soundtrack.That’s my choice, but what Android apps and games have you been enjoying this week? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
Windows 10 will be released as a free update on 29 July, Microsoft has announced.It will be the last major release of the 29-year-old operating system before Microsoft switches to a “Windows as a service” system, which entails updates being rolled out when ready.This marks a change in Microsoft’s business model. The operating system will be offered as a free upgrade for users of Windows 7 and Windows 8.1 within the first year.Each version of Windows has cost upwards of £100, although the majority of Windows users receive new versions of the operating system when buying a new computer, and not by upgrading the software themselves.Microsoft made Windows 8.1, which restored the Start menu, as a free update to Windows 8. Windows 10 will bring backmore familiar elementsfrom Windows 7 and combine them with the modern look of Windows 8.1.More than 4 million people have been beta testing the public preview of Windows 10 for the past couple of months, helping Microsoft fix problems before release. Recent reports indicate that Windows 10 is far from ready, with multiple bugs and glitches yet to be fixed.Setting a date for release could help accelerate the development cycle, but it is crucial that Microsoft’s first public outing for Windows 10 is solid to avoid comparisons with bug-riddled Windows Vista from 2006.Microsoft’s long-derided Internet Explorer will be replaced by Edge on Windows 10, while the operating system promises to unify the Windows ecosystem of apps and services across desktop, laptop and tablet PCs as well as smartphones.Microsoft’s voice-controlled digital assistant, Cortana, will also make its debut beyond smartphones with Windows 10, rivalling Apple’s Siri and Google’s Now. Microsoft recently announced that Cortana would also be made available for the iPhone and Android devices.The Redmond-based software company needs Windows 10 to be a hit both with consumers and businesses after difficulties in persuading organisations to upgrade from the 14-year-old Windows XP.Despite Windows XP being more than a year out of support, making computers vulnerable to attack by hackers, many thousands of computers are still running it in the UK,including 2,600 PCsused by NHS Scotland.•Microsoft Windows 10 free upgrade: five questions answered
Oh it’s Monday.
In the three years since the release of dating appTinder, there has been a flood of swipe-happy solutions to our daily gripes. Launched in the UK last week,SelfieJobsis the latest addition to an ever-expanding list, shoehorning the jobseeking process into a snappy, Tinder-style format.Prospective employees can upload a brief profile and a 22-second video pitch before applying for jobs with a twitch of the thumb. Meanwhile, employers can flick through potential staff to look for a match.“Simplicity and speed is at the core,” says founder Martin Tall, who has already won more than 10,000 users across Germany and the Nordic countries since launching the app in September 2014. “So far, mostly twentysomething jobseekers have picked up on the concept. The Tinder swipe is a well-known method in our target group.”Though less likely to appeal to twentysomethings, last month also saw the launch ofKnocker, a property app that enables users to skim through houses for sale in their area. There’s alsoGrabble, a fashion-based app where you can browse clothes to buy. And last year the world became a better place thanks toBarkbuddy, which helps to connect pet-lovers with pups that need adopting, or “find fluffy singles near you”.Swiping as a means of browsing prospective jobs/dogs/the future parent of your child has become ubiquitous. For Dr Tomas Chamorro-Premuzic, a professor of business psychology at University College London, who haswritten previouslyabout society’s “crisis of attentiveness”, the swipe format is just another symptom of the age we are living in (so, y’know, thanks for reading this far).“Swiping in itself is not addictive,” he says. “But interacting in an effortless way with technology, and getting an instant reward (being liked or moving on to someone/something else you may like) is. We have become very impulsive and impatient.”But although the format may be popular, whether it is always appropriate, or effective, is questionable. “Tinder works mostly as a hook-up app,” says Chamorro-Premuzic. “So the issue with applying this to jobs is that it may work to help you find temporary or freelance work but [for] long-term careers, swiping is too superficial.”Besides, as he points out, people who are desperate for a job may swipe right on anything, a process that, as many a glassy-eyed Tinder user will tell you, could hurt their self-esteem or make them pick inappropriate jobs. “Any technology or device that helps to reduce the gap between supply and demand is a positive thing,” he says. “But some things are just style and no substance, and the excitement for them wears off quickly.”Hold on, we are still talking about apps, right?
The concluding chapter in the story of superhuman monster-hunter-for-hire Geralt of Rivia,The Witcher 3: Wild Huntis a mammoth, open-world fantasy game with admirably lofty ambition. Setting players free across a succession of beautifully realised maps all teeming with exotic life, its most obvious touchstones are theElder ScrollsandDragon Ageseries, and it’s to the game’s credit that it stands these comparisons well. In fact, the narrative here is far less traditional than those of its more obvious peers; a player’s decisions rarely have a simple good or bad outcome and the world can be especially cruel to those seeking to do the right thing. It’s all very reminiscent ofGame of Thrones, even before you meet a charactervoiced by Charles Dance.Combat mechanics and dialogue trees boast pleasing depth for those who are interested, though long-time fans may feel slightly let down by their simplification since previous entries. Elsewhere, the sheer depth of the game’s lore may prove bewildering for newcomers and a few nasty visual bugs intermittently do their best to break the overall illusion. Thankfully, the aforementioned ambition makes any flaws feel mostly insignificant.The Witcher 3: Wild Huntis a thrilling journey into the fantastic.
Nintendo’s polished and innovative approach takes a different direction from its usual fare withSplatoon, but its bid for a part of the multiplayer, action-shooter market doesn’t quite hit the target. Playing as an “inkling”, a species that can switch between human and squid form, your focus is on control of territory, with an arsenal of ink-based weaponry that, to be fair, does provide one of the best multiplayer experiences on Wii U.The core gameplay is fluid, and inspires the “just one more game” urge that eludes many multiplayer titles. Equally, rounds regularly provide tense tugs-of-war, and it’s refreshing to see that the team with the highest kill count is not always the winner. ButSplatoon’s plethora of strategic options, allowing for a mix of stealth and offence, are marred by its somewhat outdated online feature set. Not knowing other team-mates’ loadouts before a match methods can make it difficult to play cohesively online.It’s a brave effort; however, what Nintendo has ended up with is a highly original title with the potential to be rich and deeply rewarding, but one lacking the structure needed to compete with the best contemporary multiplayer games.
There is a pleasing symmetry aboutFossil Fighters: Frontier, as this 3DS adventure-RPG digs up the bones of classic games and injects them with new life. Players take on the role of Jura, a wannabe Ranger in a world populated with “vivosaurs” – dinosaurs revived by advanced technology. The aim is to travel this world collecting monsters, battling wild beasts and other rangers and proving you are the best while contending with the agents of a shadowy organisation. If that sounds likePokémoninJurassic Park, that’s because basically it is.The gameplay is pleasant but unchallenging: drive around the colourful 3D world in a Bone Buggy, unearthing fragile fossils that are then converted into gladiators through mildly strategic 3D battles based around proper positioning. Digging a little deeper, the vivosaurs are based on real-world dinosaurs, the series designers having consulted palaeontologists.Fossil Fightersdoesn’t break new ground, but it offers a simple, surprisingly engaging experience.
Popcorn Time is dead. Long live Popcorn Time! The film and TV streaming app that, according Hollywood’s powerful lobbying groups, incriminates you while you use it has been crushed by regulators around the world. But like the hydra, it has the uncanny ability to sprout new heads. How? Perhaps it’s because, as one of its collective of developers suggests, Popcorn Time doesn’t exist at all.Born in Buenos Aires in 2014, the original Popcorn Time made accessing pirated content as easy as turning on Netflix. Available for free and in 44 languages, the original app, which boasts an interface as slick as any of its industry-approved competitors,shut down the servicelast year because “[o]ur experiment has put us at the doors of endless debates about piracy and copyright, legal threats and the shady machinery that makes us feel in danger for doing what we love”, as the original team put it.But the software behind the project is open-source, and it lives on. Robert English, a key member of the collective that took over from the Argentinian team, describes Popcorn Time as an open-source community project run by a bunch of dedicated nerds “all over the globe” – and that’s just the core group, not the enthusiasts who have adopted the software for similar purposes (and under similar names). “We’re not a business,” said English in a phone interview from Ontario, Canada. “We just want to make something great for everyone to use. Anybody can jump in at any time.”Loosely affiliated groups, like the video torrent distributing organization YTS, have glommed on to Popcorn Time’s ideas – even adopting its very popular branding – and keep putting up slightly different all-the-movies-ever sites with “popcorn” somewhere in the name. It’s now less a company than a meme, and memes are hard to sue.Earlier this month a site called Popcorn in Your Browser (“That wasn’t us,” English said, and YTSsaidit was them ) appeared, making use of an encrypted torrenting server called Coinado.io and the Popcorn Time logo. The site shut down a few days later – not because it had landed in legal trouble, but because users were so eager to try it out they managed to crash Coinado.io almost immediately, and the server promptly ended Popcorn in Your Browser’s free trial.The public wants video content, and they don’t want to have to care about who is controlling distributors and streaming services. Judging by the rapid ascension of newer and better movie streaming sites the instant old ones get shut down, a significant portion of the population does not appear to be buying the film and TV industry’s assertion that watching a stream of a popular movie online is the moral equivalent of shoplifting.Last year, Google had an average of about a million takedown requests for pirated linksevery day, from media companies and others. But in the whack-a-mole world of online piracy there’s always an alternative. Popcorn in Your Browser users now have Better Popcorn; it streams recent movies – Furious 7, The Avengers – in HD at a single click. For as long as it lasts.Better Popcorn streams recent movies, like Furious 7, in HD at a single click. For as long as it lasts.Photograph: Everett/REX Shutterstock/Everett/REX ShutterstockOne reason the sites stay so popular – and even if Google isn’t indexing them, alternative search sites like DuckDuckGo certainly are – is that they’re so easy to use. And they’re free.“A lot of people ask [...] if we’re going to do advertising or subscriptions,” said English. “Nobody on the team wants it. I can’t see it happening. We’re about having a nice, clean app for everybody to use.” Convenience and ease of use are a huge part of piracy – if Netflix suddenly dropped all the episodes of your favorite show in the middle of your bender, you might subscribe to the competing service that snapped them up, or you might simply wander over to a site that has it all for free and finish the season there.Hollywood’s heavy-hitting lobby group, the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), is not amused. “The film and TV industry is comprised of hundreds of thousands of men and women working hard behind the scenes to bring the vibrant, creative stories we enjoy to the screen,” wrote MPAA spokeswoman Kate Bedingfield in a statement to the Guardian. “[C]ontent theft via sites like Popcorn Time undermine that hard work.”A study by the Institute for Policy Innovation puts the cost of motion picture piracy at$20.5bn a year– including $837m in lost tax revenues.Often in the US, studios can get internet service providers (ISPs) to send outscary warning noticesasserting that downloading torrents is illegal. But when it comes down to individual cases, very few movie companies are willing to actually take members of the general public to court over downloads. Some have used letters of discovery to force settlements – a tactic that has gotten producersscolded in the Australian courts– but even when those suits happen, they’re more to make an example than to actually deter downloading.English is bluntly dismissive of any suggestion that Popcorn Time is itself illegal. It’s a connection, he says, between people who want to watch movies and people who want to share them. And because of Popcorn Time’s architecture, the more people watch them, the easier they are to share. “[W]e’re not very hidden,” he said. “It’s pretty popular. There are obviously some legal things we have to watch out for and we do our best to do that, but we try to stay away from any trouble.”
Related:Silk Road operator Ross Ulbricht sentenced to life in prisonOne gram of black tar heroin. Price: 0.5 Bitcoins, or around $118.It is pictured, dark and exotic, next to a needle and a penknife, for scale. Underneath it, users have left rave reviews: “5/5 – Came ridiculously fast. Best stealth, weight on point. Solid product. Perfect purchase as always.”“5/5 – Even in this chaos he shipped my order fast with great stealth. The product is fire as usual. Thanks.”“5/5 – 48 hours as usual you guys are super.”Abutting the heroin is a cornucopia of other drugs and paraphernalia: 20 pills of the concentration drug Modafini ships for for 0.08BTC, or just under $20. A generic 10-pack of the erectile dysfunction drug Cialis, a shade under $30. Two hundred tabs of diazepam – generic valium – $110.This is Agora marketplace, an online superstore for drugs and other illegal and semi-legal goods and services. It is one of many that have sprung up after the shuttering of Silk Road, the first major darknet market, and the arrest of its founder, Ross Ulbricht, who went by the alias Dread Pirate Roberts.On Friday in a federal court in Manhattan, Ulbricht was sentenced to life in prison – several times over –with no possibility of parole. In a pre-sentencing letter to judge Katherine Forrest, prosecutors said a harsh sentence would act as a deterrent to others thinking of setting up online markets, and clearly, Forrest agreed.But however hard the authorities try to slam the stable door, the horse has long since bolted.When Silk Road was shuttered by the FBI in 2013, it was pretty much the only site of its kind. Buying and selling drugs online was not new – there have always been listings with coded shibboleths on sites like Craigslist in the US and Gumtree in the UK, as ordinary drug-dealing moved clumsily onto the internet.But Silk Road, founded in 2011, was something else. Using the Tor encryption service and with prices in Bitcoin, it promised a new level of safety – both from law enforcement and from scam artists. Vendors were rated by users, as they are on sites like Ebay; vendors that failed to deliver got bad reviews, so users knew to steer clear.Libertarian though Silk Road’s philosophy might have been with regard to drugs, it nonetheless operated with a moral code. Child pornography was banned, as were stolen credit cards, weapons and paid-for assassinations – all of which were available on other, murkier dark web sites.After Silk Road was closed, however, rather than dampen the market, it fragmented it. Dozens of sites sprang up, not all of them operated by the same set of moral codes. Several, including the so-called Silk Road 2.0, which was set up by several administrators of the first site, have since also been raided and shut down. Others turned out to be scams: one, a large marketplace called Evolution, saw administrators exitwith more than $12m in Bitcoin.Despite all this, the market has continued to grow, though because of its fractured nature it is difficult to properly assess its size.We see more and more traffic from people searching for specific markets – 1000% more than we saw last year.'James', of DeepDotWebJames – not his real name – is the editor ofDeepDotWeb,a news site which focuses on darknet marketplaces and maintains an up-to-date list of which markets are on or offline. He said the current market was “WAY bigger” than it was in the days of Silk Road.James said it could safely be assumed that the daily turnover of the biggest markets – Agora is the largest, followed in no particular order by Nucleus, Middle Earth, Abrax, and Alphabay – is in the order of more than a million dollars a day. He estimated the market cap to be in the “hundreds of millions” of dollars.“It’s becoming bigger all the time,” James told the Guardian. “Currently there are over 40 markets, forums, private vendor shops and a higher number of product listings than ever. I can personally testify that we, as a site who is reporting the darknet, see more and more traffic from people searching for specific markets – 1000% more than we saw last year.”He said that since Ulbricht’s arrest people had “lost the sense of being invincible”, but also that they learned from Ulbricht’s mistakes and were now more careful, and more aware both of the dangers of law enforcement and of scams.On Reddit, the subreddit for darknet markets has almost 60,000 subscribers. Among users asked by the Guardian what they thought the future holds, opinion was split. Many were worried by the instability of the new markets, suggesting that once vendors had enough repeat custom they would move to a direct-deal model rather than advertising on marketplaces that were vulnerable to exit scams. Vendors were the biggest losers in the Evolution exit scam.But others thought the new order was here to stay.“As long as our customers understand that purchasing their drugs through a DNM [Dark Net Market] is WAY safer than doing it in person, this will continue forever,” said one user, who gave his name as John. “People aren’t afraid of being robbed, beaten or killed because they went to their corner drug dealer when they can go to a DNM instead.”Lyn and Kirk Ulbricht, parents of Silk Road founder Ross Ulbricht, talk with reporters outside the Federal Courthouse in New York on Friday.Photograph: Don Emmert/AFP/Getty ImagesIt's like the mythical hydra – you cut off one head, and more of them growAnonymous Reddit user“You can’t unring the bell that is being able to buy drugs online,” said another user. “It’s like telling porn fans they can’t watch porn online anymore – they’d find a way. And the governments trying to stop people from buying and selling drugs online are like King Canute trying to hold back the tide.”One user described the situation as “like the mythical hydra, you cut off one head and more of them grow. There will be more markets, more drugs getting mailed, and overall a safer drug scene, freer from DEA and drug cartel violence”.On Agora, the “drugs” section has nearly 16,000 product listings – easily as many as Silk Road had in its heyday and perhaps even more. Other sections include weapons and ammunition, forged documents and tobacco. You can buy passwords to pornographic sites, or hire hackers.On the front page of the site, incongruously nestled between listings for a 20-pack of Modafinil and a tutorial for magic tricks, is a volume titled “Drug Abuse Handbook”. The blurb describes it as “a thorough compendium of the knowledge of the pharmacological, medical, and legal aspects of drugs”.It costs 0.004BTC – or just under a dollar.
Tehran may be thousands of miles away from Silicon Valley, home to the world’s largest hi-tech corporations and most innovative startups, but technologically, Iran’s online entrepreneurs are getting closer – despite mutual political hostility and international sanctions. This Thursday in Germany hundreds of Iranian startups will catch up with investors from around the globe in the biggest gathering of its kind, in a bid to bridge the gap.TheiBridges conference in Berlin, which aims to explore the challenges and opportunities of entrepreneurship in Iran, will be closely watched, especially at a time when diplomatic efforts to resolve Tehran’s nuclear dispute are increasing hopes for an ease in the sanctions that would enable foreigners to invest in the tech sector.Participants from Iran include Digikala, an online e-commerce platform, which has become the biggest in the Middle East with around 750,000 unique visitors per day and is estimated to be worth $150m. Also participating is Aparat, an Iranian version of YouTube, Takhfifan (a Groupon-type website) and smaller startups such as Mamanpaz, which offers real home cooking to its online customers.Prominent Silicon Valley investor Dave McClure, who is the founder of 500 Startups and a former investment director of the Facebook’s fbFund, will be attending. He is impressed by the list of startups that iBridges has put together. “Like many emerging economies, Iran has a large population, one which is substantially educated and has a large entrepreneurship potential,” he says. “If the country opens up and relations are restored with the US and other parts of the world, I think there is going to be a lot of economic growth. Definitely there are many interesting possibilities for tech startups, too.”The problem, says McClure, is that current regulations do not allow investment in the Iranian tech sector. “Based on how US investment laws are structured right now it’s not possible for investors like me to invest directly in startups in Iran but we are optimistic that may change in the near future if relations are normalised.”Internet and smartphone penetration is extremely high in Iran, where 70% of the 80m population is under 35. At least half of Iranians have access to a smartphone, according to officials. There are conflicting reports about the number of internet users but according to Internet World Stats, Iran has more than 46 million internet users (57.2% penetration), which is almost half the total number of internet users in the whole of the Middle East, although not all have regular access.Even the government of the moderate president, Hassan Rouhani, has acknowledged the importance of the iBridges conference. “It will be a bridge between Iranian entrepreneurs across the world,” says Parviz Karami, a senior official, on the government’s official news website. “It will strengthen their scientific bases and enhance the confidence of those based in Iran.“This is particularly significant for the country because of the sharp decline in our oil revenues, which may continue falling in the coming years. It will also help to slow down the brain drain from Iran and may even encourage some Iranians to come back.”That’s a sentiment echoed by many Iranian entrepreneurs, including Takhfifan’s founder, Nazanin Daneshvar, herself a returnee. She is among the conference’s Iranian steering team, and describes iBridges as “a turning point” for Iran’s tech community.The wave of Iranian startups in the past couple of years has seen the number of new companies and websites mushroom and regular startup weekends are taking place in various cities across the country. Isolation and sanctions have not stopped Iranian entrepreneurs from having ambitious plans. Farhad Hedayati, the founder of Taskulu, a task management platform, said his startup was primarily developed for use in English. The project which was developed with help from Avatech accelerator, has now over 8000 users from 120 different countries. Taskulu, however, will not be represented in iBridges as the request for a visa to the German embassy in Tehran was denied. Sanctions remain the big obstacle: Iran’s banking system is cut off from the outside world and there is no normal way of transferring money to and from Iran.Hence, Taskulu has been forced to give services for free as there is no way for its foreign users to pay the firm. “Iran is a good place to work right now, it is opening up but the trade-off is sanctions,” he said. “Internally we can’t use many services because they are filtered from within Iran but also there are many international services which foreign companies have not made available for Iranian users because of sanctions.”Despite these issues, Mohammad Noresi, 28-year-old founder of Iranian crowdfunding platform Hamijoo, is optimistic. “iBridges will be the first time I’m going abroad and I hope it helps us to find funds.”But the lifting of sanctions will pose both a threat as well as an opportunity to Iranian startups, says Nima Akbarpour, presenter of the BBC Persian’s technology programmeClick.“Some big companies such as [leading mobile app store] Cafe Bazaar, which is an Android market, will probably face serious problems if Google were to directly enter the Iranian market,” he says, “whereas a company like Digikala will benefit from sanctions relief because it will have access to foreign investors.” Cafe Bazaar, which is run by 28-year-old Hessam Armandehi, is estimated to be worth $20m and offer more than 25,000 Iranian and international apps.Aparat’s Mohammad-Javad Shakouri Moghaddam, left, and Hamid Mohammadi of Digikala, Iran’s version of Amazon.Photograph: Arash Ashourinia /ObserverThe other big threat to Iranian startups is Iran’s brain drain, says Mohammad-Javad Shakoori Moghaddam, founder of Aparat. “In our company, at least two people with key senior jobs have left for Canada and the US. The phenomenon is like a trap for startups like us.”However, Hamid Mohammadi, Digikala’s co-founder, hopes that Iran’s burgeoning tech scene will prompt more Iranians to return to their homeland. “The situation in Iran is quite exceptional, there is a huge market for startups, something you can’t easily find in other countries, and maybe that’s why many of the Iranian diaspora are returning to Iran.”Sanctions have not stopped foreign investment entirely – companies unconcerned with doing business in the US are willing to take risks. For example, a joint venture between South African telecom company MTN and the Germany-based company Rocket Internet has been launching startups in Iran, setting up Iranian versions of eBay (Mozando), Amazon (Bamilo), and even Uber (Taxi Yaab).Rouhani has repeatedly spoken out against pervasive online censorship in the country (Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are all blocked) and has advocated free access to information – but he is not the sole decision-maker in Iran. All decisions about the internet are taken by the Supreme Council of Virtual Space, which is controlled by the hardline supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has the ultimate power in all state matters. In the words of Noresi, “filtering is like having a thorn in your leg, a thorn you have forgotten is there”.Rouhani supports tech entrepreneurs and has also called for faster internet speeds and greater bandwidth in the country. “The era of the one-sided pulpit is over,” he said at a conference in 2014. “We should see cyberspace as opportunity. Why do we have so much fear? We should trust our youth.”Millions of Iranians work round blocked addresses with help from proxy websites or virtual private network services (VPNs) but the authorities have responded by introducing more subtle filtering algorithms to hide content they don’t approve of. Not that this always works, after particular Instagram accounts and types of photos were blocked the company retaliated by using an encryption method which enabled all content to be viewed, including the decadentRich Kids of Tehranaccount. The communications minister, Mahmoud Vaezi, has distanced the government from the establishment’s filtering policy, saying that his department has nothing to do with it. He prefers to emphasise the fact that internet bandwidth in Iran has significantly improved after a five-year gap, increasing by about four times. Users with 3G and 4G connections report better connections online, when they use Skype, for example, but “internet speed in Iran is still not in a good place”, the minister said earlier this year. Vaezi’s ministry also plans to increase the number of public buildings with free wifi by the beginning of next year.The communications minister, Mahmoud Vaezi, has distanced the government from the establishment’s filtering policy, saying that his department has nothing to do with it. He prefers to emphasise that internet bandwidth in Iran has significantly improved after a five-year gap, increasing by about four times. Users with 3G and 4G connections report better connections online, when they use Skype, for example, but “internet speed in Iran is still not in a good place”, the minister said earlier this year. Vaezi’s ministry also plans to increase the number of public buildings with free wifi by the beginning of next year.Iranian hardliners are nervous about iBridges. Vaezi has been summoned to parliament to explain the bandwidth increase. TheVatan-e-Emrooznewspaper, which has a conspiratorial mindset, published a front-page article in April warning that the event is aimed at orchestrating a “soft overthrow” in Iran and urged the country’s intelligence apparatus to be vigilant. It alleged iBridges founders Kamran Elahian and Hamid Biglari were closely associated with “the Zionist regime”, a reference to Iran’s arch enemy, Israel.The conference aims to build bridges between Iranians inside Iran and the Iranian diaspora as well as with the tech industry in the west, says Kamran Elahian. He says the idea for the Berlin gathering took shape after a smaller group of Iranian entrepreneurs visited Silicon Valley in 2014. “It was a community effort. iBridges is not a place for politics or religious issues.”ibridges.orgMamanpaz.irFounded by Tabassom LatifiTabassom Latifi: ‘I’m happy our project is helping women too.’Photograph: Arash Ashourinia/ObserverMamanpaz is a Tehran-based online food delivery service which offers dishes cooked by actual mums to customers who prefer home cooking to canteen food or takeaways. Around 200 customers a day enjoy its old favourites such as “Lubia-polo cooked by Maman Maryam”, a combination of rice, green beans, minced meat, tomato and saffron, priced at around £2.Tabassom Latifi, 29-year-old founder of Mamanpaz, was working for a corporate bank before she left to pursue this project. The idea took shape while she was participating in a startup weekend in the Iranian capital and was officially launched just over a year ago. Latifi did everything herself to start with but now has four office staff and five motorbike delivery people. Mamanpaz has various ways of testing the quality of the mothers’ cooking including snap inspections of their kitchens and seeking customer’s feedback via text message.When Latifi first advertised for chef mums she was overwhelmed by the numbers who applied, from well-off housewives who wanted to be active in the societyto “single mums who take care of a whole family – I’m happy our project is helping them in a way as well.”Hamijoo.comFounded by Mohammad NoresiMohammad Noresi of Hamijoo.Photograph:  Arash Ashourinia /ObserverHamijoo is an online crowdfunding site that aims to help Iranian artistic and film projects – much likeIndiegogo. In an economy struggling with international sanctions, Hamijoo tries to find an alternative way to support art and culture.Its founder, Mohammad Noresi, is a 28-year-old graduate of biomedical engineering. He has previously worked on a number of failed tech startups but this latest project has quickly proved itself. Within two months of its launch, Noresi has had to taken on three new workers and is seeking to employ more staff.Noresi says that more than 160 people have used Hamijoo to fund artistic projects so far. The five projects the site is currently collecting money for include a documentary by award-winning independent Iranian film-makerMehrdad Oskouei. The film, calledDaybreak Dreams, is the third instalment of a trilogy about children held in an Iranian juvenile rehabilitation centre. It took Oskouei seven years to obtain official permission to make the documentary, which is currently in post-production and has so far attracted 96m rials (around £2,000) from 23 different donors, 38% of the target.Another project, a music album by Meysam Azad, has so far attracted 111 donations, a total of 20m rials (£400), 10% of its target. The big challenge, says Noresi, is that the Iranian diaspora who might like to participate have no means to transfer money to Iran because of the sanctions. “So many people have contacted us from outside Iran because they want to donate too but currently there is no way for them to transfer their money to us.”Noresi will be travelling to Germany in June to participate in the iBridges conference, which is the biggest gathering of Iranian tech startups. It will be his first trip abroad ever and he hopes to meet big investors there.Takhfifan.comFounded by Nazanin DaneshvarNazanin Daneshvar, whose Takhfifan is a discount site similar to Groupon.Photograph:  Arash Ashourinia /ObserverTakhfifan is a popular Iranian version of the deal-of-the-day websiteGroupon, the deal-of-the-day website, offering discounts in nine categories on from restaurants and coffee shops to theatre and concert tickets. It has more than a million email subscribers and offers 20 to 25 deals a day.Its founder, Nazanin Daneshvar, is one of a growing number of women running tech startups in Iran. She left her lucrative investment job in Germany four years ago to return to Iran and become an entrepreneur in her home country. With the help of her sister, she launched the website, which at first offered just one deal a day on food and entertainment but soon grew to its present size. A deal advertised earlier this week offered 70% off a concert ticket at Tehran’s prestigious Vahdat hall. As the founder of a successful Iranian startup with 60 employees, Daneshvar was among a small number of Iranian entrepreneurs invited to aSilicon Valley conferencelast year to speak about Iranian tech startups. She is among Iran’s steering team of the forthcoming iBridges conference in Berlin.Daneshvar says that when she started her project people in Iran were sceptical. “Four years ago, people in Iran didn’t know what startups were or they associated them with fraud,” she says today, “but now they are taken seriously and people show trust.”Aparat.comFounded by Mohammad-Javad Shakouri MoghaddamMohammad-Javad Shakouri Moghaddam of Aparat.Photograph: Arash Ashourinia/ObserverAparat is an Iranian online video-sharing site which has become a household name in Iran. Like YouTube it shows everything from music clips to films to videos of cats. Its founder, Mohammad-Javad Shakouri Moghaddam, is also the CEO of Aparat’s parent company Sabaldea, which is behind a number of other successful startup projects in Iran, including Cloob.com, a Persian-language social-networking site with more than 3 million users, and Mihanblog.com, a free blog hosting service. Shakouri Moghaddam’s company started with three people 10 years ago and now has a staff of 65. Five million videos a day are watched on Aparat, and the site gets about 150 million hits a month. Recently Aparat has introduced a new service called Filimo, an Iranian version of Netflix, which is currently available free of charge. The authorites’ blocking of YouTube has inevitably contributed to the success of Aparat in Iran, says Shakouri Moghaddam, but he hopes to keep many of its users even if the Youtube ban is lifted.“Of course the absence of YouTube here has helped us to grow,” he says, “but even if the filtering were lifted our emphasis on original content means we will be less affected.”Digikala.comFounded by Hamid and Saeed MohammadiHamid Mohammadi of Digikala.Photograph: Arash Ashourinia/ObserverDigikala is an online Iranian e-commerce site similar to Amazon. It has been hugely successful, ranked by Alexa as the sixth most visited website in Iran, and is the biggest of its kind in the Middle East. With around 750,000 visitors per day and more than 2.3 million subscribers, 85-90% of Iran’s e-commerce takes place on Digikala.Digikala was founded by two brothers, Hamid and Saeed Mohammadi in 2007. The idea first came to them, says Hamid, when they were looking to buy a digital camera online but could not find an Iranian website that gave the right specifications for various models and good reviews. They launched Digikala in a small rented office in Tehran with a group of seven people, offering only two products – mobiles and digital cameras.Today, Digikala is reportedly worth $150m, has 760 employees and is operating in more than 20 Iranian cities, shipping more than 4,000 orders per day. It has same-delivery services in Tehran and the adjacent city of Karaj, and offers next-day deliveries to 20 other cities.According to Mohammadi, the company has seen a 200% growth year-on-year since it was established. Although Iranians are cut off from the outside world financially and do not have access to international credit cards they have debit cards issued by Iranian banks, which work online internally. Digikala now sells everything from smartphones, to books, household items and cosmetics.If sanctions were lifted, would Mohammadi fear Amazon would start delivering in Iran? “I don’t think Amazon is a threat to us. Even if they do see Iran as so big a market, they would have to establish a Persian-language Amazon. I think lifting sanctions would be more of an opportunity for people like us than a threat.”
Who is Ross Ulbricht? A libertarian who championed internet privacy out of deep personal conviction, or a ruthless felon who appreciated that secrecy was integral to the successful operation of his multimillion-dollar criminal enterprise?After the Silk Road supremo’ssentence to life imprisonment without parolewas handed down on Friday, Manhattan US attorney Preet Bharara was under no illusions about the man who had been sniffling in the dock only hours before. “Make no mistake,” he declared, “Ulbricht was a drug dealer and criminal profiteer who exploited people’s addictions.”It was a damning assessment of the rollercoaster life and times of the 31-year-old criminal genius who grew up in Austin, Texas, to become the mastermind behind the most notorious of online black markets.Created in January 2011 and shut down by law enforcement in October 2013, Silk Road let its users buy and sell drugs and other illegal goods and services anonymously over the so-called dark net, outside the reach of the law.Using the online moniker “Dread Pirate Roberts”, a reference to a character in the 1987 movieThe Princess Bride, Ulbricht, according to prosecutors, “controlled and oversaw every aspect of Silk Road, and managed a staff of paid, online administrators and computer programmers who assisted with the day-to-day operation of the site”. He grew rich as a result, apparently reaping “commissions worth more than $13m generated from the illicit sales conducted through the site”.But in the same way that the pirate music platform Napster was forced to close around the turn of the millennium after attracting the attention of the US authorities, Silk Road – and its founder – were transformed into a powerful brand and soon the FBI was focusing on them.“He was the poster boy [of the dark net] with Silk Road, because he had the most romantic nickname, Dread Pirate Roberts, and so everyone focused on him, including the FBI,” said Dr Simon Moores, chair of the International ECrime Congress. “He was foolishly provocative, and that is a big mistake to make in a democracy like the US.”US Attorney Preet Bharara called Ulbricht a ‘drug dealer and criminal profiteer’.Photograph: Stephen Chernin/Stephen Chernin/Invision/APJust how big is only now becoming clear as Ulbricht contemplates death behind bars. Judge Katherine B Forrest insisted a severe sentence was necessary to send a clear signal to others. “There must be no doubt that lawlessness will not be tolerated,” Forrest declared. “There must be no doubt that you cannot run a massive criminal enterprise and because it occurred over the internet minimise the crime committed on that basis.”But in lawless cyberspace some disagree. A man condemned by the US legal system finds himself lionised by others on Twitter.“Ross Ulbricht, you will one day be remembered as an American hero,” tweeted one sympathiser. “Sadly, you might never live to see that day.” Chris Rorie tweeted: “My heart’s with Ross Ulbricht right now. Alumni of my high school ... I know he’s guilty, I also know he’s a pioneer, a hero.”Some have invoked comparisons with Aaron Swartz, the computer hacker who was arrested in the US in 2011 and threatened with a draconian $1m fine and 35 years in prison. Swartz declined a plea bargain under which he would have served six months in prison. Two days after the prosecution rejected his counter-offer,he hanged himself.Certainly Ulbricht attempted to paint himself in court as a digital crusader for civil rights. “I wanted to empower people to make choices in their lives and have privacy and anonymity,” he told the court.Silk Road operated over the “Tor” network, designed to conceal the identities of users, and with a Bitcoin-based payment system that hid the identities and locations of those accessing the site in at least 10 countries, including the US, Germany, the Netherlands, Canada, the UK and Spain.On any given day vendors would be typically offering a gram of “100% pure Peruvian cocaine”, “1g of Indian shard ketamine” or “100 Pfizer Xanax bars”. But the Silk Road was not just about drugs. Among the most popular items for sale were Tesco vouchers and hacked Spotify premium accounts. And there was everything anyone needed to create a new identity. Silk Road sold fake driver’s licences, passports, social security cards, utility bills, credit card statements and car insurance records.This was not some cottage industry. According to the FBI, “while in operation, Silk Road was used by thousands of drug dealers and other unlawful vendors to distribute hundreds of kilograms of illegal drugs and other unlawful goods and services to more than 100,000 buyers, and to launder hundreds of millions of dollars deriving from these unlawful transactions”.Neither was Ulbricht the disinterested party he claimed to be in court. According to prosecutors, he “demonstrated a willingness to use violence to protect his criminal enterprise and the anonymity of its users, soliciting six murders-for-hire in connection with operating the site, although there is no evidence that these murders were actually carried out”.This latter claim is hugely contentious. Ulbricht’s defence team say there were no solicitations of murder, and fear the allegation may have helped determine their client’s life sentence. More difficult to rebut, however, was the emotional testimony against Ulbricht from the families who lost loved ones after they took drugs bought over Silk Road.According to prosecutors, “the narcotics distributed on Silk Road have been linked to at least six overdose deaths across the world. These overdose deaths included Jordan M, a 27-year-old Microsoft employee who was found unresponsive in front of his computer, which was logged on to Silk Road at the time, and died as a result of heroin and other prescription drugs that he had ordered from Silk Road.”Others included Preston B, from Perth, Australia, and Alejandro N, from Camino, California, both 16, who “died as a result of taking 25i-NBOMe, a powerful synthetic drug designed to mimic LSD (commonly referred to as ‘N-Bomb’)”, bought from Silk Road.Explicitly linking Ulbricht to the deaths is, however, myopic according to many commentators. Max Daly, an expert on drug consumption and the author ofNarcomania, tweeted: “Blaming Ross Ulbricht for people overdosing on drugs bought from Silk Road is like blaming peanut farmers for people dying of nut allergies.” Daly added: “Life in jail with no parole for selling drugs to people who wanted drugs (99% of whom probably had a great time on them). Insane.”The concern that Ulbricht has been singled out for punitive treatment is likely to play a key role in his appeal.Ulbricht’s lawyer, Joshua Dratel, described his client’s sentence as “u nreasonable, unjust, unfair”. Significantly, Ulbricht’s indictment refers to the fact that he operated with “others known and unknown”, suggesting that some of his accomplices will never face trial.But even if they do, few believe their convictions will change anything. Within weeks of Silk Road being closed down, Moores said at least 17 similar sites had sprung up. Many operate far beyond the realms of US law enforcement in countries such as Russia, China, Vietnam and India, where fighting online crime is not a priority and diplomatic relations with the west are strained.Who is Ross Ulbricht? Just one of many. “Every time the FBI takes someone like him down, two or three more will spring up to take his place,” Moores said. “It’s whack-a-mole in a virtual sense.”
Drag queens plan to lead a demonstration outside Facebook’s Silicon Valley headquarters on Monday in response to the company’s “real name” policy.Facebook has repeatedly stated its opposition to anonymous users and has suspended accounts when people do not use their officially recognised names. The policy has incited drag queens, transgender people, Native Americans, domestic violence survivors and others who do not use the names on their birth certificates tocome together against the policyas part of the #MyNameIs coalition.Currently, any user can report that another user is using a false identity. Some members of the #MyNameIs coalition believe they are targeted by malicious users who oppose their identity and behavior. “Facebook sides with those bullies,” said Sister Roma, one of the leaders of the effort to change the policy.She and other opponentshave met with Facebookmultiple times to discuss the policy, including discussions with the company’s chief product officer, Chris Cox, and head of global policy management, Monika Bickert.Drag queens challenged the social media giant last Septemberafter several received emails telling them that they must change their profiles to their “real names”. Cox subsequentlyapologized. But talks have since soured and the group believes the company is not moving quickly enough to address their concerns.Facebook has adjusted its policy to create a clearer appeals process for people whose accounts have been suspended, and loosened the requirements for people who want to use their “authentic name” instead of their legal name. But the company has stated that a core element of its site is that it does not allow “anonymous” users.“Having people use their authentic names makes them more accountable, and also helps us root out accounts created for malicious purposes, like harassment, fraud, impersonation and hate speech,” the company said in a statement.Those opposed to the policy think it is archaic and needs to be changed.“Facebook is no longer a cool website started by a bunch of guys who want to chat each other and see chicks, and see who they are talking to,” said Sister Roma. “It’s changed – and it’s time for Facebook’s policies and original ideas to change, because users’ identities are as fluid as users themselves today.”The protest is scheduled to begin at 11am, across the street from Facebook’s Menlo Park headquarters. Demonstrators are going todemandthat the company remove the fake-name reporting option, stop verifying people with government identification, and develop a more clear appeals process.
It is called the Vauxhall Adam or, to give its full name, the Adam Rocks Air. The colour it describes as “goldbusters”, but to picture the actual hue, you have to think of some kind of human effluent (bile, say) given a metallic shimmer. In town, it darts and scuttles like a tiny, exotic insect. On longer journeys, I could hardly believe it had only a one-litre engine, so poky was it. It does 0–60 in 9.9 seconds, and everything seems so effortless. The claimed top speed, 121mph, is quite something, though I didn’t come anywhere near to verifying it.What you notice, as a regular civilian driver, is a sense of ever-readiness. There were times when I couldn’t tell what was cool and what was a gimmick, what was modern and what a cut-corner. The system it uses instead of a satnav – you downloadBringGo, then plug in your phone and the screen shows on the display – feels a bit second-rate, but it works, and fast. Gunning through Brixton, trying to get to a civil-unrest event before anyone (everyone) had been arrested, I darted in and out of traffic, while the photographer buzzed the folding roof in and out. I lack the poetry in my soul to understand the point of a roof that opens, but he and the children were delighted.We arrived at our destination (not the children; I rarely take them to civil unrest), I dropped him off and hared off. This is the way to live, I thought; unencumbered, dainty, fast, always leaving someone else in a fix, and disappearing.Look, it has its downsides: there are only two seatbelts on the back seat. There are only three doors. There is an unconscionable number of airbags (six), and almost no room for any passengers. But if you’re intending to stick to the driver’s seat, you’ll be pleasantly surprised; it’s a dinky but rather tall car, for its range. The windscreen is an expanse, and the steering wheel is large, adjustable and heated (me neither).Combined economy is 55.4mpg. At 119g/km, the emissions rating felt designed to fall below a threshold, like a house priced for stamp duty: carrying so little weight, with such a lot of refinement to the engine, this could have gone lower. And, ultimately, there are cars in the world only 5% bigger that are 50% more practical (not that I ever would, but God knows where you’d put a dog in this car). Nonetheless, after only a short time, I thought of us as almost-friends.Vauxhall Adam Rocks AirPricefrom £13,455 (as tested £15,270)Top speed121mphAcceleration0-60 in 9.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption119g/kmCO2emissions55.4mpgEco rating8/10Cool rating7/10
