Google dominates the web and is already making a big impact in the smartphone business with its Android operating system. The netbook computer is next in line, and Google is targeting this fast-growing market with Chrome OS, a stripped down operating system designed to do everything inside its own Chrome web browser.Chrome OS is a year away from launch, but Google said it was talking to leading manufacturers and hoped to have systems on the market for the Christmas selling season. Today, however, itreleased an early version of the code to the open source development community.At a press conference webcast from Mountain View, California, Google staff said their aim with Chrome OS was to make the computer work like a TV set, so the user turns it on and within a few seconds is on the web. Also, all the computer's applications and data are on the web, and users cannot install programs themselves. As with Android, it seems likely that Chrome OS will effectively feed traffic to Google's search engine, Gmail, mapping services, online applications, social network and other properties, where Google makes its money by showing advertisements.Netbooks that run Chrome OS will not work if there is no internet connection, though they will be able to access data on USB memory sticks, if it can be viewed in a browser. "Everything that works in Chrome works in Chrome OS," said Sundar Pichai, a Google vice president of product management."There are some applications that are not available on the web. There are some things that this machine will not be able to do," said Sundar. "It's a companion device. Most users we expect to have another machine at home."Chrome OS is based on open source software components, including the Linux kernel and the WebKit browser engine. Google says it plans to be a good open source citizen and feed its developments back to the development community.However, Sundar said Chrome OS was not designed to run on existing hardware, though geeks handy with a screwdriver should be able to convert a netbook to run it. Google was "specifying reference hardware that it would support" with Chrome OS, including "specific wireless cards" for use with Wi-Fi internet connections, he said. Hard drives will not be supported, but cameras and other gadgets would be handled as storage devices. The company is still working on ways to offer printing.Desktop operating systems that run Microsoft Windows and Linux can be built using tens of thousands of different components, and they can connect to tens of thousands of devices. Google is planning to simplify all of that by stripping down the operating system to work only with a browser and a defined number of hardware components.Although Google won't manufacture hardware, it will have a very large degree of control over what hardware manufacturers can offer -- less than Apple, perhaps, but much more than Microsoft.Against that, Google points out that other companies can take the open source Chrome OS code and use it develop a similar system that uses a different browser. They could also support different chips and hardware devices.The idea of a browser-based operating system was floated by Netscape, when it dominated the browser software business in the 1990s. At the time it wasn't practicable because there were very few web applications, and users didn't have permanent broadband internet connections. Today, Google believes that web is powerful and available enough to support netbooks. In the future, it could become powerful and available enough for most users of portable and desktop computers.At that point, there could be a rapidly diminishing need for traditional computer operating systems such as Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X, and for desktop applications such as Microsoft Office.As Google recognises, there's nothing much that's new about Chrome OS, since it only does what users can already do with Chrome on their current computer. But as Sundar says: "We're trying to offer a different model of computing."
Yes, it's another Modern Warfare 2 blog. I touched on the piracy anglein a postlast week and expanded upon it for an article in the paper today:Modern Warfare 2 has shifted more than one million copies in the UK alone and is likely to sell many more before Christmas. Its controversial terrorist section is what's got the headlines. But the real story here is online. The huge appeal of Modern Warfare 2 is primarily driven by its online modes. The single-player section of the game – as splendidly over the top and visceral as it is – is over in six or seven hours. The multiplayer modes will keep you entertained for six or seven months – or, looking at the number of people still playing the original 2007 Modern Warfare, probably longer.It's not just Modern Warfare 2 that is driving the popularity of online gaming on consoles. Throw in the thousands of gamers regularly competing on sports titles such as Fifa and Madden, as well as action games such as GTA IV and Gears of War 2, and it's clear that online gaming has gone mainstream.This is especially true in the case of the Xbox 360. Xbox Live, its online service, costs around £40 a year but is slicker and more integrated than similar offerings for the PlayStation and Nintendo Wii. So Microsoft's recent banning of up to one million modded Xbox 360s from access to the service is big news.Owners of the modded consoles, which in many cases are used to play pirated games, will still be able to play offline, but will be banned from signing into Live.Clearly the timing is everything. It can't be a coincidence that this news was announced the day after the release of Modern Warfare 2 – the game certain to be the most played title on Xbox Live for a long time to come. The ban is the next step in the games industry's ongoing battle against piracy. Any gamer – really, any boy – who grew up in the 80s will have memories of tape-to-tape copies of the latest Commodore 64 or ZX Spectrum games being passed around the playground.It was similar in the early 90s with Amiga and Atari ST games. Those formats died away but piracy on the PC has remained an issue ever since.The growth of the internet and torrent sites has only made it easier for PC piracy to grow. But this isn't just an issue that affects open platforms such as the PC – the consoles are also heavily hit. R4 flash devices for the hugely popular Nintendo DS are just one example. Modding the Xbox 360 so it can play cracked games is another.Pirate copies of games have always been around and probably always will be. High prices, greed, technical challenges – the reasons behind piracy are many. Deterrents have always failed. Could this online ban be the first to actually succeed? Barring access to online services from modded consoles – especially when, as with Modern Warfare 2, such access is a game's primary attraction – is potentially a huge deterrent to piracy. This is especially true on Xbox 360, where so many games are built around online play.Microsoft may be the first to do so but you can expect all console manufacturers to impose similar bans in the future. Piracy may never be stopped, but this online ban could go a long way to making it far less enticing.What do you think? Will the strategy work?
The co-founder of Twitter  today warned Rupert Murdoch that his plans to charge for online content, and block Google from using stories produced by his News International titles, were a vain attempt to "put the genie back in the bottle".In recent weeks Murdoch has launched a vitriolic attack on Google and other web companies, accusing them of "stealing" content created by his titles, including the Times and the Sun. Management at News International is working on plans to introduce an online paywall next spring and prevent stories from being linked to by sites such as Google News.Twitter co-founder Biz Stone  today warned that Murdoch  "should be looking at it as an opportunity to do something radically different and find out how to make a ton of money out of being radically open rather than some money by being ridiculously closed".Speaking at an event organised by the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts (Nesta) in London, Stone added that the speed of change on the internet meant Murdoch's plan was likely to "fail fast". He was joined in his attack by Reid Hoffman, co-founder of networking site LinkedIn, who added: "I am sure that during the transition from horses to automobiles there were some people bemoaning the loss of horse transport."In contrast, Stone said Twitter's future lay in making more of the service available to application developers and other partners so they could build on the stream of "tweets" created by its users. The social networking site's users post more than 500 messages per second. The service is increasingly being used by news organisations as a way of discovering breaking news."I don't know what the future of traditional media is," said Stone. "But from my perspective and Twitter's perspective I think there is a wonderful co-operative alliance there in terms of the wisdom of crowds, and as we add things to Twitter… maybe we can help."Twitter, which was valued at more than $1bn just over a month ago, is looking to drive revenues and eventually start making a profit.It plans to introduce some new features over the coming months. Stone, who set up the company just two years ago, said that by the end of the year it would have begun to offer its corporate users a suite of new analytical tools to help them use Twitter to keep in touch with customers and keep an eye on their brands. An increasing number of corporations, from mobile phone companies to airlines, have added Twitter as a means by which customers can get in touch.Twitter is also considering  giving its users reputation scores, which would help traditional news organisations using the social networking service to spot breaking news stories.Twitter recently announcedsearch deals with both Google and Microsoft's Bingand the deals added fuel to recent speculation that the micro-blogging site might be a takeover target for either business.But Stone emphasised a sale was not on the cards: "That was never something we were interested in talking about".Instead, the company was interested in doing more partnership deals. "One of the things we are seeking to do as we have already done with Myspace as we have done with LinkedIn, as we have done with AOL, as we have done with Google, as we have done with Bing, is to share our data and form partnerships that are long standing... Twitter wants to work with social networks, with mobile networks, with TV networks with search engines… we want to put a little Twitter in everything."
For anyone annoyed by the UK's lack of a decent radio station devoted to jazz – or to country, electronica, polka, soul, world music or whatever – there's a huge selection of internet radio stations. The problem is getting them to a kitchen or bedside table in a way that's easy to use. Logitech's Squeezebox Radio (£149.99) almost manages it, but the setup procedures and control buttons need rethinking.It looks the part, and the mono sound quality is good by tabletop radio standards. It has half a dozen preset buttons, so once installed, it works much like any other radio. But the setting-up looks likely to put some non-techies off.The Squeezebox Radio connects to your home Wi-Fi, though you can also plug it into a router via an ethernet cable. You then enter an email address and password to open an account at mysqueezebox.com before exploring the wide world of internet radio. This involves rotating and pushing the big "tuning knob" on numerous small menus to find stations by name: no internet addresses required.The top-level menu includes My Music (on your PC hard drive) and an Information Browser (news feeds), among other things. You can also get your Facebook feed, but not Twitter. Selecting internet radio brings up a menu with local, music, talk, sports, world and search.Selecting music lets you pick a genre such as alt rock or world music. Choose one of those and the next menu offers local and global stations, Shows (podcasts) and Search. Picking stations finally provides a list of about 50 to choose from, in each genre, with the final option being more stations. Aaargh! There is a "Best of Internet Radio" selection under staff picks, but even that's four screens down. You can also find stations by city.The happy ending is that after listening to a few stations – or trying them on your PC first – you'll find something so close to ideal that nothing else really matters. My new love is lounging sound, but you'd need obscure tastes not to find things to like.The trick is to hold down one of the six preset buttons while playing your favourite station so you can go back to it in a few seconds. I already need a "shift" key to make that 12 presets.Suddenly, the mysqueezebox server in Germany started offering me a choice of Klassik stations, and "Lokale Musikshows" in the US – a reboot cured that, but lost my presets – and it insisted on playing BBC Radio 3 as a 48kbps WMA stream, as if I lived in Germany. It doesn't stream AAC, but UK residents should get 192kbps WMA. Logitech says it's talking to the BBC and hopes to fix it.Still, the next version could well be perfect&nbsp;…Pros:Easy to use once set up; sounds good; plug for MP3 player; vast choice of worldwide content – great for ex-pats.Cons:Tedious set-up; mono only; no BBC iPlayer; no SD slot for recording streams; uses internet bandwidth; expensive.logitechsqueezebox.com
The Free Our Data campaign has scored a major victory, with the announcement by the government that it intends to make Ordnance Survey maps free for use online by any organisation – including commercial ones – at resolutions more detailed than commercial 1:25,000 Landranger maps from April next year.The announcement of the opening of a consultation on the plan by Gordon Brown at Downing Street on Tuesday, as part of a seminar on making public data public – set in the wider context of public service reform, under the "Smarter Government" umbrella – indicates that the ideas underpinning the campaign have now been taken on board at the highest levels of government."Mid-range" maps, with resolutions from 1:10,000 upwards, will be made available for re-use, under the plans announced by the prime minister, along with information on postcode areas and electoral and council boundaries.Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, who was recruited by the prime minister in June to help open up government data, said that the revised terms for use of OS maps would also remove the "derived data" problem, under which OS claims full copyright on any intellectual property that is created with reference to an OS map.Berners-Lee said that within government there had been repeated complaints about the derived data issue stifling the freeing up of data. "As we went around [government departments] to ask them about data sets we got consistent pressure from them … people would say, 'I've got this great data set but I can't put it up because the OS won't allow me to.' People were coming back to me about it again and again."The issue appears to have gone to the top of government to be resolved. "I have to thank the prime minister for pushing this through," said Berners-Lee.Although OS maps are enormously respected for the quality of their cartography, the price of using them online – and the associated problems with licensing, which has in the past been onerous – has been a thorn in the side of many would-be web entrepreneurs.The Free Our Data campaign, which began in Guardian Technology in March 2006, has reported on multiple examples in which companies have cited costs and derived data as a reason for refraining from using OS maps. Tuesday's announcement should also douse speculation about whether OS was in line for privatisation – an option that some had thought was being considered by the Shareholder Executive, the arm of the Treasury which officially oversees it. "I'm dwelling on the OS data because it's a jewel, and in fact OS is a jewel in government – it has tremendous expertise," said Berners-Lee.The decision to move forward with the consultation with so little parliamentary time left indicates that the Labour administration recognises the value of making data free as a potentially vote-winner. Although the Conservative party has made a number of indications that it sees the value of free data – such as the espousal by Boris Johnson of crime mapping (quickly taken up by the home secretary Jacqui Smith at the end of 2008) and David Cameron's announced intention to make councils provide standardised XML feeds of expenditure and decisions – it has not yet made any manifesto commitments to making public sector data free.The announcement is subject to a consultation period which begins in December so that OS customers can comment on the proposals. In a brief statement on its website, OS says it "is committed to working with colleagues across government on developing these proposals." OS did not have a representative at the seminar.Government sources at the seminar at No 10 indicated that the concept of making non-personal government data free is now a standard consideration when examining datasets that have been collected. Gordon Brown said that the provision of free data meant that "we are on the verge of a revolution that can transform public services and the public sector" and that opening up the OS data was "one of the first recommendations made by Sir Tim".He also cited the Highways Agency's release of accident data for London, which had led to cycling blackspot maps, and information about where to find dentists. "This is information that should always have been [the public's] but there wasn't a way to get it out there," he said.The moves indicate that the government has absorbed the lessons contained ina report written for the Treasury by a team at Cambridge Universityand published with the budget last year. That found that making OS's data free for everyone to use would cost government £12m but bring commercial benefits worth £156m in total – which would thus make up in tax revenue the "lost" income to OS.The Guardian understands that the latest move has come through efforts by Liam Byrne, the chief secretary to the Treasury, who before he became an MP worked for a dot-com startup.Michael Nicholson of Intelligent Addressing, which has lobbied over OS's licensing practices relating to online and other maps, gave the news a cautious welcome: "It's not the crown jewels [of mapping]. It's a real step in the right direction, but not quite far enough." A key issue, he said, would be that in future OS data "should be made available to commercial companies in a way that's fair, and at a price that's fair".Earlier this year OS had suggested a different strategy, after claiming in May that a "free data" model would cost the government "between £500m and £1bn" over five years. It said that these figures emerged from an "international study" carried out internally, which compared costs and funding models at other mapping agencies in different countries.Sir Rob Margetts, recently appointed chair of OS, said that the calculations had been done with "outside help". OS said that its report was examined and agreed by an "international expert". But the text of the report, obtained by the Guardian under Freedom of Information requests, does not back up the claims of cost.A leaked presentation made to the previous minister in charge of OSwhich appeared on Wikileaks seems to show how the figures were arrived at – but those numbers are also open to doubt. OS has refused to comment on the leaked presentation.OS already makes maps available for use online, but any commercial use means substantial charges. Making "mid-range detail" OS maps available for free online use by commercial organisations is the most significant step in the government's use of online maps in many years.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Lord Mandelson is seeking to amend the laws on copyright to give the government sweeping new powers against people accused of illegal downloading.But Labour colleagues are concerned that if he succeeds it could give a future Tory government the ability that Rupert Murdoch wants to quash Google.In a letter to Harriet Harman, the leader of the house and head of the committee responsible for determining changes to such legislation, Mandelson says he is "writing to seek your urgent agreement" to changes to the 1988 Copyright, Designs and Patents Act "for the purposes of facilitating prevention or reduction of online copyright infringement".By writing to Harman, the business secretary is seeking to get the change made through a "statutory instrument" – in effect, an update to the existing bill that the government can push through using its parliamentary majority.That can be done with the minimum of parliamentary time, which is already at a premium.The letter, which is circulating inside the government, comes as ministers prepare to publish the digital economy bill at 7.30am tomorrow. That is expected to set out a "three strikes" policy under which people who are found to be illicitly downloading copyrighted material have their internet connections withdrawn after three warnings.Internet service providers have warned that the scheme is unworkable and unlawful.The proposed alteration to the Copyright Act would create a new offence of downloading material that infringes copyright laws, as well as giving new powers or rights to "protect" rights holders such as record companies and movie studios – and, controversially, conferring powers on "any person as may be specified" to help cut down online infringement of copyright.The changes proposed seem small – but are enormously wideranging, given both the breadth of even minor copyright infringement online, where photographs and text are copied with little regard to ownership, and the complexity of ownership.Mandelson says in his letter that he is concerned about "cyberlockers" – websites that offer users private storage spaces whose contents can be shared by passing a web link via email."These can be used entirely legitimately, but recently rights holders have pointed to them as being used for illegal use," Mandelson writes in the letter.But the proposal to alter the Copyright Act in this way has caused alarm within government, where some fear that an incoming Tory administration could use it to curry favour with Murdoch, head of the News International publishing group."They've seen that file-sharing is essentially unpoliceable, but the net effect is that a future secretary of state could change copyright law as they see fit," said one Labour insider.In his letter, Mandelson sets out the expected reaction from the three groups who would be affected by the changes: rights holders such as record companies, internet service providers (ISPs), and consumers."I expect rights holders to welcome this and to support it. ISPs are likely to be neutral until it is clear what effect it will have on them in terms of costs." Consumer groups "are likely to oppose [the move] but will see it may lead to further unquantifiable measures against infringing consumers."He also expects "a great deal of scrutiny" of the idea in parliament.Murdoch has recently said that he believes that copyright is being abused, particularly by organisations such as Google, which uses short extracts from online newspapers to create itsGoogle Newspage, and the BBC, which he has accused of "stealing from newspapers".Earlier this month Murdoch was vituperative about how search engines have aggregated news. "The people who simply just pick up everything and run with it – steal our stories, we say they steal our stories – they just take them," he said. "That's Google, that's Microsoft, that's Ask.com, a whole lot of people ... They shouldn't have had it free all the time, and I think we've been asleep."By giving the business secretary the power to amend the Copyright Act at will, Labour fears Mandelson could be creating a Trojan horse that under a Tory administration would allow Murdoch to be rewarded for his support for David Cameron over Gordon Brown, for example by making it illegal to use such extracts from a news site for profit.A spokesperson for the Department for Business said the department could not comment on correspondence between ministers.
And so it ends: the site that was selling digital downloads of Beatles songs - the only ones doing so anywhere in the world - have been shut down at the order of a US judge,reports the NME.We reported before on thelegal travailsthat two interlinked sites, Bluebeat and Basebeat (though Bluebeat was the principal entry point), and their backer Hank Risan - who as that linked article points out, has intriguing ideas about what constitutes "infringement" (not buying his software = infringement, in one court case he filed in the US in 2007) - had run into afterselling the Beatles songs earlier this month.Risan claimed in a court filing that the digital downloads used "psycho-acoustic simulation" and therefore were exempt from copyright provisions that would normally apply to the songs.US District Judge John F Walter heard that and didn't agree. To quote NME, heprohibited both sites and their owner, Hank Risan, from streaming or selling songs by the Fab Four and other artists, including Lily Allen and Coldplay, for good.Which means that the wait must go on for digital downloads of Beatles tracks. If indeed you are waiting, and haven't simply bought the CDs cheaply from Amazon and ripped them long ago, if that's your musical taste.And Risan? We suspect we'll hear from him again, but with this track record we aren't encouraged that we'll hear him being on the winning side of a court judgement. The long and winding road awaits.
Bear in mind that Apple's touch-screen tablet-style computer has not been announced, and stories about it may be mostly speculation. Still, you can't make a computer without buying components, and the companies that make and/or assemble components may sometimes leak information -- though this still doesn't mean the information is accurate. With those caveats in mind,DigiTimes in Taiwan is reportingthat:Apple reportedly plans to postpone the launch of its tablet PC from an original March launch schedule to the second half of 2010, as the vendor has decided to switch some components and plans to launch a model using a 9.7-inch OLED panel from LG Display, according to sources from component makers.OLED panels are very wonderful but expensive at the moment. However, prices will fall as production ramps up, and they're expected to appear in laptops in 2011. If Apple delays the iTablet launch, its OLED costs should go down while its retail price stays the same, with the profit margin getting healthier by the week. DigiTimes says:The sources estimate that Apple's [OLED] tablet PC cost will drop to around US$1,200-1,500 by the second half of 2010 with the retail price reaching about US$2,000. The price could be more flexible if bundled with telecom providers' 3G services. Meanwhile, the 10.6-inch LCD panel-based Apple tablet PC is expected to [be] priced in the US$800-1,000 range.It's assumed that each version will be made by a different Taiwanese supplier, with Foxconn Electronics (Hon Hai Precision Industry), Quanta Computer and Pegatron Technology being tipped by DigiTimes's source. Hon Hai makes iPhones and Xbox 360s, among other things, while Quanta makes MacBooks, OLPCs and laptops for Acer, Dell and other PC suppliers. Pegatron is an Asus spin-off and Asus also makes or used to make MacBooks. It's not unknown for large PC manufacturers to have half a dozen contract manufacturers in Taiwan, with the main ones being Compal, Foxconn, Inventec, Pegatron, Quanta and Wistron.
During this week'sProfessional Developers ConferencePDC09 in the Los Angeles Convention Center, Microsoft releaseda free public betaof the next version of its popular Office suite,Office 2010. This will enable programmers to develop add-ons for the new version, and for companies and interested parties to test it, before it goes on sale some time next year.Microsoft Office is the major revenue generator for Microsoft's Business Division, which had revenues of $4.4bn and profits of $2.8bn in the company's latest quarterly results, declared on 23 October. In the last financial year, the Business Division made operating profits of $12.1bn on revenues of $18.9bn, with both being larger than those for the Windows Client software division.On Twitter, the official@Officeaccount announced it somewhat humorously -- for a division making roughly $1bn per month -- with tweets such as "@Office Beta watch out, beta not cry, beta is coming to town. Get the Office 2010 betahttp://bit.ly/1hKHq2" and "Nobody does it beta".Office 2010 does not represent a dramatic break with the past, like Office System 2007, but builds on it. In particular, it extends the new ribbon-style interface to all the applications, making them significantly easier for beginners to use.The beta release includes 2010 versions of the Exchange email server, the hosted SharePoint collaboration platform, Visio, and Microsoft Project. Microsoft is also working on Silverlight 4 and Internet Explorer 9.Although there are not many eye-catching new features in Office 2010, Microsoft is making its email and personal organiser program, Outlook, work with social networking sites. For example, at PDC09, Microsoft showed how its new Outlook Social Connector could connect with Linked In -- a site for business users -- and synchronise contact data. Connections with other social networks are planned. Also, it's an open platform, so third parties will be able to create connectors for other services.Another new feature is the Backstage view, which pulls together the features for creating, saving, printing, and sharing documents and displays them in one place. Backstage is slightly different in each application. Again, however, third-party developers can add their own functions to Backstage.Microsoft's Office Web Apps suite -- web-based versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote -- have also reached the beta test stage. These have limited functionality at the moment, but will compete with online office-style applications from Google and others. And presumably they will do a better job of rendering Office files correctly. The Office Mobile 7 suite, for mobile phones, is not expected until next year.Office 2010 thus represents the further development of Microsoft's software strategy, summed up as "three screens and a cloud". The aim, Microsoft says, is to "create a connected experience across multiple environments and devices" including the PC, TV, and mobile phone. "The cloud" includes Microsoft's web-based applications such as Windows Live Mail, Live Mesh and SkyDrive, and its Azure cloud-based version of Windows Server.Office 2010 should be very successful, because Office 2007 was very successful, and it continues and completes the transition that Office 2007 started. There's no point in sticking with a version where not all the apps have moved to a ribbon interface once you can get one where they have. Although the cost could discourage many small businesses from making the upgrade from 2007 to 2010, the large companies on Microsoft's Software Assurance scheme get the new version free anyway.However, companies that are still stuck with very old versions of Windows XP and Office could now decide that it's time to embrace the future, and upgrade to Office 2010 and Windows 7 together.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Got your netbook ready for Google's Chrome OS? The expectation is that it's going to be released (most likely in that rarest of forms for Google, a beta) sometime late on Thursday.That's because there's a presentation at Google's HQ on Thursday afternoon (Pacific time; early evening UK time) whereGoogle will finally take the wrapper off its highly-anticipated Chrome operating system during a presentation at Google HQ on Thursday. The event will include a complete overview of the product featuring a Chrome OS demonstration and Q&amp;A session.according to PC World.What's the point of Google Chrome OS? To chop Microsoft's legs off. As netbooks become more popular, they've already done some harm to it by forcing it to allow Windows XP to live far longer than it wished (because netbooks' tiny drives and memories couldn't run Vista). That had substantial effects on its Windows licensing revenues.Chrome, though, being a Linux variant, wouldn't be that attractive on the surface to netbook makers: they know that people have in the past tended to just return machines running Linux in favour of Windows, because they usually know and understand Windows. But give a netbook that "Google sheen" - it's a hell of a pitch for any sales staff trying to get a customer to consider a machine, isn't it? "This one runs on Google's operating system" - and you may have something of a hit. At the very least, it may force Microsoft to concede something on licence prices.&bull; Speaking of Microsoft, it's working on Internet Explorer 9. There's ablogpostwhich proclaimsThe IE team is busy working on the next version of the world's most popular browser. IE 8 is the most widely used browser on Windows.My understanding is that every metric shows this is not true: IE6 is the most widely used by pretty much every metric. Wikipedia (which of course already has included IE9)concurs.On with the show:IE 9 is currently in the oven and the IE team is ready to talkabout what they're working on. Here, IE GM Dean Hachamovitch introduces some of the key advances his team is making and leads us through the halls of IE (literarally) to learn from the engineers who are building the future of IE. John Hrvatin and Kris Krueger talk to us about where they are with improvements in IE 9's interoperability and standards support.Though John Gruber claims you are prompted to install Microsoft's Silverlight (Flash-like) system to view it... well, there isn't a standard video system, is there?&bull; It's theweekly technology sectionas well. If you like it in print, then run to the newstands: theprint editions are collectors' items, because December 17 will be the last one; from that point, our print presence will be in all the other parts of the paper, but there won't be a separate Technology section. (We will continue to update the Technology site, including this blog, and we'll aim to expand it as well).We'd like to know how the section has affected your life over the past two decades. Has it helped you find a job? Start a company? Shaped your life in some important way? We'd like to know: email us at tech@guardian.co.uk with the subject line "Guardian Technology memories". We'll try to use the best in one of the last issues that we produce.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I just replied to a thread on Gmail where I had mentioned Curb Your Enthusiasm. Next to the email thread was an advert for Curb Your Enthusiasm. Is this an invasion of my privacy, because it is creating AdSense ads based on the contents of an email? I can't see any Opt Out settings.Kev WilliamsYou cannot opt out of ads on Gmail. Ultimately, advertising messages are the price you pay for free search, email and other services from companies including Google, Yahoo, and Microsoft. As I've said before, you can see how much you are willing to pay for your privacy by switching to a commercial email service such asFastmail.However, your email is being scanned for keywords by computers, not by people – and if it wasn't being scanned for advertising, it would still be scanned for spam, viruses, and in Gmail's case, to apply labels based on your filters. Also, while it's true that you can block adverts, your Gmail will still be scanned for advertising purposes, even if you don't see the results. This also applies if you include various "tragic words" that make Google's software decide it would be inappropriate to show adverts.Google has a page on advertising in itsPrivacy Centerand this has a very large button labelled "Opt out". This lets you download an open source "advertising cookie opt-out plugin" for your browser. You can also edit the interests that Google has associated with you, via the Google cookie stored on your hard drive. However, opting out of "targeted advertising" does not stop adverts appearing next to your emails in Gmail.
Can I copy contacts from my Outlook Express address book, which is on my desktop PC running Windows XP, to Evolution Mail on my netbook running Linux Ubuntu?Frank ShawIn theory, all you have to do is go to the Windows address book, click File, select Export, and save it as a csv (comma separated values) file. Any email program should be able to import it, so it's worth trying with your version of Evolution Mail. Of course, you should always back up your current Evolution data first in case something goes wrong. Historically, importing .csv files does seem to have caused Evolution users some pain, and in 2007, someone in the Ubuntu Forumsexplained a workaround: import it into Thunderbird, then export it in LDIF data interchange format and import that. In which case, it might be worth exporting your Windows Addressbook data in LDIF instead of, or as well as, .csv.Another workaround is to convert a .csv file into the vCard electronic business card format usingcsv2vcardsoftware. vCard is an industry standard and the best format for storing addressbook data. Unfortunately, the Windows Addressbook will only export one contact entry to vCard at a time.
Googlealready has large chunks of our lives logged  away in its giant omniscient filing cabinet. But with the recent upgrading of itsGoogle Suggestfacility, it appears to be trying to requisition our pre-thoughts, too. Start to type in a search query and Google will begin to guess what you are looking for. Sometimes its predictions are uncannily accurate; sometimes they take on a dark and often unwelcome journey into the collective human psyche.For example, type in"i like to"and this, in order, is what Google Suggest comes up with: "i like to tape my thumbs to my hands to see what it would be like to be a dinosaur" (22,000 results); "i like to think of jesus as a mischievous badger" (25,300 results); "i like to move it move it" (112,000,000 results).Type in"is it wrong to . . ."and here's what you get: "is it wrong to sleep with your cousin" (7,590,000 results); "is it wrong to finger yourself" (9,250,000 results); "is it wrong to sleep with your step dad after your mom dies" (295,000 results)It soon becomes highly addictive. Type in"why can't" and the first two suggestions are "why can't black people swim" and "why can't I own a Canadian". Type in"where can I find"and the third suggestion, after "ip address" and "national insurance number", is "where can I find Chuck Norris".Google is reluctant to go into detail about how Google Suggest works, "because we don't want to help those inclined to naughtiness to game the system". It takes into account both popularity among search queries and on the web in general, using "a wide range of information to anticipate the queries users are most likely to want to see. As the user types into the search box, we  provide suggestions to help them formulate the query, reduce spelling errors, and save keystrokes."If you don't like Google doing an impression ofDerren Brownevery time you perform a search, you can simply switch Google Suggest off in the preferences settings. But if you want it to delve even further into your cerebral cortex, sign up to a Google account and it will start to formulate its suggested results based on your previous searches. Which might be even more unsettling.
Modern Warfare 2 has shifted more than one million copies in the UK alone and is likely to sell many more before Christmas. Itscontroversial terrorist sectionis what's got the headlines. But the real story here is online. The huge appeal of Modern Warfare 2 is primarily driven by its online modes. The single-player section of the game – as splendidly over the top and visceral as it is – is over in six or seven hours. The multiplayer modes will keep you entertained for six or seven months – or, looking at the number of people still playing the original 2007 Modern Warfare, probably longer.It's not just Modern Warfare 2 that is driving the popularity of online gaming on consoles. Throw in the thousands of gamers regularly competing on sports titles such as Fifa and Madden, as well as action games such as GTA IV and Gears of War 2, and it's clear that online gaming has gone mainstream.This is especially true in the case of the Xbox 360. Xbox Live, its online service, costs around £40 a year but is slicker and more integrated than similar&nbsp;offerings for the PlayStation and Nintendo Wii. So Microsoft's recent banning of up to one million modded Xbox 360s from access to the service is big news.Owners of the modded consoles, which in many cases are used to play pirated games, will still be able to play offline, but will be banned from signing into Live.Clearly the timing is everything. It can't be a coincidence that this news was announced the day after the release of Modern Warfare 2 – the game certain to be the most played title on Xbox Live for a long time to come. The ban is the next step in the games industry's ongoing battle against piracy. Any gamer – really, any boy – who grew up in the 80s will have memories of tape-to-tape copies of the latest Commodore 64 or ZX Spectrum games being passed around the playground.It was similar in the early 90s with Amiga and Atari ST games. Those formats died away but piracy on the PC has remained an issue ever since.The growth of the internet and torrent sites has only made it easier for PC piracy to grow. But this isn't just an issue that affects open platforms such as the PC – the consoles are also heavily hit. R4 flash devices for the hugely popular Nintendo DS are just one example. Modding the Xbox 360 so it can play cracked games is another.Pirate copies of games have always been around and probably always will be. High prices, greed, technical challenges – the reasons behind piracy are many. Deterrents have always failed. Could this online ban be the first to actually succeed? Barring access to online services from modded consoles – especially when, as with Modern Warfare 2, such access is a game's primary attraction – is potentially a huge deterrent to piracy. This is especially true on Xbox 360, where so many games are built around online play.Microsoft may be the first to do so but you can expect all console manufacturers to impose similar bans in the future. Piracy may never be stopped, but this online ban could go a long way to making it far less enticing.
Gmail privacyI just replied to a thread on Gmail where I had mentioned Curb Your Enthusiasm. Next to the email thread was an advert for Curb Your Enthusiasm. Is this an invasion of my privacy, because it is creating AdSense Ads based on the contents of an email? I can't see any Opt Out settings.Kev WilliamsJack Schofield replies:You cannot opt out of ads on Gmail. Ultimately, advertising messages are the price you pay for free search, email and other services from companies including Google, Yahoo, and Microsoft. As I've said before, you can see how much you are willing to pay for your privacy by switching to a commercial email service such asFastmail.However, your email is being scanned for keywords by computers, not by people – and if it wasn't being scanned for advertising, it would still be scanned for spam, viruses, and in Gmail's case, to apply labels based on your filters. Also, while it's true that you can block adverts, your Gmail will still be scanned for advertising purposes, even if you don't see the results. This also applies if you include various "tragic words" that make Google's software decide it would be inappropriate to show adverts.Google has a page on advertising in its Privacy Center and this hasa very large button labelled "Opt out". This lets you download an open source "advertising cookie opt-out plugin" for your browser. You can also edit the interests that Google has associated with you, via the Google cookie stored on your hard drive. However, opting out of "targeted advertising" does not stop adverts appearing in next to your emails in Gmail.Address book moveCan I copy contacts from my Outlook Express address book, which is on my desktop PC running Windows XP, to Evolution Mail on my netbook running Linux Ubuntu?Frank ShawJS:All you have to do is go to the Windows address book, click File, select Export, and save it as a csv (comma separated values) file. Any email program should be able to import it, so it's worth trying with your version of Evolution Mail. Of course, you should always back up your current Evolution data first in case something goes wrong. Historically, importing .csv files does seem to have caused Evolution users some pain, and in 2007, someone in the Ubuntu Forumsexplained a workaround: import it into Thunderbird, then export it in LDIF data interchange format and import that. In which case, it might be worth exporting your Windows Addressbook data in LDIF instead of, or as well as, .csv.Another workaround is to convert a .csv file into the vCard electronic business card format usingcsv2vcard software. vCard is an industry standard and the best format for storing addressbook data. Unfortunately, the Windows Addressbook will only export one contact entry to vCard at a time.Memory boostI have a laptop with 512MB of RAM that's running Windows XP. Is it worth adding a memory stick to allow the increase of virtual RAM to improve the overall performance?Geoff ThompsonJS:The ability to use USB sticks is called ReadyBoost and was introduced with Windows Vista: it doesn't apply to Windows XP. If you still use your old PC, consider upgrading the internal memory to 1GB or 2GB for a significant increase in performance. Even with Vista, ReadyBoost doesn't usually make a significant difference. It may improve an old PC with limited memory and a slow hard drive, as long as it has a USB 2.0 port, but I wouldn't expect much.Saving phone dataI am upgrading my phone from a Sony 910i to a W995, and I can't find how to copy across the dictionary that I have built over the past 18 months.Mel LandellsJS:The Sony Ericsson Sync Station software, which syncs with Microsoft Outlook and so forth, works with the W995 but with not the W910i, so try running the PC Suite supplied with your W910i. According to Sony Ericsson's support site,this will also work with the W995. Whether it will actually sync dictionary items is open to doubt.If you can see the directory structure of both phones by plugging them into a PC's USB port, and if each custom dictionary file has at least one entry, it may still be possible. The idea is to use the PC to copy the dictionary file from phone 1, rename it to match the directory file in phone 2 (if necessary), and use one to replace the other. This will only work if the data formats are the same, which might be true between phones with very similar software.Backchat• Brian Thomas complained that his old Dell was running more slowly and several people supported my recommendation to install more memory. Iain Cottingham says he had 256MB in a six-year-old Dell 2400 that was "grinding to a halt" with XP but the performance was "greatly improved" by fitting an extra 512MB. If possible, aim for 2GB, if the motherboard will take it.
Prepare for cyberwarMcAfee's fifth annual Virtual Criminology Report says some of the world's leading countries are arming themselves for cyberwar.More opting for OpteronThe world's three fastest supercomputers now use AMD Opteron processors, though Intel-based systems still have 80% of the Top 500.UK gets Binged!Microsoft has released a version of its Bing search engine tailored for UK users, including a shopping service integrated with Ciao UK.Living the HD dreamDell's Zino HD range of small, colourful computers can work in living rooms as high-definition media centres.E-swoon with Mills &amp; BoonOn Monday, Sony will launch a special edition of its ebook reader "in a romantic rose pink finish", preloaded with Christmas-themed Mills &amp; Boon titles.Bebo battles bullyingSocial networking site Bebo has added "Report Abuse" as part of its work with the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre.Go to sleep on an eggQuincom has launched the LightSleeper (£125), an egg-like device that projects light onto the ceiling to aid relaxationLondon crime mapsThe Metropolitan police's website now features crime maps – showing criminal activity by borough and word – based on Google maps,
I haven't covered mobile games on here for a while, not because there's nothing interesting going on – far from it – but because juggernaut-like releases such as Batman: Arkham Asylum, Dragon's Age and Modern Warfare 2 have been taking up all my gaming time. Regular readers could probably do with a break from Infinity Ward's blockbusting FPS, though, so here's a quick dash through some interesting new and forthcoming titles…First up, two whole-hearted recommendations, both available on a variety of mobile platforms: Bubble Town 2 and Dictator Defense. The first is an excellent sequel toI-Play's engrossing Puzzle Bobble variant, which has been a huge hit on Facebook. The idea is to shoot coloured balls - or 'borbs' - up the screen to bring down two or more balls of the same hue. Similarly to Peggle, you begin each round with only a certain number of borbs, and if you run out, the game board shrinks. However, by dropping more than three balls with one shot, you earn extra ammunition – once you've cleared the screen you go onto the next stage. Simple.Naturally, there's a range of power-ups to collect and later stages introduce novelties such as sleeping borbs (which have to be struck twice before they can be dislodged), and boss characters who must repeatedly 'borbed' in a weakspot. So to speak. It's not revolutionary, but as with all massively successful puzzle titles, it's beautifully designed, deceptively deep and filled with neat little ideas. It's available on Facebook, iPhone and most current mobile handsets.Dictator Defense (various Java handsets), meanwhile, is a brilliantly judged take on the 'Tower Defense' casual gaming phenomenon. You must defend your base at the bottom of the screen from enemy soldiers invade from the top. You do this by building gun posts, protective walls and other measures, while also constructing banks, which allow you to amass funds for your military projects. Essentially, as with all titles of this ilk, it's sort of RTS micro-management writ small – except here, there's an element of Tetris, too, as the action is entirely vertical and your role is to constantly monitor and tend to the needs of the bottom of the screen by observing 'falling' objects.The visuals are lovely, the units are varied but not overwhelmingly complex and the array of enemies (soldiers, tanks, helicopters, etc, all with different strengths and attack patterns), provides plenty of variety. There are lovely comic touches too, with giant grinning, cartoon-style boss characters charging at you at the close of each stage. TheDigital Chocolatechaps are absolute masters of miniaturised tactical game design, and this is no exception.Elsewhere, National Geographic, which has been quietly nudging its way into the casual gaming space, is bringing its PC hitPlan It Greento iPhone. It's a sort of environmentally-minded take on the likes of FarmVille, in which players must transform burnt out industrial wastelands into thriving sustainable communities by constructing eco-homes and parks.EA Mobilehas a busy November planned. It's bringing the soap opera-style adventure titleSurviving High Schoolto iPhone, allowing wistful graduates to re-experience school life as a jock, preppie, nerd or outsider through a series of episodic instalments. The publisher also has iPhone versions of Battleship and Connect Four on the way, both with WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity for two-player action, and Tetris Revolution, yet another fresh take on the classic puzzler, this time allowing you to virtually test yourself against, and learn from, the tactics employed by some of the world's best Tetris players. You should also check out Auditorium released on iPhone earlier this week, a hypnotic music game in which you construct various tunes by deflecting particles around the screen. It's in the finest tradition of audio sims like Rez and Vib Ribbon and will delight closet composers for hours (Pocket Gamer have a reviewhere).Veteran European mobile developerHandyGames(another favourite of mine) has just launchedSilent Hunter: U-Boat Aces, a Java version of the PC-based WW2 submarine battle series. It's a top-down viewed strategy title, providing would-be captains with a range of missions, from stalking battleships to salvage operations.Finally, if you're feeling charitable, download the sturdy 'match-three' puzzler,Memory Wizfrom App Store, before November 30: publisherReal Arcadeis donating 100% of the proceeds to the game industry'sChild's Playcharity organization.Oh and feel free to recommend any mobile, iPhone or Google Android games you're currently enjoying…
Designing traffic lights to be more energy efficient may not seem the hardest thing to do. Change the energy-wasting incandescent bulbs for modern light sources and you're done, right? Not quite."We've reinvented the humble traffic light," says Matthew Vincent, deputy director of sales and marketing at Siemens Mobility Traffic Solutions. "Previously they used very energy-inefficient [50W] tungsten-halogen lights, which only have a lifespan of six months or so, which means you have lots of maintenance issues with people visiting site to replace them." The company replaced the bulbs with a cluster of modern LEDs, redesigned the electrical control systems from scratch and lowered the operating voltage from 240V to 48V.The result is a new set of lights that uses less than a quarter of the electricity of standard traffic lights. There are around half a million tungsten-based traffic lights in operation around the UK and, considering the CO2emissions saved by preventing fleets of vans driving around replacing blown tungsten lights, the cumulative benefits to the environment become apparent. Which is perhaps one of the reasons that the Siemens traffic lights won first prize this week in the energy and environment category of the inauguraliAwards.Showcasing a shift-changeThe iAwards, set up by the government's Business, Innovation and Skills department, are designed to help showcase British science and technology, in big and small companies: a Bafta-style award to give prominence to a field that is sometimes overlooked in the UK. Fighting it out for prizes in 10 categories, small startup firms were pitted directly against multinationals such as Unilever and Siemens.And environment was a strong theme in the shortlist. "There is a huge amount of interest in sustainability and environment," says entrepreneur James Caan, chair of the iAwards judging panels and a star of BBC2's Dragon's Den. "We are seeing more and more people coming forward with business ideas, entrepreneurs developing that space. There is a shift-change in people recognising its value and importance."At Solargorilla, which won the iAward for digital communication, chief executive Jerry Ranger says his company's invention is all about allowing people to use off-grid technology in everyday life.The device has two solar panels, each the size of an A4 sheet. A proprietary circuit board stabilises the voltage coming in and a super-efficient battery stores the electrical power generated from the sun. In the northern hemisphere the Solargorilla will charge a standard laptop in around six hours or a mobile phone in under an hour. "We had a guy on Madagascar who ran a laptop for four weeks completely grid-free," says Ranger.Other shortlisted companies included AMEE, a company aiming to track and connect the world's energy and consumption data, and map its environmental impact. AlertMe offered up a smart meter that it says could save consumers 25% of their energy bills, while the radical-looking QR5 wind turbine from Quiet Revolution is designed to fit discreetly to buildings, generating decentralised power in the urban environment. Diverse Energy had its PowerCube – a fuel cell that runs on ammonia and that could replace diesel generators to power mobile phone towers in developing countries – shortlisted for the "next big thing" category.Paul Drayson, the UK science minister, and a technology-company entrepreneur himself with vaccine company Powderject, says that climate change is a massive market opportunity because the world has no choice but to respond to the problems. But, because it is such a new sector, there are many unknowns for small companies. "The industrial structures haven't settled down yet," he says. "In life sciences you have an established structure whereby a startup from university will form the biotech company and have a route to commercialisation, either through licensing or acquisition to a large pharmaceutical company. In clean tech, that route to market has not been well established. That's all being built and that what's makes this market area exciting."And he says there is no better time for British companies to get moving on green technology. "We're coming out of a nasty recession; market shares change more rapidly at this stage in the economic cycle than any other time. It's the companies that are bold now and invest in new technologies that are going to win market share as the economy grows over the next five years."Protect your investmentBuilding a company from scratch may not be the specific expertise of those coming up with ideas, but Drayson has some tips. Anyone thinking of starting up a business  should ensure their technology idea is protected, he says. "You have patents and registered designs. Then go and talk to companies operating in that space; don't make the mistake of thinking you're unique, don't make the mistake of thinking you have no competition, you do."For small business startups, even in the green technology space where Caan says specific investment funds are increasingly becoming available, would-be entrepreneurs also need to understand that the initial idea is only a part of the business. "The one thing I come across time and time again is that entrepreneurs believe the idea is 95% and execution is 5% and there lies the problem," says Caan. "Success lies in your ability to execute a journey – it is the development, patent, logistics, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, branding and marketing. People, for some reason, forget all those things."
Early in 2006 I was at one of those off-the-record Whitehall briefings beloved by ministers when the subject of online tax returns came up. Our host – quite a senior politician, though no household name – agreed with a journalist that in future it may be a&nbsp;good&nbsp;idea to provide more government services via the web.Cue much whispering between minister and minders as I pointed out that not only was this already official policy, but the government had just celebrated reaching its target of making 100% of public services  available online.At the time, I was a little indignant that a minister could be so ignorant of a target that had been the focus of five years of hard work, especially by local authorities. He had a point, though. In itself, putting bureaucratic processes on the web is about as significant as changing the colour of official stationery, and about as likely to improve services or cut costs. There was no particular reason why this minister should have noticed – I doubt he was a web user anyway.Nearly four years on, it's a bit harder to take refuge in that kind of ignorance. E-government policy has migrated from the IT department into two quite distinct political philosophies, which as much as anything are likely to define the difference between the two main parties at the general election.The battle is between those who favour a joined-up set of proactive public services, supported by a comprehensive national data infrastructure and those who would, well, just let citizens get on with it. Call it the difference between the "transformational" and the "power of information" agenda. Although both terms were coined by the current government, they reflect opposing philosophies. And it's fairly obvious which political party falls naturally into which camp.It is likely to be even more obvious after this week, when the UK is due to sign up to the next stage of Europe's e-government "action plan" at anEU ministerial conference in Malmo, Sweden. The action plan's theme of creating an "eUnion", with citizens' data flowing freely between member states's IT systems, will no doubt give the Conservatives a field day.My bet is that the ministerial declaration will not go as far as the eUnionists would like, and that it will contain at least a reference to "power of information" ideas. The same, I think, will go for the next version of the UK's e-government strategy, expected to be published shortly.It will continue to emphasise the efficiencies of sharing data – but expect less faith in the transformational nirvana of a single source of truth, or reducing the number of government websites to single figures. Whether the new strategy shows ministers have the nerve to tackle the wider issues raised by e-government, from privacy to a national industrial policy, remains to be seen.These decisions are not ones for IT departments. I sense that, 13 years after a dying Conservative administration first unveiled a UK e-government strategy, the topic is now emerging from the shadows.
Quite possibly. In the past year it's lost a significant slice of global market share: down from 11% of the smartphone market in the third quarter of 2008 to 7.9% in the same period of 2009, according to the research company Gartner. That's led some analysts to question its future and suggest it may be effectively dead within two years.In the past year, the iPhone's share has grown from 12.9% to 17.1% – and according to a number of estimates, it has the lion's share of the profits in the market as well, garnering (by some calculations) between $1.6bn and $2bn of profits from them sold over the past year. RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, also saw its market share rise, from 16% to 20.8%.So are RIM and Apple the cause of Windows Mobile's woes? Probably not, or at least not immediately. Instead, the cause is Google's Android, which has gone from nowhere in Q3 2008 to 3.9% in Q3 2009 – its rise almost exactly mirroring the fall in Microsoft's share.It's noticeable that a number of companies that were formerly loyal licencees of the Windows Mobile operating system have turned to Google's product instead in the past year. The most significant is HTC, which in February revealed it was responsible for 80% of Windows Mobile sales, out of a total of 50 Windows Mobile "partners" when it announced that it made40m of the 50m Windows Mobile devices ever sold.And now? HTC is selling Android phones, and in October told the New York Times that it expects half the phones it sells this year to run Android. And what about Dell, whose success in PCs has come through running Microsoft Windows? Its forthcoming smartphone will run … Android. And what about Motorola? It's gone to Android.This has all started speculation about the future of Windows Mobile – specifically, whether it has one. Gartner has wondered whether version 7, due next year, may be the last consumer version, while ABI Research suggested there is "wide speculation" that Microsoft "might bail out on the mobile operating system market altogether", and J Gold Associates suggested an&nbsp;exit&nbsp;in the next two years on the&nbsp;basis&nbsp;that "there are better ways for Microsoft to make money from smartphones than to keep investing in a mobile operating system that's losing share and relevance".While it seems very unlikely that Microsoft will abandon the space altogether, the reality is that it has failed to win over either the consumers (who seem to adore BlackBerrys and iPhones) or the manufacturers (who prefer the zero licence cost and malleability of the open-source Android system). Without them, there aren't any ways into the mobile market. Steve Ballmer may hate his staff using iPhones – but he should perhaps hate them using Android phones even more.
The Zbot or Zeus malware is a trojan – a program that comes disguised as one thing (such as an email attachment which says you need to click on it to reconfigure your email clients), but instead steals online banking details. Trojans are a serious threat to the security of users' machines: the cleverest prevent antivirus software from downloading updates that would catch it and wait silently until the user goes on to a banking, share-dealing or social networking site, at which point it will capture login details. F-Secure, a computer security company, noted that "to gather more information, the malware author can even create additional fields, which are then injected into a targeted webpage for the unsuspecting victim to fill in". The person in control of Zbot could capture enough information to steal unsuspecting users' identities completely.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for another security company, Sophos, called Zbot "one of the most notorious pieces of malware to have been seen recently" and explained: "It's not just a single piece of malicious software – it's a family with many different members, all adopting different disguises in their attempt to infect users, and steal information that could allow hackers to break into your bank account and social networking profiles."It was first spotted by security researchers in February 2008. "Once the bad guys have your bank account details they can raid your finances, if they have grabbed your Facebook or MySpace password they can use your account as a springboard for sending out more attacks to your friends and family," said Cluley. "Furthermore, Zbot hijacks your computer, making it part of a criminal botnet" – a network of computers under outside control used for attacks and spamming.The problem with catching the authors of malware is that they can inject their programs onto the net almost anywhere. It takes enormous patience to unpick the workings of the programs, find out who really owns the web locations that they send their data to, and capture the people who are stealing the data – which may have been sold on to other, organised criminals. Zbot is far from the last Trojan to target banking; the problem is with the security of the Windows operating system overall.
Walk round the National Museum of Computing at Bletchley Park and sooner or later you'll hear a cry of recognition and someone will say: "I remember using one of those." It probably doesn't happen often toThe Millionaire, a mechanical calculator that went into production in 1893, but Sir Maurice Wilkes spotted it, adding: "We used to have one in the lab. I hope it's still there."In this case, "the lab" was what became the Cambridge University Computer Lab, which Wilkes headed from 1945 until 1980. It was where he built Edsac, one of the world's first electronic computers, using sound beams traversing baths of mercury for the memory units. Edsac (Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator) first ran in May 1949, so this year a dinner was held to celebrate its 60th birthday. And, of course, to celebrate Wilkes himself, who is a bright, sharp 96 years of age, and has seen most of the history of computing at first hand.How sharp? On seeing the museum's air traffic control display, which fascinates many visitors, he immediately asks: "Where's the radar?" Ah, well, there isn't one. The displays are running real radar sequences but they're recorded. Wilkes, the consummate hardware guy, doesn't just see the screen, he looks to see how the whole system fits together.Ham but no chipsOne of the reasons Wilkes paid his first visit to the museum last week was to see the valve-based Witch computer (Technology, 9 September 2009), which is currently being restored. His tour also took in the Colossus second world war code-breaking computer being built from scratch by Tony Sale and his team, and he asked to visit the radio hut. "I used to be a ham," he says.Wilkes said he'd heard about the Witch – which was renamed during its time at the Wolverhampton College of Technology – when it was being built at Harwell, the atomic energy research lab, in 1951, and he'd talked to its three designers, who are still alive. "At the time, it wasn't terribly interesting, technically, but it turned out to be very reliable, and it did exactly what Harwell wanted," he says now. "It's earned its keep, that machine."Wilkes's Edsac and Edsac 2 computers were more innovative, but they were also designed for practical purposes, such as calculations for Cambridge University's researchers, some of whom were doing Nobel Prize-winning work. "We said prayers for reliability, for reliable answers," he says. "We never tried with the Edsac to exploit to the full the technology of the time, because even a slow electronic computer would be so fast [in comparison to hand-turned mechanical calculators]. You don't want to take a bigger jump than you need."Edsac was not just a workhorse, it gave rise to the world's first commercial computer: it was the basis for the design of Leo (Lyons Electronic Office), which ran its first business application in 1951. Leo was so successful in helping to manage the operations of the J Lyons catering empire that the company set up Leo Computers to sell versions to other businesses."We had vision," says Wilkes. "We saw computers as becoming important in the world, not just for mechanical calculations, but for business. But all we had was vacuum tubes! We couldn't possibly have had any premonition of transistors and integrated circuits, and that's what's made the difference. Integrated circuits have given us speed and low cost and so on, but the central thing is reliability. Even if you don't use them very often, they still work."Like many people who catch the wave of an emerging technology, Wilkes says: "I was very lucky, in coming along at just the right time, and being in the right place."This is undoubtedly true. Wilkes had the luck to read a copy of John von Neumann's First Draft of a Report on the Edvac, a planned US computer based on the stored program concept. Wilkes recognised immediately that this was the way the future would develop (computers became known as "von Neumann machines"). He then had the luck to be invited to the series of lectures on "Theory and Techniques for Design of Electronic Digital Computers". These were held in 1946 at the University of Pennsylvania, where America's giant Eniac computer had been built during the war.Abnormal timesWilkes could meet some of the American pioneers, including Howard Aiken at Harvard, and John Mauchly and Presper Eckert, who developed Eniac. He thus become one of the relatively few people who had some idea how to build a real computer, even though doing it was still a huge challenge given the technology available at the time.Wilkes also had the luck to be running the Cambridge University lab, "so I didn't have to ask anybody 'Could I build a computer, please?' I didn't have to put in any proposal. I didn't have to arrange any budget. I was in charge and I could go ahead. The times were extremely abnormal," he wrote ina paper for the Computer Conservation Society.Of course, many other people were in similar or even luckier positions, and achieved little compared with Wilkes. Being the right man at the right time wasn't luck.Wilkes's brief tour, conducted by museum director Kevin Murrell, started with early valve-based computers, and ended with a sandwich and a glass of red wine. Along the way, Wilkes chatted with Tony Sale about some of the details of Colossus. He stopped to look at various DEC minicomputers – he worked for DEC in the US after he retired from Cambridge – and some of the 1980s British micros, many of which were developed in Cambridge. Now he's ready to leave, he says he's enjoyed every minute of his visit, and observes that "progress now goes a lot faster than it used to"."So what are you looking forward to now?" I ask him."You can't see into the future, it's one of the laws of nature," he says, grinning. "If you'd asked me that half an hour ago, I'd have said 'My lunch'!"
Stand by for the death of illegal music downloads. It is already gathering pace, being one of the fastest growing – or contracting – activities on the web. It is not happening because of the music industry's rough justice (such as suing customers); nor because of Lord Mandelson's variant of "three strikes and you're out" for people caught downloading illegally – though doubtless they will claim credit.It is happening because of an explosion of new companies offering tracks free, legally, without having to go to peer-to-peer sites and thereby avoiding the risk of getting bogus tracks or viruses. People are flocking to them simply because it is a much easier way of listening to music. None of these sites were started by the music industry, which has diverted energies, until recently, into propping up the ancient regime instead of preparing for the digital revolution. Virtually all of the payments systems for digital music – from iTunes to Nokia'sComes With Music– have come from outside the music industry. What a wasted opportunity.Two of the newbies, Spotify.com and We7.com, alone have gained at least 5 million new users in their first year, mainly people who previously downloaded illegally. They use so called "freemium" business models offering streamed tracks for free if you accept an advert or for nothing if you take out a monthly subscription. We7, a London company which is web-based, gets a lot of traffic from people who don't know it's there – they have found it by typing the name of a track into a search engine. This model could have a bright future as long as the music industry doesn't snuff it out by extracting too much income from licences from each track, something that hinders scaling and worries Spotify and We7. Steve Purdham, CEO of We7, points out that different music services are popping up based on the context in which they operate. He calls his service "better than free" because it is easier than downloading illegally. Other music services launched or in the pipeline include Rdio.com from the founders of Skype, Virgin Media,Sky Songsand mog.com, which plans a $5 a month inclusive service.The moral is simple. We are not a nation of thieves, but if a supermarket leaves its doors open and shuts down the tills, it should be unsurprised if people help themselves. The music industry lets illegal downloading thrive because it didn't provide an easy, affordable way to pay. That was left to Apple's iTunes, the likes of Last.fm and now a new generation of sites, which offer music at prices that reflect more fully the near-zero cost of distribution. While the music industry was lamenting that users wouldn't pay for tracks, the same people were paying up to £3 a pop for ringtones on their phones. Why? Because phones have an easy payments system.The music industry still complains of a billion illegal downloads every year, but has yet to prove that any significant economic damage is inflicted on it. This is partly because lots of those who have – and will continue to – illegally download wouldn't be buying them anyway and may not be listening to many of those they do download. It is often easier just to listen to the radio or internet radio (where you can tune into a track playing at that moment anywhere in the world). And some of the heaviest downloaders are the biggest buyers of new music.While the music industry has been complaining – successfully – to the government and the EU Commission that illegal downloads are destroying it, something rather curious has been happening. Are you ready for it? This year is the most successful in the UK's history for singles sales. More than 117m have been sold – comfortably beating the previous record of 115.1m, set in 2008. And this is with Christmas to come. Yet the industry is still belly-aching about illegal downloads. I rest their case.twitter.com/vickeegan
When Luis von Ahn gives talks on his work fighting spam, he likes to start by asking the audience a question. "How many of you have had to fill out one of those web forms that asks you to read a distorted sequence of letters or a word?" he asks. "How many of you found that annoying?"As the hands shoot up, he breaks into a grin: "I invented that."Von Ahn is a professor of computer science at Carnegie Mellon University and was the recipient of a MacArthur "genius grant" worth $500,000 in 2006. His work on the "captcha" – those irritating automated tests that help distinguish humans from computers – is probably one of the most important advances in spam-fighting since the birth of email.Since he helped invent it nine years ago, the system has helped prevent countless billions of spam messages. And as captchas are now combined with advanced filtering techniques, von Ahn suggests that, at least from his point of view, email spam is now a problem more or less contained."Maybe five years ago there was a crapload of spam I got in my inbox because the filters were so bad," he says. "But it's changing a lot – spam email seems to be much less of a problem than it was, because filters have become a lot better … I personally see very little actual email spam."Return to sendersNot everybody feels so certain, however. While users are probably exposed to fewer spam emails than ever, thanks to the rapid improvement of services such as Hotmail, Gmail and Yahoo Mail, the picture behind the scenes is not so rosy."It is worse than ever," says Richard Cox of Spamhaus, which tracks the world's worst spammers and runs blacklists to help block them. "The fact that it's growing, I don't think anyone can exactly miss out on … we're getting to the stage now when any email containing a .cn [Chinese] domain is likely to get rejected. Is that good for China at the commercial level, internationally? No, it is not, but they don't seem to recognise that."The totality of spam is hard to gauge, but Cisco produced an estimate late last year of around 200bn junk emails a day.That number is growing rapidly, with Symantec suggesting incidence of spam has almost trebled in the past year. This year will break records for spam sent, even though growth has slowed.But if email filters can catch the messages before they reach you, does spam even matter any more?Experts believe so. In Technology Guardian over the past two weeks, we have examined the current state ofweb securityandcomputer security, but it remains the case that spam – in all its forms – is the main method of transmission for a wide variety of attacks.Emails loaded with malware, where users click on a link that downloads a virus to their computer, are becoming more common, with many such attacks creating networks of compromised computers to send out yet more spam. Phishing emails, designed to solicit logins or other personal details, are getting more convincing every day. And then there are the fraudulent products and illegal offers that most of us associate with unwanted email.Perhaps it remains crude, but the near-zero cost of sending spam messages by the billion has turned it into an intractable problem.Though China and Russia continue to rise up the charts, the worst offender remains the US. Despite passing a law on unwanted email, theCAN-SPAMact, as long ago as 2003, it is still responsible for around 30% of all junk messages.But with improvements in filtering technology, the more pressing concern could be that spammers themselves are moving into new territory.Fraud goes socialSome of the most damaging attacks are happening in other areas of the web, as criminals apply their experience to potentially more lucrative new arenas."There's an increase in spammy behaviour," says von Ahn. "We're talking about things like comments on blogs, or in social networking sites … even friend requests can be spam."Spammers have spent recent years discovering a variety of new tools. Fake websites, or even networks of fake sites, are constructed in order to help them boost criminal activity, while great effort goes into polluting search engines and invading your social networking profile. Spammers have learned not only that there is more to be gained from such activities, but also that they are harder for users to fight."There are a few really large email providers and as long as they do a good job of stopping email spam, everybody's happy," says von Ahn. "But with these other type of things like comments on blogs, that's a little harder because it's much more decentralised – all these different services, each of which can be spammed in their own little way."He believes that the more intimate nature of social networks means that the chances of a spam message succeeding are higher. If receiving a spam email has become the equivalent of junk mail landing through your letterbox, social network spam is somebody ringing the bell – or even walking into your house and planting their junk mail in your hands.The large social networks are working around the clock to fight the problem, but it is difficult."We're a very big target right now," says Simon Axten, who works on privacy and public policy for Facebook. Fighting spam is "absolutely integral" for the company, he says, and around 120 people work on its anti-spam efforts. "Our whole business is based on trust," Axten says. "People give us a lot of information and share it through us; we have a real incentive to take this very seriously."The good news, if there is any, is that social networks have had unprecedented success in hitting spammers where it hurts: their pockets. In the past 18 months both MySpace and Facebook have won spam cases – including an $873m fine against a Canadian, Adam Guerbuez, and a total of more than $1bn against Sanford Wallace, who in the 1990s dubbed himself the "spam king". The awards vastly outstrip the $4m fine that Wallace received for email spam in 2006.These fines have given campaigners some renewed hope that a political solution may still be possible. "Wallace was referred for prosecution for criminal contempt, so he might face some jail time," says Axten. "That's an even stronger deterrent than the fines."Global standardSpamhaus's Cox suggests that other countries should follow the lead of Australia and New Zealand, which have tough, strictly enforced anti-spam laws and have won a series of cases against high-profile offenders. "It's not insoluble – there are various things that can be done that will reduce the risk and reduce the impact," he says. "If the UK and US would actually follow the Australia and New Zealand example, this would set up a pretty strong coalition across the world … all of a sudden there would be a standard."He recognises the difficulty of making it happen, however. AHouse of Lords report on computer crimetwo years ago suggested the British government had an approach to spam and security that was "inefficient" and "outdated" – but pressure from campaigners has so far failed to have any impact on government policy.Meanwhile, political will seems more focused on glitzier subjects such as online piracy and illegal downloading – protecting the interests of big industries."Peter Mandelson wants to disconnect people for three strikes – is that really more serious than hosting downloads for malware?" asks Cox. "We don't think so: one is a commercial issue, and one is causing criminal harm to millions of people's computers. Mandelson needs a reality check."Read the previous features:  •Security on PCs•On the web
What you're holding in your hands – assuming you're reading this in print form, which a substantial number of you are – is a collector's item. Guardian Technology, in its print incarnation, is to cease publication. The last edition will be on 17 December.This does not mean the Guardian is abandoning its technology coverage; far from it. For example, our award-winning games coverage (the 2009 winner, for the third year running, of theGames Media Awardsfor coverage in a national newspaper) will continue with reviews, blogposts and features. So will our coverage of gadgets, and theAsk Jack column(which has been running online as a blog since 2005), and our in-depth features and coverage of all the important issues in technology.The final issue will mark just over 26 continuous years since Futures Micro Guardian had its first edition, on 20 October 1983. (It was a Thursday; the publication date of this section has remained unchanged.) From then, you will continue to find our writing online, orthrough our Twitter feed, and also throughout the paper incarnations of the Guardian in the news, business, features and other sections, where we will have a renewed focus on bringing you our take on the technology issues that truly matter and which you should know about.That said, I am sure that many of you will feel the absence of the physical manifestation of the Technology section — which among its former incarnations has been called Futures Micro Guardian, Computer Guardian and Online, before taking up its current naming in 2005 in order to reflect our wider coverage of all sorts of technology, not just that which comes through a browser. The latter is, of course, still enormously important, given the key part that the internet plays in all our lives.In part it has been the internet that has hastened the end of the physical version of this section, as more classified job adverts have migrated to online job sites such as Guardian Jobs (jobs.guardian.co.uk, in case you're looking); there have also been the arctic winds of the recession, which seems to be hitting the UK harder than many other countries around the world.But it would be foolish to resist the tide; we prefer to swim with it, and the purpose of this section has always been to teach our readers how to manage technology, what to expect, what to watch out for, and where to look for further advice. We've also tried to be guided by the feedback you have given us – through the letters and more recently emails, and then blogs and most recently Twitter remarks that you've written.The huge advantage of going online, of course, is that it frees us from the space constraints of print – games and gadget reviews can be longer and more plentiful, features are untroubled by the tyranny of the word count, and interactivity comes to the fore, both in how we present data and how you can respond and inform us about the topics you find interesting and important.There is still plenty more to tell you: there are issues left unsolved (such as theFree Our Data campaign, which as you will see is still gaining momentum right at the top of government), and topics that we know you'll want to have answered. We know that there's a huge swathe of readers for whom Ask Jack has been a weekly lifeboat; that fact is evidenced by the continuing stream of queries and cries for help that we receive.But having said that, we'd like to ask for your help. We're sure that you have stories that you'd like to tell us about how this section has affected your life over the past two decades. Has it helped you find a job? Start a company? Shaped your life in some important way? We'd like to know: email us at tech@guardian.co.uk with the subject line "Guardian Technology memories". We'll try to use the best in one of the last issues that we produce. And with your help, we'll make it one to keep for a long, long time.• Charles Arthur is editor of the Guardian's technology coverage
If you're proud of a particularly brilliant tweet, you might be able to wear it on your chest, thanks toclothes2order.com. The company, based in Manchester, is offering toprint a tweet on a T-shirtin a competition it's running on Twitter: it will pick the best tweet submitted before 2.30pmevery Fridayand print it free.Otherwise, having a single TweeShirt (sic) printed probably isn't economical. The set-up costs would be much higher than the cost of an unadorned shirt, so you'd need to order a few to bring the average price down. This might work for a party, a small company, or as a promotional device (somebody has probably tried business card T-shirts already), but your funny 140-character aside probably wouldn't be the most suitable text.A clothes2order spokesperson says the company has no plans to sell TweeShirts at the moment, but if it added the option to its site, the estimated cost will be £12.99. It would presumably make sense to offer the same kind of feature on Facebook.The@clothes2orderTwitter account only has 26 followers at the time of writing, so there may not be a strong interest in TweeShirts. But I expect that lots of people with an interest in Twitter-based marketing promotions will be watching what happens.Twitter already appears to have a deal withThreadless, where users can submit Tweets for T-shirts, but these tend to be slogans rather than personal comments. Also, unlike TweeShirts, Threadless's shirts don't use the Twitter message format.
Two suspected hackers have been arrested by police investigating a "trojan" computer virus that gathers confidential details from individuals and is believed to have infected tens of thousands of computers around the world.The Metropolitan police said that once the ZeuS or Zbot trojan was installed in an affected computer, it recorded users' bank details and passwords, credit card numbers and other information such as passwords for social networking sites.Officers at the Metropolitan police's e-crime unit arrested the man and woman, both aged 20, in Manchester on 3 November. The pair have been released on bail while police investigate further.Detective Superintendent Charlie McMurdie, who heads the unit, said the suspects were the first people in Europe to be arrested over the scam."This is known internationally as being a very significant malicious computer programme or malware," she said. "It is used for infecting or accessing personal information and in this instance we have 10,000 computers worldwide that have been infected."Criminals are collecting millions of lines of data from infected computers, with more than 200,000 lines of data harvested every day, she said."Obviously the amount of financial harm that could be caused by using that data is huge if fast and timely action had not been taken."The investigation is now focused on a wider international network of criminals who police believe are attempting to profit from the information.The virus has appeared in several guises, including a false Facebook page that encouraged users to download a software update. An network of crime has grown up around the scam, with the accounts of businesses and individuals being secretly raided around the world.The money is then laundered through complex banking networks using the accounts of complicit "money mules" to receive and withdraw the money.McMurdie said the virus posed a "sizeable threat" to the safe use of the internet. She said: "They were very significant arrests and we have got extensive ongoing investigations as a result with our international partners."Her colleague Detective Inspector Colin Wetherill said: "The Zeus trojan is a piece of malware used increasingly by criminals to obtain huge quantities of sensitive information from thousands of compromised computers around the world."The arrests represent a considerable breakthrough in our increasing efforts to combat online criminality."Computer experts have warned that the Zeus trojan can circumvent the most sophisticated anti-virus software. But computer users can reduce the risk by installing up-to-date anti-spyware software, updating programmes and being secure on the web by disconnecting from the internet when it is not in use.Police also advised users to be careful when opening attachments or following links on emails and on websites, and investigate new, unknown software before downloading, while ensuring they kept passwords robust and secret.
Christmas is approaching, and with it the burning need to buy a calendar for next year. But rather than getting dubious calendars entitled "Cheryl Cole's 12 X Factor judging expressions" or "Ashley Cole's 12 Leaving A Nightclub Expressions" from the bloke down at the market, why not support a real charity and show off your geek credentials by buying a London Nude Tech Calendar?The purpose is to raise funds forTake Heart India, a charity focused on IT education projects for blind and disabled students in India.You canbuy the calendar from Firebox: it costs £10, and is launched on 1 December (so you're getting a head start). There are no administration fees because the production costs were covered by the sponsors (listedhere(and it's a long list, so do go and whistle at its length...). It costs Take Heart just £37 to provide a six-month computer training course which secures a job for life for one of the students, so your money will make a difference.The calendar is the brainchild of the "technology writer, party planner and all round top banana, Milo Yiannopoulos" (we think he wrote the press release). Obviously, it's inspired by tropes such as Calendar Girls, but that had charity as its aim. And you get pictures for your wall. Plus if you ever happen to meet any of them you can say "oh, you look different with your clothes on". Breaks the ice...There's a gallery of some of the images, plus this video of how it got put together. You're going to need a bigger bat... aren't you?
In many ways, Super Mario Bros Wii is a confusing release for Nintendo's eponymous hero as he approaches middle age. For, although it borrows elements from just about every previous game, some may find its resolutely retro approach a missed opportunity for a character and console so obviously capable of more.Indeed, at first glance it looks like a straight port from New Super Mario Bros for DS, so small and unassuming do the sprites and simple sideways-scrolling levels appear. For control, you have a choice of using just a sideways Wiimote (with movement uncomfortably mapped to the up/down D-pad) or a combination of Wiimote and Nunchuk. Analogue control is required when jerking the Wiimote for spin jumps or tilting it to navigate certain platforms – neither of which feel particularly natural. It's surprising that no "classic" control option was included, as it seems natural for an otherwise doggedly retro game. Still, once you get used to the fact that analogue commands requires fractional compensatory timing, it all begins to make sense.The game itself requires no introduction to fans of the series. There are coins hidden around each screen or trapped in blocks that must be tapped from below with a bouncing head. Mario has his familiar moves, such as being able to toss fireballs, pound the level below or hurl back enemies with his spin jump, but there are also new abilities such as ice flower, which has him throwing freezing snowballs, and propeller or penguin suits to enhance aerial and arctic performance. You'll need them too, because although the levels look deceptively basic, they require expert control from the off and the intermittent boss battles will test even veteran players at first. Luckily, there's a useful new feature for novices called "Super Guide" which lets an NPC-controlled Luigi take you through any level where you lose eight fights or more.Another thing that makes this instalment different to the old 2D template is the ability to play competitively or cooperatively with up to three other players. "Free for all'" allows you to battle through the single-player levels together whereas "coin battle" lets you compete to gather the most coins per level. With inevitable laughs to be gained by bouncing other players off platforms, multiplayer Mario has never worked this well and it adds new appeal to an otherwise predictable game. Super Mario Bros Wii delivers just what it always did: pixel perfect gameplay, great design and Christmas retro-gaming of the highest order. However, 13 years after Nintendo's last attempt to reinvent the franchise, what we really needed was a sequel to Super Mario 64.
You can't really fault the Xbox 360 when it comes to software. Live is still the best online experience on a console, while achievements and gamerpoints (or their equivalent) will be on all consoles going forward. But, as any owner will tell you, the hardware is less impressive. And that's putting it mildly. I recently moved onto my fifth (!) Xbox 360 – not bad going for a console only released in 2005. RROD, display issues – I've had the lot. My PS3 and Wii are both still going strong, even if the latter is a little dusty these days. So the results of a recent survey that60% of UK Xbox 360s have brokenis not as surprising as it may sound. Yes, the survey is hardly scientific but judging by my experiences at least, the figures are probably not too far off.Microsoft responded to the survey:On July 5, 2007 Microsoft acknowledged an unacceptable number of repairs and took unprecedented steps to take care of all of our customers, providing a three year extended warranty on consoles experiencing the three flashing red lights error. We have continued to make improvements to the console and make customer service a top priority should someone require repair.Again anecdotally, friends have reported that the repair service is much faster than it used to be. It took 18 months after launch but Microsoft did finally acknowledge they had hardware issues with the 360. The good news for Microsoft is that the 360 isselling welldespite the problems. You can't help think that if the PS3 had suffered like this - at least in the early days when Sony's console was over priced and under-gamed - then gamers would be less forgiving.So, Xbox 360 owners – how many broken consoles have you had? And do the 360 hardware problems make the PS3 more tempting? Or are friends lists, Live and those hard-earned gamerpoints just too much to give up?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; First up, in case you've missed it (and you might well have), theFree Our Data campaign has had a significant victory. The prime minister Gordon Brown yesterday announced that from April Ordnance Survey map data, including "mid-range" maps (roughly, starting from 1:10,000 and up), electoral boundary data, administrative data, postcode location (basicallylike that leaked to Wikileaks) will be free for use without restriction.Sir Tim Berners-Lee, who was recruited to help open up government data in June, has also enlisted Brown's help to solve the "derived data" problem - which was that if you created something and used OS maps as an intermediate stage, then OS claimed ownership of the created intellectual property. The new proposals simply sweep that away.The proposals will go to consultation in December; necessary because OS has customers who might have objections to this. (What they might be we can't quite imagine, but form must be followed in these things.) Yes, I was there at No.10, at the seminar which included GB, TBL, Martha Lane Fox (because there's a view that there are big savings to be made to government by getting as many people as possible online,which is of course Lane Fox's gig). Also there were Stephen Timms, from DTI/DBERR/whatever it's called this week, and Liam Byrne, chief secretary to the Treasury, who I understand has been key in doing some of thearm-twistingpersuasive negotiation to get this done.Does this mean that you can start using OS data with impunity? Strictly, no. Though it will be interesting to see quite how much energy its lawyers can find to pursue cases that will be null from April.&bull; Could it be that - although Apple's management won't tell you - that it's actually the 13-inch MacBook Pro that is Apple's best-selling computer? We'llgive you a clue...&bull;Autocomplete Memay have a meme on the loose... does Marissa Mayer have any idea what she has unleashed on the world by giving Google an "autocomplete" suggestion system? (And aren't the results sometimes a bit...ewww?)&bull; Up for grabs:can Eric Raymond code well - or not?&bull; You may recall us having written a fair amount about how Apple's Snow Leopard (and to a lesser extent Windows 7) would incorporate technologies that would let them use the graphics processor to carry out CPU calculations. Now,here's someone who actually tried it in his application- and saw the time taken for his maths routinesfall from 492 seconds (a bit over 8 minutes) to 14 seconds. Yup, really. Then again, what are you going to do with those 8 minutes you've saved? Have a cuppa? Go on, treat yourself.&bull; And if you found that interesting, why not get a copy ofCoders At Work? Are you a coder? Are you at work? Come on, it's a match..You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Britain's 5.5 million Twitter users are younger than average members of the public, slightly more likely to vote Labour, and distinctly more liberal, according to a survey published today.They are also more likely to live in London, less likely to live in the north of England, and marginally more likely to belong to a lower social class.The YouGov poll may help to explain why libertarian campaigns appear to flourish on Twitter.Users of the social networking site recently rallied to support the Guardian when lawyers representing Trafigura tried to stop the paper reporting a parliamentary question, and hounded the Daily Mail writer Jan Moir for her allegedly homophobic remarks about the death of Stephen Gately.But the findings, which are published in the latest issue of Prospect magazine, do not depict Twitter users as inherently leftwing. They are more likely than average members of the public to think that there is nothing wrong with executives earning multimillion pound salaries and large bonuses.YouGov surveyed 2,024 adults, of whom more than 200 use Twitter, and compared the views and characteristics of the Twitterati with those of the sample as a whole. The biggest difference emerged when respondents were asked about civil liberties. The proposition that protecting civil liberties is more important than giving the police more anti-terrorist powers was backed by just 33% of the public, but by 43% of Twitter users.Some 56% of all respondents agreed with the claim that ordinary white men are often the biggest victims of discrimination. But only 45% of Twitter users accepted this.Twitter users are younger than average adults (46% are under 35, compared with 29% of all respondents) and more likely to live in London (18%, compared with 13%). They are also slightly less likely to vote Conservative (38%, compared with 41%) and slightly more likely to belong to a lower social class (48%, compared with 45%).YouGov discovered one other key difference. Most users find Twitter either "very worthwhile" or "mildly useful". But 39% of all respondents said that it "dumbs down" the way people communicate and 76% of them said they had no interest in using it themselves.
The government is to explore ways of making all Ordnance Survey maps freely available online from April, in a victory for the Guardian's three-year Free Our Data campaign. The move will bring the UK into line with the free publication of maps that exists in the US.Gordon Brown announced the change at a joint event in London today with Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, who is now information tsar advising on the handing over of private government data to the public.The government has been inspired by the success of crime mapping where "data openness" is helping citizens assess the safety of geographical areas.Today's announcement will be followed by a speech, due next week by the chief secretary to the Treasury, Liam Byrne, explaining how the freeing up of data, alongside the scaling back of other functions of central government, could lead to a "smarter state".The government is moving to open up data after the Tory party first made clear that a key shift in how it would govern would involve passing on information to the public.In the new year Brown intends to publish 2,000 sets of data, possibly including all legislation, as well as road-traffic counts over the past eight years, property prices listed with the stamp-duty yield, motoring offences with types of offence and the numbers, by county, for the top six offences.It is thought transport providers, such as train, tube and bus companies, will lose the right to demand a hefty fee from companies such as independent travel websites and firms devising programs for mobile phones, who want to publish such information.The Guardian's Free Our Data has campaigned for more than three years to persuade the government to "abandon copyright on essential national data, making it freely available to anyone, while keeping the crucial task of collecting that data in the hands of taxpayer-funded agencies".Other sets of public data currently not freely available include wills dating back to 1858, house values recorded in the Land Registry, maps, and flood-risk data for individual homes.More broadly, it is thought that if the government relinquished control of other data sets it could save money.The prime minister said that by April he hoped a consultation would be completed on the free provision of Ordnance Survey maps down to a scale of 1:10,000, (not the scale of a typical Landranger map set at 1:25,000).The online maps would be free to all, including commercial users who, previously, had to acquire expensive and restrictive licences at £5,000 per usage, a fee many entrepreneurs felt was too high.Local authorities also spend a lot of money getting access to Ordnance Survey. Swindon recently had to pay the OS £38,000 a year to use its addresses and geographical data, even though it had collected much of the data.Brown's announcement comes after Ordnance Survey said, earlier this year, that moving to a free model would cost between £500m and £1bn over the next five years. But a separate study, by a team at Cambridge University, commissioned by the Treasury, found that making all OS data free would cost the government £12m and bring a net gain of £156m.Today the union representing staff at the OS stated that Brown's pledge was in "complete contradiction with the OS's own plans to explore commercial opportunities and find new ways of raising revenue".Berners-Lee is working alongside Nigel Shadbolt, a professor of artificial intelligence, working at Southampton University. The pair are due to present their report to Brown by the end of the year.• This article was amended on Wednesday 18 November 2009. We said the  Highways Agency has got an exclusive deal with TrafficTV to send video details from motorway cameras to mobile phones. The Highways Agency has asked us to make clear that it does not have any exclusive deals for use of its traffic data. It makes the information freely available to the public directly through its website and provides free access to data feeds and CCTV images to other organisations. This has been corrected.
On this week's Guardian Tech Weekly, it's time to take stock of Blu-ray – we'll be giving a tough time to Eric Kingdon from Sony Europe, as we ask the hard questions about the high definition format.Jemima Kiss also takes a mini-break from maternity leave, to jump into the elevator with the co-founder ofSpoonfed.co.uk, a start-up promising to deliver tailored event recommendations to Londonites. Do they have a head for heights?And of course, we'll be dissecting the latest tech news, and we'll be turning the show over to you as we take a look at what's been causing a stir on the blogs, and a flurry over on Twitter.Next week we'll be talking to the global CTO for HP about tech trends and the future, and reviewing Sony Ericsson's new Satio mobile phone with a 12 megapixel camera.  And we'll be looking at the complex setups you have at home for your technology - send us your pictures now...Can you beat these?Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
GIbizhas an interesting post today, detailing a talk given by veteran games industry analyst Jesse Divnich ofEEDARat theMontreal International Games Summit. His point is that when it comes to healthy sales, marketing is three times more important than decent review scores:"There's a giant myth out there that reviews scores are the most crucial to a videogame. The reason why that is is the information is readily available – we can go to Metacritic – and we see games like Grand Theft Auto and Call of Duty succeed and we see they have a high quality score and we make that correlation. But the truth is, marketing actually has much more of an influence to game sales than high scores."He goes on to cite the example of BioShock, which boasted a US marketing budget of $5.5m and went on to sell twice as many copies of EA's Dead Space, which had a budget of $2m. Of course, this is an overtly simplistic metric, but Divnich claims to have looked at multiple variables and configurations to come to his central conclusion – game scores are, in effect, superfluous to success.Naturally, as a professional video game critic, I rail against such assertions, even those based on strong statistical evidence. Much more than movies and album releases, there tends to be a strong correlation between top-selling games and positive reviews.For example, here's a list of the UK's top selling games in 2008, together with their Metacritic ratings. For multi-platform titles, I've used the figure for the lowest scoring major console release:1. FIFA 09 (82)2. Mario Kart Wii (82)3. GTA IV (98)4. Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games (67)5. Wii Fit (80)6. Call of Duty: World at War (83)7. Wii Play (58)8. Dr Kawashima's Brain Training (77)9. Lego Indiana Jones (77)10. Carnival Funfair (56)The only entries scoring less than 75 are Wii and Nintendo DS titles aimed heavily at non-gamers – an area where you would expect marketing to do its job. The biggest selling games this year will be the likes of Modern Warfare 2, FIFA 2010 and Batman: Arkham Asylum – all of them critically well-received.To me, there's a stronger correlation between scores and retail performance than Divnich's raw figures would suggest. After all, publishers don't tend to be naïve with their money and many of them offer financial incentives to developers based on Metacritic ratings.Another way to look at the Divnich findings is that publishers are likely to allocate a larger marketing budget to games that seem more "promising" – part of that judgement may be based on factors such as favourable previews, successful beta testing, pre-release buzz, etc. In effect, if a game looks as though it might score well, it gets more cash – unless it's a DS or Wii game, in which case, as Divnich suggests, quality is immaterial as long as you have Louise Redknapp/Holly Willoughby looking jolly and aspirational in your TV ads. In this scenario, Divnich is right, but he's come at things from the wrong angle.It's difficult, though, for us (and by that, I mean me, a games journalist, and YOU, the reader of a dedicated video game blog) to get into the mindset of consumers who walk into Game and buy the title they saw on a cool TV ad last night and that happens to be taking up many feet of paid for real estate on the shop floor. I'd like to think those people are as much guided by their more knowledgeable friends or family members who DO read reviews and listen to community buzz, but perhaps that's vanity on my part.What do you think?
The first Assassin's Creed flattered to deceive: lavished with praise pre-launch for its moderately cerebral Crusades-era Middle East setting, its graphics and its free-running engine, it was let down by gameplay that proved repetitive and often downright tedious.A suitably contrite Ubisoft is adamant that it has addressed that problem in Assassin's Creed 2 and, indeed, it isn't lying. This time around, the action moves to 15th-century Renaissance Italy, and you play Ezio Auditore, a young Florentine playboy who witnesses the stitching up and hanging of his father and brothers, and becomes an assassin in search of revenge. The mouth-watering setting, which encompasses Florence, various small Tuscan towns, Venice and Rome, is even more lovingly observed than that of the first game, and feels stunningly real – you can bump up your health by buying armour from blacksmiths, hire groups of courtesans (such a quaint euphemism for prostitutes) to act as a suspicion-allaying moving shield and even renovate the Auditore family home and its accompanying town.Great touches abound – such as the lute-players, clearly the Renaissance equivalent of morris dancers, who will accost you; pickpocket them and they will leave you alone. The gameplay centres on assassinations, but this time there's an awful lot more to distract you, including single-path missions reminiscent of Prince of Persia, letter deliveries that test your rooftop-hopping skill, eagle feathers to collect and glyphs, which uncover a huge conspiracy, to find. But even the assassination missions are much more varied and vastly richer – you might have to enlist the help of a band of mercenaries, stealthily follow a victim before dispatching him, take out archers from long range or hire courtesans to distract guards.A young Leonardo da Vinci features prominently, initially making your assassination equipment, before giving you some of his designs, such as a glider given lift by the burning crosiers that feature prominently in Venice. The Borgias and Medicis are key elements of the story. The revamped combat engine, with its emphasis on counter-blows that, if correctly timed, bring about quick kills and Ezio's ability to disarm opponents, is exemplary. There are nods to 15th century technology, such as smoke bombs (handy for a quick getaway) and a poisoned version of Ezio's wrist-blade.It could be argued that Assassin's Creed 2 starts a bit slowly and there are times when the enemy AI lets you off too lightly, but Ubisoft has absolutely nailed this sequel: it's the game we all hoped the original would be.
The Wiltshire town of Swindon is to become the first in the UK to provide free wireless internet access to all its residents.A "Wi-Fi mesh" would give blanket internet coverage for 186,000 citizens, the council said today.The £1m project will be funded by a mixture of public and private money. It is hoped the scheme will break into profit with residents subscribing to faster, paid-for access, above the free service.About 1,400 secure access points will be fitted around Swindon, similar to those used in homes, but "with a much higher performance".The borough council worked with a local businessman, Rikki Hunt, who came up with the concept, and the digital technology firm aQovia to create a new company – Digital City UK.Under the brand name Signal, it will roll out the technology throughout the town.Line rental is free and there is no connection charge. The public will be able to access the internet and download emails without charge, but usage will be limited.There are also plans to deliver information such as real-time home electricity usage and air-quality monitoring.The mesh also has the potential to provide free internet phone-calls. The council says this could be used by health professionals to carry out consultations and remote medical procedures or examinations through Telemedicine – a form of interactive online healthcare).The council says subscribers can sign up for 20Mb upgrades for "significantly less per month than major broadband competitors" after a free three-month trial.There will also be pay-as-you-go options so visitors can use the network.The wireless project will be run by Digital City UK Ltd, of which Swindon borough council has a 35% share, with the intention of working on similar rollouts in other towns and cities.Rod Bluh, Swindon borough council leader, said: "Not only will residents in the borough be able to access the internet for free, the council and its partners will be able to use the technology to provide cutting-edge services to the areas or individuals who need them."The council caused controversy this year when it shut down all its fixed-point speed cameras.
For eagle-eyed readers of my contributions to The Guardian'sGame Theory columnand mygamesblogposts over the past few years, it may come as no surprise that, upon my return to The Guardian after I finish filming the BBC 2Digital Revolutionseries (where I wentimmediately aftersubmitting my PhD thesis), I am moving on from games coverage to technological pastures wider. As I said in an almost-identical fashionelsewhere, I have been skirting around the mainstream games industry news for a long time, writing more about play than PlayStation, more about the Web than the Wii, and more about creative uses of technology than controllers. Many of you have indeedpicked up on that!Although I am still passionate aboutthe extraordinary joy and power that fun can produce, it's time for me to cover another area of interactivity. I'm looking forward to treading new ground with The Guardian, the details of which will be unveiled soon. However, with the sanction of the gamesbloggers, I may throw a few games-related posts on their blog if the story is suitable.Many thanks to Keith and Greg and the other gamesbloggers and contributors for sharing five years of award-winning games coverage. Thanks as well to the readers who jumped on board theSpaceship! wikigame experiment– andher predecessor. I feel truly lucky to have worked with such talented people on these crazy projects.
Paul Allen, who co-founded Microsoft with Bill Gates, has been diagnosed with thenon-Hodgkin's lymphomaform of cancer.In a memo sent to employees, Jody Allen, his sister and the CEO of his investment firm Vulcan said he had been diagnosed early this month and was undergoing chemotherapy.The memo said the 56-year-old had diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, a relatively common form of lymphoma.Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is a type of cancer that originates in the body's disease-fighting lymphatic system, and is far more common than the related but distinct Hodgkin's.In 2009, there were nearly 66,000 new cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and 19,500 deaths, according to the National Cancer Institute.Allen suffered from another form of immune system cancer, Hodgkin's lymphoma, more than 20 years ago, and survived.His sister wrote that he was "optimistic he can beat this, too"."Paul is feeling OK and remains upbeat," she said. "He continues to work and he has no plans to change his role at Vulcan."After dropping out of university, Allen founded Microsoft with Gates, a high school friend and fellow computer enthusiast, in 1975.He served as the company's executive vice-president of research and new product development until 1983, when he left for health reasons.Remaining a major shareholder and member of the board, he went on to invest broadly in technology, property, sports and the arts.He formed Vulcan in the mid-80s to invest in media and communications companies, including America Online, DreamWorks Animation and the cable operator Charter Communications.He also co-founded a Silicon valley research laboratory which he later closed down after investing more than $100m (£59m).Allen has also used his large Microsoft earnings to invest in sport, buying the Seattle Seahawks American football team and the Portland Trailblazers basketball team. He is also part owner of the Seattle Sounders football team.He has been present at Seahawks games this season, chatting with players.In addition to his interests in technology and sports, he has a band and a recording studio. He built the Experience Music Project, a rock music museum, in Seattle.Allen also has a keen interest in aviation and has collected and restored more than 30 vintage planes.He has also started a brain science institute and, through Vulcan's property arm, redeveloped a large area of downtown Seattle known as the South Lake Union neighbourhood.With a net worth of about $10.5bn Allen is ranked the world's32nd richest person, according to Forbes magazine.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
The New Oxford American Dictionary has announced itsOxford Word of the Year, and this year it's "unfriend". Christine Lindberg, senior lexicographer for Oxford's US dictionary program, says it has "real lex-appeal." Anyway, it beat rivals such as sexting, freemium, birther, tramp stamp and one I don't recall hearing: deleb, for a dead celebrity.As aTwitter user, I can't say I'm sorry to see the accolade (for what it's worth) go to Facebook. The OUPblog has a list of Twittercisms and most of them are embarrassing. Tweeps, twitterati, twitterature, retweet, twibe, twitterhea etc aren't really landmarks in linguistic originality, are they?Either way, unfriend is better than last year'shypermiling, and at least they didn't pick staycation…Possibly of even less commercial importance than the WOTY is the idea that Microsoft might launch its Zune music player outside North America. This was the attention-grabbing implication of a Financial Times report headlinedZune to launch outside US, and T3'sMicrosoft Zune to launch in the UK. However, it seems to mean that today, the Xbox Live video store will be  rebranded as the Zune video store, and users will be able to stream movies without downloading them. Wasn't this in the news around the end of May?There's no sign of the Zune HD player being launched outside the US, and it's fairly unlikely,as I pointed outon 28 May: "its built-in HD radio won't work in Europe where we use DAB."The times have moved on slightly since then. The wheels are now more obviously coming off the DAB bandwagon, and a Daily Telegraph report claims that:DAB radio faces threat from satellite rivalThe story says that Ondas Media -- a Madrid-based satellite radio group "run by Dave Krueger, a former consultant to the popular US, advertising-free subscription satellite radio business Sirius" -- "has agreed to provide its radio devices to a string of car manufacturers such as BMW and Nissan".European car manufacturers have not adopted DAB radio, but HD radio has been a bit more successful with car manufacturers in the US, so maybe it could take off here. And if it were able to get 150 radio stations in 2012, that would make a European version of the Zune HD a bit more attractive.However, my long experience of new audio technologies (Elcaset, DAT, Digital Compact Cassette, MiniDisc, SACD, DVD-A, DAB etc) means I wouldn't bet more than 10p on it being successful.* And finally... Time has launched a technology blog calledTechland. It's a somewhat brash, comic-style effort, which started off with one exclusive story --Zack Whedon Reveals New Terminator Series for Dark Horse, by Zack Whedon-- followed byKirkman Talks Image United, by Robert Kirkman. I'm already looking forward toMiyamoto Unveils Brilliant New Game, by Shigeru Miyamoto, which I assume is on the way. Super Mario Galaxy 2, obviously.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
It takes a certain amount of bravery, and a vast amount of self-confidence, deliberately to develop a game which imposes restrictions on itself – and to follow it with a sequel.But Left 4 Dead 2 developer Valve, of Half-Life fame, certainly has the courage of its convictions, and has once again crafted a first-person zombie-shooter which may appear slight on the surface, but is very weighty beneath. As with its predecessor, Left 4 Dead 2 has no storyline to speak of – other than that you and three others must survive a full-on zombie onslaught using whatever comes to hand – along with a very short, albeit hair-raisingly intense single-player game. But it's online – usually co-operatively but also competitively – that Left 4 Dead 2 comes into its own, anyway.Valve has brought its technological prowess to bear on this sequel, and subtly tweaked some aspects of gameplay to make it even more fun than the original. Graphically, it's infinitely superior, and its uprated engine can propel even more zombies at you than before; smoke and explosions are much more plausible than before, and you can shoot individual body-parts off zombies. Cleverly, it randomises its levels, closing different areas and forcing you to take different routes, and secreting crucial pick-ups in different places each time you play. And the denouements to the levels are vastly improved, as you're forced to keep moving (to traverse a bridge, or turn off an alarm, say), rather than holing out in buildings as in the original.Naturally there are new types of zombies – or, to be precise, the Infected; ordinary zombies can't jump, climb, spit acid at you or, like the Jockeys, ride on your back. The Chargers combine the upper-body brawn of the Tanks with little legs that let them sprint. Thankfully, there are some great melee weapons, notably the electric guitar – but our favourite is the frying-pan, with its satisfyingly Tom &amp; Jerry-like clang. There's a new online mode called Scavenge, in which one team plays Survivors, scavenging for fuel, and the other Infected trying to stop them, as well as a Realism mode which removes hand-holding such as the haloes that surround useful items when you play a Versus game. And this time around there are five, not four, levels in the game.Perhaps it's the credit crunch, but these seem to be boom-time for zombies – however, you won't find zombies with special skills like the ones in Left 4 Dead 2 in any other games or films. Nor will you find another zombie-slaying sandbox which is anything like as satisfying or cackle-inducingly good fun.
Yes, the Modern Warfare 2 juggernaut just continues to batter its way through the video game agenda. UK industry news sites including GIbiz are proclaiming thatInfinity Ward's FPS shifted 1.78m units in its first week on British shelves, grossing around £67m and shattering the £39m record previously held by GTA IV.However, with such a high profile, controversy – and some stiff condemnation – was always inevitable. Yesterday, the game was debated on the BBC's religious affairs programme,The Big Questions, where it drew predictable criticism from Muslim, Jewish and Christian leaders. Fazan Mohammed of the British Muslim Forumis quoted on news site MCVas suggesting:"You can't equate it with watching TV or a movie or reading a book. This is a much more intimate experience. You're mentally playing out the effects of violence. A lot of people make the excuse that this is sport – that it's just entertainment. But Joseph Goebbels – the propaganda minister of Nazi Germany – said his entertainment did more for the German people, in terms of creating the psyche for war and hostility towards others, than the speeches of Adolf Hitler. The idea this is entertainment is not justification whatsoever."Meanwhile, it's also being reported on gaming websites thatthe title has been recalled from shop shelves in Russia, allegedly due to its depiction of the country as a terrorist stronghold. We're seeking confirmation on that right now.In other news, Modern Warfare 2 has enjoyed mixed fortunes with UK newspaper columnists. In astartlingly sexist and outdated piece for the Telegraph, Hannah Betts wonders whether the game should carry a "relationship health warning", opening her piece with the line:"Something momentous took place in The World of Men this week, something that those living in The World of Women – that is, largely, The Real World – may yet be unaware of."The article, which conveniently ignoresstrong statistical evidence that 40% of gamers are adult women, prompted a tirade of angry comments, including the succinct: "Female. Played Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2. Finished it. Do your research. Open your eyes."As for the whole video game violence angle,Michael Moran over at the Timeswas more receptive to Modern Warfare 2 than the BBC's panel, seeking to distance the experience of playing CoD from the real business of war:"I believe that the grisly imagery of the Modern Warfare 2 level 'No Russian' will teach more that it corrupts. I don't doubt that when the next Columbine or Virginia Tech massacre occurs some commenters will inevitably try to link it with Modern Warfare, but simulated guns don't kill people, real ones do. The NRA bears more responsibility than Infinity Ward."His wordswere reflected by the Observer's Barbara Ellen, who opined:"Are we still convinced that children are such hair-trigger sociopaths, so feral and simplistic, that they cannot tell the difference between reality and a video game? This "video nasty desensitising the nation's youth" argument has been raging for 25-plus years, but are our high streets plagued by 40- to 45-year-olds in Super Mario moustaches attempting to run up walls to escape invisible assailants? It seems to me that our anger should be reserved for the nightmare that real soldiers are facing."She also made the interesting point that, while we wring our hands over the effects of violent video games on young men, no one seems to care about the influence of supernatural romance fables like Stephenie Meyer's Twilight series on the sexual proclivities of teenage girls:"Maybe we should ask ourselves why we're fine about young people being engrossed in a culture of sexed-up murder and bloodsucking, only to become agitated when they enter what is to them the equally fictional world of soldiers and battles?"This is the important thing about Infinity ward's game. While us gamers feel like we've been talking about Modern Warfare non-stop for months, everyone else is just getting hold of it, wrestling with it, and coming to their own comparisons and conclusions beyond the fanboy orthodoxies. This is how we know that games are important. Or, at least, the million-selling ones are …
Originally released in 1994 on the Sega Mega Drive, much-loved platformer Earthworm Jim has never really gone away.Having spawned three sequels and a spin-off cartoon, it was announced last year that franchise creator Doug TenNapel would team up with Interplay to develop a fourth Earthworm Jim game title, a new TV series and even a film. Possibly to whet gamers' appetites, Interplay has also partnered with Gameloft to bring the heroic earthworm's original outing as a downloadable game for the Wii, Xbox360, PS3, and iPhone.The aim is to negotiate a number of themed levels with the aid of a laser gun and Jim's neck, which functions as a whip, with helpful gadgets along the way. After getting to grips with the basic running, jumping, shooting and whipping, you're presented with ever more elaborate varieties of gameplay, and it's this variety that gives Earthworm Jim its staying power. Just when you've mastered the cow-catapult, along comes a fiendishly tricky bathysphere-piloting level, a (recurring) 3D race through an asteroid field, a level where you have to shepherd an angry dog past various pitfalls, and so on.The iPhone screen was never going to be the most obvious home for Jim's cartoon graphics. However, despite the diminutive presentation and the unavoidable irritation of on-screen D-pad and controls, it still manages to look great, and remarkably fresh given its age.Earthworm Jim is genuinely challenging, even on the easiest settings, it looks good, has a great soundtrack (although you can also play your own music during gameplay), and overall is well worth the price. However, to truly appreciate the care and attention that's gone into the graphics, it'd be worth seeking out a console version – it's out now on the Wii, and PS3 or Xbox 360 releases are expected soon.
Monday's "what did you play this weekend, as if it needed asking" edition of Chatterbox.
If you live in the UK then the filthy weather meant you had a good excuse to get some gaming time in this weekend. Mine was fairly restricted though, but I did get some time withSim Animals Africaon the Wii. I'm planning a "games for young kids" blog later this month and am trying out this,World of Zooand any other game I think my four year old daughter may want to play. It wasn't a totally successful start with Sim Animals though. The fiddly creature management stuff was a faff - also needing to use the nunchuck as well as the wiimote was a step too far - but she did enjoy throwing rings to elephants and kicking fruit from trees. So either four is too young to play a Sims game - I'm guessing it is - or the game is too complex for its target audience.Anyway, any recommendations for games that will appeal to the under sixes? And are the Wii and DS the only platforms to consider? Given the controls I think so, although using the nunchuck with the Wiimote is probably as complex as the standard PS3 and 360 controller isn't it? I'm scouring the release lists and all being well I'll do the round up later this month.
&bull;Google News's Josh Cohen points outthat if you're a newspaper and operate a subscription service, then you won't show up in regular Google searches (though you will in Google News searches, according to a complex formula) - which are the sort that drive a lot of traffic to newspaper websites.Quite where the whole "subscription/paywall/club/advertising/free" debate is heading is impossible to see at the moment, because there simply aren't enough examples at the top level to compare. But it's worth being mindful of what Nick Carr, an erstwhile Guardian Technology columnist, has to say about the principle and possible practice, and aboutthe situation as it pertains just now:The essential problem with the newspaper business today is that it is suffering from a huge imbalance between supply and demand. What the Internet has done is broken the geographical constraints on news distribution and flooded the market with stories, with product. Supply so far exceeds demand that the price of the news has dropped to zero.That actually tallies with Rupert Murdoch (remember him?) and his comment that there's too much ad inventory out there (which means "there are more web pages with ad spots than we can find advertisers to sell the spots to").&bull; ooh, that would be a tiny bit of fun: the new mayor of Seattle - though only his office, not the whole administration -would like to move to Macs from PCs"to let them stick with the technology they've been using". Which also includes iPhones rather than Blackberries, itseems. If you tell Steve Ballmer, make sure it's in an office with no chairs...&bull; just for fun:canyou parse XML with regex? Well, here's an answer towhether youshould&bull; We're counting: on November 13 (that's last Friday) Michael Arringtonsuggested that a beta of Google's Chrome OS(that's the netbook-powering one, sure to be souped up to be a pretty-much-everything-powering one) is "to launch within a week". We're standing by our beds.&bull; And finally,have you seen Miriam? She's one of the many missing people in the UK; missing from Hinton on the Green, Worcestershire, since last Tuesday, and people are concerned as she is "unwell".Stephen Fry tweeted about her, which may show yet another way of getting us to notice missing people. Do take a look - and take a look around theMissing People site. You might make that key difference.
