I'll be travelling to parts of Morocco and I need to find a reliable way for my relatives at home to let me know daily that they are OK. They are elderly, rather deaf, and not good on the phone, but they can manage email and Facebook. There appear to be programs that enable you to send emails as SMS messages from a PC to a mobile phone, which might be a solution, but I'm not sure which are safe and reliable. My mobile phone is fairly basic and on a pay-as-you-go service with T-Mobile.CarolIf your relatives can handle email, then the simplest idea is for them to use emails to send SMS messages to your phone. Many mobile networks and independent companies offer email-to-SMS gateways that do this, though the commercial ones charge for sending bulk texts. Usually, you send the email to the international mobile phone number followed by the supplier's email address. In other words, the address will be something like 447712345678@emailsmsgateway.co.uk, where you replace the opening 0 with the UK country code, 44.T-Mobile used to offer this as a free service via @t-mobile.uk.net and perhaps it still does. (I believe both Vodafone and O2 have dropped similar services.) You can test it by sending yourself an SMS.Wikipedia has a bigtable of SMS gateways, which you can sort by region to get all the UK services together. However, all the ones I looked at were commercial services aimed at volume users.PC users generally use websites to send the odd free SMS text message. There are quite a lot of these, and I don't know which is best. I tried half a dozen, and the two websites that delivered quickly weree-freesmsand, about 10 minutes later,SMS Frog. The other four SMS messages failed to arrive within 12 hours, so again, you need to test whichever service you choose.Both e-freesms and SMS Frog require you to fill in aCAPTCHA(Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart), which means typing some letters into a box. Here, SMS Frog is much the easier of the two. (SMS Frog also says: "Messages can be sent to United Kingdom mobile numbers exclusively", but I assume this means UK mobile numbers even if the phone is abroad.)You have to be a bit careful because some sites are "free to send" but not necessarily "free to receive". With "reverse charge services", the recipient gets a free SMS alert, but they have to pay perhaps £1 to £3 to pick it up. (For example, by sending GET to a chargeable number.) However, US-based readers can useAIM, or AOL Instant Messenger, which supports sending SMS messages to US mobile numbers free of charge.One of my Twitter followers, Paul Fald, recently asked asimilar question: "Can anyone recommend a reliable and possibly FREE online SMS messaging site – sending to all UK mobiles?" Stuart Mitchell, a telecom professional made some suggestions, but he warned: "please don't go free … you won't get QoS [quality of service] that way and have many headaches."In the end, Paul decided to usehttp://www.vyke.com/at 3 1/2p per text with a £5 minimum purchase. You have to register to use the service, but as he pointed out, it's cheaper than using Skype at 5.9p per message, where "You must purchase Skype Credit or a Premium Account."You also mention that your elderly relatives use Facebook, so it would be a good idea for them to send you Facebook messages as a back-up. With Facebook notifications, you can get these messages sent to your email address, so you can check them when you have access to a PC, if not on your mobile phone.Finally, if your relatives have their own mobile phone or tablet, they may be able to send you SMS messages directly, or use one of the many "free SMS" apps. I appreciate that it can be very hard for some people to use a mobile phone's small onscreen keyboard, but perhaps that problem could be solved by using a large external Bluetooth keyboard like the Anker(£17.99 from Amazon,co.uk). According to the blurb, this works with the Apple iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch, Android 3.0 and above, and Windows Mobile 5.0 and above.Which tablet for displaying photos and videos?I'm a new videographer/photographer, and I was looking into getting a tablet to display my work? Which one would you consider for videos and photos?dutchofspadezI answered a similar question in February:What's the best tablet for a photographer with a DSLR?If money is not a problem, and if you also want to run programs such as Adobe Lightroom and video editors such as Sony Vegas Pro 12, then I'd go for the second-generationMicrosoft Surface Pro 2, which is on pre-order. However, this would be overkill just for displaying your work. For that, I'd look at the newGoogle Nexus 7Android tablets, which has a high-resolution 7in 1920 x 1200-pixel screen (323 pixels per inch) at a low price (£199).If a 7in screen is too small, you could move up to a 32GBGoogle Nexus 10, which has a 10in 2560 x 1600-pixel (300ppi) screen for£349. This compares with £479 for a 32GB Apple iPad with a 9.7in 2048 x 1536-pixel (264ppi) Retina display.However, don't rule out the iPad or Windows tablets like the forthcoming 8inDell Venue 8 Pro and 11 Pro. The most important thing is to choose a tablet that supports the file formats you are creating, especially if you are using a RAW format for photos. Yes, you can use a PC to convert files to a suitable tablet format, but you don't want to spend more time converting videos than watching them.Photograph: Mark Lennihan/APThe Microsoft Surface Pro 2
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).The Washington Post (Free)The Washington Post's Android smartphone app isn't new, but its Android tablet version is. Redesigned for larger screens, it offers a similar mix of news, analysis, photo galleries and videos. There's also a "digital replica" of each day's newspaper, with a month's free access before a subscription is required. And yes, it's on the Kindle Fire too, which'll please the new owner.Circa News (Free)Circa is one of a host of startups trying to disrupt the news industry through aggregation: in this case, editorial staff "condensing the news" to bitesize segments, and updating stories over time so you can follow them. For now, it's a bit US-centric with a skew towards politics, tech and science.Marvel Puzzle Quest Dark Reign (Free)Puzzle Quest was one of the first games to make a success out of blending match-three puzzling with RPG-style battles. Now it has a new partner, Marvel, meaning it's ditched the monsters in favour of super heroes and villains. You're still matching gems to help your heroes fight their way out of trouble.The Love Book (£1.99)The UK's National Poetry Day was this week, and The Love Book is a good way to carry the feeling onwards. It's a collection of poems, short stories and letters about love, read by actors including Helena Bonham Carter, Damian Lewis and Helen McCrory. You can also record your own versions to share with friends, with four months to practise before Valentine's Day…MixBit (Free)MixBit is a video-sharing app from a couple of YouTube's original co-founders, which brings big expectations. Here, the videos you share are split into up-to-16-second clips, which can be strung together into sequences of up to an hour. Simple, slick editing tools are included, and there's an emphasis on sharing and remixing videos with other users that could be fun.Readmill – ebook reader (Free)When it comes to ebooks, Amazon's Kindle app is the 900lb gorilla on Android, even though Google now has its own competitor. But there are other fish in this ocean, including Readmill. It's an ebook reader with an elegant, clean design, storing your existing collection of DRM-free ebooks in its cloud, and recommending new ones you may like. Reviews from fellow readers also play a prominent role.Edge: Quick Actions (Free)This is one of those handy Android tools to make using your device a small but noticeable bit faster. It's still in beta at the moment, but offers a glimpse at something that could become a very useful tool, providing quick access to key apps and settings when you tap at the left edge of the screen (hence the name).Pinball Rocks HD (Free)This pinball game comes from an interesting source: major label Sony Music Entertainment. It's a showcase for some of its RAWKier bands: Alice in Chains, Bullet For My Valentine, AC/DC and Slayer. Each get their own table for you to ping balls around, as well as a main table with missions and bonus games. You can buy the bands' music from an in-app store too.Medieval Math Battle (Free)There's a thriving market in maths-focused apps for children, as parents look to smartphones and tablets to help their kids' skill with figures. Medieval Math Battle (yes, minus an 's' as it's from the other side of the Atlantic) pits children against an array of monsters, using their maths skills to beat them. It uses in-app purchases for extra sections (e.g. subtraction, multiplication) as well as virtual items.Feral Pigeon Project (Free)I once was rendered nearly unable-to-breathe by a Daniel Kitson comedy routine about pigeons' mating habits, and have never been able to look at them in the same way since. No sexy pigeons here, though: this is a serious citizen-science app to help people record sightings of feral pigeons, uploading details and photos of spots.Autumn Dynasty (£3.11)This is an inventive idea: a real-time strategy game where the settings are traditional Chinese paintings, and your armies are sent into battle using virtual brushstrokes. And while that could be just a visually-impressive gimmick, there's a great game here too, with a challenging campaign to work through, with extra modes providing depth.One Brutal Dungeon (£0.99)I couldn't imagine playing a traditional dungeon-crawling RPG without an on-screen map before playing One Brutal Dungeon. Yet that's the schtick here: you have to drop digital breadcrumbs to help find your way around this atmospheric environment. Early reviewers reckon it's more tech demo than proper game, and while there's some truth to that, it's still fun to explore the world.Chainsaw Warrior (£2.99)Chainsaw Warrior was a board game by Games Workshop back in the late 1980s, and while it may lack the profile of Warhammer or Blood Bowl now, there are plenty of people out there with fond memories. If you're among us, grab the official Android version of the game, which has just come out. It's a faithful and absorbing translation of the game to digital. Now, can someone crack on with Blood Bowl for Android...TMNT: Rooftop Run (£2.47)Yes, those initials do stand for Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, one of a succession of cartoon comebacks (see also: Smurfs, My Little Pony) in recent years. This game is best described as an endless-runner-with-fighting with plenty of ninja moves and – wait for it – "shell shocking battles". It's fun for fans, anyway.iSequences (£1.92)This is an app aimed at all kinds of children, but particularly those with autism and other special needs. It's a simple, clear explanation of various activities, from daily tasks to special outings and emotions, presented as sequences of images for kids to understand what comes next (and thus make these events less startling in the real world).iCountTimer (£0.95)A timer and a counter... together at last! Roll out the bunting... But enough flippancy: this is a useful little tool for people working out, who want a mixture of timers and counters for their exercises. It's easy to use, and while it won't replace the bigger fitness apps that include these features, it may be worth a look.Gravity Guy 2 (Free)More endless running and jumping here in a game from Miniclip that follows the first, very popular Gravity Guy title. The storyline concerns dangerous rooftop races "in a world where gravity laws were broken", with multiple characters to control, each with their own abilities.Slot Revolution (Free)This game comes from a famous name: Konami, but it's not what you might expect. Described as a "slot machine-based, role-playing experience" (gambling and goblins, you could say) it sees you spinning reels to defeat monsters, earning gold and items in the process. And yes, it's a freemium game, so in-app purchases are involved.Mobie (Free)Mobie is something of a jack-of-all-trades app, with six distinct functions: security, anti-theft, power management, data usage, memory booster and a recommendation tool for other apps. The usual caveats apply about specific apps for those tasks possibly being more powerful, but Mobie seems to be aimed at the kind of mainstream Android owners who may prefer a single app for these jobs.Super Crossfire (£0.99)One more game to end this week, and it's a treat if you have a yen for retro shoot 'em ups. Expect aliens, power-ups and plenty of neon, with 150 waves to blast through, and music an intrinsic part of the action.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
A German security company says spoofing the iPhone 5S's fingerprint reader can be used to beat the phone's "remote wipe" facility to carry out identity theft.SRL demonstrates the hack on its website. It relies on the phone's owner using a number of defaults in the setup of the phone. It does not work against iPhones without a fingerprint reader.The identity theft relies on the user enabling Touch ID on the iPhone 5S, having the "Control Center" facility available in the lockscreen so that the Airplane mode can be enabled rapidly, and not having two-factor authentication turned on for email accounts, especially their Apple iCloud account which is required to set up the device. Touch ID is an optional setting, but the others are default settings for the device.SRL points out that Airplane mode can be enabled on a stolen phone from the lockscreen, which turns off wireless connectivity and so defeats the remote wipe facility.It then shows that a photo taken with an older iPhone 4S of the phone owner's fingerprint can be good enough to create a "fake finger" on a laminated sheet, which is then lightly stuck to a real finger. That method wasdemonstrated by the Chaos Computer Clubsoon after the iPhone 5S's release.Having created a spoof fingerprint to unlock the device - which must be done within three attempts or a passcode request is triggered, which is not available through a stolen phone - SRL points out that the attacker can see the owner's email address in the settings, and so can use an Apple website to request a password reset. That will be sent to the phone - and by rapidly turning off the Airplane mode to collect the email and then grabbing the password reset, and taking over the account. They could then put the phone back in Airplane mode.Without two-factor authentication - which is anoptional safeguard for iCloud, Gmail, Yahoo and Hotmail accounts - there would be no way for the phone's owner to prevent the account takeover. Two-factor authentication provides a method to revoke permissions for various devices and accounts. It is presently available for iCloud accounts in the US, UK, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand.The Control Center facility can also be removed from the lock screen in the Settings.SRL said that the hack proved that "using fingerprints as credentials for local user authentication has two shortcomings when compared to passwords - limited revocation" (because fingerprints cannot be changed) and "credential spread" (because we leave copies of our fingerprints anywhere we touch).They suggest that fingerprint readers still need to improve further. "Fingerprint spoof prevention would better be based on intrinsic errors in the spoof-creation process or on fingerprint features not present in latent prints (and become much harder to steal). Examples of such spoof-detection features are air bubbles contained in the glue often used for spoofs and minute details that are visible through a fingerprint sensor but not in a latent print," the researchers write. It suggests that a simple comparison of such air bubbles - which show up in their sensor data as white bubbles, which aren't found with real fingerprints - would "challenge hackers to improve their spoofing techniques".Apple had no comment on the research.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChallenging the challenge to the Bing It On Challenge &gt;&gt; Search BlogIan Ayres postedan article on Freakonomicsyesterday challenging the claims that have been used on the Bing It On website.A couple of notes are important before I talk about Ayres' claims. There are two separate claims that have been used with the Bing It On challenge. The first is "People chose Bing web search results over Google nearly 2:1 in blind comparison tests". We blogged about the method here and it was used back in 2012. In 2013, we updated the claim to "People prefer Bing over Google for the web's top searches", which I blogged about here. Ayres' frequently goes back and forth between the two claims in his post, so I wanted to make sure both were represented. Now, on to Ayers' issues and my explanations.This is Bing's version of Inception, right?BlackBerry: Rogers won't stock new Z30 phone when it's released later this month &gt;&gt; Financial PostBlackBerry says its latest smartphone will arrive in Canadian stores later this month, but it won't have the support of one of [Canada]'s largest carriers — Rogers.Rogers' decision not to stock the Z30 touchscreen model, which will become available in Canada on 15 October, comes as a surprise since the Toronto-based wireless and cable company was an early adopter of BlackBerry products.It does sell the Z10, Q10 and Q5.Philips collaborates with Accenture to create first proof of concept for delivering vital patient data via Google Glass &gt;&gt; Albany Business ReviewRoyal Philips and Accenture today announced the creation of a proof-of-concept demonstration that uses a Google Glass™ head-mounted display for researching ways to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of performing surgical procedures. The demonstration connects Google Glass to Philips IntelliVue Solutions and proves the concept of seamless transfer of patient vital signs into Google Glass, potentially providing physicians with hands-free access to critical clinical information.In effect, an industrial use of Google Glass already. Likely the first of many. (Thanks #modelportfolio2003 for the link.)A watch that sinks under its features &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDavid Pogue on the Galaxy Gear:But just throwing a bunch of trees into a pit doesn't make it a log cabin. And Samsung, sooner or later, will learn that it can't build a coherent device just by throwing features at it.The Gear is a human-interface train wreck. All of it. The software design, user guide, English translations and design consistency. ("Be careful not to damage your fingernails when you release the buckle.")The relationship between the device the watch is linked to and the watch is never the same twice. You wind up chasing the installation, login and setup for each new feature all over Androidland, sometimes in endless loops of infuriating screens.Sanctions loom large: Samsung execs were told all terms of secret Nokia-Apple patent license &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsLicensing executives from Samsung and Nokia held a meeting on June 4, 2013 to discuss a patent license deal between these parties. In that meeting, a Samsung exec, Dr. Seungho Ahn, "informed Nokia that the terms of the Apple-Nokia license were known to him" and according to a declaration from Nokia's Chief Intellectual Property Officer, Paul Melin, "stated that Apple had produced the Apple-Nokia license in its litigation with Samsung, and that Samsung's outside counsel had provided his team with the terms of the Apple-Nokia license".The Melin declaration furthermore says that "to prove to Nokia that he knew the confidential terms of the Apple-Nokia license, Dr. Ahn recited the terms of the license, and even went so far as to tell Nokia that 'all information leaks.'The Apple-Nokia licence was secret, and only provided to Samsung's lawyers for an expert witness to investigate - not for distribution to Samsung.On Thursday we asked Samsung to confirm the details of the meeting. It hasn't responded so far. The judge's statement says the document was marked "Highly Confidential - Attorney Eyes Only" - yet sent to more than 50 Samsung executives without redaction. Samsung's lawyers confirmed that "dozens" of individuals had seen the document, according to the judge's statement.The judge has told Samsung to make Ahn available for interview.Samsung's mobile chief departs &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comIn an interview before his departure, Mr. [Kevin] Packingham said Samsung [US] was able to rally strong support from carriers by taking a different approach from other handset makers. Typically, handset makers rely heavily on the carriers to not only sell their phones in retail stores, but also promote them in advertising.Samsung, however, told the carriers it would invest in its own big marketing campaigns for its phones, guaranteeing that its devices would be hits. In return, the carriers were generally happy to promote and support many of Samsung's phones.Packingham was head of Samsung Mobile US, rather than worldwide.Disruption and woulda, coulda, shoulda &gt;&gt; Learning by ShippingSteve Sinofsky looks at how BlackBerry went from world-beater to also-ran:It is instructive to consider the many assumptions or ingredients of Blackberry success that go beyond the popular "keyboard v. touch".  In thinking about my own experience with the product, the following list just a few things that were essentially revisited by the iPhone from the perspective of the Blackberry device/team:His list contains 12 items where the iPhone (and, it should be said, Android) made assumptions about the future that were right; only one involves the keyboard.Next question is, what are the other assumptions that will be overturned which we now take for granted?The 12 types of people you find in news website comments &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedTom Phillips rounds up some great GIFs. And comments.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
In the midst of a frenzy over Twitterlistingits IPO, Instagram quietly announced on Thursday that advertisements are on the way.Information released in ablogpostentitled &apos;Instagram as a growing business&apos; was light on the details, but hinted at the company&apos;s need to get the ad experience &apos;right&apos; and the need to turn the photo service, sold to Facebook for $1bn in 2012, into a viable business.&quot;Seeing photos and videos from brands you don’t follow will be new, so we’ll start slow ... We’ll also make sure you have control. If you see an ad you don’t like, you’ll be able to hide it and provide feedback about what didn’t feel right,&quot; read the post.In the months following its acquisition by Facebook, the company drew fire from users for a number of attempts to generate revenue. The first of these wasremoving the optionfor Twitter users to preview Instagram posts in Twitter streams. Then, news surfaced that users would be forced to allow Facebook to sell theirphotos to advertisers. In the days following, Instagramreversedthe terms, but not after drawing mass amounts of protest online.At the time, Instagram&apos;s co-founder Kevin Systrom clarified: &quot;It is not our intention to sell your photos. We are working on updated language in the terms to make sure this is clear.&quot;Now, Instagram&apos;s intention is clearly to make money by selling to the user. Whether or not this move will draw as much ire as the company&apos;s drawn in the past remains to be seen. Early results to the announcement on Instagram are decidedly mixed:&quot;Here we go with ads … Leave it alone. That is the most annoying thing and sometimes very disrespectful to your own personal views and beliefs, &quot; wrote first commentermikita007.&quot;You&apos;re all acting like spoiled children. They have to make money somehow and if you all even want Instagram to be here for a long time, you&apos;d understand why they would put this into effect. Morons,&quot; wrote userpinkbloodyfloydsoon after.These two users, along with the site&apos;s 150 million-user base, can expect to see the changes surface within the next two months.
The computer software company Adobe has been hacked, potentially compromising the data of 2.9 million customers, the company revealed on Thursday.Adobe said "sophisticated attacks" had been carried out "very recently"."Our investigation currently indicates that the attackers accessed Adobe customer IDs and encrypted passwords on our systems,"said Brad Arkin, chief security officer at Adobe."We also believe the attackers removed from our systems certain information relating to 2.9 million Adobe customers, including customer names, encrypted credit or debit card numbers, expiration dates, and other information relating to customer orders."Arkin said he did not believe the attackers had removed decrypted credit or debit card numbers from its systems."We deeply regret that this incident occurred," he said. Arkin did not specify the level of encryption of the data stolen.It has reset passwords on customers' accounts and recommended that customers change their passwords on any other website where they used the same code. Customers whose credit and debit card information will be notified by Adobe, it said, and the company has also alerted federal law enforcement.Adobe also said it would give affected customers the option of enrolling in a one-year complimentary credit monitoring membership.In a separate statement posted on Wednesday, Adobe said there had also been an illegal access of its source code for Adobe Acrobat, ColdFusion and other software. It said it was"not aware of any specific increased risk to customers"as a result of the breach.
Until anFBI raidon Wednesday, Ross Ulbricht allegedly ran the multimillion dollar drugs marketplace Silk Road from his base in San Francisco.But despite his apparent success building &apos;the eBay of hard drugs&apos; through anonymous servers and a hidden identity, the man known as &apos;Dread Pirate Roberts&apos; began to leave a trail of traceable activity social media.So how did Dread Pirate Roberts get himself arrested?1. He boasted about running his international multimillion dollar drugs marketplace on his LinkedIn profileDespite the fact that he presumably had few plans to re-enter the traditional workforce, Ross Ulbricht maintained a profile on LinkedIn even while he was allegedly running the Silk Road.In it, he makes veiled references to his present activities. “Ulbricht states in his LinkedIn profile that, after … time in graduate school, his ‘goals’ subsequently ‘shifted’,” says FBI agent Christopher Tarbell in his criminal complaint delivered to the Southern District of New York.“Ulbricht elaborates, obliquely, that he has since focused on ‘creating an economic simulation’ designed to ‘give people a first-hand experience of what it would be like to live in a world without the systemic use of force’ by ‘institutions and governments’… I believe that this ‘economic simulation’ referred to by Ulbricht is Silk Road.”2. He used a real photograph of himself for a fake ID to rent servers to run his international multimillion dollar drugs marketplaceIn July 2013, a package from Canada was intercepted at the border as part of a routine mail search, and found to contain nine fake IDs, each with a different name but all with a photo of the same person.Homeland Security was duly dispatched to the address the parcel was headed to, and found Ulbricht there, who Tarbell says “volunteered that ‘hypothetically’ anyone could go on to a website named ‘Silk Road’ on ‘Tor’ and purchase any drugs or fake identity documents the person wanted&quot;.Why did Ulbricht need nine fake IDs? An earlier posting on the Silk Road forums may explain it. Dread Pirate Roberts explained that he “needed a fake ID [to] rent servers”. Tarbell adds that “server hosting companies often require customers to provide some form of identity documents in order to validate who they are”.Which is fine, except that if you are posting a photocopy of a fake ID to a server hosting company, you don’t need to put your real face on it. And if you’re running an international multimillion dollar drugs marketplace, keeping your real face away from the public is probably a good idea.3. He asked for advice on coding the secret website for his international multimillion dollar drugs marketplace using his real nameAs well as not using your real face, it’s probably best not to use your real name. Especially when asking for coding tips about your secret drugs marketplace.In March 2012, a user registered on the coding Q&amp;A siteStack Overflowwith Ulbricht’s email address and the username &apos;Ross Ulbricht&apos;. He then proceeded to post the question “How can I connect to a Tor hidden service using curl in php?”.Publicly posting under your real name that you run a hidden website (using the anonymous browsing toolTor), probably isn’t a great idea. Posting an example of the code that you actually run on that hidden website, still under your real name, is a terrible idea. And yet Tarbell says:“The computer code on the Silk Road web server includes a customised PHP script based on ‘curl’ that is functionally very similar to the computer code described in Ulbricht&apos;s posting on Stack Overflow, and includes several lines of code that are identical to lines of code quoted in the posting.”4. He sought contacts in courier firms, presumably to work out how to best ship things from his international multimillion dollar drugs marketplace,on Google+,where his real name, real face and real YouTube profile were visible“Anybody know someone that works for UPS, FedEX, or DHL?”,asked Ulbricht on Google+. On his YouTube profile, linked to from that page, Ulbricht saved a couple of videos for later, including one from the ultra-libertarianMises Institutetitled “How to Get Away with Stealing”.Even that is used as evidence against him. Tarbell says “DPR’s user ‘signature’ in the [Silk Road] forum includes a link to the ‘Mises Institute’ website … moreover … DPR has cited the ‘Austrian Economic theory’ and the works of Ludwig von Mises … as providing the philosophical underpinnings for Silk Road.”5. He allegedly paid $80,000 to kill a former employee of his international multimillion dollar drugs marketplace to a man who turned out to be an undercover copIn asecond criminal complaint, from the state of Maryland, it is alleged that Ulbricht “communicated with the UC [undercover cop] via the internet, and told the UC that the employee had been arrested by law enforcement and that the employee had stolen funds from other Silk Road users”. Ulbricht apparently told the cop “I’d like him beat up”, before changing the order the next day “to execute rather than torture”.The complaint says that Ulbricht “agreed to make two payments of $40,000 each for the murder of the employee, ‘half down now and half after the job is done.’”After seeing staged photos of the employee being tortured, Ulbricht wrote that he was “a little disturbed” and that “I’m new to this kind of thing”.He duly paid up.
BlackBerry will burn through most of its cash in the next 18 months, a senior independent analyst has warned, leaving the smartphone maker with "material liquidity problems".Chief executive Thorsten Heins last week described BlackBerry as a financially strong company with $2.6bn (£1.6bn) in cash and no debt. But the group is likely to tear through nearly $2bn of its remaining funds by February 2015, according to Pierre Ferragu at Bernstein Research.The analysis was published just as efforts to organise an auction of the company appeared to be gaining momentum. Cerberus, the distressed asset specialist, was on Wednesday reported to have asked to see BlackBerry's accounts in order to gather the information needed for a bid.Fairfax Financial, the private equity group run by former BlackBerry board member Prem Watsa, last week made a $4.7bn preliminary offer.A rapidly deteriorating cash position would dent hopes of a sale, because private equity buyers will raise funds by borrowing against BlackBerry's savings plus a sale of its intellectual property."Our detailed analysis of the recent filing of BlackBerry reveals a cash position far worse than we modelled," wrote Ferragu in a note. "We believe BlackBerry is likely to burn close to $2bn in the next six quarters on a standalone basis, leading the company into material liquidity problems."The analyst revised his numbers after BlackBerry filed its second quarter results this week. The downbeat assessment was based on a faster than expected fall in service revenues from users, with a forecast that the company will lose 7 million subscribers in the next quarter, combined with higher than expected spend on patent licences."We now believe there is virtually no collateral for a bank loan, and no credible story for a break up to justify more than a couple of billions for the equity," said Ferragu.Cerberus, whose interest was first reported by the Wall Street Journal, is understood to have offered to sign a non disclosure agreement. A spokesman for the firm declined to comment.Heins launched a new generation of BlackBerry phones in January, but the innovation left consumers cold. While many BlackBerry loyalists still prefer its physical keyboard to touchscreen machines, developers have not embraced the new BB10 devices, meaning many popular games, social and media applications are not available on the phones.In 2011, BlackBerry still accounted for 14% of all smartphone sales worldwide, but according to industry analyst IDC its share had fallen to 3% by the second quarter of this year.A spokesman for BlackBerry said: "We do not intend to disclose further developments with respect to the process until we approve a specific transaction or otherwise conclude the review of strategic alternatives."
Serialblender Blendtecis back and its latest victims are Apple&apos;s new pride and joys the iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c.Made of plastic and glass, the multi-coloured iPhone 5c might seem weaker on the outside than the metal and glass iPhone 5s, but it does colour have the edge over gold?Of course not - nothingsurvives the blender.
The price of Bitcoin, the anonymous peer-to-peer digital currency, plummeted after the alleged founder of the online drugs marketplace Silk Road was arrested in San Francisco.On Wednesday afternoon the price of one Bitcoin (BTC) was $145.70 on Mt Gox, one of the largest exchanges for the currency.After the news that Ross Ulbricht had been arrested and the Silk Road site seized, the exchange rate plummeted to a low of $109.76, before recovering to $124.00 late on Thursday.Bitcoin&apos;s record high was $266In the history of the notoriously volatile currency, Wednesday’s fluctuations are minor. Bitcoin has experienced two major booms and busts, one in 2011 when the value of one Bitcoin went from $2 to $30 and back in little more than six months, and another earlier this year, when the price shot from $13 to a high of $266, before dropping back to a low of $50.Even on a slow trading period, Bitcoin remains extremely volatile. It is not uncommon to see the currency gain or lose 6% or 7% of its value over the course of a day with no obvious news event driving the change.The average daily change of the S&amp;P 500 is a tenth of that.Bitcoin and Silk Road are closely linked. The site, which enables users to anonymously order drugs, guns, and more through the postal service, only takes payments in the digital currency. In doing so, it makes it significantly harder for authorities to follow the money to discover the real identities of buyers and sellers.The FBI seized $3.25m worth of Bitcoin in the Silk Road haul. Photograph: Cameron Spencer/Getty ImagesThe technology behind Bitcoin is similar to public-key encryption,the algorithm behind most internet security. Users have a &apos;wallet&apos;, which is a public address that can send and receive Bitcoins, and a private key with which they can access the wallet. So long as the link between a particular wallet and a user is not made public, the currency can remain fully anonymous.But if a Bitcoin wallet becomes associated with a particular person, some of the security benefits disappear. Because transactions between wallets are public,it can then become possible to trace transactions.“Obviously the major price drop we saw yesterday was people scrabbling for the exit,” says Jeremy Cook, chief economist at currency brokers World First, who describes Bitcoin as “intrinsically linked” to Silk Road. “You&apos;ve bought Bitcoin as an investment, or you&apos;ve bought it as a transactional medium. If it’s one, you’ve just seen a major marketplace shut down, and if it’s the other, the value has dropped suddenly. You will sell it.”Price drop &apos;motivated by fear&apos;Emily Spaven, editor of the digital currency news websiteCoinDesk, agrees that fear is motivating the drop in price. “The price of Bitcoin has fallen since the closure of Silk Road, not because the website was the lynchpin of the Bitcoin ecosystem, but because some people are fearful that this is the beginning of the end.”Silk Road remained one of the most prominent large-scale operations that used Bitcoin, and the largest to exclusively require the use of the currency. While a number of establishments announced they would be accepting payments in Bitcoin, includinga pub in Hackney, east London, many customers appeared to be making the most of the novelty value only.As a result, the site seemed to provide a significant share of actual use of Bitcoin. Even so,one paper from 2012(pdf) pegged the site as making up just 4.5% of the entire Bitcoin economy. Informationfrom the FBI’s criminal complaintsuggests that the average daily volume of Silk Road trades is 10,000 BTC, again around 5% of the 200,000 BTC thatthe site blockchain.infosays is the low end of daily transactions in Bitcoin.Bitcoin &apos;not reliant on Silk Road&apos;“The reality is, Silk Road doesn&apos;t play any part in a high proportion of Bitcoin users&apos; lives,” says Spaven. “The Bitcoin economy certainly isn’t reliant on Silk Road; there are hundreds of other websites that accept Bitcoins and I&apos;m confident the list of these will continue to grow.”Indeed, Spaven raises the possibility that the Silk Road bust could be a good thing for the currency. “If anything, the fall of Silk Road has done Bitcoin a favour. Hopefully now that the website no longer exists, people will start to see Bitcoin in a more positive light and appreciate the numerous benefits it offers.” The Reuters blogger Felix Salmon agrees, suggesting that until now, the fear of such a bust may have exerted a downward pressure on prices. “With Silk Road gone, a significant source of downside tail risk has now been effectively removed from the Bitcoinverse,”he writes.The other question for the currency is what effectthe FBI’s seizure of 26,000 Bitcoins, worth around $3.25m at current prices, will have on its economy. If the bureau decides to auction off the seized assets, the glut in supply could temporarily depress prices, and the removal of such a large number from circulation is in effect a monetary tightening. But Cook points out that the quantity is still tiny compared to the total number of Bitcoins available, thought to be almost 12m. “In the grand scheme of things, it&apos;s not too much of a liquidity shock.”• How can theFBI seize Bitcoins? Wednesday&apos;sseizure was the largest Bitcoinhaul ever.
Silk Road, the best-known underground marketplace for the trade of illegal drugs on the internet,has been shut downleaving a large hole in the internet&apos;s underworld.Described by FBI special agent Christopher Tarbell as &quot;the most sophisticated and extensive criminal marketplace on the internet today&quot;, Silk Road actedlike an eBayfor the trade of illegal substances.It operated as a &quot;hidden&quot; site, which was only accessible to people using the sophisticated anonymous browsing service known as Tor.Operated by a network of volunteers, Tor provides encryption and identity protection, allowing users to avoid surveillance and traffic interception as well as circumvent internet censorship.Tor is a favourite of whistleblowers and political activists,including Edward Snowden, due to its privacy protection, while its user base has topped an estimated 1.2 million users.Tor also allows sites to exist only within its secure network, often referred to as the &quot;dark web&quot;, not on the open internet, which is what allowed Silk Road to stay hidden and protected for so long, despite efforts from security services and politicians, including US senator Chuck Schumer, who vowed in 2011 to have it shut down.Some examples of forum postings offering illegal goods from data collected by security specialists Trend Micro. Photograph: Rik Ferguson/Trend MicroSilk Road will almost certainly be replacedAlthough it was certainly the most high profile, Silk Road was not the first illegal marketplace hidden within the dark web or on the open internet.&quot;Silk Road will almost certainly be replaced by a copycat-like site, as has been the case in carder markets where people trade fraudulent credit card information. Those kinds of places have been shut down in the past and very, very quickly replaced by others,&quot; said Rik Ferguson, vice-president of security research atTrend Micro, talking to the Guardian.Sites similar to Silk Road already exist within the Tor network. Two stores called Atlantis and Sheep Marketplace offer illegal drugs, equipment and services akin to Silk Road.However, some sites go further – Bitcoin-powered shop called Black Market Road, for instance, also sells illegal weapons, something Silk Road withdrew after high profileshootings in the US.&quot;The are a multitude of online marketplaces for the trade of illegal goods, not all hidden within what we would call the dark web, but on the regular open internet.&quot;Forum-based shop fronts exist, where it&apos;s not just one individual in charge of buying and selling, but it&apos;s a co-operative that&apos;s based on trust. They predated Silk Road by a very long way, and continue to thrive to this day,&quot; said Ferguson.&quot;It&apos;s a very established underground economy – where there is a void, there&apos;s a niche.&quot;No real compromise of TorDue to the fact that Silk Road existed purely within the Tor network, there was a possibility that the anonymity and security of the service and software could have been compromised, although that seems to not be the case.&quot;Nothing about this case makes us think that there are new ways to compromise Tor (the software or the network). The FBI says that their suspect made mistakes in operational security, and was found through actual detective work,&quot; said the Tor projectin a blog post.Ferguson agreed: &quot;[Alleged Silk Road owner and operator Ross William] Ulbricht was tracked via good traditional investigative techniques, research and intelligence, tracking his mistakes on the open internet, such as making postings on forums in his own name, while tracing illegal packages that were received at the US border.&quot;I don&apos;t think there will be a huge impact on people&apos;s perception of the anonymity of Tor as there was no real compromise of the integrity or security of Tor.&quot;• In August,child abuse images hosted within the Tor dark webwere taken offline by US authorities.
The servers are struggling, the game experience is precarious to say the least, but Rockstar is still battling to bring some stability to Grand Theft Auto Online.Launched on Tuesday, this free multiplayer add-on to Grand Theft Auto V is designed to provide players with the chance to battle each other on the streets of the game's Los Santos environment, taking on heists or competing in races and other challenges. However, the server infrastructure crumpled under the weight of demand with many hundreds of gamers unable to access the online game world.On Thursday, Rockstar posteda new update on its GTA Online status site, detailing attempts to stabilise the system. Problems limiting the number of concurrent users allowed onto servers on the PlayStation 3 version of the game have been solved. However, the company is still looking into bugs that prevent players from progressing beyond the tutorial sequence, and it concedes that there are further issues for those who do make it into the main game."All of these initial technical issues will be ironed out as soon as we can," explainsa post on the company's newswire site. "Please know that the entire team here at Rockstar and all of our relevant partners are and will continue to be working around the clock to get the experience to be as smooth as possible, as soon as possible."As a result of the instability, Rockstar has removed the option to buy in-game currency with real cash – a controversial feature added for the first time to a GTA title. The publisher explains on its website, "For the time being and until we have been able to get everybody access to GTA Online and things are running smoothly, we have disabled the option of purchasable GTA$ cash packs. Players can however keep on earning GTA$ by pulling off Jobs and other profitable gameplay activities rather than purchasing cash packs."Games insiders have been unsurprised by Rockstar's difficulties.Speaking to the Guardian on Tuesday, veteran developer Martin Hollis said, "You can simulate a lot. But you can't simulate everything, and bitter experience has shown that you can't foresee everything. There is always a surprise or two with every massively multiplayer game, doubly so if you are dealing with millions of players in a spike."Comments beneath Rockstar's Newswire post provide a familiar mix of anger, frustration and sanguine acceptance. "I have been trying to get past first race since online launched," writes one user, SilentKillSara. "Tried solo, tried deleting character and starting again. Tried reinstalling the update. Nothing has worked. Very frustrating when half of my friends can play and the other half cannot".Guardian readers have tended toward forgiving, several pointing out that they're happy to plough through the single-player action until the server situation dies down. Those who have broken through have varying reports. "I created this account just to describe how disappointing this first day of multiplayer has been," wrote Johnnyman93. "I have already lost a rank 18 account and now I'm back at square one not being able to finish the fucking tutorial again." In contrast, one reader, The ElfishGene, enthused, "Online when it works is absolutely sublime. Roving biker gangs and Mad Max style chicanery everywhere!"For now though, many of the 15 million people who bought the game in September are left watching the Rockstar service updates with interest, and itchy trigger fingers.
Tom Clancy, the author of blockbusting military thrillers who died on Tuesday aged 66, was kind of a big deal in video games. You wouldn't have discovered that from the Today programme's lengthy report this morning, or from most of the obituaries in Wednesday's newspapers. Naturally, as the writer of 28 blockbusting novels, the earliest of which were famously endorsed by Ronald Reagen, it is his literary output that most are recalling today.But while his books sold somewhere in the region of either 50m or 100m copies (depending on your source), the games that bore his name passed the lower figure five years ago. To many 20- and 30-somethings, Clancy will be best known, not for gung-ho CIA thrill-fests like Patriot Games or Clear and Present Danger, but for Rainbow Six, Ghost Recon and Splinter Cell, shooters that licensed his name and also bought his tales of righteous super spies and despicable terror chiefs to interactive life.There have been Tom Clancy branded games for 25 years. At first they were loosely affiliated submarine simulations, with early home computer titles based on the Hunt for the Red October and Red Storm Rising. But then in 1996 Clancy co-founded the development studio Red Storm with the intention of better exploring his established and future novels in the gaming realm. In this era, his input was more than simply licensing his credentials.According to designer Brian Upton, he took part in the original brainstorming session's for the developer's first title, Rainbow Six, as well as providing the designers with valuable military contacts, accrued through his year's of scrupulous research. As the game development progressed, he wrote the accompanying novel beside it.Alongside the Illusion Softworks title Hidden &amp; Dangerous, Rainbow Six effectively invented the tactical shooter genre – a more tense and authentic combat experience than the standard war blaster. Players had to command a small squad of counter-terrorist operatives, setting waypoints for their AI troopers and carefully planning attacks rather than barging in, sub-machine guns blasting. It was a huge success and would be followed by several sequels as well as an additional squad-based series, Ghost Recon, this time transferring the tense, strategy action into large battlefields with a more epic feel. It was the Ghost Recon titles, specifically the Advanced Warfare sub-series that popularised intelligent co-operative military action on the home consoles.I have never been tempted to pick up a Clancy novel, but I have played pretty much all the games with his name attached. Ubisoft was, I think, his perfect video game partner, able to extract the compelling elements of his novels – the technology, the military detail, the rollicking stories of espionage and intrigue – while reining in some of the patriotic excess. These games were rarely straightforward escapist action yarns, they brought grit and tactical depth, and they did so by utilising Clancy's idea of a world overrun by warring techno factions. Ghost Recon and Rainbow Six are not footnotes on an impressive career, they are highlights.In 2002, Ubisoft published Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, a stealth shooter featuring Sam Fisher, effectively Jack Ryan's more muscular younger brother. Clancy has little to do with the development beyond acting as an adviser, though, according to creative director Gregoire Gobbi,speaking to the BBC in 2002, the action was set squarely in Clancy's universe of high-tech weaponry and subterfuge. The author also lay down a series of strict rules for the team, including the assertion that civilians should never be killed – indeed the Splinter Cell series has always added a moral element to the slick action.More recently, in the self-reflexive manner common to global entertainment franchises, we've seen the branding go full circle. There is now a range of novels based on the Splinter Cell and Endwar video games series – though none of them were written by Clancy himself. After signing a lucrative deal with Ubisoft in 2008 to license his name, his input seems to have been minimal. But the Clancy brand will remain – as will its promise, of high-tech warfare and compelling tactical action.
When the FBI seized alleged Silk Road mastermind Ross Ulbricht's 26,000 Bitcoin fortune on Tuesday, it raised the simple question: how can you seize a currency that does not exist?The Bitcoin haul, worth around $3.6m, represents the largest single seizure of the currency, which exists entirely online.Jon Matonis, executive director of the lobby group the Bitcoin Foundation, said that in order for the authorities to "seize" Silk Road's Bitcoins, it would need access to either its servers and/or to the passwords that protected those Bitcoins.The agency could have accessed those passwords with or without Ulbricht's cooperation, said Jerry Brito, director of George Mason University's Technology Police Program."Basically they would have to get the private keys to the suspect's Bitcoin addresses. (Think of it essentially like getting the password to an account.),"Brito wrote on his blog."They could either get that with his cooperation or if he had stored it somewhere now accessible to the authorities. Once they have the private keys, they would be able to transfer the Bitcoins and I imagine that they would transfer them to a Bitcoin address that only they control."The disclosure of keys to encrypted files is an increasingly important, and controversial, tool used by law enforcement agencies around the world. In 2009 a UK citizen was jailed for nine months after refusing to hand overthe keys to decode his encrypted files.In the US, lawyers have argued that forcing someone to hand over their encryption keys violates the Fifth Amendment right to protection from self-incrimination. The privacy group the Electronic Frontier Foundation is currently defending a Colorado woman accused of a mortgage scam. The Department of Justice haddemanded that she decrypther laptop as part of their investigations.Users of Silk Road, which enabled the trade of illegal drugs through the web, are said to have traded some 9.5m Bitcoins since the site launched in 2011.Bitcoin saw its value drop by 15% to $118 after news of Ulbricht's arrest broke. The value had increased to$126 by 6pm, but Brito said the association of the currency with anonymous drug trade could harm its value.Matonis attempted to downplay the damage that the historic seizure could do to Bitcoin. "This is a drugs story not really a bitcoin story," he said. "My understanding is that Bitcoin was not a factor in the apprehension."Typically Bitcoins are acquired by purchasing them from a bitcoin "exchanger", for cash. Once those Bitcoins are acquired they are kept in a "Bitcoin wallet" which is designated by a complex string of letters and a numbers. A user can then withdraw those Bitcoins by sending them back to an exchanger in return for cash.The FBI's acquiring of 26,000 Bitcoins raises another question: what will the agency do with its haul? "It will be interesting to see what the authorities do with those assets," Matonis said. "Will they sell them through a licensed exchange and will we be able to track the sale?"
For Formula One fans, F1 2013 is an item of rare desirability – but strangely, that is due more to Codemasters' skill at negotiating political minefields, rather than its programming prowess. That's because the latest iteration of its expensively licensed game charting the pinnacle of motorsport contains something that motorsport enthusiasts have wanted for years: retro cars, drivers and tracks.The corporate nature of the F1 world dictates that, in any game depicting it, every sponsor's logo, advertising hoarding and so on has to be authentic, which is why it's physically impossible for developers to get their games out before a chunk of each season has passed. So adding cars of yore to the equation adds another level of licensing complexity, but with consummate skill (and, one suspects, infinite patience), Codemasters has somehow managed to pull off that juggling act. Boot up F1 2013, negotiate the Young Driver Test (which dictates the car you will be allowed to pilot in Career mode), and you will find a new menu item entitled F1 Classics.Pretend you're Nigel MansellNot since 2006's F1 Championship Edition (a PS3 exclusive, from a time when Sony held the Formula One games licence) has a Formula One game contained any cars from days gone by, and even then, you could only drive them in time-trials. But in F1 2013, you can choose from five cars from the 1980s – ravening beasts with turbocharged engines, some of which even have the swiftly outlawed ground-effect skirts that suck them to the tarmac.There are two tracks – Brands Hatch and Jerez, in their 1980s configurations, both of which have long since fallen off the Formula One calendar. And you can take on, or pretend to be, legendary drivers like Nigel Mansell, Alain Prost, Damon Hill, Emerson Fittipaldi and many more. You can also buy a Classic Edition of the game, which adds six cars from the 1990s, drivers including Michael Schumacher, Eddie Irvine and David Coulthard, and the tracks Imola and Estoril (that 1990s pack will also be available as downloadable content).The return of retro to a Formula One game is very timely, given the wave of nostalgia currently sweeping the sport in the wake of the film Rush, chronicling the rivalry between James Hunt and Niki Lauda. And F1 2013 adds to the wistfulness by applying a sepia visual filter to the F1 Classics section (which you can turn off if you want), and drafting in the inimitable Murray Walker for commentary duties.But it's the cars that are the stars – they are incredibly powerful and, because they are turbocharged, that power is delivered in sudden, screaming high-rev bursts that can easily catch you out. The non ground-effect cars have laughably low amounts of grip compared to their modern counterparts, and they generally offer a much greater test of your innate driving skills. In F1 Classics, you can race split-screen against a mate, undertake full Grands Prix and get stuck into a selection of scenarios taken from real races from the era.Back to the present dayAs far as the modern-day component of F1 2013 is concerned, Codemasters has opted for tweaking rather than wholesale alterations. One of the first aspects you notice is that this year's tyre-disintegration controversy looms large: in the Young Driver Test, for example, you have to lap the Yas Marina track on a set of badly worn tyres, setting your tyre strategy before a race is key, and the manner in which the tyres degrade both visually and in terms of feel is striking.As in the real races, you can be left as a grip-less sitting duck in the latter stages if you pitted too early. You have to be very careful about how quickly you can get on the throttle after exiting corners, and smoothness is rewarded. The AI-controlled drivers, too, have noticeably upped their game so, if your driving skills are less than God-like, you might want to set the game on its easiest difficulty setting, before turning off some of the more annoying and intrusive driver aids, like the braking assist.Structurally, F1 2013 is much the same as last year's model, although the pit view, from which you begin each session of a Grand Prix, has been simplified and cleaned up somewhat, and there's a new (and gratifyingly logical) Hub screen detailing your career.The scenarios, in which you're plunged into various race situations with specific goals, have been arranged more logically to reflect the different stages of a driver's career, and there are more of them, constituting a pretty meaty slice of gaming on their own.Season Challenge — in which you have 10 races to notch a win, working your way up to a top car by setting a rival driver for each race, whose drive you acquire if you beat him – is back, too. And head-to-head races against your mates can be enacted split-screen or via system link.The multiplayer is more or less exactly the same as last year's, with one notable and very welcome difference: this year, it's free, whereas last year, you had to pay for a VIP pass. As before, up to 16 humans can race each other, with the rest of the grid filled with AI-powered bots.F1 2013 looks fantastic – it will be fascinating to see what Codemasters can do on the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One – and sounds and feels utterly authentic. However, it isn't without flaws. The feedback you get from your pit crew is minimal, to say the least, and sometimes reacts to proceedings much more slowly than you do; it would also be nice if it included more praise (such as when you lead a race despite being at the helm of a Force India) rather than censuring you for marginal corner-cutting escapades. The AI drivers also seem able to get away with transgressions that you would be penalised for, and loading times, although much shorter than in any of Codemasters' F1 games, are still noticeable.However, F1 2013 oozes quality, fully living up to the illustrious nature of its official licence, and the presence of the 1980s and 1990s cars, drivers and tracks gives motorsport nuts a real reason to buy it – which is much-needed for such an annual franchise. If the retro Grand Prix action is what appeals, we would recommend the Classic Edition, but either version provides racing enthusiasts with a truly meaty and authentic experience in which they can lose themselves for months..
Lockwatch, a new Android app, aims to defend users against theft of their phones or tablets by emailing a picture of the would-be thief to the owner.The app keeps an eye on the lock screen of an Android phone, and is triggered when the wrong password is entered. It can be configured to email a photo taken using the front camera, as well as a GPS location of where the phone is.“The idea came to me when I was out with friends and one of them had their phone stolen,” says Charles Antoon of Sydney-based developersBlokeTech, which produced the app.“I thought it would be a great idea to write an app that could immediately take a photo of any person who tried to unlock your phone and also send an image of their location to the owner&apos;s email address.”Lockwatch - could it become a built-in feature?Lockwatch is currently at 7,000 downloads from the Google Play store, and Antoon adds, “I&apos;m genuinely glad to see that people are finding it useful, with some [saying] that it ‘should be a built in feature of Android’.&quot;Although the app works with passcode, passphrase, and pin lockscreens, it is not compatible with the face unlock mode found on some newer Android phones.Lockwatch mirrors similar services for PCs, including BackBlaze, LoJack and Hidden, all of which allow owners of stolen machines to take control of their missing devices and use the thief’s personal information to track them down."I don't want to know what this man is doing on my MacBook," blogged Josh Kaufman, who used the app Hidden to track his stolen computer.Those services have had a number ofhigh profile successes. In 2011,Joshua Kaufman used Hiddento create a blog,This Guy Has My MacBook, sharing all the data he’d gathered on the man who taken his laptop from his apartment. That ended with the Oakland police force eventually deciding to investigate and tracking down the thief.Your laptop thief - naked, in the showerOthers have used the information for simple revenge. Mark Baoposted a videoof his laptop’s thief breakdancing to YouTube, for all the world to laugh at, while hacker Andrew Brookshappily shared with the Defcon cybersecurity conferencethe naked shower photos his thief had taken.But not all the stories end happily. When Dom del Torto started getting tracking alerts from his stolen laptop showing it in Tehran, he made a blog similar to Kaufman’s. But the family whose photos he was posting eventually got in touch, andmade clear they were as much victims as del Torto.When Susan Clements-Jeffrey bought a laptop for a cut-price from one of her students, she didn’t know it was stolen from a neighbouring school. But when the laptop was reported stolen, the company recovering it began using LoJack to eavesdrop on her traffic, recording her sexts with her boyfriend and saving explicit photos – which it then handed over to the police.Clements-Jeffrey sued, citing federal wiretapping regulations and arguing that her privacy had been violated.The case eventually settled for an undisclosed amount.• Gmail is planning to bringadverts to the Gmail app.
The Samsung Galaxy Note 3 is the third iteration of Samsung&apos;s popularphabletseries that has just become even bigger.With its large 5.7in screen and S Pen stylus, the Note 3 is unashamedly a phablet that will stretch prospective buyers hands and pockets, but provide fast and fluid experience while its at it.Design: You&apos;ll need at least two handsThe Samsung Galaxy Note 3 is anything but small. A phablet through and through, it has a very large footprint compared to most other smartphones with screens between 4.7 and 5in, and while it&apos;s thin at just 8.9mm thick, it certainly feels big in your hand.The sheer size of the device basically makes one-handed operation impossible. Samsung&apos;s given the Note 3 an entire settings menu dedicated to trying to make it easier to use one-handed, but even with my adult male-sized hands it&apos;s a struggle to reach even half of the screen without dropping the device.The Samsung Galaxy Note 3 is a 5.7in phablet.Samsung has used its characteristically plastic phone construction for the Note 3, matching the design ethos displayed by the rest of the Samsung Galaxy Android phone line, including its current flagship phone, the Galaxy S4.However, instead of a glossy plastic back, Samsung has given the Note 3 a fake leather back reminiscent of a cheap &quot;pleather&quot; sofa.I wouldn&apos;t call that an upgrade. Combined with chromed and ridged plastic edges, it makes the Note 3 feel anything but premium.Despite the cheap feel, the Note 3 is solidly built and displays little to no give, flex or creak in the body when twisted, while being lightweight.The front of the device is dominated by an excellent, bright and colourful large 5.7in screen. With a full HD 1920x1080 resolution the display is pin sharp making text on websites and ebooks easily legible, images crisp and detailed, while making watching videos a joy.SpecificationsScreen:5.7in full HD Super AMOLEDProcessor:2.3 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800RAM:3GB of RAMStorage:32/64GB plus microSD slot supporting up to 64GB cardsOperating systemAndroid 4.3 with Samsung TouchWizCamera:13-megapixel rear camera, 2-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi (n/ac), NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE, IR and GPSDimensions:151.2 x 79.2 x 8.3mmWeight:168gPowerful - and excellent for gamingSamsung has given the Note 3 a top of the line processor in the form of a 2.3GHz quad-core Snapdragon 800, and it really shows. The phablet absolutely flies along, with near-instant app loading and no perceptible lag anywhere within the operating system (more on that later).Even the most graphically intensive games run as smooth as butter, making the Note 3 excellent for gaming, while 3GB of RAM mean it should be up to any sort of multi-tasking you&apos;re likely to throw at it.The Samsung Galaxy Note 3 is both powerful and lag-free.To keep you fully stocked with apps, games and movies, the Note 3 sports ample storage with either 32GB or 64GB built-in, depending on model, of which the operating system takes up 5.64GB of space. A microSD card slot also stands ready to add up to another 64GB, should you need more.The Note 3 comes with USB 3.0 support, which makes transferring movies and music to the device much faster than most other smartphones that are saddled with the slower USB 2.0 standard.Charging the Note 3 is also fast via the included USB 3.0 cable, which from the mains charger adds about 1% of battery life per minute up until around 90% of capacity. It&apos;s 3,200mAh battery then gives it a very decent battery life of just about two days of real world use.That generally means you might have to top up the battery a little towards the end of the second day, but it should easily manage to last a day&apos;s mixed use even for the most demanding of users.Software: TouchWiz is cluttered and confusingThe Galaxy Note 3 runs Android 4.3 &quot;Jelly Bean&quot; and has unfettered access to all the Google apps and services that are available through the Google Play Store, including Gmail, Chrome and Google Now.However, like most manufacturers, Samsung chooses to customise the Android experience on its devices. Samsung&apos;s modifications are known as TouchWiz, and include things like a custom keyboard, modified settings menus, and a custom home screen.The Samsung Galaxy Note 3 runs Samsung's customised version of Android 4.3 "Jelly Bean".TouchWiz is a bit like Marmite - you will either love it or hate it. Personally, I loathe it, and find it cluttered and overly complicated. For instance, the settings menus are confusingly laid out at best, and the keyboard&apos;s strange, inefficient key spacing makes hitting the right touchscreen keys harder than it needs to be.Within the TouchWiz experience lays a whole host of gimmicky features that are of little practical use, including &apos;Air gesture&apos; that allows you to wave your hand over the device to turn pages, but only in specific apps, and &apos;Smart screen&apos;, which uses the phablet&apos;s front-facing camera to watch for your gaze and pause video among other things when you look away.Generally they are confusing at best to use, and put additional drain on your device&apos;s battery at worst. Your mileage might vary, but I found myself turning them off within a frustrating first day of trying to use them.Stylus: Completely ignore itSamsung&apos;s &apos;S Pen&apos; stylus also has a high potential for being relegated to just a gimmick. For the most part, there&apos;s little you can do with the stylus that you can&apos;t with a finger, which is often quicker and more convenient.The Note 3&apos;s &apos;Air command&apos; function brings up a circular quick action menu that allows you to annotate a screenshot, but also provides access to &apos;Pen Window&apos;.The Samsung Galaxy Note 3 comes equipped with Samsung's new and improved S Pen stylus.Pen Window allows you to perform multi-window multi-tasking, by drawing out a window of your desired size with the stylus that you can fill with a select few apps that include Google Hangouts, a browser and a calculator - something that sounds potentially useful, but ends up being laborious to use and slower than just switching between dedicated full-screen apps.Some of the drawing and annotation functions within Samsung&apos;s apps such as S Note, SketchBook and Scrapbook could be useful for someone who can draw well, but they&apos;re lost on me.On the whole, the stylus doesn&apos;t detract from the Note 3&apos;s experience, as it slots neatly into the back, but it can often be completely ignored unless you&apos;re trying to actually sketch something on-screen.Camera: Great for stills, but ultra HD is a gimmickThe Note 3 packs the same camera as the Samsung Galaxy S4, which at 13-megapixels produces clean, colourful and sharp images in decent lighting.In poor lighting, the camera can struggle to focus properly, however, it compares well to most other smartphone cameras and will capture pictures of a similar quality to most dedicated compact cameras.Samsung&apos;s camera software is easy and straightforward to use. It also manages to incorporate useful functions like an &apos;Eraser Mode&apos;, which is capable of removing unwanted objects like passers-by from your photos, and &apos;Drama Shot&apos;, which captures a series of shots and then stitches them together to make one over-laid action shot of a bike leaping off a ramp, or a football&apos;s flight through the air.Along with 13-megapixel stills, the Note 3&apos;s camera is capable of capturing video at up to 4K ultra high-definition, which at 3840x2160 has four times the number of pixels as full high definition.Since the Note 3&apos;s screen is only full HD, and 4K TVs are few and far between at the moment, capturing video in 4K UHD is a gimmick and will fill up the Note 3&apos;s storage very quickly with its large file sizes.The Note 3 will, of course, capture decent lower resolution video, including smooth normal full HD, and will even provide slow motion video at up to 120 frames per second if required.Price: More expensive than iPhone 5SAvailable in black, pink or white, the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 is a large, flagship phone and therefore commands a premium price. Bought outright, the Note 3 costs £650, which makes it one of the most expensive smartphones available at £100 more expensive than aniPhone 5sand around £230 more than a 5in Samsung Galaxy S4.The Samsung Galaxy Note 3 comes in three colours: black, white and pink.However, bought with a mobile phone contract in the UK, the Note 3 is available for free on contracts starting at around £42 a month for 24 months.Verdict: a great phablet but too big for mostIf you&apos;re after a phablet, the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 is the best one available right now.It&apos;s a snappy, lag-free experience, with great battery life and fast charging, but it&apos;s just not big enough to be a proper 7in tablet replacement.It&apos;s also likely be too big for most users looking for a smartphone, who will struggle to fit it in their pockets and will find it near-on impossible to use one-handed. Samsung&apos;s TouchWiz customisations to Android are often gimmicky and confusing, but they can be turned off to save frustration and battery life.The S Pen is responsive and easy to use, but actually using a stylus on a phone feels clumsy and fiddly, meaning it can safely be ignored in favour of a finger unless you&apos;re actually trying to sketch something on-screen.Overall, Samsung hopes to continue dominating the phablet category and maintain its 50% market share of a device type thatequals tablets and laptops combinedin sales in Asia-Pacific. The Note 3 is an improvement on the previous Galaxy Note 2 in every way, and is therefore probably the device to do that.Star rating: 3
Don't shoot the civilians. This is something military games have been telling us for many years. I remember my first go on Taito's explosive arcade title Operation Wolf – it was the late-80s and this frenzied blast-'em-up, with its jungle environment and hostage rescue missions, was clearly gunning for a generation of Rambo II fanatics. It even let you control the action with an Uzi-style sub-machine gun bolted to the cabinet. But what it wouldn't let you do was kill passing civilians: collateral damage of this sort took a big chunk off your health bar.Of course, this was really more about mechanics than ethics: players were being tested on their reactions and visual awareness, and failure meant a reduction in game time rather than a few moments' reflection on innocent victims. These days, if you accidentally (or otherwise) shoot a civilian or comrade in a military shooter, you'll probably get a 'mission failed' message and a one-way trip back to the last checkpoint. What you won't get is a military tribunal and a dishonorable discharge.Ina BBC news reportearlier this week, however, Francois Senechaud from the International Committee of the Red Cross told a reporter that, due to the increasing verisimilitude between first-person shooters and real-life combat, games should start to abide by the international laws of armed conflict. "Video games that represent contemporary battlefields are very close to reality," he said. "It's difficult to make out the difference between real footage and the footage you get from video games."What the Red Cross wants to see then is the player being penalised for carrying out such actions as willfully killing civilians or torturing enemy combatants, both of which are punishable under international law.A Q&amp;A document posted on the organisation's websiteexplains:The ICRC is suggesting that as in real life, these games should include virtual consequences for people's actions and decisions. Gamers should be rewarded for respecting the law of armed conflict and there should be virtual penalties for serious violations of the law of armed conflict, in other words war crimes.And importantly it adds:Our intention is not to spoil player's enjoyment by for example, interrupting the game with pop-up messages listing legal provisions or lecturing gamers on the law of armed conflict. We would like to see the law of armed conflict integrated into the games so that players have a realistic experience and deal first-hand with the dilemmas facing real combatants on real battlefields.The ICRC says it is now working directly with the developers of modern military simulations and the BBC report contains an interview with Marek Spanel of Bohemia Interactive, creator of the Arma series, who claims the studio's games will now be implementing the suggestions.Arma 2: The Red Cross believes that as video games become ever more realistic, they should also adhere to international rules of warfare.Feasibility studiedThe question is, how feasible are the ICRC's aims and will players really take on board the lessons about humanitarian law? It is difficult to imagine a Call of Duty or Battlefield title in which shooting a civilian leads to a mission where the player is detained in a military prison for several months before being tried and sentenced. But then if the consequences of illegal operations are subsumed into the gameplay mechanics – i.e. shoot civilian, fail mission – the player will usually read these instances in ludic terms. Within the action, civilians are are not people who deserve humane treatment, they're walking fail states to be avoided in the pursuit of success.We do often see the consequences of player actions being threaded into gameplay, but this tends to be in the adventure genre. Titles like Fable, Heavy Rain, Walking Dead and Dishonored all provide different paths for a player depending on their moral decisions during play – and because the action is combined with a confirming narrative element, the meaning and weight of transgression can come through. The idea of an action adventure that put the player into a series of defining humanitarian situations allowing the story to spin-off in the player's moral direction is interesting – but it's hugely unlikely in the action cinema world of the modern shooter.Furthermore, the ICRC statement makes clear that it is not interested in other genres – it is concentrating on combat games that depict and concentrate on contemporary battlefields. So how can players be made accountable for their actions beyond simple gameplay devices? How do you move beyond the simple message, "Mission failed, you have broken international law and will spend the next ten years in prison. Re-start mission?"Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2: shootouts often occur in areas where civilians are in the line of fire.Moral dilemmasThere have been two stand-out examples. In Modern Warfare 2's notorious No Russian mission a US soldier is embedded with a Russian terrorist organisation and must take part in a mass killing at an airport. Success means blending in with the terror squad, and it's up to the player to decide whether that extends as far as shooting civilians. The sequence was brave, but also clumsily handled, exploitative and incongruous; however, it did place the player in a position where many felt they genuinely had to weigh up their moral proclivities with the demands of the gameplay mission.Much more intriguing, though, is the scene in Yager Development's criminally overlooked shooter, Spec Ops: The Line, where three soldiers are stranded in a wrecked Dubai facing a crowd of angry locals. In a scene reminiscent of the Black Hawk Down incident, they must decide whether to shoot their way out or face death. Although actually, it's more interesting than that, because the first shot fired sends the group fleeing – something the player won't know until they commit to pulling the trigger. And vitally, those who point their gun in the air before firing get the same dispersal effect without casualties. In the heat of the game, facing a furious mob, many players will take the lethal option – but they sure as hell think about it. It is these sorts of split-second decisions that really suggest something about the complexities of combat.But then, of course, these examples offer more than a mere punishment mechanic – which is what the ICRC seems to be asking for. If all transgressions automatically lead to failure, it's a zero-sum game that invites only functional thinking. Players need to be able to live with the consequences of actions in more subtle ways. In both Heavy Rain and Walking Dead, players face lethal moral decisions that don't end the game, or even have ludic consequences for the player, but yet play on the mind and colour the experience. The game may be over but the choices remain – and by ending chapter of Waking Dead with a guide to the actions of other players, developer Telltale Games cleverly addresses and confronts the process.Often the most affecting moments are those hidden in momentary or supplementary features. The ability to name characters in titles like Cannon Fodder and XCOM, for example, provided a heightened level of emotional attachment for many players. The way we learn little snippets about the lives of the characters passing through our border gates in Papers, Please. The way that mobile phone hacking lets us see into the personal problems of potential targets in Watch Dogs. In games, moral depth is much more about humanisation than it is about punishment. The latter is too intricately tied in with atavistic gameplay systems for us to extrapolate anything deeper than game over.We are, though, surely heading into an era where gamers will have to take greater responsibility for their actions – if only because the visual fidelity will be there to splatter our violent failings across the screen in HD detail. In Operation Wolf, accidentally machine gunning a glitching sprite that vaguely resembled a non-military human could be easily divorced from the reality of armed conflict. In Battlefield 5 or Call of Duty 27, it may not be so simple to dismiss the sight of a photo-realistic person lying in the dust, eyes rolling back, limbs spasming.Battlefield 4  – the siege of Shanghai levelI don't even think that's what the ICRC wants – it doesn't want moral doubt to arise purely through aesthetics, it wants designers to think about international law, and about how warfare should operate. It wants developers to say, in this mission you must fly an armed drone over a school where terrorists are known to be hiding, and you must decide whether to open fire. And it wants players to understand the consequences of such an action, not just in terms of the score or progress, but in terms of the real world of warfare – the one that all military games reflect and fetishise..
Shares in BlackBerry have risen after a report that private equity firm Cerberus was considering a bid.Cerberus specialises in distressed companies and is understood to have asked to look at the smartphone maker's accounts in order to gather the information needed to make an offer.The firm, whoseinterest was first reported by the Wall Street Journal, declined to comment.BlackBerry publicly put itself up for sale this summer after a failed turnaround bid by its chief executive, Thorsten Heins, but has so far attracted only one bidder.A preliminary agreement to sell the company for $4.7bn (£2.9bn) to former board member Prem Watsa was signed last week. Watsa's investment fund, Fairfax Financial, has until 4 November to raise the required capital.BlackBerry's shares traded up on news of interest from Cerberus, closing up 4c at $7.96, but their value is still well below the $9 a share being offered by Fairfax.A spokesman for the company said: "We do not intend to disclose further developments with respect to the process until we approve a specific transaction or otherwise conclude the review of strategic alternatives."Heins launched a new generation of BlackBerry phones in January, but the innovation left consumers cold. While many BlackBerry loyalists still prefer its physical keyboard to touchscreen machines, developers have not embraced the new BB10 devices, meaning many popular games, social and media applications are not available on the phones.In 2011, BlackBerry still accounted for 14% of all smartphone sales worldwide, but according to industry analyst IDC its share had fallen to 3% by the second quarter of this year.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Microsoft to unlock more GPU power for Xbox One developersXbox One reserves 10 per cent of graphics resources for Kinect and apps functionality, Digital Foundry can confirm, with Microsoft planning to open up this additional GPU power for game development in the future. This, and further graphics and performance-based information was revealed during our lengthy discussions with two of the architects behind the Xbox One silicon.A typically robust and technical feature from Digital Foundry's Rich Leadbetter follows. "Our question was straightforward enough," he writes. "Were the results of these tests skewed by the code saturating the ROPs?" If you don't understand that, you may be in the wrong article.Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog Returns to TV in New Animated Series | VarietyExciting news for Sonic fans and their children:Videogame publisher SEGA has turned to Bill Freiberger ("The Simpsons," "Drawn Together") to help re-introduce the iconic blue character to viewers through the company's first CG-animated series that launches on Cartoon Network in the U.S. and France's Canal J and Gulli in Fall 2014. The new show, tentatively titled "Sonic Boom," is a co-production between SEGA of America and Genao Prods.The companies will initially produce 52 11-minute episodes of the comedy that targets kids age 6-11 and revolves around Sonic, his best friend and sidekick, Tails, their never-ending search for adventure and battles with Sonic's arch-nemesis, Dr. Eggman.The show's producers will work closely with Takashi Iizuka, the head of Sonic Team and driving creative force behind the Sonic games, to make sure it's true to the Sonic characters and universe.I have a ton of old Sonic cartoons on VHS that I systematically force my sons to sit through; this refreshed CGI series will give me useful new ammunition in the indoctrination process.Next-gen Deus Ex 'in development', studio confirms | CVG UKEidos Montreal head David Anfossi has confirmed the studio is working on a next-gen instalment in the brilliant cyberpunk adventure series:The announcement was published alongside the first early concept art for the game, which is said to showcase the "trans-humanism segregation" which will act as the backdrop for the sequel."It represents a 'ghetto-city' voluntarily built in order to separate the classes," Anfossi explained."The people in this segregated class have reshaped their environment, nostalgic for their ideal of Cyber Renaissance. This dark and dystopian vision sets the tone for things to come in Deus Ex."The game's next instalment is set to be published under a new "ambitious idea" called Dues Ex: Universe, Anfossi said, "an ongoing, expanding and connected game world built across a generation of core games".There'smore information on the studio's official site.UKIE and PEGI defend age ratings amidst 'tabloid sensationalism' | MCVDirk Bosmans fromPegi(Pan-European-Game-Information) has been talking to MCV after recent controversies over game certification, prompted by YouTube videos of children buying GTAV:Mainstream media, including the BBC, suggested that parents were unaware of the content they were buying for their children."The industry organises campaigns on a regular basis to inform as many consumers as possible," said PEGI's Dirk Bosmans. "Every single bit of marketing should carry a PEGI label. So each time the game is marketed on the side of a bus, on TV, or in magazines, you will see the PEGI label."Parents who take a sincere interest in what their kids are playing will have found out about PEGI ratings. We cannot force them to do that. Ironically, the only ones not inclined to share information about PEGI, are the tabloids. Lots of sensationalist stories and pointing fingers, but hardly a paragraph on age ratings and the responsibility that parents carry as well."You can find out more about how Pegi works inour major feature on the organisation.How the PS3 version of Terraria became an unconventional success in Japan | PolygonNice little story about how procedurally generated side-scroller Terraria became an unexpected hit in Japan:Satoru Honma, producer of the Japanese Terraria release for Spike Chunsoft, explained to Famitsu magazine this week that his company got the publishing rights mostly through his sheer passion for the game. "When we made our offer to [US console publisher] 505 Games, I sent along screenshots of my own PC Terraria game, something I had been working on for a really long time. Apparently they had at least one offer that gave them better conditions, but once Andrew saw those screenshots, he said 'I want to get in on their enthusiasm' and they chose us as their partner."Japan does have its own indie scene, known as doujin – I covered it very briefly inthis short news piece.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Children's virtual world Moshi Monsters signed up 15m new users in 2012, but its parent companyMind Candy's growth was fuelled more by sales of licensed products than subscriptions.The London-based firm's turnover grew 62% from £28.9m in 2011 to £46.9m in 2012, while its net profit rose from £7.4m to £8.1m in the same period, according to its annual report filed with Companies House.Moshi Monsters ended 2012 with 70m registered users compared to 55m at the end of 2011, with subscriptions and membership cards revenues rising 28.6% to £19.8m in 2012. However, sales of licensed products doubled to £19.3m for the year, accounting for 41% of Mind Candy's overall turnover.The obvious comparison is to Rovio, the Finnish company behind Angry Birds. AlthoughRovio made much more money in 2012– around £129m – its proportion of licensing income was similar at 45%. Mind Candy made an additional £7.7m in 2012 from its products division.The company claims that Moshi Monsters is the top licensed property in the UK, and cites the success of its self-published Nintendo DS games Moshling Zoo and Moshlings Theme Park in particular.Its Moshi Magazine is currently the top-selling children's monthly magazine in the UK, and 28th in ABC's overall rankings. Meanwhile, the Moshi Monsters Music Rox album was released in March 2012 and had sold more than 100,000 copies by November, earning a gold certification from the BPI.Mind Candy stresses in its financial report that it continues to carefully manage its licensing business, warning of "a risk of over exposure of the brand" while flagging a policy of not over-commercialising Moshi Monsters."We have been careful with the licensed partners we have chosen and execute a strategy of limiting how many products we have in the market at any one time, for example we aim to only release two Nintendo DS games per year," explains the report.Mind Candy also provides an update on its expansion plans in the filing, outlining plans to develop new IP "to build out a successful portfolio of brands", while noting "significant growth potential" for Moshi Monsters in non-English speaking territories.The UK's share of Mind Candy's revenues actually edged upwards last year, from 65.2% in 2011 to 66.2% in 2012. The US was its second biggest market in 2012 with 16.8% of revenues, followed by Australia (9.8%). Back in 2010, the UK accounted for just over 46% of Mind Candy's turnover, although its greater share now is a mark of the company's success with licensing in its home country.The key area for growth – and possibly the biggest threat to Moshi Monsters as things currently stand – is smartphones and tablets. The company has released a handful of apps, but admits in the report that there are "untapped revenue and growth opportunities across different platforms not yet exploited for example on smartphones and tablets".Moshi Monsters has spawned a handful of spin-off apps already, like this Moshlings app for iOSIn July 2012, Mind Candy's chief executive Michael Acton Smith announced thata full iPad app for Moshi Monsters would be launching "in the next few months", telling the Children's Media Conference that "we really firmly believe at Mind Candy that the tablet device is going to be the dominant form of entertainment for kids over the next few years".At that time, Mind Candy already had an in-house mobile team, as well as having strucka deal with Japanese social mobile games company GREEfor the latter to launch two mobile games later in 2012. Those games never appeared, although an early version of one seen by The Guardian was a FarmVille-style town-building game that looked likely to use in-app purchases.In the light of therecent Office of Fair Trading report into children's apps, it's possible to see why Mind Candy may have retreated from the idea, or at least adopted a more cautious approach on mobile.The full iPad app has also yet to launch, with the likely reason the use of the Flash technology on the Moshi Monsters website. As other children's brands like CBeebies have discovered, re-engineering Flash web games to work well on smartphones and tablets is a challenging task."Building on work started in 2012 the company is developing new smartphone and tablet titles due to be released in 2013 and 2013 as part of its diversification strategy in order to appeal to a larger demographic," explains Mind Candy's 2012 financial report.The company's previous annual reports reveal that its meteoric growth in 2010 and 2011 slowed down in 2012. The company's number of registered users grew 190% year-on-year to 32m in 2010, then 72% to 55m in 2011, and now 27% to 70m in 2012 – these are all total registered users, rather than active user figures. Mind Candy's turnover growth was 294% in 2010, 282% in 2011 and then 62% in 2012.Making a success of mobile is thus a necessity for Moshi Monsters and similar brands, with more children using tablets in particular. Earlier this week, research firm eMarketer claimed that of the20m Brits using tablets this year, just under 1.8m will be children aged under 12.Ofcom's Communications Market Report 2013, meanwhile, noted that24% of British households own at least one tablet, with 91% of tablet-owning parents saying that their children either use it, or have one of their own.The main competition for Moshi Monsters used to be other web-based virtual worlds like Disney's Club Penguin. In 2013, it's increasingly brands emerging from the apps world like Angry Birds andTalking Friends, which have notched up more than 1.7bn and 1bn downloads respectively while expanding into online video and licensed products.These brands are based on characters and individual apps, rather than a Moshi-style virtual world. But it's a matter of time before someone disrupts Mind Candy with a direct competitor on mobile devices, so the company's task is to take on that disruptive role itself.
Algorithms, simple functions that hover between mathematical problems and computer programs, are everywhere.Whether dealing with lost packets when using Wi-Fi, or getting your credit-card details securely to an online store, most consumer technology couldn&apos;t work without some ingenious solutions to common problems.And when Google decides to change its search algorithm - as it did with Hummingbird last week, itcan make or break whole companies.Here are just five which you couldn&apos;t live without.Pagerank – how Google calculates search resultsThe broad strokes of how Google&apos;s search algorithm works have been public for over fifteen years, though the exact way it organises search results remains the company&apos;s most closely guarded secret.PageRank is the system at the heart of it all, and the key invention behind Google&apos;s rapid dominance of internet search. Ten years ago, when competitors relied on human-maintained indexes of webpages, it allowed the company to assess the value of websites automatically - a massive advantage as the web grew exponentially.The algorithm works by looking at every link to and from every page on the internet. A link to a page is, in effect, a vote for that page&apos;s validity, because it means that someone thought that whatever was on that page was worth sharing. So the more inbound links a page has, the higher its PageRank is.But then it adds a second measure: links from pages which have a high PageRank themselves confer a higher PageRank. So being linked to byStanford, the Google creators&apos; alma mater, is significantly more valuable than being linked to byStanford&apos;s, the map shop.On top of PageRank aremyriad tweaksandadjustmentsto improve the results further. Some of those, such as the decision to punish &apos;link farms&apos;, vast networks of sites which link to each other in an effort to boost their PageRank , are directly connected to the core algorithm.Others, like the company&apos;s attempts to leverage what it knows about users based on their previous searches to deliver personalised results, were bolted on later.But as the demands we make of search have got ever more intensive, the company has been forced to adapt. The most recent update to the algorithm, Hummingbird is &quot;a new engine built on both existing and new parts&quot;, according to Danny Sullivan of the search blogSearch Engine Land.Hummingbird was built to deal with the fact that increasing familiarity with search, as well asthe rise of voice control, mean that we now ask Google actual questions, rather than just typing in relevant words.In the future, new problems will require further tweaks, but the position of PageRank at the heart of it all seems secure.Two Enigma machines at the London Science Museum.Photograph: DAVID HOLT/flickrPublic key cryptography - keeping credit card data securePublic key cryptography is the name for a broad collection of algorithms which lie at the heart of nearly every form of security online. Usingwhat is perhaps best described as &apos;magic maths&apos;, public key cryptography lets people encode data with a key which cannot then decode it.If Alice has a piece of information which she needs to get to Bob without anyone else seeing it – maybe a credit card number which she&apos;s using to buy a computer with, or perhapsevidence of state wrongdoing which she&apos;s leaking to a national newspaper– she has to encrypt it.Way back in history, the only way to do this would be to use a shared secret: a cipher which both Alice and Bob know, but no-one else does. That&apos;s how encryption all the way up to the second world war worked.But the obvious problem is that Alice and Bob can&apos;t use open channels to agree on their cipher. That&apos;s fine if they can meet in person to swap codes, but less effective if Alice is a consumer and Bob a multinational corporation.Public key cryptography means that Bob can tell the world his public key, and let them know that anything encoded with that will be readable by him and only him. Alice sees the public key, locks up her credit card data using it, and then sends that packet on the way.Only Bob, using a second, private, key can decrypt the data and read the number.Unfortunately, doing all of this every time is pretty hard on a computer&apos;s processor, so another step, where both Alice and Bob use their keys together to generate a shared secret, is frequently added in most practical uses of public key encryption. That shared secret can then be used in old-fashioned symmetrical ciphers. But it all comes back to the public and private keys.Correcting errorsCDs are temperamental beasts. When they were introduced, they were hailed as being a resilient replacement for vinyl and cassettes, but as anyone who has tried to play acarelessly preservedalbum found in their car&apos;s glovebox can attest to, that&apos;s only half true.Still, it could a lot worse. When you&apos;re storing data using microscopic pits on a sheet of metal covered with a thin layer of plastic, it&apos;s quite a feat to read every single pit correctly, a feat only compounded by later generations of optical media, which shrink the pits still further.Playback. Photograph: Stockdisc/Getty ImagesError correction lies at the heart of that reliability, thanks to the use of a cunning algorithm which lets CDs be readable even with quite a lot of damage to the data stored on them.In hugely simplified form, imagine the data on a CD as a grid of 1s and 0s. Like this:101010000If there&apos;s an error reading the CD, one of those 0s may turn into a 1. Without error correction, there&apos;s no way to tell if that&apos;s happened, and no way to fix it.The simplest way to correct errors is to add another load of data. Each row and column is counted up, and if there&apos;s an even number of 1s, another 1 is added on the end. If there isn&apos;t, a 0 is added instead:101101000001000Now, if one of the 0s is misread, the player can check with the error correction codes, and tell that there&apos;s been a mistake – and even, assuming there&apos;s not too much damage, what the real value should be.Suppose the bottom right 0 is read as a 1: by reading the error correction code for that row, the player can tell that there&apos;s one too many 1s. It can then cross-check with the error correction codes for each column, and spot that there are also too many 1s in one column as well.Now the player knows where the error is, and can carry on with those sweet tunes.Error correction isn&apos;t just used by disc drives, though. Nearly every electronic device which gets data from one place to another will have some error correction on it, from WiFi to DSL. Even ISBN numbers on the back of books have error correction: the final digit serves the role.Protecting passwordsSometimes, it&apos;s really important to check that the file you have been given is exactly the one you expected. Maybe you are worried it&apos;s been tampered with, or just want to check that a large download finished without corruption. One way to do that is to look at its hash.There isn&apos;t really one algorithm which can be used to make &apos;hashes&apos; of data: any process which can take information and spit out something which fulfils a few criteria will do.A good cryptographic hash function will give the same output every time it&apos;s given the same input; the hash will change if the message changes; it would be nearly impossible to work backwards from the hash to the message; and it would be nearly impossible for two messages to have the same hashes.Logging in. Photograph: Jan Miks/AlamyBut there&apos;s a much more important use for hashing data than just checking files: password protection.As is painfully obvious these days,not many organisations can guarantee they won&apos;t lose your data. That&apos;s particularly problematic if it&apos;s your password they&apos;ve lost, because — well,you don&apos;t have a different password for every service, do you?These days, companies shouldn&apos;t be keeping passwords in plaintext at all. Instead, when a user types in their password for the first time, the site should hash the password, and only keep that.Every time they come back to log in, it can take another hash, and compare it to the one on file. If they match, the password&apos;s correct. But now, if the site&apos;s hacked, the only thing which gets lost is a table full of hashes which can&apos;t be reverse engineered into passwords, so everyone is happy.(Technically, site owners should be salting their hashes - an oh-so-cute term which means adding a little bit of extra data into the password hash to prevent it beingreverse engineered.)Perlin noise: generating landscapes in gamesGames are just big bags of algorithms. There&apos;s art, music, writing, direction, design and playtesting too, but a lot of algorithms.Take procedurally generated terrain, the favoured way of filling in the vast expanses of games like Minecraft or Dwarf Fortress. It&apos;s not enough just to generate random noise, and apply it to a landscape, because if you do, you end up with something which istoorandom: all noise, no pattern. Instead, you want terrain which demonstrates the same fractal nature as the real world, with mountains, hills, boulders and pebbles all having effects on different scales.That&apos;s what Perlin noise can do. It&apos;s a simple enough algorithm:generate some random noise at a load of different frequencies, smooth it out, and then add them together. But when you do, you go from this:Random noise. Photograph: /http:/freespace.virgin.net/hugo.elias/models/m_perlin.htmTo this:Perlin noise Photograph: /http:/freespace.virgin.net/hugo.elias/models/m_perlin.htmOr consider trying to get enemies to take an intelligent route through a map. The obvious way to do it is easy enough: consider every possible route, then take the shortest one from A to B. But that&apos;s so computationally intensive that it&apos;s unusable in most situations.Instead algorithms like the A* search can be used.How it works is tricky to explain (essentially, it finds a path by always taking the step where the number of steps already taken plus the number of steps in a straight line to the destination is lowest), but it isentrancing in action.•In August 2011, a rogue algorithm lost its owners $440m on the stock market before it was eventually shut down.
The former Telstra boss Ziggy Switkowski has been confirmed as chairman of NBN Co, while only two of Labor's seven existing board members have been reappointed.Switkowski has also been appointed interim executive chairman until a replacement is found for the outgoing chief executive, Mike Quigley. Kerry Schott and Alison Lansley, both appointed by Labor, were the only two directors to survive the change of government.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, announced the decision after Tony Abbott's second cabinet meeting on Thursday.Turnbull also ordered NBN Co to conduct a strategic review to give the government a clearer indication of the progress and cost of the network, including the "economic viability" of "alternative strategies".Asked whether there was a chance of the government changing its election policy of fibre to the node, Turnbull said he was prepared to use any variant of the technology that would provide faster, cheaper broadband.He said while the Coalition's research into international experience showed fibre to the node was the best option, he would consider alternatives."If there are other variants of that, that will get the job done even better, we are very open to it," Turnbull said."I cannot emphasise too much that we are absolutely committed to taking an open mind with a rational objective approach to this project."The strategic review will investigate the time and cost of completing Labor's fibre to the home model, the Coalition's fibre to the node in established areas, and unnamed alternative strategies.The review will also consider the implications of capital costs for wholesale and consumer prices as well as any recommendations for changes to the organisational structure and the construction model."So we need to know what is the state of the project right now, accurately," Turnbull said."The reason we have asked the board to do it is because we want the company to own it."Soon after the election, all members were asked to tender their resignations and all but one director complied.Turnbull described Switkowski, a nuclear physicist and former chief executive of both Telstra and Optus, as "one of the most experienced telecom executives in Australia".Turnbull rejected Labor's charge that Switkowski's controversial reign at Telstra made him unsuitable for the job.Switkowski was dumped from Telstra in 2004 after overseeing its privatisation.Announcing his departure, Switkowski said: "I am personally associated with quite a controversial … era over the last five or six years and do doubt do carry baggage."From my perspective the company and investors can effectively sort of push the reset button with my departure and stop looking backwards."The former Labor communications minister Anthony Albanese said: "Before the election, Mr Turnbull claimed he would add experience relevant to the NBN rollout, but he has failed to do so."But Turnbull said the reception to Switkowski's appointment had been "very positive".Schott is an economist, a former managing director of Sydney Water and former deputy secretary of the NSW Treasury. She worked for Turnbull at his consultancy Whitlam Turnbull. Lansley is a corporate lawyer with experience in the telecommunications sector and has served on a number of boards.Turnbull said the company would appoint a chief executive to ultimately replace Quigley "in consultation with the government".The minister praised the outgoing board members and said he would not reflect on the performance or suitability of directors."In any process of corporate renewal, you have to have an element of continuity so a judgment had to be made," he said."We don't reflect adversely on any of the directors continuing or departing but the project clearly does need new leadership. Both Ms Lansley and Dr Schott have relevant skills."There had been speculation regarding a number of board appointments, including the potential appointment of Wal King, the former boss of Leighton Holdings."I am not making any comments about the orgy of speculation about who may or may not be appointed to the board of NBN Co, most of which has been wrong," Turnbull said.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHTC works with Qualcomm to avoid US ban on phones &gt;&gt; WSJ.comA US International Trade Commission judge last week issued a preliminary ruling that HTC infringed on two Nokia patents that enhance transmission and reception of phone calls. Nokia's filings with the commission said that the chip covered by the patents was made by Qualcomm.Only older HTC phone models were listed in the case. But the HTC One smartphone and other new devices use the same technology that would be banned if the commission decides in January to uphold its initial ruling, two people familiar with the matter said.Nokia said it believed that the One also violated the Finnish company's patents and would be included under any ban.Things are going from bad to worse for HTC.Galaxy Note 10.1 2014 Edition review roundup: Is this a 10.1 inch Android tablet worth buying? &gt;&gt; Android BeatLet an Android site tell you.More M7 details: data storage, battery life, Android motion coprocessor adoption &gt;&gt; 9to5MacAzumio has been hoping for a motion coprocessor for quite some time. Rather than having the battery-hog CPU running all the time, placing in a motion coprocessor allows the phone to store all of the information while the CPU can sleep or focus on other tasks. The company told me they were in talks with Android manufacturers about placing motion coprocessors in their phones, and now that Apple has been boasting about this new piece of hardware, there's a good chance other manufacturers will follow suit. The Moto X has its own version of motion tracking and 4.3 includes support for activity detection, but nothing matches the low-power capabilities of the M7.Azumio consumes 25-30% of battery power on non-iPhone 5S devices - a ridiculous amount for something devoted to telling you how many steps you've taken (a pedometer is cheaper and uses zero battery). Let's hope that better uses for the M7 and other coprocessors come along soon.How Microsoft plans to sell millions of Surface tablets to businesses &gt;&gt; CITEworldSurface Commercial director Cyril Belikoff told me that the ARM-based version of Surface - the version that doesn't run traditional Windows apps, and which has sold poorly at retail so far - is actually notching up bigger wins with corporate customers.That's because a lot of companies haven't done any large scale tablet deployments yet, and they're looking to the ARM-based Surface RT (old) or Surface 2 (new) as their first line-of-business tablet. They often build custom apps for these tablets, sometimes locking them down so users can only access these apps, and deploy them all at once to employees in particular functions, like retail or mobile salespeople.In contrast, the Surface Pro is more of a laptop replacement, and will probably trickle in to enterprises according to their regular PC refresh cycle of maybe 10% to 20% new PCs per year. Moreover, some companies are still buying Windows 7 laptops instead of or alongside Windows 8 machines.How Samsung cranked out the Galaxy Gear: The inside story &gt;&gt; CNET NewsIn the case of Gear, the company started testing concept designs in early 2011. Key features and the decision to move forward with a product came in part from surveys Samsung conducted more than a year ago, said Young-hee Lee, the Samsung executive vice president who oversees mobile marketing.Samsung didn't ask people if they wanted smartwatches. Instead, it sought to find out more about what people find annoying with smartphones. Samsung concluded that a big concern for people was missing out on things in the time it takes to get out their phones, such as not being able to take a photo fast enough. That contributed to plans for a camera in the Gear band.Once Samsung had that survey data in hand, it was time to get high-level executives on board. It's unclear who spearheaded Gear - Samsung won't say - but top executives championing Gear early on included Shin and DJ Lee, president and head of sales and marketing for Samsung's mobile business. Once top management made the decision to build the product, things started to come together quickly."We put all things together and said let's just go for it," Young-hee Lee told CNET.They're (almost) all dirty: the state of cheating in Android benchmarks &gt;&gt; AnandTechWith the exception of Apple and Motorola, literally every single OEM we've worked with ships (or has shipped) at least one device that runs this silly CPU optimization. It's possible that older Motorola devices might've done the same thing, but none of the newer devices we have on hand exhibited the behavior. It's a systemic problem that seems to have surfaced over the last two years, and one that extends far beyond Samsung.Looking at the table above you'll also notice weird inconsistencies about the devices/OEMs that choose to implement the cheat/hack/festivities. None of the Nexus do, which is understandable since the optimization isn't a part of AOSP. This also helps explain why the Nexus 4 performed so slowly when we reviewed it - this mess was going on back then and Google didn't partake.The table that shows who boosts performance for which benchmark is very revealing.Why are people worrying about the NSA stealing their fingerprints? &gt;&gt; VICE UK"We have no set of rules for this yet – there is no convention on what happens and what can be done," Sam Smith from privacy rights organisation Privacy International told me. "Can the police technically force you to unlock your phone if it's fingerprinted? The police would argue that they can, but they don't get to unilaterally make the rules."That said, perhaps the paranoia about police being able to access your devices with a copied fingerprint is already hugely outdated. According to Val Swain from NetPol, a police watchdog group, this kind of thing has already been going on for years: "The police routinely download information from mobile phones when anyone is taken into custody, using an ACESO device. This claims to be able to access data from smartphones, including Blackberry devices, even when they are password protected."It is not clear whether the use of fingerprint locks on mobile phones would be a significant hurdle for the police, or whether the ASECO reader is – or would quickly become – capable of by-passing the requirement for a fingerprint," she continued. "We would need more technological data in order to know that." And due to the interest of private sector companies in creating this kind of technology, Val suspects "an answer to Apple's fingerprint technology will not be far behind".Britain's Times to pull Blackberry app due to lack of interest &gt;&gt; ReutersBritain's The Times newspaper said on Tuesday it would no longer make its mobile app available on a Blackberry because few people used it, in another sign that rival smartphone makers are trumping its technology.Get it before 31 October, or don't get it at all.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
One of the UK's most congested highways, connecting the busy container port at Felixstowe to Birmingham, is to become Britain's first internet-connected road in a pilot project that could pave the way for everything from tolls to self-driving cars.A network of sensors will be placed along a 50-mile stretch of the A14 in a collaboration between BT, the Department for Transport and the Cambridge start-up Neul, creating a smart road which can monitor traffic by sending signals to and from mobile phones in moving vehicles.The technology, which sends signals over the white spaces between television channels instead of mobile phone networks, could even pave the way for government systems to automatically control car speeds.The telecoms watchdog Ofcom, which on Wednesday approved the project as part of its newblueprintfor how Britain will use spectrum, is already forecasting what high technology traffic systems will look like."Sensors in cars and on the roads monitor the build-up of congestions and wirelessly send this information to a central traffic control system, which automatically imposes variable speed limits that smooth the flow of traffic," Ofcom said. "This system could also communicate directly with cars, directing them along diverted routes to avoid the congestion and even managing their speed."Onboard computers could essentially override the driver, imposing maximum speeds on the vehicle by controlling the brakes and the engine. While the concept may sound futuristic, Google is already developing a computer-driven car, which uses cameras, radar, and range finders to detect obstacles and other vehicles. The Google smart car has been extensively tested on public highways and smart roads lined with sensors.The A14 project will not involve smart cars, but is a first step in building the infrastructure such vehicles will need. It could also lay the ground for charging motorists to use busy roads.The Highways Agency is proposing a £1.5bn improvement to the A14 which would be paid for by atoll, with lorries paying up to £3 to use the improved route. The BT's sensor project could help design the toll and the road improvements. The project will initially gather information on car drivers before moving on to collect information on heavy goods vehicles. The information will be sent back to a database to which the Department for Transport will have access."Understanding traffic patterns, in different weather conditions at different times of day, will allow changes to traffic regulation," said Stan Boland, chief executive of Neul. "In the future it might provide data that could be used for road pricing, vehicle tracking, and breakdown."Within one or two years, Boland believes the UK will have national, regional and city-wide networks of sensors, connected to simple tracking devices monitoring everything from whether council bins need emptying and which parking spaces are free to the location of missing pets.While traffic data is already gathered by companies such as the satnav maker TomTom, using mobile phone networks, the A14 project offers a low-cost alternative. Instead of relying on mobile masts, which costs tens of thousands to install, Neul will use small base stations that cost a few pounds and can be fixed to street lamps or, in the case of the A14, the outside of nearby BT exchanges.The project is one of a series approved by Ofcom to explore white space, which is currently used by cameras and microphones for films, theatres and live events but in many areas lies empty. In Glasgow, where consumer take-up of broadband is among the lowest in the country, Microsoft will be using the spectrum to install free wifi in the city centre. Working with the University of Strathclyde, the software group will install sensors around the city to measure pollution and humidity.White space is also useful for getting broadband signals into rural areas, because it travels longer distances and through obstacles such as leaves and trees. On the Isle of Wight, an Ofcom-approved trial will get remote homes online.Google is also taking part as one of a number of companies developing intelligent databases that could eventually allow smartphones and tablets to use white space to connect to the internet instead as an alternative to mobile signals.The databases will tell devices which bands are empty in their local area, and at what power level the signal can safely operate without interfering with nearby users. Demand for data over wireless devices is forecast to be 80 times higher than it is today by 2030, and Ofcom is bent on increasing the amount of spectrum available to connect machines ranging from computers to parking meter sensors to the internet.
Ofcom has announced Europe&apos;s first trial of new &quot;white space&quot; technology which could enable new high-speed mobile broadband and theinternet of things.&quot;Spectrum is the raw material that will underpin the next revolution in wireless communications,&quot; said Ofcom&apos;s chief technology officer Steve Unger. &quot;However, there isn&apos;t an unlimited supply of spectrum to meet the extraordinary demand of our ever expanding internet-connected society.&quot;The hope is that white space technology - explained below - will help provide much-needed extra spectrum and wireless communications to provide the backbone to support the billions of smart, connected devices that arelooming on the horizon.What exactly is &apos;white space&apos;?White space is defined as the unused frequencies allocated to broadcasting services but that are left unused in particular areas of the country. For digital TV in the UK, these chunks of spectrum are left open as buffering gaps between the high-powered transmissions carrying broadcast TV to avoid interference.The white space frequencies vary by region, but lie in chunks of spectrum between 470MHz and 790Mhz. The size of the frequency gaps, and their precise frequency, varies too - meaning there is no single white space frequency that can be used around the country.Devices such as mobile phones and tablets could use the free spectrum by knowing which frequencies are available, at what power levels, and at which times of the day in a particular location.Ofcom intends to have white space database providers inform devices on the ground which chunks of spectrum are available for use in their vicinity to allow interconnectivity without interfering with the transmission of digital TV.What can it enable?Opening up white space to lower-powered devices provides more wireless spectrum for data transmission to support a large range of services and devices.For example, white space could be used to provide wireless broadband internet access, similar to Wi-Fi but over much longer distances, to mobile devices like tablets and phones. It could also be used as an extension of fixed-line broadband to reach places that aren&apos;t connected via cable without resorting to line-of-sight technology such as satellite or microwave broadband.The white space spectrum could be used for connecting devices as part of the &quot;internet of things&quot; too, where infrastructure becomes intelligently interconnected allowing collected information to be passed between traditionally disconnected devices and hardware - something often referred to as machine-to-machine communication or M2M.For example, cars could communicate with each other, warning drivers of stationary vehicles along their path that would otherwise not be visible due to traffic. Cars could also connect to the road infrastructure for traffic management, allowing intelligent adjustment of speed limits and traffic patterns to eliminate the stop-start traffic congestion often seen on motorways and ensuring a higher average speed and shorter average journey times.What uses does white space technology have already?The UK is the first country in Europe to look at utilising white space spectrum. But the United States and other countries have already started using it.A municipal &quot;smart city&quot; wireless network wasestablished in Wilmington, North Carolinain the US in 2011. It used white space spectrum to connect the city&apos;s infrastructure and public services, allowing officials to turn the lights on and off in parks, monitor water levels and quality, as well as provide public Wi-Fi to certain areas.In April 2012, Microsoft and a consortium of internet service providers conducted a white space trial in Cambridge, UK. That involved a live stream of HD video from the internet to an Xbox 360, as well as a live video chat between two wirelessly connected Xbox 360s using Microsoft&apos;s Kinect system.What&apos;s happening now?Today, Ofcom announced the participants in a white space trial that will run over the next six months in various parts of the UK.Around 20 public and private organisations, including Microsoft, Google, BT, Neul, Meld, and the Department for Transport will be involved in the trials ranging from high definition TV broadcasts and wireless broadband, to traffic flow monitoring.Microsoft is running a trial in Glasgow to provide free wireless internet access to residents in certain areas of the city, while also linking a network of sensors to create a &quot;smart city&quot; with the University of Strathclyde.Along the A14 between Felixstowe and Cambridge, the Department for Transport will work with BT and wireless technology specialist Neul to test the use of white space for car-to-infrastructure communications, monitoring traffic conditions and providing information to help reduce congestion and improve road safety.Click4Internet, an internet service provider based in Hampshire, will also look at trailing the use of white space spectrum as a method for providing an alternative to fixed-line broadband in hard to reach rural areas.What could it mean for you?Connectivity is at a premium right now, and the demand for internet access is set to skyrocket, with an estimated 50bn internet-connected devices globally by 2020, according to data from Cisco.The use of white space will provide another resource of bandwidth and invaluable connectivity, while not having to rely on traditional mobile phone networks. It has the potential to connect both mobile and fixed devices to the internet where Wi-Fi cannot reach.Wireless broadband provided over white space spectrum will travel long distances and through solid objects and foliage, potentially providing better wireless broadband coverage in traditionally signal-poor areas, due to the use of low frequencies in the sub 800MHz range.It can also to realise the idea of the internet of things, creating &apos;smart cities&apos; by connecting a network of sensors around us to help our towns and cities better adapt to our changing needs throughout the day.The trials taking place over the next six months across the UK are just the first stages of unlocking the white space potential. We&apos;ll know more about what works well and what doesn&apos;t by spring 2014.
4.52pmBSTtest videohttp://www.theguardian.com/weather/video/2013/sep/13/samaraUpdatedat 4.54pm BST7.12pmGMTHands-on review – videoGuardian Technology editor Charles Arthur takes a tour of the new BlackBerry BB10 software and Z10 handset. For those of you tuning in from mobile phones, the video can he foundhere.7.12pmGMTSummarySo, to sum up.Research In Motion has taken the logical step of renaming itself BlackBerry.The BB10 software platform is live from tomorrow in the UK, when the first handset that runs on it will go on sale.Named the Z10, BlackBerry&apos;s new flagship handset is a touch screen device with no physical keyboard.The Z10 will work on all 4G networks in the UK.A second BB10 device, this time with a keyboard and a smaller touch screen, will follow later this Spring and will be called the Q10.Investors have responded by sending the shares down 5% today.And finally, someone calling himself CrackBerry Kevin has cut his ponytail off. About time too.7.12pmGMTUK stockists and pricesThe Z10 will be available from tomorrow, 30 January, from EE, Three, O2, Vodafone, BT, Carphone Warehouse and Phones4U.The handset will work on the 4G network already launched by EE, which is in the 1800MHz spectrum band, and the 4G services that will arrive in May/June from all other carriers, in the 800MHz and 2600MHz bands.And that&apos;s all for today from the live London event.Information below on retail prices.The out-of-contract, unlocked BlackBerry Z10 UK pricing is yet to be confirmed. From Carphone Warehouse, the cost is from £36 a month under contract on all major networks.Phones 4 U, has a temporary exclusive on the white edition of the Z10 – the main version is black.EE will be selling the Z10 on 4G EE plans from £41 a month for 24 months, with an upfront cost of £49.99.The handset will also be available across a range of 3G plans from EE, including £49.99 on a £36 per month, 24-month plan.Vodafone, will offer the BlackBerry Z10 for £29 on a £42-a-month deal. No price yet from Three, although the network says the handset is &quot;coming soon&quot;.7.12pmGMTBlackBerry chief executive Thorsten Heins unveils the BlackBerry 10 mobile. Photograph: Timothy A Clary/AFP/Getty Images7.12pmGMTRovio's Angry Brids on BB10Peter Vesterbacka, chief marketing officer of Rovio, is on stage in a red Angry Birds hoodie. He&apos;s given software chief Bocking an Angry Birds stuffed toy.He is demonstrating Angry Birds Star Wars, and not doing too well. The game will be available at launch.Being Rovio we like to surprise and delight our fans. Not only are we bringing Star Wars to the whole platform, we are bringing our whole black catalogue.And they are giving out 1,250,000 copies of Angry Birds Star Wars for free with the first Z10 devices sold.7.12pmGMTExpert reaction from IDCAnd that&apos;s it from Heins in New York. The London event continues though.Here is a comment from analyst Francisco Jeronimo at market research firm IDC:This is D-Day for BlackBerry. New BlackBerry Devices Are the Only Possible Plan for Success.Research in Motion — now renamed BlackBerry — today launched the latest BlackBerry devices — the BlackBerry Z10 (touchscreen) and the BlackBerry Q10 (physical keyboard) — running on the new platform BlackBerry 10. After several months of delays, the device is finally out. After using the touchscreen BlackBerry Z10 for a few days, my first impressions of the device are extremely good. The new user interface has been radically improved and it now matches the experience on Android and iOS devices. Indeed the swipe between applications provides a much more advanced experience than in any other smartphone, particularly for heavy app and email users. The new keyboard is the jewel in the crown and RIM has mastered the experience. The browser, one of the weakest features on the old BlackBerry devices, is now an enjoyable experience. Lastly on the applications side, the company has developed tools for developers to migrate their applications from other platforms to the new BlackBerry World. This is not a new BlackBerry device; this is a completely new BlackBerry experience. For the first time the traditional keyboard BlackBerry users will find easier to type on a touchscreen.The company has been through a tough couple of years, and the transition to the new BlackBerry 10 platform based on QNX has been difficult. The company&apos;s market share dove from 14% in 1Q11 to 4% in the last quarter of 2012. The consumer segment was the most impacted as users moved away to the latest and greatest shiny Android devices from Samsung and the new iPhones. The lack of applications and the BlackBerry World cumbersome experience didn&apos;t help either.This is the D-Day for Research in Motion. The company has no other major options; if it doesn&apos;t succeed with the new platform, there are no alternatives on the hardware or software sides. The future will then be dependent on a new corporate strategy, from strategic alliances to licensing, and so on. While other companies have the option to adopt a new operating system, for BlackBerry that is not possible. The time and investment required to migrate the entire services to a new and unproven OS would make the task almost impossible. For BlackBerry there is no plan B available.Despite losing a significant percentage of clients, I believe the enterprise segment continues to be the sweet spot for the company. Those companies running on BlackBerry servers (BES) and with thousands of users cannot simply throw the entire infrastructure away and buy a new one; and they don&apos;t want to. BlackBerry continues to offer very critical services that no other company has been able to match. Device management, IT policies, security, and so on are crucial for any IT department. As an example, the new BlackBerry 10 devices support a new service called BlackBerry Balance. This allows IT departments to set personal and corporate environments in the devices. Employees using a BlackBerry handset cannot transfer information from the corporate environment to the personal, which provides a secure and controlled management of corporate information.On the consumer side, the story is different. The new devices will find a tough challenge to compete with the latest Android handsets at much lower price points. In the U.K., for instance, BlackBerry devices became very popular among teenagers looking for a cheap prepaid handset that allows them to connect with their friends through BBM. Although these users have been moving to other applications, such as WhatsApp, that run across platforms. Most consumers that have moved already are now tied to contracts and will not replace their devices until the end of those contracts.IDC estimates that BlackBerry will continue to be a major player in the enterprise segment, but a smaller player in the overall smartphone market with a market share of around 5%. This may change if the company rapidly expands its portfolio to significantly lower price points. In the meantime the challenge is even tougher — how to convince a consumer to buy an older BlackBerry device when a new and completely different one has been launched? This will have a negative impact on BlackBerry&apos;s results until the mid-range devices become available later this year or in 2014. BlackBerry has disrupted itself with a completely new and appealing experience; the challenge will now be to convince thousands of companies to quickly upgrade their servers to the BlackBerry 10 servers so they can support the new devices.7.12pmGMTAlicia KeysAlicia Keys is in the room. In New York, that is. On the stage now, discussing what she likes about the new handset, which she has been given an early copy of.Heins:You were a long time BlackBerry user and then we lost you for a while.Keys:I was in along term reltaionship with BlackBerry and then I started to notice new hotter sexier phones at the gym and I kind of walked out on you. But now we are exclusively dating again and I am very happy.The music business has changed dramatically and because of that there are so many opportunities in the creative space, particularly with BlackBerry. I read an interview with you (Heins) where you said the PC and the laptop were dying and that reminded me of what was happening in the music industry.I&apos;m going to work closely with the app designers, the retailers, the carriers, to create ideas for this BlackBerry platform. I&apos;m going to work with people in the entertainment and music business to inspire creative projects. It&apos;s a big job and it&apos;s a super hands on roll.BB10 projects: Film director Robert Rodriguez in collaborating in a project. Keys will be creating a music video for each city she visits on her world tour.Blackberry chief executive Thorsten Heins and singer Alicia Keys discuss her rekindled relationship with BlackBerry. Photograph: Timothy A Clary/AFP/Getty Images7.12pmGMTNetworks that will stock the Z10In Canada the Z10 will be available on February 5th. Most markets, including the US, will have it in March. In the United Arab Emirates, one of their most important markets, it will launch on February 10th.And in the UK, the Z10 will arrive tomorrow.The news draws the first cheer from the London audience.All carriers and retailers including Carphone Warehouse will stock it.7.12pmGMTAttracting developersSoftware leader Andrew Bocking explained at a briefing earlier that porting existing apps in from other operating systems – Apple&apos;s iOS, or Android – is partly automated. Games can be customised for the platform in a day or two. Code for functions common to all BB10 apps is pre-written, and can be cut and pasted in.Developers have also been given financial incentives. The best are guaranteed to make a minimum of $10,000 in the first year.Among the apps are Microsoft&apos;s office suite, which one analyst has told me looks better on BlackBerry than it does on the Windows Phone operating system, particularly for Powerpoint presentations. Office documents can be read and amended on BB10 phones.7.12pmGMTThe BB10 Guardian app launchesThe Guardian has created an app for BlackBerry 10 devices which is available from launch.According to the Guardian&apos;s mobile editor, Subhajit Banerjee, it has video, podcasts and picture galleries as well as the news, sport and comment. It also lets you share content via BBM, Twitter, Facebook and more. The app is free and can be downloaded fromBlackBerry World, and you can find out more about ithere.Subhajit has been trialling the Z10 handset and here are his thoughts on BB10The near-final non-keyboard BB10 smartphone I had a play with reminded me of an iPhone 5 (though slightly bigger) more than any other device. And the OS seemed a mashup between iOS, Android and Windows Phone rather than something radically different.The lack of a home button took some time to get used to, as did some other BB10 features like swiping up to return to homepage or the &apos;peek and flow&apos; navigation.Nevertheless, I did like the ability to set different security settings for work and play accounts, the responsive touch keyboard, the impressive camera and BBM integration in sharing. But for a device so crucial to RIM&apos;s survival, it still didn&apos;t feel compelling enough to make the switch from an iPhone or a Galaxy S3.The other factor of course is cost. If RIM wants to target the teenagers hooked on BBM and Facebook or the non-enterprise segment in developing countries, it needs to compete with the popular Android and Nokia models. I wonder how affordable they can make a feature-rich flagship smartphone such as this, or if they have some low-spec versions up their sleeves.7.12pmGMTApplicationsHeins:We have been working more openly than ever before with leading application partners. We will launch with an amazing collection of music, TV shows and movies. The eight major Hollywood studios are supplying content.Martyn Mallick, VP of global alliancesToday I can say with absolute confidence that the deliberate decision to build a platform in collaboration with developers and content producers has paid off.Over 70,000 applications available on BB10 today, he confirms. Behind Mallick, a screen is showing some of the companies that have committed. Don&apos;t recognise any so far. But Skype, WhatsApp – big challenger to BBM – Angry Birds and Amazon&apos;s Kindle are all there. Facebook, Twitter and Boohoo are there. So is Disney&apos;s popular game Where&apos;s My Water.The Wall Street Journal, the Economist, Reuters, Bloomberg are there, and the Guardian too!I have been told Ebay is not there at launch, although it will be coming.The new BlackBerry 10 device. Photograph: Reuters/Shannon Stapleton7.12pmGMTThe CameraThe camera is the standard 8 megapixel at the back, 2 megapixels at the front for skype calls etc.Tap the screen anywhere to take a photo. To refocus, move the focus box with your finger to your chosen subject. To select a better shot - the camera takes several at a time - move a cursor back or forward to scroll through the shots and select one.To add effects to a photo, select one from the menu - sepia, film reel - and swipe upwards to the photo from the icon representing that effect.7.12pmGMTA new application called Remember. Being demonstrated on the Q10, which has a physical keyboard and looks like a typical BlackBerry. If you are looking at travel information for a holiday on a website, you can save it to an email and send it to a chosen folder.7.12pmGMTSecurityOnce your phone is hooked up to the company email via the BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) secure network that BlackBerry supplies to businesses, you can use the BlackBerry Balance feature, which separates personal and work functions.A single screen for work and company apps. The Hub can also combine work and private communication, and hide work emails on request.Heins:I hope we will see people merging form two devices into one, which I hope will be a BlackBerry 10.They are about to make the first public BB10 call. They are ringing Andrew Bockering, software chief, at the London event.Showing off a feature called Screenshare - which allows Andrew in London to show his screens - pages of apps, icons, emails, pictures, websites, books, documents, presentations on powerpoint, spreadsheets.7.12pmGMTThe touch keyboardNow Heins is talking about the keyboard. Even the virtual one on the touch phone has &quot;frets&quot; which divide the rows of keys from each other. The predictive text function suggests the word next to the key which it thinks you are about to press. To use the word, you swipe up from the keyboard to the message box. The demonstration has brought the biggest cheers yet from the room in New York.7.12pmGMTNotification light remainsThe red notification light, which drives some users mad and thrills others because, is still there on the Z10. A small red light, it flashes on the top right of every BlackBerry to tell you a new message has come in.7.12pmGMTThese devices offer the best typing experience in the industry, says Heins.There is a demonstration of the Flow feature. the new software has a screen where up to eight apps – only four can be seen at a time, scroll down to see the rest – can be featured in large boxes. The boxes are live – they show content fed in from the app – the last video you watched on yYouTube, the last page you viewed on a newspaper app.The centre of the phone is the Hub, a single inbox for all communication including email, texts, Twitter, Facebook and BlackBerry Messenger. All these services are integrated – if you want to tweet back, you can do so without leaving the Hub.To check the Hub while in an app, you use your thumb to swipe the screen from left to right, and can &quot;peek&quot; at the Hub&apos;s inbox. Swipe fully you are back in the Hub, but unfortunately the app you were in closes at that point.Getting back to that last app is made easier as the phone automatically moves it into the top left square of the app screen.7.12pmGMTThe BlackBerry Z10 specificationsSize (L x W x D)130mm x 65.6mm x 9mmDispay4.2”, four-point multitouch LCD display, 1280 x 768 resolution at 356dpi, touch on lensSoftwareBlackBerry 10 OSMemory2GB RAM, 16GB Flash, hot-swappable Micro SD slot (up to 32GB)ProcessorDual core 1.5 GHzBattery lifeTalk time:Up to 10 hours on 3GStandby timeUp to 305 hours on 3G, up to 316 hours on 2GAudio playbackUp to 60 hoursVideo playbackUp to 11 hoursCamera8MP rear-facing camera, autofocus, 5x digital zoom, 1080p HD video recording, 2MP front-facing camera, 3x digital zoom, 720p HD video recordingGPSAssisted, autonomous, and simultaneousBluetoothBluetooth 4.0 low energyWi-Fi802.11 a/b/g/n enabled, 4G mobile hotspotAdvanced sensorsAssisted, autonomous and simultaneous GPS accelerometer, magnetometer, proximity, gyroscope, ambient light sensorIcons on the display of the new BlackBerry Z10 handset. Photograph: Andy rain/EPA7.12pmGMTHandsets unveiled: BlackBerry Z10 and Q10Heins is trying to gee up the audience, but even in New York the audence noise is a little muted. He is a genteel European type with a pronounced German accent who is not a natural audience warmer-upper like Microsoft&apos;s manic Steve Ballmer.Two devices have been brought to a table on the stage: theZ10and theQ10. The Z10 is touch, the Q10 is keyboard and touch.7.12pmGMTRIM has changed its name to BlackBerryBig announcement. Company name change.From this point forward RIM becomes BlackBerry.It is one brand, it is one promise. Our customers use a BlackBerry, our shareholders invest in BlackBerry, our employees work for BlackBerry. From today we are BlackBerry everywhere in the world.7.12pmGMTHeins says:We&apos;ve seen the industry move from narrow band to broadband, from analogue to digital, and now at RIM we intend to lead the move from mobile connections to mobile computing. we will be a leader in connecting you to your internet of things.We are in an era today where having a good browser, a good camera on your phone is just expected. So how do we build on that?He says the emphasis is on secure, real time information. Those who have suffered BlackBerry outages will be hoping that&apos;s true.Two years ago we had to make a very big decision. Adopt someone else&apos;s operating system or build our own from the ground up. We took the difficult decision.He is thanking Jim Balsillie, chief executive before him, for building RIM&apos;s network of business users around the world, and founder Mike Lazaridis, who was co-chief executive with Balsillie and is now chair of the board. Lazaridis is in New York and takes to his feet, beaming, as the audience applauds.7.12pmGMTRIM&apos;s share price is up 4.5% to $16.42 this morning, so the investors are buying into the launch. Let&apos;s see what happens by the end ofThorsten Heins&apos;s presentation.The people at RIM have been at their most creative, their most engaged and their most committed. BlackBerry 10 is here.Heins leads the audience in a round of applause.This is one of the biggest launches in our industry. And today is not the finish line, it&apos;s the starting line.The device is for people with a hyperconnected social group, who like to get things done, who like balance in their work and social life, who like the simplicity of having everything in one place, who want to move from app to app without having to hit the home button the whole time.7.12pmGMTSomeone calling himself &quot;Crackberry Kevin&quot; is being interviewed. He says he will not cut his hair until BlackBerry 10 is launched. Someone has arrived with some scissors ... it&apos;s proving quite tough to hack off ... that&apos;s it – Crackberry Kevin is shorn.And on that note, it&apos;s time for Heins to take the stage.7.12pmGMTRIM&apos;s worldwide tour to generate interest from apps developers has lasted a year, led by Alec Saunders, has covered 2.5m hours of airtime going to 44 cities, on every continent.In one weekend&apos;s &quot;Portathon&quot;, 15,000 apps were submitted. He says BlackBerry will have the largest launch catalogue of apps of any new platform. There will be 70,000 from launch, and 100,000 in the next month.7.12pmGMTCountdown to BlackBerry 10There is going to be a countdown. The camera has panned to audiences in Toronto, Paris, London and New York – they are on their feet there, waving and cheering. All other nations are sitting sedately.There are endorsements from users in Spanish, English and French; Everything Everywhere chief executive Olaf Swantee; an executive from Emirates Group; a Virgin Radio presenter; and someone from McCain, the oven chip maker.7.12pmGMTRob Orr, Research in Motion&apos;s UK managing director, opens the launch event in London. The even is in Old Billingsgate market hall, where there is also a live link to New York. In the room are the media, analysts, network and retail partners, and &quot;the BlackBerry elite&quot;. Live link coming up to New York with RIM chief executive Thorsten Heins.Chief operating officerKristian Tearis up.The UK is one of our largest and most important markets globally, from customers to FTSE 100 companies, to police forces and government departments, the BlackBerry is of huge value to millions of people every day.We knew we needed to move our business forward, and so we created BlackBerry 10. We believe it is the future of our industry.In a market like the UK BB10 will shape the industry in the same way the BlackBerry did more than ten years ago. This is not just another handset, it is a brand new platform which completely reinvents, re-engineers and redesigns BlackBerry as you know it today.7.12pmGMTWhat the experts sayAs we wait for the event to start, here are some early verdicts on BB10.Jan Dawson, OvumTwo major factors have worked against RIM in the past two years: companies are no longer buying the majority of smartphones sold today, and individuals overwhelmingly choose devices other than BlackBerrys when they make buying decisions.Despite the brief bump RIM will see from the launch of BB10, we expect its decline to continue longer term. At its peak, RIM shipped between 12m and 15m devices a quarter, but there is no way it can hit this number on a sustainable basis once the BB10 launch filters through.Though the new platform should have significant appeal to existing users, we don’t expect it to win significant numbers of converts from other platforms. There is little in the new platform that suggests it will have the compelling apps, content stores, or the broader ecosystem that consumers have come to expect in a competitive smartphone platform.Charles Golvin, Forrester ResearchTo prove its continued viability and potential for renewal, the company must convince multiple constituents to invest in BB10: its current and former users, application developers, mobile operators, and content providers. The highly competitive smartphone market will only offer them a short window to do this, and they&apos;ll need to prove themselves in the face of a simultaneous onslaught of marketing from Microsoft, not to mention the continued push from Apple plus Google and its Android partners. This is a gargantuan challenge for a company of RIM&apos;s size.Mark Sue, RBC Capital MarketsUpgrading the aging demographics with tight grips on their BlackBerrys is one thing, but for strong unit growth beyond a niche, RIM must simultaneously go after a broader younger base...Cool advertising is a necessity to try to re-capture consumer mindshare ... Our global smartphone analysis details that the &quot;other&quot; category may show the fastest rate of unit growth this year.Andrew Brown, Strategy AnalyticsThey&apos;ve done a good job on this. The keyboard is the best keyboard I&apos;ve used on a touch screen phone. Its predictive text saves you time and effort and is accurate. The battery is removable and for business users it&apos;s nice to have the option to carry a fully charged spare battery with you. It&apos;s a usability feature that has not been dictated by self interest but by user feedback. If you look at the iPhone 5 it&apos;s a 2007 operating system in a 2012 phone. This is a 2013 operating system in a 2013 phone. People can tire of the lack of innovation and companies like apple will face the challenge of the fatigue. But ultimately the users will decide.7.12pmGMTResearch In Motion attempts to turn the tideThe BlackBerry was the original smartphone, whose ability to serve up emails around the clock hooked millions of users. The device formerly known as the crackberry excelled at keeping executives attached to their inboxes, and the ability of its messenger service to spread information like wildfire through large networks of users was literally revolutionary, playing a part in uprisings from the Arab Spring to the London riots.But the last 18 months have brought turmoil for the Canadian company that BlackBerry: Research In Motion (RIM) is nursing mounting losses and 5000 job cuts. In 2012, 700m smartphones were sold, but 92% of them were made by Apple or run on Google&apos;s Android software. RIM&apos;s founder and chief technician Mike Lazaridis focused on messaging at the expense of the wider web, and it did not take long for the BlackBerry to fall behind in the smartphone race.Today, a year after taking over from Lazaridis, RIM&apos;s chief executive Thorsten Heins will attempt to turn the tide. At 3pm UK time this afternoon, at an event in New York with simultaneous happenings in Toronto, London, Paris, Dubai, Johannesburg, Jakarta and Delhi, Heins will unveil BB10, the software which RIM promises will put the most sophisticated apps and the internet in its full technicolor glory in the hands of its customers.To deploy it, there are two new handsets. The most high end is the Z10, which has lost the traditional BlackBerry keyboard and is a pure touch screen device. The second is the Q10, which has a keyboard and a much smaller touch screen.The Z10 looks a lot like the black iPhone 5, albeit with a larger screen and a plastic body, and at a rumoured £480 out of contract, costs just £50 less than Apple&apos;s latest model. There has been none of the secrecy that surrounds Apple product launches. Reviewers already have the Z10 in their hands, and its specifications have been well trailed. It has a 4.2 inch, high resolution screen, and a standard 8 megapixel camera.The odds are stacked against Heins. RIM is arriving late at an already crowded party. Apple and Samsung are flattening the opposition, and Microsoft is spending much more than RIM can afford on advertising as it tries to carve a niche for Windows Phone, the software on which Nokia is hoping to rebuild its own business.In RIM&apos;s favour, the firm has 80m subscribers and no debt, meaning it can finance several attempts at producing a challenger smartphone.The apps BB10 can attract will be crucial. It will have some 70,000 at launch (including one for Guardian readers) but what counts here is quality, not quantity. It will take the best efforts from the biggest names to make BB10 attractive to consumers. Because these days, as more people bring their phones to work, the decision about which phone to buy is made not by a company&apos;s IT department, but by the user themselves.Juliette Garside is at the launch event in London, which will also be webcast on RIM&apos;swebsite. Follow live coverage here.
US authorities have arrested Ross William Ulbricht, 29, alleged to be the owner and operator of Silk Road, the best-known underground marketplace for the trade of illegal drugs on the internet.The Silk Road website – run by a man using the alias “Dread Pirate Roberts” – acted as aversion of eBay for drug dealing: matching buyers and sellers of different substances, allowing them to pay using a virtually untraceable online currency known as Bitcoin. Sellers then shipped the drugs using regular post or courier services.But on Tuesday, a joint operation of the FBI, police, and prosecutors in New York, arrested Ulbricht, who they allege was behind the Dread Pirate’s mask.The identity of &quot;Dread Pirate Roberts&quot; – a reference to The Princess Bride – had been the subject of intense speculation. But with the name of the arrested man made public, there are multiple public social media profiles which appear to belong to Ulbricht.One Google+ profile contains a posting dated April 2012 asking: “Anybody know someone that works for UPS, FedEX, or DHL?” while a YouTube profile contains videos on internet freedom and privacy saved on a playlist marked “for later”, alongside a video titled “How to Get Away With Stealing”.Bitcoin treasureAccording to information released by prosecutors, Ulbricht was in possession of approximately 26,000 Bitcoins, worth around $3.6m – the largest seizure of Bitcoins to date.The New York prosecutors have also seized the Silk Road website itself, which operated as a “hidden” site, accessible only to people using sophisticated anonymous browsing software known as Tor.Visitors to the site now see a warning which states “This site has been seized,” while prosecutors also claim to have seized the servers on which Silk Road ran. Those may contain information about users of the Silk Road service, their current balances, and – potentially – transaction details.Authorities have obtained a court order allowing them to assess the contents of all Bitcoin wallets within Silk Road – which were required in order to buy or sell on the site – and to seize their contents.The elaborate anonymity protections had until now allowed the site’s operators and drug sellers to operate with impunity since the site’s founding in February 2011. One researcher estimated sales through the Silk Road marketplace weredoubling roughly every six months.A 39-page criminal complaint against Ulbricht, signed by FBI special agent Christopher Tarbell, alleges he “deliberately set out to establish an online criminal marketplace outside the reach of law enforcement or governmental regulation”.Tarbell continues by describing Silk Road as “the most sophisticated and extensive criminal marketplace on the internet today”, saying it “sought to make conducting illegal transactions on the Internet as easy and frictionless as shopping online”.The prosecution report states in total Silk Road traded more than 9.5m Bitcoins, the majority of which were drugs transactions. Silk Road also traded prescription medications, hacking tools, and other equipment. An armoury spin-off, selling weapons, was abandoned due to lack of demand.The 9.5m Bitcoin figure equates to around $1.2bn at current exchange rates, though for much of the site’s operation Bitcoins were worth far less. Commisions for the site’s operators would total around $80m at today’s Bitcoin valuations.Tarbell alleges Ulbricht had “controlled and overseen all aspects” of Silk Road’s operations, and alleged he had “pursued violent means” to maintain control of his marketplace. One affidavit alleges that on 29 March 2013 he &quot;solicited a Silk Road user to execute a murder-for-hire of another Silk Road user who was threatening to release the identities of thousands of users of the site.&quot; The affidavit notes that though a user was paid 1,670 Bitcoins (roughly $150,000), there is no record of a homicide in British Columbia, where the hired hitman claimed to have carried out the killing – and sent a picture to &quot;Dread Pirate Roberts&quot; to confirm it.The FBI believes Ulbricht, who graduated from the University of Texas in 2006, may have obliquely bragged about his alleged role as “Dread Pirate Roberts” on LinkedIn, where he had referred to spending the last few years “creating an economic simulation”.Track back to the startAgents attempting to track the Silk Road founder looked back into early promotion of the site, looking at messages posted on drug discussion forums and Wordpress blogs by a user named “altoid”. Agents tracked this name to a Gmail address, which they then claim was registered to Ulbricht.FBI agents then began surveillance of Ulbricht, who they say was living in San Francisco under an assumed name, attempting to match his internet activity with the posting times of Dread Pirate Roberts. Agents also intercepted fake IDs being posted to the address at which Ulbricht was staying.Ulbricht may have implicated himself,according to the criminal complaint filed against him. He is said to have posted the website stackoverflow.com, which is used by computer programmers to troubleshoot issues. Ulbricht posted under his own name, using a Gmail address that also contained his own name, the complaint said. He asked a question about a specific 12 lines of code that was generating an error when he was trying to connect to a Tor hidden service.Investigators said the code posted by Ulbricht on stackoverflow.com matched code used on the Silk Road web server.Prior to its seizure by authorities, advocates of Silk Road had claimed it provided drugs of a higher purity – with therefore fewer potentially dangerous contaiminants – in a safer way than traditional drug-dealing.The image painted in the criminal complaint of Ulbricht as a man prepared to murder people threatening his online business empire is starkly contradicted by avideo posted online last year, showing Ulbricht in conversation with a man described as his best friend, Rene Pinnell.In the 30-minute film, posted publicly on YouTube in December, the pair discuss how they met and their goals and aspirations.“I feel like the world is in flux for sure, and I’m really fascinated to know how it all plays out 200 years from now,” Ulbricht says. “To see where all this new technology goes. To see how the different powers and different interests in it all you know … because what happens with the internet evolving and you’ve got the UN telecommunications department trying to create global rules for the internet and global governance emerging … it’s crazy times.”Asked what he is going to do over the next five years, Ulbricht said: “I’m pretty sure I want to start a family in the next five years and just make more friends and close people I love. I want to focus on being more connected to people.”Asked what he wanted to do over the next 20 years, he said: “I want to have a substantial positive impact on the future of humanity by that time.”In a March 2013 interview, Bitcoin advocate Amir Taaki said of the site: “People want drugs. The drugs war is probably a failed war. I want to get rid of cartels. The way to do that is for people to buy their drugs straight from the producer. That’s what’s cool about things like Silk Road – you can bypass gangs.”Previous attempts to shut down Silk Road had ended in failure and public embarrassment for those behind the efforts. In June 2011 – just four months after the site was founded – US senator Chuck Schumervowed to have it shut down. The site continued for another two years.
Apple says it is working on a fix after some users discovered that its iMessage service is not working after they upgraded to its new iOS 7 software for iPhones and iPads.Since the software was released on 18 September a number of people have complained that messages they send over the service are never delivered. Apple says that it is &quot;aware of an issue that affects a fraction of a percent of our iMessage users, and we will have a fix available in an upcoming software update&quot;.The issue could affect up to 2m users.Apple didn&apos;t offer any other information about timing, nor whether the fix would be rolled into other updates for recently discovered problems with iOS 7 such as aSiri lockscreen bugdiscovered over the weekend with its 7.0.2 update.The iMessage service sends messages via the data channel, meaning that they can be any length, unlike the text messages which they effectively replace and which are limited to 160 characters. It also makes them free for users with data allowances, whereas text messages may be charged for.Apple said that until the update is provided, &quot;we encourage any users having problems to reference our troubleshooting documents or contact AppleCare to help resolve their issue. We apologise for any inconvenience this causes impacted users.&quot;Apple hasn&apos;t indicated how many people are affected by the problem. But on 23 September it said that200m devices had been upgraded to iOS 7. At that point, according to data from Mixpanel, a third-party web and mobile analytics company, about 56% of active iOS devices were running iOS 7. Mixpanel now says the figure is 65%, suggesting that the figure is about 232m devices on iOS 7. (Android 4.1.x, the most-used single version of Google&apos;s OS, is on 36.6% of devices, equivalent to about 287m users, according to data from Google.)The large number of installations means that even if only 0.9% of iOS 7 users are affected, it would create problems on 2m devices. A number of posters on Apple&apos;s Support siteare reporting problems.Some users have found that they can work around the problem simply by restarting the device. Another suggested option which users have discovered is to disable iMessage (in Settings &gt; Messages), reset the Network Settings (Settings &gt; General &gt; Reset &gt; Reset Network Settings) and then turn iMessage back on.
6.53pmBSTAnd that's it for this blog...We&apos;ll be picking up in the morning with full-fat tablet blog in the morning, along with all the news as it happens, live from Apple&apos;s event in London.Your views on the iPad - demands, even - are welcome, as ever...12.16pmBSTNew Retina MacBook Pros and Mac Pro expected to join iPad 5, but possibly not the iPad miniStock levels of the Apple iPad mini indicate it may not get an update at Tuesday's iPad event. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesApple&apos;s much anticipated iPad 5 isn&apos;t the only device that is expected to be launched at tomorrow&apos;s Apple event.Inventory tracker AppleInsider has beenwatching stocklevels of Apple&apos;s current device lineup and has spotted a trend.Limited device inventory at Apple resellers are often considered the first indicator of replacement products or updates waiting in the wings. Stock of both the retina MacBook Pro and the Mac Pro is seemingly highly restricted, indicating that both models of Apple computer could be imminently replaced.Contrary to expectations, stock levels of the iPad mini are abundant, however, possibly indicating that Apple&apos;s smaller iPad might not see its anticipated retina display update at Tuesday&apos;s Apple event.11.45amBSTThe iPad 5 is expected to be 20% lighter but not goldThe iPad 5 is expected to be 20% lighter and thinner than the iPad 4. Photograph: Asia Photopress/AlamyUnlike the iPhone 5S, the iPad 5 is not expected to come in gold,according to Mingchi Kuo, a notable analyst with research firm KGI who has had success at predicting Apple&apos;s moves in the past.Kuo also expects the new iPad 5 to be 20% lighter, weighing around 500g down from the 652g of the iPad 4, as well being 7.5mm thick, a reduction of 1.9mm over the current generation.An 8-megapixel camera is also anticipated as well as a variant of the first64-bit Apple A7 processor, both of which featured in the recently releasediPhone 5S.5.28pmBSTApple officially announces a 22 October eventApple iPad 5 event invite 22 October.Following on from rumours of an iPad event for the iPad 5 and potentially a new iPad mini, Apple has sent out official event invites with the tagline &quot;we still have a lot to cover&quot; for 22 October.The event will take place at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, at 10AM PDT / 6PM BST.Given the tagline, it is likely that a lot of Apple products and services will get a mention at the event, possibly including OS X Mavericks, the Mac Pro, a new Apple TV and, of course, new iPads.1.15pmBSTDigitimes: 'new iPads will impact expensive tablets'Got your pinch of salt handy? OK, over the (left) shoulder it goes. There, that&apos;s your &quot;Digitimes alert&quot; done. Now here&apos;s what the Taiwanese online paper with its ear to the ground of the supply chain (and which is sometimes spot-on, sometimes a bit wild)says about the expected devices:Microsoft&apos;s second-generation Surface and new Android-based tablets are expected to be impacted by Apple&apos;s launch of the next-generation iPad and iPad mini as the company is likely to reduce its existing iPad and iPad mini prices, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.The iPad mini is currently priced starting US$329, while the Retina Display iPad is priced starting US$499. The next-generation iPad and iPad mini are expected to retain the same price ranges, while existing models&apos; new prices are expected to impact 10-inch tablet models with prices above US$399 and 7-inch models with prices above US$299, the sources noted.The implication is that Apple will cut the prices of the old models - rather as it has done in the phone market, to some effect.This is the theory of the &quot;price umbrella&quot; - that Apple will have a range of devices of various capabilities and prices which it will use to segment the market. Don&apos;t want the full-price top-end iPad? Buy last year&apos;s iPad mini at a reduced price. And so on.What this doesn&apos;t really tell us is quite where the old iPads will be priced. We can take a stab though - the iPad with retina display starts at £399, while the (older) iPad 2 starts at £329. (Only the 16GB model is available.) If Apple really wanted to stretch things, it could have the iPad 2, iPad 4 (released last year) and iPad ..whatever this new one is (5?) all on sale at the same time, and segment the market at, say, £289, £329 and £399.The 2012 iPad mini currently costs £269 in the UK. So after the refresh, the iPad mini from 2012 could be £199 and the new iPad mini £269, as before.It&apos;s an open question though whether that&apos;s going to be sufficient in the face of a tsunami of advertising from Google for the new Nexus 7 (£199, with a better screen - though worse apps - than the iPad) and the onslaught from retailers including Tesco and Argos, with their £100 Android tablets.But if Apple were to price the old iPad mini at £199, that could be dramatic. It would make about the same profit as last year (screens are cheaper) while fighting, on price, with the Android hordes.9.13amBSTApple's 'iWatch' could be able to control your homeApple's iWatch could be capable of controlling your home automation kit. Photograph: Ed JonesApple&apos;s much rumoured &quot;iWatch&quot; smartwatch could do more than just be a smartphone companion, and could control your house through home automation software.&quot;Our contact offered insight into the &apos;iWatch&apos; and described this potential new device as much more than an extension of your iPhone but as a multi-purpose gateway in allowing consumers to control their home (i.e., heating/cooling, lights, audio, video, etc),&quot; said Brian White of research firm Cantor Fitzgeraldto Tech Trader Daily.Apple&apos;s iWatch was rumoured to launch this year, butfailed to materialisein September while both Samsung and Sony launched smartwatches in the form of theGalaxy GearandSony Smartwatch 2.1.30pmBSTThe iPad 6 will have a '30-40%' better screenThe iPad 6 might have a screen that is 30-40% higher density than the iPad 5, according to analysts. Photograph: AlamyWe haven&apos;t yet seen Apple&apos;s iPad 5, of course, but the notable KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo, who has been accurate in the past about predicting Apple&apos;s moves, claims that the speculationaround a 13in iPadis wrong, and that the iPad 6 will simply have a higher resolution screen.&quot;In light [of] advancing Oxide and a-Si technologies, the PPI of iPad 6, which we expect to come out at end-2014, will exceed that of 2013’s iPad 5 by 30-40%, which will offer more competent visuals,&quot;said Kuo.The iPad 6 is predicted to be released for sale in 2014.2.49pmBSTCould Apple launch a 13in iPad?Barclays believes Apple could launch a 13in iPad that would compete with the MacBook Air. Photograph: Finnbarr Webster/AlamyApple&apos;s iPad 5 is likely to come equipped with Apple&apos;s latest A7 processor at its heart, following theiPhone 5S&apos;s lead. TheA7 is the first ARM-based 64-bitprocessor to be used in a tablet or a phone, and marks a possible change in the amount of RAM available to the operating system.Traditional 32-bit processors can only address 3GB of RAM, but 64-bit processors do not have that limit, which has leadBarclays analyst Ben Reitze to speculate&quot;we believe a larger screened iPad would be a much better PC replacement than current tablets, including the Surface, and really be able to take on higher end tasks and start another wave of notebook cannibalisation.&quot;The speculation hinges on the fact that with more than 3GB of RAM and a 64-bit processor, an iPad could support a larger screen and the processing power it would require.However, Apple has a history of not cannibalising its own lines of computing products. A 13-inch iPad could threaten sales of both the MacBook Air and the 13in MacBook Pro.9.58amBSTiPad 5 case leak shows noticeably slimmer profileiPad 5 case leak shows slimmer iPad-mini like design. Photograph: Sonny DicksonA series of high-resolution images have beenposted by serial Apple leaker Sonny Dickson, who has a history accurate iPhone and iPad component leaks.The photos show the anticipated slimmer,iPad-mini likecase design including dual speaker grills straddling the lightning connector port in the bottom edge of the iPad, and segmented volume buttons on the side.iPad 5 case leak shows iPad-mini like dual speaker grills either side of the lightning connector port. Photograph: Sonny Dickson11.05amBSTHTC's new phablet will have a fingerprint sensorThe old HTC One. The One Max, expected on 15 October, will probably look like this but bigger. Photograph: APApple&apos;s iPhone 5S wasn&apos;t the first smartphone to have a fingerprint sensor (that honour seems to go tothe Motorola Atrix from 2011), but it looks like it is going to be the phone which makes them a must-have feature.The Wall Street Journal reportsthat HTC&apos;s new One Max phablet will have a capacitive fingerprint sensor, the same type found in the 5S. The device, which is expected to be released on 15 October, places the reader on the back of the phone, under the camera. That may be less convenient for unlocking the device than a reader placed on the home button, but it&apos;s a more natural position to reach while the phone is in use.All of which increases the pressure on Apple to include a similar sensor on the new iPad.10.17amBSTThe new iPad will be announced on 22 OctoberThe 2013 Mac Pro, which was first displayed in June but still has no release date or price. Photograph: AppleIt seems Apple&apos;s launch event for the new iPad will be on the 22nd October. The company is expected to show off not only the new and improved iPad 5, but also an iPad mini, Mac OS X Mavericks, and an update on the new Mac Pro.According toJohn Paczkowski of AllThingsD, a publication which is frequently the first to confirm Apple launches, the fifth-gen iPad will have the improved camera, redesigned case, and faster internals that we have come to expect.More interesting is what Paczkowski says of the new iPad mini, which &quot;will be upgraded with a retina display and also likely see the A7 incorporated into its innards&quot;. If true, that would mean that the device has effectively skipped a generation, going from being a scaled down iPad 2 to a scaled down iPad 5.Jim Dalrymple of The Loop backed up the leak.3.20pmBSTThe iPad 5 could be a 'major upgrade'Apple's next-generation iPad could see a significant external redesign. Photograph: Eric Risberg/APAccording to supply chain research by Brian White from consultancy firm Cantor, the iPad 5 could mark a significant upgrade for Apple - the biggest it has seen in some time.Talking to AllThingsD, White expects there to be a &quot;major upgrade&quot; of the form factor, and that &quot;Apple’s sizable installed base, with 155 million iPads shipped through 3Q:FY13, is ready to purchase a new full-sized iPad.”Recent rumours suggest that the iPad 5 will bethinner and lighterthan the current generation.9.31amBSTApple is already working on iOS 8 and OS X 'Syrah'Apple's iPad could become more and more like OS X with Apple's move towards desktop and mobile operating system convergence. Photograph: Asia Photopress/AlamyAccording to sourcestalking with Apple blog 9to5Mac, Apple&apos;s finishing up work on OS X Mavericks, which recently had its code base finalised for &apos;Golden Master&apos;, and starting on OS X &quot;Syrah&quot; 10.10.Apple is said to have already diverted most of its development resources to iOS 8 and OS X 10.10, with &quot;Syrah&quot; said to be marking a further convergence between iOS and OS X.The iPad 5 could become much more like OS X before its useful life is finished, if iOS 8 is released within Apple&apos;s yearly update cycle.Updatedat 9.33am BST5.39pmBSTOS X Mavericks leaves beta for developersOS X Mavericks.Apple&apos;s latest desktop OS release, OS X Mavericks, which the companyinitially showed off at WWDCin June, has seen its code base upgraded to &apos;golden master&apos; and be released to developers.That means Apple has finished with the feature set and the majority of testing, resulting in code that is almost ready for a general release.Could we see OS X Mavericks released alongside the iPad 5?5.32pmBSTiPad mini with retina display could be delayedA retina iPad mini might be delayed due to supply chain issues. Photograph: Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesIt seems that if Apple decides to put a retina display in the iPad mini to bring it up to display parity with the 9.7in iPad line, it could be delayed due tosupply chain issues.5.10pmBSTGold is the colourRumours are swirling, following Apple&apos;s introduction of agold iPhone 5S, that the new iPad 5 and iPad mini will also come with a touch of the yellow shiny stuff.iPad mini could come in gold. Photograph: Martin HajekIf the iPads do go gold, this is what the iPad mini could look like,according to Martin Hajek. And if you&apos;re wondering what the iPad 5 in gold could look like, just imagine the above stretched to 9.7in.3.23pmBSTAn 8MP camera upgrade likely?The next generation iPad could come with an upgraded camera. Photograph: Gene Blevins/ReutersAccording to the often reliable KGI analyst Ming-Chi Kuo, Apple willupgrade the camerain the iPad 5 and new iPad mini to 8 megapixels with a larger aperture, up from the current 5MP iSight camera.The new iPhone 5S uses an Apple-designed 8MP camera with a larger, F2.2 aperture, so it&apos;s conceivable that Apple could use the same part in the new iPads.1.20pmBSTIf the fingerprint sensor fits...Will Apple bringTouch IDto the iPad? It seems theiPhone 5S&apos;s fingerprint sensor home button is a perfect fit within an allegedly leaked next-generation iPad frame at the very least.The iPhone 5S's fingerprint sensor fits exactly into the an alledgedly leaked faceplate for the new iPad 5.2.07pmBST'Space grey' iPad 5 case leaked?Unbox Therapy has a hands-on videowith what it claims is the “space grey” version of the iPad 5, featuring a black front bezel.1.48pmBSTWhat we know so farFollowing the pattern of previous years, Apple is expected to launch its fifth generation iPad in mid-October.The new device is likely to featurea redesigned chassis, taking cues from the iPad mini in the form of a smaller bezel, and from the iPhone 5 in the form of an anodised aluminium back.Internally,the normal upgradesare likely: a faster processor, with more RAM. There is a possibility that the TouchID sensor seen in the recent iPhone 5Swill also make its way into the new tablet.A new iPad mini is also expected at the event, but with few drastic changes. The big question for that device is whether or not it will have a retina display. On that,the rumour mill is split.As for the date, Apple events are usually on Tuesdays.Last year&apos;s was on the 23rd, leaving 15 October and 22 October the most likely candidates this year.We will be scouring the web for clues and sharing every update here. Send us your tips, your feature requests (well, no harm in asking!) and your reviews of competing tablets. In an increasingly competitive market, Apple is going to have to work even harder to make the iPad stand out...Updatedat 2.26pm BST
Ladar Levison, the founder of secure email service Lavabit,has raised more than $20,000to pay the legal fees incurred by a court battle to prevent government interference in his service.The money already raised is half of the $40,000 target set by Levison, who says that &quot;defending the constitution is expensive&quot;. Prominent donors so far include Apple blogger John Gruber, writer Merlin Mann, andPinboarddeveloper Maciej Ceglowski.Edward Snowden, whose disclosures about NSA activities revealed extensive US electronic surveillance capability worldwide, was using a Lavabit email address when he announced a press conference at Moscow&apos;s airport. Recently uncovered documentsalso reveal that the site attracted the attention of the US Justice department just one day after Snowden revealed himself as the source ofthe Guardian&apos;s stories.As a secure email service, Lavabit encrypted users&apos; messages. The site acted as a trusted third party, with Levison enabling encryption services but not storing the private keys himself. For the government to eavesdrop on Lavabit&apos;s customers, it would have to force Levison either to store their private keys, or share the SSL certificate the site uses to keep communication between itself and users private.However Levisonabruptly closed Lavabit in August, writing in explanation to his customers that he refused &quot;to be complicit in… crimes against the American people and the US Constitution,&quot; about which he was not permitted to speak further. At the time, he was not even able to confirm that there was a court case against him.More details of that case, which will be heard in Virginia&apos;s 4th Circuit Court of Appeals, have become available – though &quot;the entire record in the district court, including all applications, subpoenas, motions, warrants, and orders, remains under seal,&quot; the prosecutors sayin a public filing.That document shows the chronology of the government&apos;s dealings with Lavabit. Two specific orders stand out: a &quot;pen register order&quot;, on 28 June, and an &quot;order to show cause&quot; on 9 July.The former is an order to record data prospectively, storing requested details (for example, the metadata of emails) as they come in. The latter is typically used by the government to ask a court to enforce a demand which hasn&apos;t been complied with.The judge whose orders Levison is challenging is Claude M. Hilton, the Senior US District Court Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia. Hilton served on the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for seven years, until 2007.Levison&apos;s opening brief in the appeal is due 3 October.• This article was amended on 4 October 2013. The original gave the surname of the Lavabit founder as Levinson.
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski, we meet games industry expert and authorNicholas Lovellto discuss his new bookThe Curve.The Curvesets out to give a cohesive strategy for turning online freeloaders into high-paying super-fans.Also Aleks is joined by the tech team,Charles Arthur,Alex HernandJemima Kiss, to reveal some of the big issues relating to privacy and the web aspolicy wonks gather in Switzerland for the EPFL conference (École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne)and PGP creatorPhil Zimmerman tells people to wake up about consumer email services.
Football fans are well catered-for when it comes to ways to follow the sport on our smartphones.Thinking about the English Premier League alone, we can watch live matches in Sky and BT's apps, watch highlights on the BBC's iPlayer or Sun+ Goals, dive into Opta data from FourFourTwo's Stats Zone app, and get news, in-match commentary and goal alerts from a host of news apps (The Guardian's included).One of the most popular football apps, though, doesn't come from an established media brand. German startup Motain launchedThe Football Appin 2008, and it has since rolled out across iOS, Android, Windows Phone, BlackBerry and Samsung's connected TVs.The app has been downloaded more than 10m times, but founder Lucas von Cranach says that's not the best measure of its performance. "Everybody talks about downloads, but downloads isn't a currency if people aren't using your application," he says."We have close to 5m monthly active users, and they're highly engaged, with up to 1.5m daily active users. People spend around 1.5 to 2 hours a month on average in the app, and generate 200-250 page impressions each per month."Until now, The Football App has focused on news, scores and commentaries, stats and other content drawn from various media partners – Opta, Associated Press and local press agencies included – covering more than 100 leagues around the world.That's changing today, with a new feature called Fan Zone that aims to get fans chatting much more around all this content. It's launching initially for the top leagues in England, Germany, Spain, Italy and France, curating social buzz around individual teams and matches."Say I'm a fan following the upcoming Swansea against Arsenal match. If I go into that game's Fan Zone, I'll see content from external sources: people recognised as big Arsenal or Swansea fans, interesting fan blogs and other experts," says chief technical officer Jonathan Lavigne."But there will also be the possibility to chat with other users about this curated external content, discussing and commenting on it, and then that can flow back to Twitter from the app. We are looking at it from a mobile-first perspective: it's not about people writing 200 to 500-line blog posts. It's much more about small interactions."Each user will also get their own profile within The Football App. There are other startups trying this kind of thing:Fanatixfrom the UK andVubooofrom Israel. But the nearest parallel to what The Football App is trying to do may be Zeebox, which has a wider brief – all television rather than just football – but a similar mix of curated tweets and social interaction.von Cranach is setting his sights higher, though. "Football is huge. There are about 350m people consuming football globally through mobile devices, and that's the market we're targeting," he says. "We believe we can become the Facebook for football, and we are on the way to getting there."The company hopes people will be using its app more throughout the week as a result of the new features. For example, each match's Fan Zone will open three days before the game, and continue for 3-4 days after it, taking in the build-up and post-match debates, rather than just chatter during the match.The Football App's update is launching first on iOS, with Android and other platforms to followvon Cranach says that Motain has been "almost cashflow-positive" in the last few years, but the company raised €10m (£8.3m) in April 2013 in a funding round led by Earlybird Venture Capital to fuel its ambitions, including expanding its team to support the new social features.The Football App has made its money so far from advertising and marketing partnerships, including creating a Euro 2012 app for Carlsberg which von Cranach says was "the most successful branded app ever".He sticks to the familiar social startup refrain of striving for reach before revenues – "We do substantial revenues, but if you don't have the reach and a successful product, you'll never get to a great company that does great revenues" – but hints at plans for mobile advertising that go beyond banners."If you think about how Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, Foursquare… how these companies approach the market in terms of advertising, it's in-stream advertising and not banners, backfill and that kind of stuff," says von Cranach."Advertising going above content is wrong, so that is not the direction we are heading in. We are lucky that in this vertical, football, there are a lot of premium brands who want to engage with football fans."What about competition, though? Less from Fanatix, Vubooo and Zeebox (although that too) but more about broadcasters, newspapers and big sports portals adding more social features to their own mobile apps? They'll surely be looking for big slices of these advertising revenues too.von Cranach is bullish. "When a company comes from print or broadcast, then goes to the web and mobile, they lose the traction that they really focused on," he says."If you take the big companies, the rights owners, their only focus is to have a return on their investment of hundreds of millions of Euros into those rights. The experience, the user interface, the engagement… that's not their first priority."In other words, Motain thinks the likes of Sky are focused mainly on getting people to watch the matches they've paid so much for the rights to broadcast, and that this will govern their strategy for second-screen and social features to keep fans engaged all week.I'm not so sure about that: it seems logical for any media company involved with football to have ambitions to become the digital water-cooler for fans. It wouldn't surprise me if Motain's ultimate ambition is for one of them to do that by buying The Football App."The competitors are learning and building better products. Our advantage is that we are 45 people sitting in Berlin only doing one thing, and we know that mobile is not the same as web," says von Cranach."We have that advantage, but we don't know how long it's going to last. In 2-3 years, the rightsholders will better understand this segment. Until then, we are in the best position to rule the market."
The long-awaited online version of Grand Theft Auto Online was released on Tuesday, replete with the much-anticipated connectivity problems that had long been feared.In line with other major online game releases, Grand Theft Auto V's online launch was plagued by server errors and connectivity problems.The console version of GTA V was released on 17 Septemberand is required to play the online version, which gives the classic game a multiplayer mode.Shortly after its online launch, gamers said they were unable to access the game because of server issues, the game failing to load and disconnection issues. In response, the company created a webpage on its support site dedicated to providing updates on issues."We apologize for any inconvenience, and thank you for your patience while we work to resolve this," GTA maker Rockstar Gamessaid on its support site. It is also offering a service for users to receive automatic email notifications whenever an update is posted on the site. The company did not respond to requests for comment.The console version of GTA made $1bn in its first three days on sale, according to the game's publisher Take-Two. Video game experts said that the problems were to be expected because of the game's popularity."It seems they've been trying to scale their hardware quickly to cope with the expected requirements based on their incredible sales," Simon Barratt of UK studio Four Door Lemon told the Guardian."Even if they were using an existing server infrastructure providersuch as Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure – which is unlikely and their wording suggests not – they would probably need to be adding to their cloud server farms to support the numbers they're expecting."Last week, Rockstar also warned that its servers might not be able to handle GTA's popularity."One thing we are already aware of, and are trying to alleviate as fast as we can, is the unanticipated additional pressure on the servers due to a significantly higher number of players than we were anticipating at this point."We are working around the clock to buy and add more servers, but this increased scale is only going to make the first few days even more temperamental than such things usually are."Rockstar's problems echo those felt by the release of Blizzard Entertainment's Diablo 3 and Maxis's Sim City, which were overwhelmed on their launch days.Maxis's network collapsed when the newest edition of SimCity launched in March 2013, and the hashtag #error37 started trending in May 2012 when Diablo 3 customers faced that error message and were unable to play the game.
More than 20m people in the UK will use a tablet this year as the devices reach a third of the population, according tonew estimates from research firm eMarketer.The company predicts that this will grow to 34.8m people by 2017 – half the population – by which point it expects tablets to be a truly "mass-market device" thanks to more affordable models like Amazon's Kindle Fire and Tesco's recently-launchedHudl.Those devices are also expected to drive a surge in UK tablet market share for Google's Android software. Of the 20m Brits using tablets in 2013, eMarketer expects 59% to be using iPads.However, it claims that the growth rate for Apple's device will be "a little over half that of tablets overall" in the face of growing competition from Android and Windows tablets.eMarketer's predictions are based on people who use a tablet at least once a month, whether they own it or are sharing the device with someone else in their household. The march towards mainstream acceptance is shown by the company's claim that the fastest growth this year will come from under-12s and over-65s.The stats suggest that 8.8% of British tablet users this year are aged 0-11, and a further 7.2% are aged 12-17. That indicates 3.2m children and teenagers using tablets in the UK. Tablet makers are responding to this growth already: the Hudl is being pitched as a family-friendly device, while Apple recently launched a dedicated Kids category in its App Store.The growth of tablets has been rapid since late 2012, beating even the most bullish predictions for their popularity. In September 2012, for example, research firm YouGov claimed thatthere were 5.87m tablets in UK households, and that this would increase to just over 10m by August 2013.YouGov was providing estimates for devices rather than users, which is one reason why eMarketer's predictions now are so much higher.In August, Ofcom'sCommunications Market Report 2013claimed that the proportion of UK households with a tablet had risen from 11% in the first quarter of 2012 to 24% in the first quarter of 2013.It also found that users spend an average of 105 minutes a day using their devices, with 56% of tablet owners saying they had an iPad, 12% a model from Samsung, and 21% falling into an "Other" category that included Amazon's Kindle Fire.Globally, the tablet market is expected to surge again in the final quarter of 2013, in the run-up to Christmas and with new devices including the Hudl,Amazon's Kindle Fire HDXand possibly new models from Apple and Google too.Research firm IDC has predicted thatmore tablets will ship than desktop and laptop PCs combinedin the final quarter of this year, taking tablets to shipments of 227.3m for 2013 as a whole.Rival ABI Research backs up eMarketer's predictions of strong growth for Android tablets too, claiming thatAndroid tablet shipments overtook iPadfor the first time in the second quarter of this year.For its part, Apple has responded sharply to suggestions that it's losing ground in the tablet market. "Does a unit of market share matter if it's not being used? For us, it matters that people use our products. We really want to enrich people's lives, and you can't enrich somebody's life if the product is in the drawer,"chief executive Tim Cook told Businessweekin a recent interview.Yet if eMarketer's predictions are correct, Android tablets will be used – not just bought – by a growing number of Brits in the next four years.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Valve files Half-Life 3 trademark | CVG UKNot much to this story, which like lots of video game reporting, relies on someone combing patent and trademarking sites. Basically, Valve has applied for a trademark on the name Half-Life 3:Valve is yet to make any official announcements, but the listing uncovered on the official European Registration Office website - filed on September 29 - would suggest that the developer could be preparing to finally break its silence on the much-rumoured sequel.Of course, this could all have been a little jape on Valve's behalf. But then, this morning,VG247 reportedthat a short security breach has allowed snooping gamers with a glimpse into the studio's internal software system:The software grants access to a staff database meant for internal use and is no longer available, but before it was pulled from public access screenshots were captured showing two Half-life 3 development groups.According to these, the core Half-Life 3 team has ten members, with a further 46 in the extended team.So yeah, definitely happening.Destiny beta in early 2014 | GameSpot.comBungie has confirmed that a beta test of its forthcoming space opera will start in early 2014 on Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, and PS4 – it's open to those who preorder the game at participating outlets:The beta will include a "diverse sampling of major activities" from the full game, though these were not specified. To gain entry into the Destiny beta, players can visit Bungie.net and follow the instructions.Nvidia's outrageously high-end 'Battlebox' PCs focus on compromise-free 4K gaming | PC AdvisorNvidia is continuing its curious PR war against the console industry with a new line of ulttra-powerful, 4K-aimed PCs:Each entry in the Battlebox line rocks at least a pair of Nvidia's high-end GeForce Titan or GTX 780 video cards running in SLI, paired with overclocked Intel Core i5 or i7 processors, and abundant amounts of RAM. (Hey, it takes powerful hardware to push all the pixels processed at 4K resolutions.)Nvidia claims that the heavy-duty Battleboxes manage to pump out an impressive 45 to 60 frames per second at 4K resolution with super-high detail settings and all of Nvidia's proprietary bells and whistles--such as PhysX and TXAA anti-aliasing--enabled. That's mighty impressive, and a clear dig at AMD's audacious, console- and PC-spanning Mantle technology.Nvidia apparently refers to the machines as "console-destroying" – seemingly forgetting that people buy consoles for their ease-of-use and comparatively low price point. With a 4K monitor a Battlebox will reportedly set you back around $13,000...Women in Games: Rebalancing The Scales | GamesIndustry InternationalGame designer Whitney Hills talks to GamesIndustry.biz about her experiences in this male-dominated industry. Hills recently wrotea must-read blogposton the subject:I have a strong memory of one meeting in particular, concerning a game that had both a male and a female playable character. The game was ambitious, and there were concerns that the schedule might be slipping. A female exec was the first to volunteer a solution that the female playable character be cut altogether - and I just wilted. I thought the female playable was so important to the success of the game - because many of its players WERE going to be women - and I felt so disheartened that she was first on the chopping block. (I also had people tell me that we shouldn't have a female playable because "Women are harder to animate.")Depressing stuff.Take on Mars strives to turn the tedium of real-world Mars exploration into a fun game | PolygonCreated as a mod for Carrier Command: Gaea Mission, this intriguing new title from Bohemia Interactive seeks to simulate the exploration of Mars:In Take On Mars, players can modify and control rovers and landers on the surface of the red planet. They can also manage the budgets of missions, as well as conduct scientific analyses and experiments in various scenarios on the Martian surface.The simulation consists of three modes. The Space Program is a career-like mode where players can unlock equipment as they progress and manage the budgets a fictional space agency. In Scenarios, players land on Mars with a functional vehicle and are tasked with completing individual research missions. Alternatively, players can create their own custom scenarios with the game's editor.".The rest of Polygon's feature details the efforts the team has gone to in the name of both authenticity and playability. As a fan of old space station simulators, I'm quietly excited by this.Sacrilege by Cara EllisonJust a quick note to proudly point out that Harvey Smith, co-creator of Dishonered and Deus Ex, has reviewed a game by Guardian games contributor, Cara Ellison. Her Twine adventure, Sacrilege made quite an impact on the veteran designer:Sacrilege filled my mind with realizations about the interplay of personality archetypes, feelings of abandonment that I still harbor, and the absolute cafe-bombing power of social failure. There were times when it turned me on, filling me with the drive to pursue. The entire thing was fascinating, seeing desire from within one particular woman's perspective. It's all about what people need from each other balanced against risks and the terror of social rejection; the delicate auto-manipulation required to maintain confidence and resist screaming from the anxiety inherent in seeking connection, which at times feels like trying to keep a kitten alive while its heart is out on the operating table.You can play Sacrilege here.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHere's the erotic Bitcoin novel the free market deserves &gt;&gt; The Daily DotOver on SmashWords, e-book author Kayleen Knight is selling her 10,000-word novel about 19-year old Atlas Fawkes, a condescending Bitcoin miner who survives a global financial collapse in 2019 only to become fabulously wealthy thanks to his smart lack of faith in fiat currency.Yes, 10,000 words about that—and sex!Wait, what?Google said to avoid US antitrust challenge over Waze &gt;&gt; BloombergGoogle, owner of the world's largest search engine, won't be challenged by U.S. antitrust regulators over its purchase of mapping application Waze, people familiar with the matter said.Federal Trade Commission hasn't raised concerns that the transaction might hurt competition, said the people, who asked not to be named because they weren't authorized to speak publicly about the matter. Google said June 21 that it had been contacted by the agency about the transaction.A good day for Google.MakerBot Filament | It's Melting, It's Melting! &gt;&gt; MakerBotMade specifically for the MakerBot® Replicator® 2X Experimental 3D Printer, new MakerBot® Dissolvable Filament works beautifully with MakerBot® ABS Filament and dual extrusion prints, giving you solid infill for delicate overhangs and objects with internal moving parts.Our crazy-in-a-good-way advanced-materials scientist, Polymer Bill, says, "I'm really excited about MakerBot Dissolvable Filament. It opens up possibilities. You can get to 3D prints that were simply unobtainable before. It just makes you think differently about how to 3D print."Future tech turns any surface into an interactive touchscreen &gt;&gt; CITEworldAt the CEATEC show in Japan, NTT Docomo demonstrated a research project called the "Anywhere Interface" that turns any flat surface into a touch screen. It's sort of like Google Glass, but with the interface appearing on an object rather than in mid-air.Thevideo is here. Hard to see the application at present.We're Glenn Greenwald and Janine Gibson of the Guardian US, and we've been breaking stories on the NSA Files since June. AUA! : IAmA &gt;&gt; RedditICYMI.Windows 7 outpacing Windows 8 adoption &gt;&gt; ZDNetZack Whittaker:Latest NetMarketshare figures suggest Windows 7 is outpacing Windows 8's adoption, despite a rapid reduction in Windows XP usage over the past quarter.Over the past month, Windows 8's share has increased by 0.61 percentage points, rising to 8.02% of the total share. Whereas, on the other hand, Windows 7's share increased by 0.8 percentage points, rising to 46.3% of the market.To put this into context, Apple's latest desktop operating system OS X 10.8 operating system grew by 0.27 percentage points to a mere 3.7% of the overall share. But this figure accounts for just shy of half of Windows 8's overall growth for August.Clearly businesses are going from Windows XP to Windows 7. And it's businesses which seem to be the only big buyers of PCs at the moment. Consumers are in effect on strike. Microsoft still gets the money - but Windows 8 doesn't get the mindshare.L.A. Unified School District takes back iPads &gt;&gt; LA Times.comA week ago, district administrators were scrambling to respond when they learned that students skirted security measures that were intended to block free browsing of the Internet. In interviews, students said they had been disappointed at their inability to get to social networking and music streaming sites. Their work-around involved a couple of clicks — and soon hundreds of students were reaching any website they wanted.2,100 iPads distributed; most of them now back.New industry consortium benchmarks to simplify and improve testing of mobile devices &gt;&gt; Business Wire25 September:MobileBench will provide mobile platform designers with more useful solutions based on speedy time-to-market analysis, and consumers with more reliable indices for better assessing the user experience. Setting impartial test guidelines and embracing more sophisticated evaluation methodology, the consortium believes its tools will be widely adopted by mobile device designers and engineers, to the benefit of OEMs and consumers alike.The board members are Broadcom, Huawei, OPPO, Spreadtrum… and Samsung.Microsoft can't even get IT interested in its mobile platform &gt;&gt; InfoWorldGalen Gruman:Boutique research firm Nemertes Research interviewed more than 200 IT organizations about their mobile deployments and reports that 25 percent are at least testing "Windows 8 mobile" devices, meaning Windows Phones, Windows 8 tablets, and/or Windows RT tablets. Nemertes President Johna Till Johnson says that shows Microsoft is about to get a serious role in enterprise mobility. I say it shows Microsoft isn't taken seriously by its own core constituency.For several years, I've been hearing the notion that IT will ensure Microsoft Windows [and Windows Phone] becomes the primary mobile platform in business because they know and depend on Windows PCs. The opposite has happened.Samsung Galaxy Gear Review &gt;&gt; AnandtechIt's sort of insane to think that the Galaxy Gear puts an Exynos 4212 on my wrist. On the flipside, the Galaxy Gear delivers downright smartphone-like battery life at a little more than 5 hours of continuous use and that's without cellular connectivity. The lack of an always on watch face is a bit bothersome since you'd expect something you wear on your wrist to always be able to, you know, tell time. Samsung attempts to mitigate the Gear's lack of an always on mode by using the accelerometer and gyro to detect when you're flipping your wrist to look at your watch face. The unfortunate reality is the gesture doesn't work all of the time, again putting you in a situation where you're wearing something on your wrist that doesn't always behave like a watch at the bare minimum.A watch that doesn't tell you the time? Innovative.Note 3's benchmarking "adjustments" inflate scores by up to 20% | Ars TechnicaRon Amadeo:We noticed an odd thing whiletesting the Samsung Galaxy Note 3: it scores really, really well in benchmark tests—puzzlingly well, in fact. A quick comparison of its scores to the similarly-specced LG G2 makes it clear something fishy is going on, because Samsung's 2.3GHz Snapdragon 800 blows the doors off LG's 2.3GHz Snapdragon 800. What makes one Snapdragon so different from the other?After a good bit of sleuthing, we can confidently say Samsung appears to be artificially boosting the US Note 3's benchmark scores with a special, high-power CPU mode that kicks in when the device runs a large number of popular benchmarking apps.Yes, you haveheard this story before.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Carl Icahn, America's most powerful activist investor, has warned Apple's board he is "not going away" after meeting the iPhone maker's chief executive.Icahn is pushing for Apple to spend $150bn lifting its stock price by buying back its own shares, and invited Tim Cook to dinner at his apartment in New York on Monday to discuss the plan."We had dinner at my apartment with a bunch of CEOs," said the investor in an interview on Tuesday. "We had a commonality, we know the technology world … but the conversation revolved around the buyback, we pushed quite hard for it."The $150bn would be more than twice as much again as the company has committed to spend on a share buyback.The conversation had become "a little bit testy" when the subject was raised, Icahn told the CNBC network. "We will continue the discussion and the dialogue. I can promise you that I'm not going away before they hear a lot more from me concerning this."Icahn disclosed a stake in Apple in August, and is believed to have invested more than $1.5bn in the company. Under Steve Jobs, Apple cancelled its dividend and remained deaf to Wall Street clamour for cash returns.But the technology giant has amassed the world's largest corporate cash pile – reported at $147bn in June – and since the company's share price began falling in the winter, Cook has made efforts to distribute the wealth Apple cannot spend on its own business.Last year he reinstated the dividend and in April the technology giant announced a record $100bn distribution for shareholders, which included a $60bn buyback. Icahn believes the company can afford to spend a further $150bn, by borrowing at 3% in a market where interest rates are at historic lows."It makes no sense for this company with their multiples … not to do a major buyback," he said. "And there's another thing I mentioned … the fact that you can borrow money so cheaply today. I don't know when we'll see this again … Apple can borrow money and buy stock at such a low valuation."His comments sent traders piling into Apple's stock, which rose more than 2%, gaining more than $11 to reach $488 during morning trading in New York. Icahntook to Twitterto describe his meeting with Cook as "cordial", saying the pair would continue their dialogue in three weeks.Icahn bowed out of a battle against computer entrepreneur Michael Dell's bid to take his company private earlier this year, but his counter-offer succeeded in wringing a higher price from the founder and his private equity backers.His reputation in the technology sector is redoubtable. He succeeded in winning three seats on Yahoo's board and his activism helped push handset maker Motorola into a takeover by Google.
6.56pmBSTClosing commentsWell, I&apos;ve tried many times to get online, I have designed several amusing player characters only to have them (oh the irony) corrupted and lost. Others have succeeded to enter the world of GTA Online, however, and it seems there&apos;s much fun to be had in Rockstar&apos;s criminal pleasuredome when 16 players get together successfully.We&apos;ll report back tomorrow. For now, keep checking the Rockstar newswire for updates6.03pmBSTStill can't access GTA Online? Why not tease yourself into a frenzy by viewing the opening video?!5.56pmBST#GTAOnline| We are aware that some users are experiencing issues and we are working with@RockstarGamesto resolve.&mdash; PlayStation Europe (@PlayStationEU)October 1, 20135.33pmBSTWell, US gaming blog Kotaku hasmade it into the game. Writer Stephen Totilo got warped into a drug mission with two other players and one fast car:I think the guy in the backseat wasn&apos;t into this, so as we slowed to make a turn, he jumped out of the back and tumbled into the middle of an intersection. Our driver was having none of it. He backed up over the other player. Horrible. Wonderful. So very GTA.Kotaku has made it into GTA Online and written up its impressions Photograph: KotakuUpdatedat 5.34pm BST5.27pmBSTThis from reader MrJimtastic:Well, I managed to get past the opening scene in online gameplay... After trying all morning, having my character file corrupted 5 or 6 times and having the server time-out on me too many times to count. Unfortunately, some douche booted me as soon as I got out of Lamar&apos;s car.5.01pmBSTTheGTA Online launch issue pageis back up and running. You can also head over to theGTA Online support pageto report bugs or issues.Updatedat 5.07pm BST4.57pmBSTLet&#39;s Play GTA Online! Jane goes on her first heist, forgets getaway car:http://t.co/xEFH6X1aam&mdash; OutsideXbox (@OutsideXbox)October 1, 20134.54pmBSTGame site CVG hasa news story on the saved game issues:a small percentage of users are also claiming that not only do they fail to connect, they also end up with corrupt or damaged save files that affect their story mode progress.4.42pmBSTHere&apos;s Simon Barratt of UK studioFour Door Lemonon the the problems Rockstar is facing:It seems they’ve been trying to scale their hardware quickly to cope with the expected requirements based on their incredible sales. Even if they were using an existing server infrastructure provider such as Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure – which is unlikely and their wording suggests not – they would probably need to be adding to their cloud server farms to support the numbers they’re expecting.Launch is of course the trickiest time when the concurrent user numbers are much higher than they are ever likely to be again. Their planning and stress testing so far will be based on the high end of their normal daily expectation plus an extra amount to cope with the launch stress.From what I understand of the online gameplay, each persistent world should be fairly self-contained so once people are logged in and they have entered the correct world the number of interconnected servers involved should be pretty low, the issue will be how many world instances each server can run and how many servers they have – it could purely be a maths problem.4.37pmBST&quot;I, for one, sympathise with Rockstar,&quot; saysHalifaxEichelin the comments section. &quot;They could not have foreseen hundreds of thousands of US Government employees getting the day off . . .&quot;There, we got politics into the live blog – it&apos;s not completely frivolous**Okay, itiscompletely frivolous.4.26pmBSTGuardian games readerMaiquitolsays in the comments section, &quot;At least one person I know has got online. Word is that, when it works, it is &apos;a right laugh&apos;&quot; So jealous.4.22pmBSTThe latest from @RockstarGames on the issues...For those trying to get into GTA Online today, please bear w/ us on some day one tech connection issues that we’re working to stabilize asap&mdash; Rockstar Games (@RockstarGames)October 1, 20134.09pmBSTHere&apos;s the verdict on the beta from GTA V O&apos;clock, starring Guardian contributor Dan Dawkins...4.06pmBSTLooks like racing is causing some problems for players able to access the game. One user, Dave Cook, has just tweeted, &quot;Can&apos;t get past one GTA Online mission as folk keep getting into cars before they&apos;re allowed and failing it. No way to tell them.&quot;4.02pmBSTHere&#39;s five tips to get you started in#GTAOnline.http://t.co/bq18rDm3YM#GTAV&mdash; GameSpot (@gamespot)October 1, 20134.02pmBSTJust created a new character, but on trying to access the game, the data got corrupted. &quot;Overwrite Y/N?&quot; asks the game.3.30pmBSTGTA Online&#39;s rep system can brand people ‘Bad Sports’, while good people will get rewards -http://t.co/ZSVBpoIxlr&mdash; VG247 (@VG247)October 1, 20133.29pmBSTUh oh, the Rockstar help site has seemingly gone down now. That&apos;s not a good sign is it?The Rockstar customer support page as it currently looks Photograph: /Rockstar3.21pmBSTI&apos;m on my fifth go at getting in, but it&apos;s just crashed. Haven&apos;t even made it to character customisation yet, so my plan to create a GTA equivalent of Courtney Love circa 1992 will have to wait... or will it? You can get into the character customisation menu by clicking the Start button while in single player and selecting &apos;Online&apos;. Even if the server is offline it&apos;ll let you start the character creation process.Updatedat 3.25pm BST3.09pmBSTHere&apos;s more from games coder Byron Atkinson Jones on what&apos;s going wrong today, and why – even if you get through to GTA Online – your experience may be mixed today. Essentially, there&apos;s no way for Rockstar to account for every piece of hardware attempting to access its servers:What the player is using to communicate with the server always plays a huge part since it dictates response speeds. If you couple this with the network the client is on and the number of hops the packets of data need to get to go from client to server and from server to client then there&apos;s a lot to go wrong. When designing games based on a server architecture, we usually use what&apos;s known as connectionless communication protocol where the client and server essentially talk to each other and hope that the packets they send reach their destination. This is in part to deal with the unpredictable nature of client status and how hard it is for the client to actually connect with the server in a reliable way.Updatedat 4.18pm BST3.05pmBST#GTAOnlineDetails: Game Day Access Info and More -http://t.co/PgYSZVNII5pic.twitter.com/SLi8uR65ay&mdash; Rockstar Games (@RockstarGames)September 30, 20133.01pmBSTThe first time you die in GTA Online, you&#39;re respawned by an Epsilon Program angel(?)http://t.co/wTMlwfPuyO&mdash; OutsideXbox (@OutsideXbox)October 1, 20132.56pmBSTEurogamer has a story on the in-game payment cards, which let players purchase GTA currency for real cash. The cheapest is the Red Shark cash card: £1,99 for $100,000 in-game currency. The most expensive is the Great White cash card: £13.49 for $1,250,000. In-game cash can, of course, be earned through pulling heists, winning races and other activities.GTA Online cash cards Photograph: Eurogamer2.48pmBSTHere&apos;s experienced video game developer Byron Atkinson Jones ofXiotex Studios, on the problems of launching online games:The biggest issue is the handling of large amount of simultaneous clients all trying to log in and all trying to run on the server. The usual way of dealing with this is to run a cluster where there isn&apos;t just a single machine but quite a few machines. The issue with this then becomes one of replicating the state of the online world amongst all of this different servers. When you launch a game it&apos;s not an easy task to work out how large the cluster needs to be. One solution is a scalable system that brings servers online based on demand which is how services like Amazon elastic cloud work - you can literally bring new servers into life if the usage count of your servers spikes. Given a large persistent world [like GTA Online] this is not a trivial action since it probably requires large amounts of data to be replicated so on launch day they would want to predict a typical use case that copes with a large initial flood of users.2.44pmBSTRockstar has set up a dedicatedGTA Online launch statuspage, which is cataloging the latest problems encountered by players. Here&apos;s what they&apos;re currently reporting:Occasional &quot;Rockstar Cloud Servers Unavailable&quot; error messageFreezing sometimes while loading into first race in GTAO with &quot;waiting for other players&quot; on the screenIntermittent &quot;Failed to Host a GTA Online Session&quot; error messagesRace Corona (start area, marker) occasionally not showing up for first raceErrors saying &quot;Timed out when matchmaking for a compatible GTA Online Session to join&quot;General issues with the Social Club site and Social Club features (slow loading, failed logins, emails not arriving, etc).2.40pmBSTHere are Alex and Keza from IGN discussing the GTA Online betaWhile we&apos;re compiling all the current information, here are Keza and Alex from IGN talking about their experiences with the beta...Updatedat 2.40pm BST2.37pmBSTWell, we&apos;ve popped the game in, downloaded the small update, said &quot;yeah sure&quot; to the Rockstar online Ts&amp;Cs, and now we&apos;re faced with what may become a familiar message: &quot;The Rockstar cloud severs are unavailable right now. Please try again later.&quot;2.36pmBSTSome of the problems already being reported by players, beyond not being able to get online are:• corruption to single-player save data after downloading the GTA Online update• Inability access racesMore on those later...2.30pmBSTGrand Theft Auto V has been out for two weeks, selling 15m copies and earning rave reviews – now, the game&apos;s ambitious multiplayer mode has been unlocked by publisher Rockstar. But as we explainedearlierit&apos;s likely that many gamers will have trouble accessing the servers today. Preparing a global online infrastructure for a mass onslaught of millions of gamers is no easy task, and Rockstar itself haswarned of potential problems.We&apos;ll be tracking the situation here, as well as making our own attempts to get online. If you&apos;ve tried and failed – or even better – succeeded, let us know in the comments section!
shenaniganshttp://t.co/30FoQDfNw0&mdash; Philip Schiller (@pschiller)October 1, 2013Apple&apos;s marketing chief has called Samsung&apos;s use of coding tricks to make its Galaxy Note 3 smartphone run faster in benchmarks &quot;shenanigans&quot; - slang for a deceptive practice.On Twitter, Phil Schiller made a rare intervention totweeta link to an Ars Technica article. That says that testing found that the Snapdragon 800 chip in the Note 3 appeared to run up to 20% faster than an apparently identical chip in LG&apos;s G2 phone under certain benchmarks.&quot;After a good bit of sleuthing, we can confidently say Samsung appears to be artificially boosting the US Note 3&apos;s benchmark scores with a special, high-power CPU mode that kicks in when the device runs a large number of popular benchmarking apps,&quot; wrote Ron Amadeo on Ars Technica. Amadeo also described the move as &quot;shenanigans&quot;, noting that the team testing the phone had discovered the tweaks by examining CPU idle speeds:&quot;Normally, while the Note 3 is idling, three of the four cores shut off to conserve power; the remaining core drops down to a low-power 300MHz mode. However, if you load up just about any popular CPU benchmarking app, the Note 3 CPU locks into 2.3GHz mode, the fastest speed possible, and none of the cores ever shut off.&quot;Samsung haspreviously been discovered giving artificial speed boostswhen it detects that a benchmarking app is being used: in July it acknowledged that the Galaxy S4 would run the phone&apos;s graphics processing unit (GPU) at top speed for benchmarking apps, but that that would be denied to games which also demanded maximum processing power from the GPU.Samsung said at the time that it did this to &quot;provide optimal user experience&quot; because some full-screen games might &quot;overload&quot; the GPU.But the Ars Technica team, which built its own &quot;Stealthbench&quot; app to re-run its tests, said that their examination of the speed-boosting function suggests it is used &quot;exclusively for benchmarks&quot; (emphasis theirs). They said that they also believed that the new Galaxy Note 10 tablet &quot;is exhibiting the same behaviour&quot;.Schiller&apos;s intervention, via his Twitter account - which has nearly 100,000 followers - is part of a longrunning, and bitter, ongoing battle between the two companies in their phone and tablet businesses. While Samsung has risen to dominate both the feature phone and smartphone business, it has clashed repeatedly with Apple, which successfully sued it for infringing its design and utility patents in a Californian court. Apple wasawarded $1.05bn in damages. Samsung has appealed the award.Samsung meanwhile hit back at Apple with a series of advertsmocking people queuing for new iPhones. Schiller thenjabbed back in March, ahead of the launch of Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S4 phone, making another rare intervention to say that &quot;Android is often given as a free replacement for a feature phone and the experience isn&apos;t as good as an iPhone.&quot;
Google is ready to start showing ads in its Gmail app on Android smartphones, according to new code discovered in a recent update.Artem Russakovskii of Android Policeunpacked the .apk (Android Package) file for version 4.6 of theGmail app for Android, currently deployed across handsets running Android 4.0 upwards, and discovered multiple mentions of adverts within the application code - including references to saving ads as messages and dismissing them.Google&apos;s mobile apps for both Android and iOS have thus far stayed ad-free, unlike their desktop counterpart. That has included adverts above the Gmail inbox since 2004, andsince Mayhas added email-like advertising messages that appear within the &apos;Promotions&apos; tab.In August Googleimplemented mobile ad servingwithin the Google Maps app on both Android and Apple&apos;s iOS, with adverts showing up against searches for places, services and landmarks along with search results.Money for mobileGoogle is increasingly looking to make money from its mobile properties. YouTube&apos;s mobile ad revenue has alsorecently taken off, generating as much as £226m in the first quarter of 2013 alone.&quot;The implementation of the adverts within the mobile Gmail apps will be crucial, due to the impact they could have on the limited real estate available on mobile devices, &quot; said Ian Maude of research firm Enders Analysis.&quot;It will be a balancing act between designing a system that is prominent enough to attract attention while not annoying users; it has to be intrusive enough to garner a response,&quot; Maude said.But he thinks Google will have some room to manoeuvre in how it presents any ads: &quot;it would have to be fairly bad to make people switch email providers as there&apos;s quite a lot of inertia - including the hassle of notifying all your contacts of a new [email] address - preventing easy switching.&quot;Mobile ads have been implemented in Google Maps for Android and iOS.Mobile: growing in importanceMobile web use is rocketing,especially in the UK, with the number of daily internet searches from mobile devices expected to surpass daily desktop searches by 2014.In 2010, Googlebought mobile advertising company AdMobto boost the company&apos;s mobile advertising capabilities.Google recently made significant changesto the way its AdWords advertising network operated with respect to mobile ads, giving advertisers greater control over individual ad spend on mobile devices, locations and times.Cheap but plentifulAds within services like email and chat are generally of low saleable value, due to the fact that users aren&apos;t actively searching for outside information when they access their emails or engage in chat and are therefore less receptive to ads - they are very focussed on the task at hand.&quot;It&apos;ll be all about volume for adverts in Gmail,&quot; said Maude. &quot;Google has the advantage of having many millions of users, who regularly check their email and therefore provide the potential for high frequency ad views.&quot;&quot;Google will have to stack them very high and sell them very cheap, but it could make a significant new revenue stream for Google,&quot; Maude concluded.AdWords contributed the bulk of Google&apos;s $43bn (£26.5bn) advertising revenues in 2013, which itself made up over86% of Google&apos;s total revenue, while mobile advertising is predicted to account forone-third of advertising spend growthin 2013, according to ZenithOptimedia&apos;s advertising expenditure forecast.Asked whether and when ads would appear in the Gmail app, a Google spokesperson said: &quot;we&apos;re always experimenting with new features, but have nothing new to share at this time.&quot;• In July, a US scheme to intended tostrangle illicit revenuesblocked websites offering pirated content from displaying Google adverts.
Europe's antitrust commissioner signalled on Tuesday that he will seek a settlement with Google over the search engine's business practices rather than pursuing it through the courts over alleged abuse of its dominant market position.Under commitments offered by Google, specialist search sites that offer rival services - such as Streetmap for mapping or Foundem for shopping - will appear in Google search results pages with their logo and explanatory text. Their position on an internet user's results page will be chosen by an auction system.That compares with the current setup, where Google's own products such as Google Shopping, Maps and YouTube dominate search results, a situation that triggered an investigation by the European commission in November 2010 following complaints from Google competitors including Microsoft.The proposal would apply not just to desktop searches but also to mobile phones, which are a growing source of hits for Google, which controls around 90% of the market for search in Europe.Joaquin Almunia, the commissioner for competition,said on Tuesday that Google had made a fresh set of "commitments"on how to respond to the accusations. He sounded confident that the case could be wrapped up by spring 2014 with the conclusion of legally binding "commitments'' from the internet giant resolving the dispute. Otherwise Google faces the threat of a fine of up to 10% of its global revenue, or $5bn (£3.1bn)."Google has now improved the commitments it has offered. We have negotiated improvements," Almunia told a meeting of industry experts and lobbyists in the European Parliament. "The new proposal more appropriately addresses the need for any commitments to be able to cover future developments."He outlined four sets of objections to Google's business conduct, declaring that if left unaddressed, they would force the EU regulator to issue a statement of objections and levy huge fines. His group is holding separate investigations – which are still under way – into whether Google's phone subsidiary Motorola abused the patent system, and whether the free pricing on its Android smartphone operating system counts as predatory pricing. The patent inquiry is "well underway", Almunia said.The main problem for the commission is the way Google is held to exploit its leading market position to promote its own products and services. The commission also alleges that Google compels other websites and software designers to reach binding deals with the search engine, which limit advertising competition.Almunia said the Google investigation was difficult and complex because it was the first time Brussels had scrutinised the online search market and because the sector was changing at such speed.A response from Google in the spring was judged inadequate by its rivals, the commissioner said, and intensive negotiations have been conducted since."We have reached a key moment in this case," said Almunia. "Now, with the significant improvements on the table, I think we have the possibility to work again and seek to find an effective solution."If the negotiations went well, he added, a settlement would probably be reached by next spring. If they broke down, the two sides could slide into more serious dispute within a few months."We will work with Google during the next weeks to finalise the precise drafting of the proposed commitment text," Almunia said. "The settlement route remains the best choice. I hope the answers we will receive to our questions will confirm this."Google confirmed that it had made "difficult" concessions in an attempt to defuse the dispute.Kent Walker, Google senior vice-president and general counsel, said: "This has been a very long and very thorough investigation. Given the feedback the European commission received on our first proposal, they have insisted on further, significant changes to the way we display search results.  While competition online is thriving, we've made the difficult decision to agree to their requirements in the interests of reaching a settlement."
At the beginning of September, releasing the results for the three months to the end of July, Kantar ComTech's strategic insight director Dominic Sunnebo pointed out that "Windows Phone's growth isn't coming from stealing Apple or Android consumers. Only 27% of Apple and Android users change their OS when they replace their handset. The majority of those that do switch tend to move between the two big operating systems with very little movement to Windows."Now that has been borne out with thelatest set of figures from the company, which measures the share of sales of phones in various countries, broken down by platform and, sometimes, by handset.The latest data covers the three months to August 2013, and shows that Windows Phone's share of handset sales across the five largest EU countries (UK, Germany, Italy, France and Spain - which it calls the "EU 5") has hit 9.2%, and is at 12% and 10.8% in the UK and Spain particularly.Sweet spot for salesSunnebo said last month that 42% of Windows Phone sales over the past year have come from feature phone owners upgrading to a smartphone. That, he says, "is a much higher proportion than Android or iOS. The Lumia 520 is hitting a sweet spot, offering the price and quality that new buyers are looking for."The other 52% - though we don't know what proportions - will come from first-time buyers of smartphones, and people switching from other smartphone platforms. Whichever it is, Sunnebo reckons they're doing the job of getting Windows Phone into peoples' hands: "These models are hitting the sweet spot with 16-24 year olds and 35-49 year-olds, two key groups who look for a balance of price and functionality in their smartphone."But some analysts wonder whether those sales - which as Sunnebo suggested last month are probably coming from feature phone users upgrading - came at the expense of profits. Nokia's Lumia 520 and 620, its budget offerings in the smartphone market, is reckoned to have sold well. However the fact that the Finnish company's board sold the handset maker to Microsoft, and accepted a $2bn temporary loan as part of the deal - suggests that the 520 was not a gigantic profit-maker. It did, however, build share.(Update:how do we know that these are low-end phones that Nokia is succeeding with, rather than those such as its high-end 920 or others? Because Nokia's results tell us. According to itssecond-quarter figures(PDF), its overall smartphone average selling price (ASP) fell to €157, compared to €191 and €187 in the previous two quarters. It's selling more Lumias - but at a lower price. And more generally, in Europe its overall phone ASP dropped from €75.8 to €72.4, even while it was selling more smartphones in the region. So clearly, those smartphones are not priced to compare with the HTC One, Galaxy S4, or iPhone 5.)Feature phone owners are more than half of all mobile users globally; and they're the ones who will be targeted by the big companies in the coming year.Germany and Spain: Android rulesIn Germany, where Android now has a massive 78.7% of sales, Windows Phone is now at 8.8% of sales, against the iPhone's 9.4%. The release last month of the new iPhones however may shift that again in Apple's favour.Android's dominance in Europe, where it has 70.1% of sales in the five biggest countries, reaches its zenith in Spain, where Kantar says it had 90.8% of sales.But Sunnebo says: "After years of increasing market share, Android has now reached a point where significant growth in developed markets is becoming harder to find. Android's growth has been spearheaded by Samsung, but the manufacturer is now seeing its share of sales across the major European economies dip year on year as a sustained comeback from Sony, Nokia and LG begins to broaden the competitive landscape."Handset share change from August 2012 to 2013 from Kantar ComTechHe points to separate data which shows that Samsung's share of the "EU 5" has dropped slightly, from 49% to 47.1%, while that for Apple, Sony, and LG has risen. For the latter two, their growth in share (4.3%) more than offsets Samsung's drop of 1.9% - but seem to balance out the falls for HTC and Motorola. With Google's Nexus 4 havinghelped LG stabilise its positionat the end of 2012, Samsung's Korean rival is now making its way back into the smartphone space.US and Japan: iPhone countryAndroid's strength in Europe contrasts strongly with the US and Japan, where Apple has strongholds. In the US, the Android-iPhone split in the three months to August - preceding the launch of the new models - was 55.1% to 39.3%; in Japan, it was 48.6% to 47.4%, and the launch of the new iPhones on DoCoMo is expected to push sales even further.Kantar ComTech doesn't give figures for absolute sales, and it's not possible from the data it provides publicly to know what proportion of those phones go to new owners, and which to people who are either upgrading on the same platform, or switching.For Apple, dominance in the US is all but assured: the carrier pricing strategy there (which means that a cheaper phone can cost the same as an expensive one) favours the iPhone, which with the aid of the iPhone 5C could hit the 50% market share (though not installed base) point by the end of this year.BlackBerry: squashedOne company which can't find any good news in the latest figures is BlackBerry. Its sales are following the same trajectory as Nokia's Symbian did - but Symbian at least was publicly killed off by Stephen Elop. BlackBerry is in a jam of its own making.Its share has collapsed to 0.5% of sales across the EU 5 - driven there partly by Germany and Spain. Its highest share is in France, at 4.2%, with the UK behind it at 3.7%. In the US, the other key western market, its sales share has dropped to 1.8%.That compares with former highs ofnearly 20% in Spain (in October 2011), 14% in France (in November 2011) and 21% in the UK (October 2011). Its best was 7% in the US, also in November 2011. But like Symbian, it seems there's no way back for BlackBerry - and Windows Phone has indeed taken its place,as Elop forecast it could, as the third ecosystem.Now it just needs to make money doing it.
Online video game launches tend to be precarious things. Publishers can buy in vast networks of servers and hire the best software engineers to ensure gamers aren't left out in the cold. But when many thousands hit the infrastructure at once, the results can be wildly unpredictable. We only have to look at the chaotic arrival of EA's Sim City or Blizzard's Diablo III for evidence of this. Both games pretty much collapsed at launch, with fans unable to sign in for many hours and instead jamming the forums with questions and complaints.So this is going to be an edgy day for Rockstar. Released last month to huge critical acclaim, Grand Theft Auto V has sold in the region of 15m copies, making it the year's biggest entertainment release. And today at noon the publisher is unlocking the ambitious multiplayer mode: Grand Theft Auto Online. Providing fans with a persistent version of the game's world, Los Santos, owners of GTA V can access the new mode for free, join gangs, and get involved in heists, races, death matches and other nefarious activities, all the time earning Reputation Points which unlock new goodies such as weapons and cars.It's essentially a massively multiplayer game, like World of Warcraft, but set in a modern city rather than a fantasy kingdom. Each time you play, you enter a server that is currently restricted to 16 players, but the entire universe is interconnected – there's even a persistent economy and a stock market that changes dynamically based on what players all over the world spend their in-game cash on.Of course, with the launch merely hours away the big question is, will it work? Rockstar itself has already admitted that server problems are likely. Ina post on its Newswire sitelast week, the publisher stated:One thing we are already aware of, and are trying to alleviate as fast as we can, is the unanticipated additional pressure on the servers due to a significantly higher number of players than we were anticipating at this point – we are working around the clock to buy and add more servers, but this increased scale is only going to make the first few days even more temperamental than such things usually are.Indeed, GTA V owners are already experiencing some of the problems of a connected gaming experience. The game's smartphone app, iFruit, which lets users train lead character Franklin's dog as well as customise cars, has been besieged by server connection delays, as has access to the in-game Snapshot app, used to take and share photos. Some fans are mystified as to why Rockstar failed to anticipate this demand – after all, GTA IV sold more than 25m copies.But anticipation of huge gamer numbers is one thing, actually preparing for it is quite another. It's not just a case of connecting everyone to one giant online brain. "Although we use the term 'servers' in a lot of cases it's not like there's actually one machine – or a set of machines – that handle the whole job," says Ed Fear, a creative producer at UK studio Mediatonic. "You have machines that do certain functions, or contain certain zones of the world, or hold certain data, and they all operate together to give the impression that you're interfacing with one 'thing'. Unexpected load on one of these areas can unbalance the whole caboodle."Developers do have a range of methods for load-testing server networks, from running beta programmes (limited numbers of gamers testing the game before release), to designing AI bots that work as virtual testers, to loading the infrastructure with fake work to test the strain.These are useful tools, but they can only ever provide a limited glimpse at what may happen at launch. "The challenge is scale," says veteran game developer Martin Hollis. "It doesn't matter how much you test with 10 players or with 10,000 players, you can't always exactly anticipate what will happen with 1,000,000 players. Of course you should do your homework. Of course you should test with 1m robots, or more exactly, with automated scripts generated by people experienced in preparing automated scripts for testing massively multiplayer games. You can simulate a lot. But you can't simulate everything, and bitter experience has shown that you can't foresee everything. There is always a surprise or two with every massively multiplayer game, doubly so if you are dealing with millions of players in a spike."What pre-release testing also fails to account for is the sheer unpredictability of the consumer swarm. In the aftermath of EA's troubled SimCity launch earlier this year, Lucy Bradshaw, studio head at the title's developer Maxis,told Polygon, "A lot more people logged on than we expected. More people played and played in ways we never saw in the beta."It's the last bit that is most telling. Beta testers tend to understand and work within the confines of unfinished software. They're often fans of the developer or the series, and they feel honoured to be part of the testing process. Paying consumers will react very differently to a slow server or bugs in the system – they'll re-start, they'll log out and log back in – they'll get angry. Furthermore, if they do get on, they will interact with the game in very different ways, testing its boundaries, trying weird stuff – doing things the developers didn't expect. You can't predict what 2m people are going to do.And you also can't predict the vagaries of several million different internet connections, broadband suppliers, and computer infrasturctures along the pipeline of the internet. "The real key to this is that games require all of the clients (usually 32 to 64) to be perfectly synched," says Andrew Smith of Split Milk Studios. "As soon as one player becomes out of step, the knock-on effects become nightmarishly difficult to contain."Picture a ten-pin bowling scenario: the bowler is the server or the game, and the pins are the clients or players. As the ball hits, the first pin falls, and knocks on to the next and it all works. However, if any pin freezes in place for a split second, at random, it completely ruins your ability, as a bowler, to reliably and accurately go for strikes. Now apply that to a game as complex as GTA and you can see why a simple beta is never going to be enough – there are millions of pins."So the key message from Rockstar is, bear with us. This is effectively a mass open beta. As the website puts it: "The first couple of weeks we expect to be heavily focused on tuning the experience as it goes from internal testing to the reality of being played by tons of people in the real world so that all the usual teething problems for an online game are overcome. We hope it will all run incredibly smoothly, but please bear with us if it doesn't, and help us fix any and all problems!"In short, if you were planning to take the afternoon off to go online with your friends and rob security trucks, you may want some back up entertainment prepared for when the servers slow, or things go wrong. Because if past experiences of major online game launches tell us anything it's that it won't just be the flash cars inside GTA Online that will be crashing.•GTA V and the future of micro-transactions•Helen Lewis: Yes, it's misogynistic and violent, but I still admire GTA•GTA 5 review: a dazzling but monstrous parody of modern lifeAre you being served? The challenge of running multiplayer games – a developer speaksGTA 5: 'The number one problem is bottlenecks'Greg Booker is principal engineer at Born Ready Studios, the UK developer of space combat game,Strike Suit Zero. Here, he provides an inside guide on the problems of building and preparing an online video game."The number one problem is bottlenecks. You can distribute many aspects of your server infrastructure, but if you have a point where the need for data coherency outweighs the desire to parallelise your systems then that is likely to become the weak point in the chain. For example, after a maintenance period, your servers are down, when the systems come back up, everyone will be wanting to login – which then really hammers that part of the system.  And distributing login systems becomes harder as they all need access to the same data."You can distribute the data based on geographical location, but that then runs the risk of increasing costs whilst not actually matching the levels of demand.  There are many ways to approach this, but the fact remains that this is something that is still relatively new to a lot of game developers and trying to do it yourself can often result in a system that works but is very susceptible to collapse under load. Building systems that scale well under load is not a new problem, but it is new for game developers and quite often the budgets in terms of time and staff expertise will be skimped on in favour of focusing on much more visible, whiz-bang features."Finding good beta testers is also hard – people generally want to play, not test the game. Professional QA teams will put together detailed test plans, which ensure coverage of all aspects of the game, but executing that at the level required to fully stress your back-end systems would require an unfeasibly large QA department.  If you architect your systems well enough, you can build automated tests for this, but humans will introduce a degree of unpredictability that can't really be planned for (and therefore, tested). If you have test teams in Paris, London and Frankfurt, you may find that your network connectivity to say, Rome, has issues with bandwidth and latency that you didn't anticipate."Consumer broadband is in a better place now that it was 10 or even five years ago. ISPs are more aware of gaming and they tend to provide routers that will work with services such as Xbox Live and PSN without problems. The good ones will ensure that traffic for those systems is routed and prioritised to give their customers a good experience."That said, there are still many factors involved and someone using a Wi-Fi connection in a noisy (electro-magnetic) environment may see spikes of packet loss and/or latency that can have consequences for the quality of the experience they get. In the worst case, it may result in them appearing as having lost their connection to your server.  They then have to reconnect which can put further stress on those login servers.  A brief outage in a major backbone on the Internet is not unheard of, the effect on Netflix, iPlayer may even be masked by the buffering those systems use.  You probably won't notice when using email or the web.  But if you're in an online game session, it could cause a few thousand players to lose their connection to the server.  They then all have to login again, and the system comes under increased pressure."The biggest problems come from spikes in activity and your systems not being able to adequately handle those spikes. Companies that run MMO games have gained a lot of experience in this. Games like Grand Theft Auto started out with much simpler multiplayer expectations, with the game experience being much more transient and isolated. Now, as the amount of persistent data about a player increases and they make progress from one session to the next, this leads to more data storage. The amounts are trivial compared to the storage capacity of modern cloud services, but you then need to have robust systems to store, retrieve and update that data.  It needs to be fault-tolerant and above all resistant to corruption or loss. The only thing that will infuriate your player base more than not being able to play the game is losing some or all of their progress."•Helen Lewis: Yes, it's misogynistic and violent, but I still admire GTA•GTA V and the future of micro-transactions•GTA 5 review: a dazzling but monstrous parody of modern life
