It's been a pleasure to watch last year's hugely successful Street Fighter IV release bring in an enthusiastic new audience to the realm of the 2D fighting game.But those who believe this genre begins and ends with Capcom's beautiful brawler have a lot to learn. And BlazBlue could well prove an effective teacher. Developed by cult studio Arc System Works – responsible for the legendary Guilty Gears fighting game series – this is a visually spectacular challenger, operating on the outer edge of game design sanity.Plot? You don't need to know the plot, it's utter nonsense (although the lengthy RPG mode which attempts to add a backstory to the action is rather quaint). You just need to know that BlazBlue is a hyper-kinetic gothic anime-styled fighter, with an accessible combat system, and an emphasis on balletic aerial maneuveres and eye-scorching, strobe-lit special attacks.There are only four buttons to learn, but of course, these can be jammed together to create outlandish combos, and for defensive depth the game offers an ultra cautious barrier option that lets you effectively build a temporary wall in front of your character as the blows rain in.Though there are elements of recognisable Street Fighter 2 mechanics in here (quarter turns on the joystick access stronger moves, for example), this is a whole new system, encouraging explorative and exuberant play. Do you go for a lighting fast athlete with lots of mid-air rolls and kicks to own every inch of the screen, or do you go heavy, opting for a muscle bound maniac to swat away incoming enemies?For once, the decision really is yours – there are no vanilla characters like Ken and Ryu, no cheap bullies like Seth or Sagat in Street Fighter IV. This is totally balanced, razor sharp fighting action.BlazBlue also provides 12 of the most bizarre characters ever to grace a digitised fighting arena. There's Rachel Alucard with an umbrella that turns into a huge anime creature – and a cannon. Or how about Carl Clover a sort of Dickensian lout followed everywhere by a robotic marionette. And getting really out there, try Arakune a blob of gurgling terror, wrapped in a threadbare reaper cloak. They're all lovingly hand drawn, with immense attention to detail.Add in a selection of bizarre backgrounds and a souped-up soundtrack that combines J-pop, j-rock and J-classical (is that a genre? It is now) into something resembling an aural face slap, and you have an utterly singular release for both fighting game connoisseurs and noobs looking for an extension to their Street Fighter experience.If you can, get hold of the Limited Edition pack – it comes with a DVD featuring two hours of combat tutorials. That will at least allow you to scratch the surface of what this mesmerising game has to offer.
For a workplace nuisance, Office Pest sure is prompt with his 'Best of' deliveries. Friday afternoon was barely over, when his summation of last week blasted into my in-box. But wasn't he afraid that he'd miss some stunning last minute nugget of 'box genius? "If that lot can come up with anything that warrants inclusion in the 'Best of' in the last 10 minutes of the day, I'll be impressed," he assured me. "Mostly it's the obligatory 'I'm off to get hammered' posts..."Before that however, the 'boxers managed to consider a variety of topics from stolen bicycles to St George's day...Politicians: if you want to truly understand the crucial 'disenfranchised mature gamer' demographic, this is very much where you need to be right now.Office Pest - let's get it over with...Gamesblog ChatterboxApril 19-23, 2010Edited by Office PestThe weekend, meat-ups and volcano-related disruptionAnother few days of beautiful weather had passed and many reported to have enjoyed splendid weekends. The Friday night meat-up appeared to be a success with a few 02:30am finishes. Bravo chaps. A few were delighted by the results of the Chinese Grand Prix. Even Shadowmind's bad news about his bike being stolen the week before was mitigated by the good news of him having discovered it for sale on Friday and the police getting it back to him within 12 hours. Good feelings all round!However, the dark ash cloud of the mischievous Eyjafjallajoekull volcano still hung over us all. Umboros' mum was supposed to be in work, but was stuck in Spain. Chubster2010's sister-in-law was stranded in Sardinia at six months pregnant – ouch! FerrisSaved's sister was due to get married on Saturday with 20 of her guests stuck abroad. Blogger ChilliOil at least was able to see the silver lining though – "Picnic on Saturday and BBQ on Sunday and not a vapour trail in the sky. Amazing how much quieter London is without being buzzed by jets constantly."Cup of tea anyone? Or would you like something stronger?Two of the blog's favourite forms of snobbery were discussed on Monday afternoon – tea and whiskey.  Honourable mentions go to Rooibos, Jameson, Black Bush, Lapsang, Talisker, Chai, Springbank, Tetleys, Highland Park and Balblair – your guess as to which is which. I never even knew Tetleys made whiskey.Angry-making advertsYes – this popular topic reared its ugly head again on Tuesday afternoon.  Targets of vitriolic rants this week were We Buy Any Car, Go Compare, 118 247 and Just for Men.  Later dizzyisanegg admitted:"I was pure having a go at a Go Compare ad last night then properly LOLed at a joke in it."A brave man for admitting enjoying a Go Compare advert AND using 'LOL' in a sentence. He wasn't seen or heard from again for some time…Nazi fancying[God help me, we're only three stories in and it's started - Keef]Lazybones threw this confused and possibly racially incorrect comment into the ether on Tuesday afternoon:"It always worries me that I find women with the generically 1940s German Nazi look quite attractive. You know - blonde hair in plaits, blue eyes, stiletto heels ... Is it because of the woman in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade? I don't know ... Maybe deep down I find that level of Teutonism attractive; maybe it's just that they're bad people? That holds a certain appeal. I suppose all physical types are ethnically determined; so any attraction to a particular 'type' implies a kind of ethnic discrimination."How do you follow that up, you ask?[You don't, you just walk quitely away - Keef]Well BeardOfBees did his politically correct best with an unprintable summation that ended with the contention that bi-curiousity, "is the only politically correct option..."By George!Friday was St George's Day and there was much jubilation on the blog!  Well… I think most people were just excited that it was Friday. At least it got us thinking a bit patriotically. Umboros wondered what all the fuss was about – "Is it sponsored by Carling? Lots of Morris dancing for you all tonight then? Who is this Morris? He'll be knackered."Later, Sorbicol asked where resident cultural conservatist RobLindsay was that day. A suspicious PhilosopherK1ng pondered – "He's been preparing for St George's Day - today he's leading a huge rally of English parliament campaigners in full armour to the Commons to take over and demand we close the borders and stop all benefits payments."Amipal later got all patriotic – "Got a hand-drawn Union Flag on my desk. This day seems to be about celebrating Ing-Ger-Land rather than our differences from the Scots or Welsh, and people seem to do that anytime the footyball is on anyway."Dizzyisanegg (confirmed still alive after his previous 'LOLing') even dressed for the occasion – "White tee (ironed by my mum), shaved head, red braces, drain pipes and blue Doc Martins. Standard St George's day issue. I'll see you in the Royal Infirmary about 10ish."Happy days!Quotes of the week"Anyone's missus watch that 'Dorothy' programme of a weekend?"BeardOfBees ain't fooling anyone."I have a little bit of a problem with old people, you see. I find them creepy, and a bit scary. It's their hands really, you can see right through them and all their inside business."HereComesTreble combines phobias and ageism in one convenient post.Also discussedGames:Blood Bowl, PES, Battlefield Bad Company 2, God of War 3, Neptune's Pride, Modern Warfare 2, Demon's Souls, Monster Hunter TriFilms &amp; TV:24, Lost, Parliamentary DebatesMusic:LCD Soundsystem
WithSuper Street Fighter IVreleased this Friday, you're no doubt cracking your knuckles and getting down to some serious practise with your favoured characters. The enhanced version of last year's wonderful SFIV features eight extra combatants, an enhanced Ultra Combo system and tweaked online play (including four vs four team elimination battles).But are there still weak areas of your fighting strategy? Are there characters you just can't get to grips with, or moves that always catch you out? Do you have difficulties remembering the difference between a metsu shoryuken and a gou shoryuken? Have no fear. UK and European Street Fighter IV champion Ryan Hart will this week operate as the Guardian's Street Fighter agony uncle. On Thursday Ryan will be taking part in a special SFIV face-off against Femi Adeboye. Organised by betting site Paddy Power, it'll be the first video gaming bout that members of the public are able to place a wager on. Ryan is the favourite with odds of 1/3, against Femi's 2/1...Anyway, if you have any questions about tactics, moves, counters, combos, characters or any other element of the Street Fighter experience, put them in the comments section below and I'll get them to Ryan. I'll then post all his responses on Friday morning.
Vodafone is making Google's Nexus One mobile phone free for any customer willing to sign up to a two-year contract at £35 a month.The mobile phone company will start selling the phone on 30 April, but customers can pre-order the deviceon its website from today.Vodafone is the first European operator to offer the Google phone, which has been available in the US since the start of the year, and it has taken longer than executives had expected to get hold of the device.But Vodafone's price plan is unlikely to set Nexus One sales alight in the UK. It pitches the phone in direct competition with the iPhone, which Vodafone also started selling earlier this year. The Nexus One may be a faster phone than the iPhone, but it there are far fewer downloadable applications available for Android devices – giving the Apple phone has the upper hand.When it launched in the US, Google sold the phone solely through its website and sold it unlocked, so that customers could put their existing SIM card into it. European customers could buy it from the website and have it shipped over.But customers who experienced problems with the device were forced to rely upon email for technical assistance, sometimes waiting days for a reply.Eventually, Google introduced a freephone customer support line in the US, but the support problems experienced there gave the company reason to pause over the phone's launch elsewhere, to make sure it has its customer service operations in place. As a result,the UK launch has come later than Vodafone expectedalthough Google has always maintained that it intended to launch in the UK "in the spring".Google has since optimised the device for some American networks – such as AT&amp;T – to reduce customer's problems. It has also struck a deal with Verizon Wireless which will see the phone subsidised for new users.Analysts have described sales of the phone – the first phone using Google's Android software over which the search engine company has had full control – as disappointing, although Google has denied that the launch has been a flop. Last month, Goldman Sachs slashed its estimate for Nexus One sales this year from 3.5m units to just 1m worldwide.The Nexus One also faces competition from another Android handset, the HTC Desire, which is very similar andhas been better received by critics. The HTC Desire is available from several UK networks.The Nexus One will be available on cheaper contracts for customers who are willing to pay some of the cost of the device, which in the US retails for $529 (£342). For customers who only want to sign up for 18 months, the phone will cost £99 on a £30 a month contract, or £59 for £35 a month. It is free on an 18 month contract at £40 a month.On a two-year contract, the phone will cost £99 for £25 a month, or £59 for £30 a month.Vodafone UK customers with the Nexus One can use up to 1GB of mobile data as part of their price plan as well as take advantage of unlimited access to Wi-Fi in the home and free, publicly available services throughout the country. Customers using Wi-Fi can also use an additional 1GB of data at premium BT Openzone hotspots throughout the UK.
After a decade of producing mobile phone and email devices that provide business people and consumers with a scaled-down version of the traditional 'qwerty' keyboard, RIM – maker of the BlackBerry – has unveiled its first phone with a traditional mobile phone keypad.The new BlackBerry Pearl 3G, which will be available in the UK by the early summer, is the same size as its successful predecessor but has a traditional alphanumeric keypad rather than its predecessor's slimmed down qwerty pad – which had two letters per key.The device also sports a 3.2 megapixel camera – the original Pearl had a mere 1.3 megapixels – a processor that is twice as fast as the earlier model, supports the latest version of Wi-Fi, and has an optical trackpad instead of the original's trackball. In essence the new Pearl is a slimmed down version of the Bold 9700.The BlackBerry Pearl, launched three years ago, helped the Canadian technology company break into the consumer market, with network operators offering it to pre-pay as well as contract customers.Alongside last year's BlackBerry Curve 8520, its replacement, the Pearl 3G, is deigned to further widen the appeal of BlackBerry devices to the consumer market.It also marks the first time that RIM has developed difference devices for different markets. In the US the Pearl 3G will have the same  20-key condensed qwerty keypad as the original Pearl, but in Europe it will have a traditional 14-key mobile phone keypad."The BlackBerry Pearl 3G is unlike any other smartphone in the world and we expect a broad range of new and existing customers will be drawn to its powerful features and compact design," said Mike Lazaridis, President and Co-CEO, Research In Motion."Considering the fast growing consumer interest in smartphones and the fact that more than three-quarters of the people in the global mobile phone market are still buying handsets with a traditional alphanumeric keypad, we think the new BlackBerry Pearl 3G addresses a substantial market opportunity. It allows consumers to upgrade their traditional mobile phone to a full-featured, easy-to-use and fashionable 3G BlackBerry smartphone that supports BlackBerry Messenger and many other apps while maintaining a handset design and layout that is familiar and comfortable."
It won't make any difference to the election - at least, not one that you can measure. But according to a new analysis it seems - prepare yourself - that the Labour Party (remember them?) has more celebrities with more followers on Twitter who have made their political leanings clear.And, er, that's it.(Update:Robert Llewellynpoints out that he isnotbacking the Lib Dems. We apologise for the error, which was in the information supplied to us.)If it were summer then we'd feel that it must be the silly season, but it's not - it's the election season, which matches it for silliness.The list is in the image above, and reproduced below for added clickiness if you want to follow said celebrities.Caveats? Yes, there are a few. First, where'sStephen Fry? with 1.465m followers, he's not been tweeting much because he's writing a book, but his (only)recent political tweetlast week, after the monstering of Nick Clegg by right-wing papers, read: "Frankly I'm tempted to vote Lib Dem now. If we let the Telegraph and Mail win, well, freedom and Britain die." Despite having been a Labour supporter in the past, he didn't vote in the 2005 election because of his opposition to the Labour and Conservative positions on the Iraq War. (Er, Stephen, the Lib Dems didn't support it.)Next caveat: having Twitter followers doesn't mean those followers will do what you ask them to. So if Eddie Izzard exhorts people to vote Labour, that doesn't mean that in the quiet of the voting booth they will. Or even that they'll vote. Even if they say they will (vote, and vote Labour).Next caveat: even if they do take heed of the exhortation and do vote, are they in a seat where it will make any difference? We don't and can't know.Next caveat: if celebs' views were truly representative, then we could expect something of a turnup for the Greens, what with Marcus Brigstocke backing them. Not that the first-past-the-post system would make any difference, of course; on that basis, Labour is far ahead of the rest, despite having a minority of the celeb backers here. (Rather like one feasible result, in fact, where Labour gets the fewest votes but gets the most seats in a hung - or if you prefer "balanced" - Parliament.)That's not how the company pushing the research sees it though. Louis Halpern, author of Personal Reputation Management and CEO of Halpern Cowan, commented that politicians "can still only dream of getting as much of a popularity surge as celebrities do from the platform; people follow the politicians whose views they already agree with, so candidates using Twitter are just preaching to the choir. Celebrities, on the other hand are trusted faces who can influence voters across the political spectrum and across the country, get the apathetic to vote, swing the undecideds, and give politicians a much-needed boost to their online reputation."Halpern Cowan's analysis: "With a combined reach of 1,764,864 users, Labour has harnessed by far the most celebrity endorsement influence on Twitter. With only 27m voting in 2005, this influence is likely to give the party a significant boost when the country goes to the polls on 6 May," it claims."The Liberal Democrats came a distant second to Labour with a celebrity reach of 73,438 Twitter-users, followed by the Green Party on 18,366, and the Conservatives on 11,138. Political campaigner and stand-up comedian Mark Thomas, who is using his Twitter feed to support Bristol independent Danny Kushlick, for whom he has written/compiled a manifesto, has 12,244 followers."It's that dangerous equation that suggests that the number of followers equates with voting influence that we can't quite see. Still, if somehow Eddie Izzard swings it - or Stephen Fry makes a late appearance and comes out for tactical voting - then don't say you weren't warned.1.Eddie IzzardLabour: 1,529,9862.Alan DaviesLabour: 128,6873.Duncan BannatyneLabour: 69,6744.Robert LlewellynLib Dem: 39,358Undeclared5.Boy GeorgeLib Dem: 34,0806.Anthony CottonLabour: 32,2617.Marcus BrigstockeGreen: 18,3668.Mark ThomasIndependent (Danny Kushlick): 12,2449.Toby YoungConservative: 11,13810.Dave RowntreeLabour: 4,256Bonus (and more useful) link: John Naughton, the Observer columnist and Open University professor, on howthere is a change in this election - and how social media is making some difference.
Film certification-style ratings are coming to the internet, as the result of a link-up between the British Board of Film Classification and an internet service provider. The ISP, Tibboh, is using the BBFC classification system – which rates films as U, PG, 12, 15 or 18 – and applying it to websites. Around 3bn sites have already been rated, with more set to follow.Tibboh employs the Netsweeper system already in use in schools to determine each site's suitability for different age groups, and the firm has said it will take note of public suggestions for ratings. Using a USB dongle developed by Tibboh, parents will be able to filter out all content rated as older than they deem suitable. However, the service does not come free: there is a monthly charge of £19.99 for the service, which is available from Amazon and from Tibboh's own website.Among the decisions already made are to rate social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter as 12-certificate, in line with guidance from the sites themselves. Guardian.co.uk has been rated U. It is not known whether a "contains mild liberalism" warning has been attached.
I can only begin to imagine the feeling of crushing disappointment the makers of Nier must have had when, after months and months of hard work, they first heard news of its planned release date.Square's genre-bending RPG comes less than two months after the launch of Final Fantasy XIII and, especially considering its rather strange name and hopelessly ugly and misleading cover art, it seems destined to join the ranks of gaming's forgotten titles. This is a real shame because beneath its somewhat shabby exterior lies an intelligent, fresh-feeling RPG experience that has plenty of great ideas and a lot to offer fans of the genre.As with FFXIII, you take control of a character intent on saving the world while maintaining an absurd haircut – but this is where the similarities end. From the profane intro sequence and the moody opening stage (with its clear nod to Cormac McCarthy's The Road) it's apparent Nier is a more adult take on the traditionally cutesy Japanese RPG world. Blood spurts from demons and animals as you attack and adult themes and language runs throughout the game. Even once you've got used its stylistic unconventionality, there are still surprises to be had around every corner.The first is the ingenious use of camera angles to fluidly switch between a variety of gameplay modes. While the majority of the game is played out in a fairly standard third-person hack 'n' slash manner, at times you'll be given a top-down view to solve puzzles or engage in a Smash TV-like shoot-em-up, or switch to 2D and find yourself suddenly playing a Contra-esque platformer. There's even a brief excursion into the world of the text adventure.The humour in the game is also an unexpected treat. Your Navi-like companion, Grimoire Weiss, is marvellously voiced by Liam O'Brien and his witty repartee with your controlled character is always amusing. A hovering magic book, Weiss can fire projectiles at enemies using the shoulder buttons, which really adds something to the otherwise fairly pedestrian (mash the hit-with-sword button) combat action.Ocarina of Time was a clear inspiration for the game and animal-riding and fishing both serve as pleasant distractions from the game's main quest. You can even grow fruit and vegetables in your back garden to sell: for those willing to invest the hours there's a huge amount of time to be spent just in these optional sections, let alone the 20- to 30-hour main quest.This is not a game without its flaws, however. While the soundtrack is top-notch, the graphics are average at best and the turgid landscapes on offer make you pine for the likes of Pulse and Cocoon. Many of the optional side-quests also feel pretty lazily constructed, taking a package from point A to B or finding 10 of a certain item isn't particularly inspiring.The controls can be unwieldy at times, particularly during moments where you have to run in one direction, but shoot at enemies in another at the same time. The limited variety of demons on offer also means combat can quickly get quite tedious – although some of the impressively grandiose boss-fights partly make up for this.If you're willing to go in with an open mind, Nier will soon suck you in, and any project that's made such an effort to be different deserves a great deal of credit. While it's by no means a great game, it's certainly a good one, and for those tired of playing through the same old RPG cliches it serves as a welcome breath of fresh air.
Earlier this month we took anearly look at Bodycount, the incendiary new shooter from UK publisher, Codemasters. The creative director on the project is Stuart Black, the outspoken games designer behind 2006 PlayStation 2 hit Black, and a veteran of Bullfrog, the massively influential studio formed by Peter Molyneux back in the mid-eighties.Black wears his passion for games, not so much on his sleeve, but more accurately, tattooed across his forehead in giant neon ink letters. I recently spoke to him about the genesis of Bodycount, his approach to design, and about the state of contemporary game creation.Here's part one of what he had to say...First of all, can you tell us what you've been up to since leaving EA Criterion – because, there's a clear throughline from Black to this game…Kind of. It's true that there's a throughline, but there's been some stuff [on game sites] recently indicating that this game rose out of the ashes of Black 2, which is not the case. I did Black, had a wonderful time making that with Alex Ward, learned alotfrom that experience, and I did about three months of pre-production on Black 2. But at the end of the day we couldn't agree terms on how we were going to do it, so we parted ways.And then what?I did a little stint at Creative Assembly, did some pre-production work on Viking. I didn't stay around for production because I didn't think there was a real commitment for Triple A on that product, and if there's one thing I was very clear on, particularly after having just made Black, was that I'm not going to waste my time on something that I don't believe is going to be great. I've done that in the past - I was at Mucky Foot when we did Urban Chaos. I'm very sorry for that game! I've spent a lot of time apologising to people about that! I was determined not to have to do that again. I care too much about it; I want to deliver good stuff to people. I'm upset when they don't get it.So here you are…Yes, this led me to Codemasters. I joined, went to Southam [where Codies HQ is based] for six months and started work on another project, a title that is still ticking over in the background. In a couple of years we'll start talking properly about that one – it's a very big, very ambitious project, very exciting. Not in the shooting genre, more arcade-adventure.So where did Bodycount come in?I wasn't actually interested in making a shooter. But we had this big project in pre-production, and when we had tough times or difficult choices to make, I'd always joke that, you know, we should just write a fucking shooter, make it easy on ourselves for Christ's sake. But I was never serious about it.So what actually brought the game about?There was a piece in Eurogamer,a retrospective on Black, and that was really good, really encouraging. It highlighted that there was still an interest in that type of thing. And for some reason, I don't know why, some work-related thing, I ended up playing Black again on PSN, and I was kind of enjoying it. Enough distance had gone that I could look at it dispassionately, and I realised there was a feeling there, a style of shooting that I wasn't getting anywhere else, and I was missing it.So you spotted a gap in the market?I came to a realisation. I don't want to be bigheaded, but I knew that no one else is going to deliver that kind of shooting experience. I've seen the influence of Black in other stuff, but there's a very particular style, a particular feel to it. I thought, the only person who can deliver that kind of feel is me – because I found it in the first place. It's not just me of course; other people made huge contributions, but a lot of them are here now as well.But were you worried it would just be Black, with more advanced technology?Yes, because it's in my DNA. But then I started to think about the development team being like a band. When key members of a band leave, it's not the same band anymore… Let's say Blur, if Graham Coxon left it wouldn't be Blur anymore, it's something different – and that can be a good or a bad thing. So when Black went to EA, and they tried to do Black 2, I was like, well, you didn't have enough original members of the band to make that sequel – and it didn't happen.I didn't want to occupy the same IP space anyway. I realised that the secret shadowy dangerous world expressed in Black – that kind of post-9/11 thing that became popular with 24 and other shows – that's tens years ago! Things have moved on, the times are different, people are looking for different things. I'm different!There's a general sense of escapism. I don't want Bodycount to reflect the reality that I'm in, I've got enough of that around me. I want to go somewhere else – I want to be lifted up, to forget about my troubles, and escape. So it was like, okay, with all those factors, they kind of justify making another shooter.And that emphasis on escapism merges well with the Codemasters way of doing things, doesn't it? The idea of 'screw realism, this is fun' that permeates their driving games…Yes, if realism doesn't help the game, fuck it, throw it away. I've known Codemasters all my gaming life, but I'd never thought about working for them. But it came to me through an agency, and I thought, what the hell. And when I went up there – I was just really impressed by the attitude towards development. It felt like, here's a place I can get some creative freedom, some creative control and really develop something I want to develop.Your emphasis on the bullet and its effect on the world, is pretty much the concept behind Black – how have you evolved it? I mean, is it just that you now have destructible environments?I get this a lot. And yes, to hook a game round that, it's not enough. It's not something you can over-intellectualise to be honest, it's something you feel. I can talk til I'm blue in the face about what's cool – to no avail. Until people pick up the pad and start playing, they don't get it, and when they do pick up the pad, it's like, 'ah yeah, I get it, I just want to keep doing that'. You have to take this with a pinch of salt, because this game is my baby, but when I'm playing some of those other shooters, I miss it, I miss that the world doesn't react. I expect to be able to blow a hole in the wall, or shoot the window frame out, but it's all static.This surprised me the other day, I was playing a shooter and I couldn't lean round the cover! It feels like my right arm's been chopped off! Having to step out and back in, using the button to pop up and down, that just feels odd now.Okay they're small things – they're not features you're going to stick on the back of the box, but they're really important to how you feel about the game – more important than any big thing like driving vehicles or walking up walls. The focus should be on, 'I pull the trigger, what happens?' That needs to be a powerful experience, I have tofeelsomething from that – it's not just an intellectual exercise – it's got to have something of an addictive quality.That's something that I miss – ingredient X, right? We used to talk about that back in the Speccy and C64 days. Ingredient X: the indefinable quality that makes it an addictive proposition. You can't really quantify what that is – many people try. In terms of gameplay, that comes out of experimentation for the player. We've talked a lot about signposting the destruction, we've had big discussions about that over the last couple of weeks, 'oh we need to tell people that you can go through this wall, but you can't go through that wall', and what not.I come down on the side of 'no, we don't.' I want the player to prod the world with bullets and be surprised at how it reacts! Because surprise creates delight, it's the jack in the box – you get a little surprise and then you're delighted! It's a positive thing! 'Oh I CAN get through that wall? Excellent!' If I already know it, the surprise is gone.But some gamers want very clear-cut rules so they know how to exploit the environment...You get a different kind of satisfaction out ofknowingyou can get through the wall, executing it and doing it, that's the feeling of a master, that's someone who's trained and learned and is using their knowledge. But that should come after the state of surprise – surprise is the newbie, someone who doesn't have any idea what they're going in to, and once they get used to it and they're playing through the level again, whether it's on multiplayer or playing the campaign again and getting that feeling of mastery of the software. That's part of the journey – the player's journey. I don't want to cut straight to, you know everything about this world and you're the master of it – there's no satisfaction that way. I want the first part of the story to be about your surprise at what does and doesn't happen in the world.And is that surprise the key to drawing in the player?To me the most important thing is to be immersed in whatever the experience is. There's this thing, and it's particularly prevalent in racing games and first-person shooters, because of the nature of them: you're constantly moving forward. It's very easy to get into an alpha state, you're not really thinking – I call it droneware. It's not always a bad thing – Quake III Arena was a big one for me; when I was playing that, I thought I'm droning through this game, I know where the quad damage is I know where the shield is, I know where the rail gun is so every time I die, I'm not thinking about what I'm doing, I'm just racing through it, and if I meet someone, twitch reaction, blow them away…It's a valid style of game, but it's not the only way of playing and it certainly distances me from my immersion in the environment. I'm very much playing a game. But I want to put the player in the environment – I'm this person on the ground, dealing with this situation. Forget about the simulation, about the game-ness of it in a sense, and feel the… not the reality that's not the appropriate word but I can't think of another – feel the reality of the situation that you're in, and be sucked into it. And for that you need to be constantly thinking about, and aware of, your environment.So I suppose you could say CoD is droneware - it has turned the shooter into an epic Hollywood experience in which you're an unthinking cog in an orchestrated experience. The world is described for you, and they want you to play a certain role, be in a certain place do a certain thing…Exactly, and it works, but you always feel as though you're being directed… I love Call of Duty, I love Infinity Ward, lot of respect for those guys – it's very disturbing to hear what's been happening over there.But although we respect that, are you looking to rebel against using those tools – the manufactured showdowns, the pinch points…No, I'll use them, I'll use every tool in the arsenal to get the effect I want to get, but I'll use them judiciously at certain points. There are parts of our game that are going to be relatively linear, you'll go through pretty much the same experience as everybody, but others will open up – there will be lots of choice about how you want to approach these things. My general feeling is, too much of any one thing gets boring. That was a fair criticism of Black, it was great, but it just kept doing the same thing over and over again and I got bored of it. That's valid. It was very late in the day when we discovered that stuff and we didn't have the time to go deep on it.Here, starting off from that premise, I dipped my toe into the water with Black, learned a lot of things about what did and didn't work, gained some confidence about my core beliefs, my feeling about FPS design – a lot of people responded to it positively. I thought, hmm okay, I can explore that some more, that's the right track, and I can trust my instincts on that stuff. I wanted to do that on Black 2 but I didn't have the opportunity sadly.So now I want to go much deeper, and obviously in-between I learned a lot of things and I want to apply those as well..."From the moment she popped out of her dress at the start – I just thought, wow, this is important, this matters, this changes… I didn't know what the fuck it changes, but it felt like it changedeverything." Read the concluding part of our interview tomorrow!
I hope your weekend gaming was more successful than mine. My plans to spend some time with Final Fantasy XIII and Lost Planet 2 were scuppered but I did grab a quick draft-inspired game of Madden 10 (go Dolphins). Oh, and I managed to get my obligatory session on what is the most addictive DS game I've ever played - Might and Magic: Clash of Heroes.Personally I'm quite enjoying this small break in the release schedule especially as my gaming to-play pile is getting worrying tall.  Having said all that Alan Wake can't come quickly enough. Yes, it's only 3 weeks until the long-awaited Wake finally arrives. Will it live up to expectations? Heck, can any game that has been in development for over 5 years do that?  Anyway, what about you? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Portcullis at Leeds Castle. Photo byllamnuddson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIntroduction to Website Parasites &gt;&gt; Unmask Parasites. Blog.They feed on your site in all sorts of ways. Like villains in a Doctor Who episode, but more widespread.Chronology of Data Breaches | Privacy Rights ClearinghouseSee if any company you do business with is in this (long, since 2005) list. Why don't we have something like this for the UK?Concert pianist plays iPad onstage &gt;&gt; CNET NewsLang Lang used the Magic Piano iPad app from Smule to pay an encore at the  Davies Symphony Hall in San Francisco (YouTube video)T.M.I? Not for Sites Focused on Sharing &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"A wave of Web start-ups aims to help people indulge their urge to divulge — from sites like Blippy, which Mr. Brooks used to broadcast news of what he bought, to Foursquare, a mobile social network that allows people to announce their precise location to the world, to Skimble, an iPhone application that people use to reveal, say, how many push-ups they are doing and how long they spend in yoga class."The not-so-discreet charm of Jason Calacanis &gt;&gt; Pastebin.comEmployee leaves search engine Mahalo, pens charming resignation letter, gets told to sling hook by boss - who then deletes his email account.Facebook Sees Major Outage — Takes Out Partner Site Plugins, Too &gt;&gt; Gigaom"Not to get all I-told-you-so, but after hearing the presentations at Facebook's f8 this week, the burning question on my mind was: Has Facebook made itself a central point of failure for the web? It appears that the answer is yes."Live Ships Map - Vessel Traffic and Positions &gt;&gt; MarineTraffic.comBookmark it now in case volcanic ash threatens ships too.iPad App Maker Makes $70,000 In 20 Days &gt;&gt; Business InsiderFrom an application that costs $0.99, which lets you transfer PDF, Word, text and other files to your iPad.Lost iPhone prototype spurs police probe &gt;&gt; CNET News"Under a California law dating back to 1872, any person who finds lost property and knows who the owner is likely to be but "appropriates such property to his own use" is guilty of theft. If the value of the property exceeds $400, more serious charges of grand theft can be filed. In addition, a second state law says that any person who knowingly receives property that has been obtained illegally can be imprisoned for up to one year.&#10;Any prosecution would be complicated because of the First Amendment's guarantee of freedom of the press: the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2001 that confidential information leaked to a news organization could be legally broadcast, although that case did not deal with physical property and the radio station did not pay its source."&#10;&#10;Shall we take bets?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Crazy, scary idea of the year - or even perhaps decade: that with 10.7, the next version of Mac OSX on the desktop/laptop platform, will not run programs that aren't signed with an Apple root certificate - that is, which haven't gone through Apple's App Store.That's the story thatRixstep had running- unhelpfully without a date, but posted last week, it seems to suggest it's about details that have only just been released on the Apple developer website.Which, it said, run to:"Apple will begin signing up independent software vendors (ISVs) for the 10.7 developer programme by early autumn 2010. Membership will cost $99 just as the iPhone programme and will include a number of benefits including free downloads of the Xcode developer tools and access to online API documentation."So far, so straightforward. Though there's been a free developer option for absolutely years, which lets hobbyists and others try stuff out without needing to stump up. Why get rid of that? Because..."Developers planning on marketing software for 10.7 will submit their products to the App Store as iPhone and now iPad developers have already done. 10.7 will have kernel support for ('insistence on') binaries signed with Apple's root certificate.No software will be able to run on Mac OS X 10.7 without being approved and signed by Apple, Inc.[emphasis added by Rixstep] "Flipping heck: it's bad enough with wild App Store rejections, but can you imagine how things would be ifevery single app for computershad to go through Apple's weird certification process? You'd never get anything out there, and you'd likely fall foul of a million little rules. And the people in the store would go mad certifying things and rejecting them. Plus the chilling effect on the creation of new apps. It would be insane.Fortunately, amidst all this madness, there's someone who can tell us what Apple really plans. He's an insider, well-placed. Initials SJ. For Steve Jobs.Because once the rumour got out, emails started flying to Cupertino's most famous email address. Andone came back:"MacStories reader and Mac developer Fernando Valente sent an email to Steve asking about the rumors of a "Mac App Store" and apps that would require authorization from Apple – like the iPhone and iPad. He didn't think Steve would ever reply to an email like that, but it was worth trying. He got a response instead – a Steve Jobs response™ – and kindly sent the email to us."He simply replied "Nope". So, it seems like there won't be a Mac App Store, and Apple won't change anything about the nature of Mac OS X. Or maybe did Steve want to say that a "Mac App Store" won't be the only way to install applications? Clearly Fernando asked two questions, and Steve replied with a single no. If he wanted to be more specific, he would have written something else to answer both the questions."There's ascreenshot of the email. I'd take that one-word reply - which is Clint Eastwood-ian in its brevity - as being very comprehensive. Another rumour shot down, and good to have it killed nice and early.Nice to see too that Jobs is really getting into the "emailing with strangers" stuff now that the iPad is about (given the number of blogs with emails from Jobs to total unknowns), though this one seems to have come from his office machine. At 6.21pm on a Friday? Seems Steve just had to get one more thing done before he left the office...
Yeah, let's see Apple match that. Photo byThomas Duchnicki :: Location Scouton Flickr.Some rights reservedMatt Casamassina, of the IGN gaming site, is leaving it to join Apple:"Beginning early May, I will join Apple as global editorial games manager, App Store. In a nutshell, I will be leading the charge for games on the App Store, so whether you browse through iTunes, iPhone, iPod Touch or iPad, the games content you see will be handpicked and organized by me and my team. I couldn't be happier."Although he might need to brush up on the difference between ownership and being in charge: "Anybody who has read my work through the years will know that I've long been a huge Nintendo fan, but if there is one company that could entice me away from covering Mario and Zelda it's the one owned by Steve Jobs." Errr, actually, Jobsrunsthe company. Shareholders own it. But, you know, easy mistake.The commenters are positive - and amazed: "I've been reading your material since you first began at IGN, when I was ohhhh, about 11. I'm 24 now, and to think I won't be reading anything from you on IGN is quite weird," says the first. There are plenty of requests to review one more game...Casamassina specialised in Nintendo game reviews;Wikipedia tells usthat in 1997 (aged 21) he started as editor of the N64 website which then became the Nintendo 64 section of IGN.You can still findhis IGN articles.What though does Apple want with him? "Global editorial games manager" is an interesting title, but is Apple really just wanting to have someone who chooses what the store should tout?More useful, perhaps, to see this in the context of the competition between Apple and Nintendo over gaming. The Nintendo DS, as we know, is far and away the best-selling handheld console. But Apple has ambitions there - at least in the form of its iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad (the iPhone OS platform). Nintendo's US president Regie Fils-Aime was none too positive about the iPhone OS in arecent interviewin which he also denied that he was seeing any effect on DSi sales from iPhone OS:"Apple "is not having an impact on Nintendo when you look at our business, our volume, our hardware, our software," Fils-Aime said. "I've seen data that suggestions that while consumers are constantly downloading Apps, they play with them for a few times and then they are moving on to the next thing.""Clearly it doesn't look like their platform is a viable profit platform for game development because so many of the games are free versus paid downloads.""Fils-Aime believes that gamers will stick with Nintendo's portables over Apple's because in the end the gaming experiences are very different.""If our games represent a range between snacks of entertainment and full meals depending on the type of game, (Apple's) aren't even a mouthful, in terms of the gaming experience you get."Is the point behind Casamassina's hiring to change that? Might be interesting to keep a watch.
Two years ago, Yves Béhar helped prove that even an object as complicated and expensive as a laptop could, with a little imagination, be stripped back to its basics and sold for just $100 (£65). Since then, more than 1m portable computers based on his practical, rugged  design have been distributed to children in developing countries as part of the One Laptop Per Child programme.Now the California-based designer has turned his skills to an even more ubiquitous piece of kit: the humble spectacles.He became involved after a Mexican optics company, Augen, discovered that students' eyesight – especially in the country's poorer states – was having a drastic impact on their marks.Research showed that 11% of children were not learning simply because they could not read blackboards or books. The company found that in schools in states such as Morelos, Sonora and Chiapas up to 70% of pupils needed glasses.Augen teamed up with the Mexican government to launch a programme along the lines of Béhar's OLPC, called See Well to Learn Better.The plan is to provide 400,000 free pairs of glasses every year.The problem was the cost, which is where Béhar came in. But he did not want to compromise on quality, strength or style. The maths, he decided, was pretty straightforward: children plus a sandy environment equals a need for robust eyewear."Similar to the OLPC philosophy, I want to design products that are suited to the children's specific needs, life and environment," he said. "The children receiving these glasses need frames that are durable and ergonomic."Children everywhere are among the fussiest consumers on the planet, so the frames also had to be wearable.Behar designed in a fashion-factor by giving them "key customisation elements like shape and colour that make wearing the glasses fun and personal".The incredibly light and almost unbreakable glasses, which would not look out of place gracing faces in some of Europe's edgier creative neighbourhoods,  are made from advanced plastics and have a two-part design.The frame is split in two halves – top and bottom – giving children the option to mix and match colours and shapes when they choose their frames. This allows an extra dimension of individual expression, and easy assembly of the lenses inside the frame without costly heating processes.During manufacture, the top and bottom of the frame are sonically welded at the nose bridge, after which the lenses can be easily inserted and secured with a simple hinge screw.The glasses are to be distributed by optometrists, who will travel to the schools, test the children, and then place the order with the factory.A couple of weeks later, the children will receive custom glasses that they feel they have designed and are truly personal to them.Augen and Béhar are now looking at expanding the programme to other countries. "This project follows our philosophy that design should continue to make a difference beyond the commercial world, and that non-profits do need emotional appeal and efficient solutions just as much as for-profit companies," said Béhar."Design can make a tremendous difference and we believe this is a responsibility that the industrial profession carries: to bring transformative solutions."
My youngest daughter used to go to nursery school with a pair of twins. Their names, magnificently, were Hosanna and Goodnews. You may not be surprised to learn that their father was a missionary. I could never look at Goodnews without a smile creeping across my face, and if there is any truth in the notion that we live up to our names – rather than being burdened by them – I can't foresee there being many problems for little Goodnews later in his life.Where car manufacturers get the inspiration for some of their more outlandish names is another matter altogether. Two new cars which  are currently testing the credulity  of the British car-buying public  are the Skoda Yeti and Peugeot's Bipper Tepee.Would you want to drive a car called a Bipper? Would you feel happy saying: "Come on kids, hop in the Yeti"? Would it stop you buying either of these cars? Or, and this seems a stretch of marketing optimism, would you buy a Bipper Tepee for the very reason that it is called a Bipper Tepee?Andrew Didlick, head of Peugeot's PR team, laughs when I ask him just that. "We heard about the name long before we saw the car," he says, "and our Dutch colleagues did get a little upset because apparently it means nappy over there. But when we saw the product, we thought it rather suited its name. After all, the Bipper Tepee is fun and cheeky and doesn't take itself too seriously. It sounds a bit like 'beep beep', too."Over at Skoda's press office, Catherine Sleigh is equally fond of  the name Yeti. "Our designers chose  it because it embodies the personality of the car. It's good for adventure,  on- and off-road. It's rugged and sure-footed, just like a real  yeti. Also, like the legends surrounding the yeti, it takes care of the  driver and passengers." (Among yeti lore is a tale of the hairy beast rescuing people from the mountains and returning them home safely.) Put like that, it's hard  to believe no one has named a car  Yeti until now.Of course, behind the frivolous names are two serious pieces of kit. The Bipper Tepee is a versatile five-seat MPV. Plump for the 1.4-litre diesel engine and you'll have a combined fuel economy of almost 63 miles per gallon and qualify for the £35 road tax, as the CO2emissions are a mere baby's breath of 119g per km. It's cheap, too, coming in at less than £10,000. So, a frugal, efficient family wagon at  a fraction of the price of most other MPVs – beep beep!The Yeti, which looks like  a muscled-up Roomster (another  Skoda with an unusual name), is  a boxy 4x4. Like the Bipper, it's cheap and economical to run – £13,775 and delivering 45mpg. Being part of the VW group, the Yeti feels accomplished, well-finished and reliable. It is a likeable car – whether you are fond  of hairy monsters or not.
After the thick end of a decade spent limping along behindPro Evolution Soccerlike a fat dad on sports day, EA Sports finally hit paydirt with last year'sFifa 10– a title in which EA married its usual fearsome levels of official endorsement to an intricate, absorbing game that, at times, played very much like actual football.Despite following a scant six months later,2010 FWCSAis no  by-the-numbers cash-in or attempt to sell the same game twice – there's authentic improvement and innovation on display here. From advances in the gameplay engine (consider the realism of the lighting or the smooth fluidity of an on-screen player's motion when he receives the ball) to the ambient specifics of the location (high-altitude venues allow the ball to fly further through the air, and bring players to the point of exhaustion much faster),2010 FWCSAis an engrossing proposition on its own terms.It's not just a game involving the best teams in the world (plus New Zealand) either. Take control of any one of the 199 teams who entered the qualifying rounds, and see if you can't steer the underdogs to South Africa and on to ultimate glory. Or just play as Republic of Ireland and kick lumps out of Thierry Henry.
In 2001 Dennis Crowley, a young interactive telecoms graduate from New York University, found himself turning over a particular problem in his head. Crowley and a lot of his friends had been involved in various internet start-ups which, after the dotcom bubble burst, had gone pop. The problem was this: the friends were mostly living in East Greenwich Village, and they were around most days, but they never got together as much as they liked. Some days someone would be going to a baseball game, or someone would be going to a bar, or to the park, but there was no easy way of co-ordinating this social life among the group (this was back in the mists of networking time: Facebook hadn't been invented; even Friendster hadn't been invented). Crowley found himself applying his idling mind to the question of whether there might be a way of letting your friends know where you were, without making 20 phone calls; of taking the chance out of chance meetings.A decade later, after various part-evolved efforts to come up with a solution to this problem, Crowley seems to have found one that works. He is the co-founder of Foursquare, an internet site and iPhone application that allows you not only to advertise to friends (or friends of friends, or friends of friends of friends) exactly where you are in the world, but also incentivises the processes of going out, and meeting up. Foursquare has extended way beyond Crowley's mates; it is becoming a bookmarked fixture among circles of friends in cities across the States and the world. The application is approaching its millionth user; inevitably, in the way of these things, blogs and investors are buzzing about it — and rival "location, location, location" services, such as Gowalla — as this year's Twitter: the next geeky obsession to become a mainstream media compulsion.Crowley explained some of the potential to me last week on the phone. "We want Foursquare to be a lot about encouraging adventure," he said. "To give you a reason to do things and go places that you might not always think to do." He was, when he was developing his idea with his business partner Naveen Selvadurai, particularly interested in a couple of phenomena: the first was the psychology of Nike+, the sensor that allows you to collect data about your jogging and store it and analyse it on your iPod. "After I started using it," he says, "I was struck by the idea that if you forgot to turn the sensor on one day, then the run itself seemed to have no point. It was the sort of game-playing, data-collecting habit of the run that encouraged you to do it." He became fascinated by the idea of virtual rewards. "A lot of our group," he says, "had grown up with Super Mario and they wondered about the possibility of turning life into a game. Getting rewards for adventures just like Mario did on screen."Foursquare incorporates all of these ideas into its format. Using GPS location in your mobile phone it encourages you to "check in" to any location – bar, café, shop, event, park bench – and not only to share that fact with your friends but to win virtual badges and points for your activity. There is a competitive element to this. If you achieve the most check-ins at any one place in the course of a week, then you become that place's "mayor". You can also review and add comments about your favourite locations, so the site, accessed on a phone, becomes, in theory at least, an anecdotal and endlessly updating guide book. "I was interested in the metrics and analytics of encouraging friends to go uptown, or to try new places," Crowley says. There are obvious commercial applications to this: 2,000 tuned-in venues, he says, already offer free drinks to their Foursquare mayor – that week's most loyal regular (several major corporations, like Starbucks, are already working on developing this possibility).Crowley is keen to extend the demographic of his "game" outwards from the mostly techie twentysomethings who use it. He suggests it is great in places like airports where, having checked in, you might (conceivably) also want to "check in" to see if any "friends" are in the building. It being a New York- based idea, however, he is also finding, he says, "that a lot of mothers are using it in parks to set up play dates with nearby kids".The race to colonise this junction between GPS location and social networks like Facebook and Bebo has become, in the last year, the latest virtual gold rush. Though Foursquare is the clear leader, each pretender – Whrrl and Hot Potato and Loopt — offers different incentives and medals and points. Gowalla, a native of Austin, Texas adopts an Aussie backpacker accent (of the stylised kind you might find in a Walkabout pub). It gives you a virtual passport, which you stamp as you colonise different "spots", and you are encouraged to share "a hidden gem of a coffeeshop, a heavily trafficked museum, or a scenic overlook off the beaten path." In the manner of Wikipedia, these posts are overseen by a "Street Team Elite" of regular and passionate users, who are alert to censor those who "malign or slander" a location ("don't be a hater") and to encourage a kind of slacker atmosphere: "Your favourite bend in the river is likely of greater value to the community than your garage. Just sayin'…".Among these rival applications there has been talk of virtual turf wars, of "The great geo-social showdown"; but Crowley is keen to stand aloof from such competition. "Though at the moment we are on a much different scale, we see ourselves as more equivalent to Facebook or Twitter," he says, hopefully. Both of the latter have, of course, informal links with the new kids on the block; both are in the process of adding a location element to their own offering.I spent some hours last week seeing what this territorial world might bring to the streets of Highgate in north London. Crowley's vision of a city in which you are "surrounded all the time by possibilities that you don't realise exist", I couldn't help feeling, had a somewhat more prosaic cast in my local high street. Having downloaded the Gowalla and Foursquare apps onto my iPhone I did my usual round of local pub and park and Caffè Nero, checking in at each place by touching the onscreen button, and duly collected points and icons and medals; as my phone tracked my odyssey to the local hardware shop I felt moved to offer a little paean to its compendious stock levels; I found myself surprisingly eager to become mayor of Pond Square, just down the road, so I checked in there, and felt a fleeting surge of virtual power. This point-scoring Bloomsday was lacking in real drama, however. Inevitably, of course, one or two people had got everywhere first – some were already checked into the pub and the café, though I tried in vain to match their "passport photos" (of uniform wild abandon) with the faces of the cappuccino suppers and lager sippers. Geo-sharing was not quite the 24-hour party invitation or the incentivised land-grab that I had imagined. More, I guess, the loneliness of the early adopter.Even in the absence of friends, some of the implications of using the sites quickly became clear. One is that they slightly change your sense of geography. A curious aspect of the generation now reaching Twitterhood is that, for better and worse, they will never – as long as they keep their phones charged – have the experience of being lost. Foursquare and Gowalla add an extra level to that: there will never be another surprise to discover around the corner. Voluntarily tagged users will always know that they are 273 yards from yet another of "the coolest bars in town"; they will rarely bump into an old friend by chance – rather they will have already been tracking his or her satellite progress all evening. On the upside, the days of arriving in a room full of people and discussing the weather with strangers will be over; distress signals can be sent to friends in crowds who (you hope) answer the call.One of the apparent virtues of these applications is that they add a real-world element to the virtual acquaintanceships that you can make online with Facebook and the rest. They make them "stickier" in the language of internet tribes. Along the way they not only redefine what we might mean by a mayor, however, they also further recast our blurring notion of "friendship".Robin Dunbar, the Oxford evolutionary biologist, has lately been researching online social networks, partly to look at their implications, if any, for what has become universally known as Dunbar's number: the maximum 150 friends with whom – he has argued extremely persuasively — human beings have the capacity to maintain relationships.I asked Dunbar if he saw anything in the evolution of online networks to suggest that the next stage might extend our social horizons in any meaningful way."The question really is," he said, "does the technology open up the quality of your social interaction to any great extent, and the answer to that question is, so far: not really."Dunbar has been studying the ways that, despite our hyperconnectivity, relationship quality with people invariably declines in proportion to the distance you are apart. He has little evidence that technology mitigates that decline. "Our informed opinion is really that in the end you still have to have that face-to-face contact to properly renew a friendship."There is, according to Dunbar's research, a marked gender difference in the way that we use social media. It is, in this respect, not surprising that the early take-up of the geo-location sites is weighted toward men. "To avoid relationship decay among friends, men have to do stuff together, for women it is enough to chat." The real-world slant of Foursquare and Gowalla make them natural vehicles for male bonding. Added to that is the opportunity for peacocking with their mobile phones, which have, to the evolutionary biologist, become a substitute for sexual display (men will always put their phone on the table and fiddle with it, women tend to keep theirs in their bag…).What none of it changes, though, despite the number of "friends" and "followers" we may attract, is the number of people we typically trust as friends: three or four with our lives,  15 or 20 we love to see, 150 for Christmas cards.Even Clay Shirky, New York University's fast-talking professor of the new new thing — and Dennis Crowley's tutor — is not persuaded that social networking has the ability to improve the nature of friendship or change Dunbar's Number. "What these games and applications do," he says, "is extend and churn the edges of our network, which is often how new ideas are brought into it." Shirky, as if by way of example, was explaining this on a phone from a New York taxi, and while he talked to me he directed the taxi driver through the real Manhattan streets (and no doubt tweeted and pinged and buzzed).He recalls the genesis of the Crowley's idea quite clearly. "In 2001 and 2002," he says, "we were all talking about big game theory, and the idea that the grid of Manhattan was like a grid in a game scenario. At the time GPS didn't work in New York because of the canyonlike streets so Dennis developed something called Dodgeball which was a sort of text-based map of the city. Google bought it, sat on it and killed it."In those days, at NYU, he recalls they would spend a lot of time discussing the ludic mechanics of social lives. People had all sorts of theories about where game playing began and ended, arising from Wittgenstein's notion that no one had ever really come up with a working definition of the word "game". In reality, however, Shirky concedes, "those interested in this were more likely to go to work and then go home and play Warcraft, so the two arenas were still pretty separate."What something like Foursquare or Gowalla does, he suggests, is to begin the process of blurring those lines, not least commercially. "Foursquare is absolutely the first national-scale test case we have for looking at the interaction between game mechanics and social software and geolocation."The power it gives you, in Shirky's eyes, "is basically the power to see through a wall, a wider sense of what is going on around you." If you are sitting by yourself – as I'm imagining many Foursquare early adopters might well be — this is obviously a useful thing. "It dramatically increases the serendipity of socialising…"In this view, Foursquare is a kind of existential act, one with which we are certain to be become more familiar in the future. While most reality "games" take you out of the physical world and into a virtual space, the novelty of geolocation is that it reverses that relationship: it takes a game template and overlays it onto your social life. "You are not playing through an avatar," Shirky suggests, "you are just being you, but playing at the same time."Either that, I guess, or you can just meet a mate for a pint.
From a confusing opening to one of four different endings,Nierweaves an intriguing plot around a simple tale of a father doing his utmost to save his dying daughter. This being a videogame, of course, he's using weapons and magic, and is able to enlist the help of a talking book named Grimoire Weiss.It blends simple swords-and-sorcery combat in the field with more puzzle-led gameplay in its dungeon environments, but developer Cavia adds plenty of new ingredients to the mix, including sequences that nod to games such asSin and Punishmentand Nintendo'sLegend of Zeldaseries. While many of its best ideas are lifted from other titles, they've rarely been combined in the manner they are here, with one memorable battle switching between traditional three-dimensional combat and a 2D platform shooter.Despite these highlights, some terrific dialogue and a superb soundtrack, the game is very rough around the edges, with occasionally slapdash design and disappointing graphics. Though regular changes of pace endeavour to keep things fresh, ultimately its ideas struggle to gel into an entirely satisfying whole. As a potential future cult hit, some might findNierdeserving of closer examination, but there are better titles to spend your money on this month.
Fans of a good, old-fashioned button-mashing can't failed to have noticed the number and quality of releases the beat 'em-up genre has thrown up recently. They no longer command the headlines, or the sales, of their mid-90s heyday but are enjoying a revival that has been defined by unusually high standards. Last year'sStreet Fighter IVset a quality benchmark that remained unsurpassed – until now, when, refined and expanded, retouched and renamed, it returns asSuper Street Fighter IV.Astute observers might point out that in a world where convenient downloadable updates to games are now commonplace, a completely new release for a title effectively already in the public domain is hard to justify. But that would be to miss the point ofSuper Street Fighter IV, and also underestimate the extent of the overhaul. Along with new characters, such as red-skinned Turkish oil-wrestler Hakan, a wealth of extra content has been added for nostalgia fans, in the form of returning combatants from previous titles. The revival of the  bonus levels from classicStreet Fighteriterations – such as the car-smashing challenge – will also please greying gamers, while a host of new online modes capture the competitive spirit of the arcade version.There are numerous additions but it's the subtlest changes that are the most significant. A fine recalibration of the core gameplay mechanics gives a faster, slicker game with more close-fought melees. If you're looking for the ultimateStreet Fighter, Capcom's latest is essential.
Museum Of Modern TweetsLast week the Library of Congress in America announced that it would be archiving all messages – or tweets, as we know them – sent on the social-networking site Twitter in the hope that it would help future generations understand the current one. Quite what researchers in 2058 will make of all those mundane broadcasts about the brilliance of bacon is unknown, but one area of the Twitterverse may amuse them more than others: the insane ramblings of celebrities. Here, celebrity tweets are not only harvested for our current and future amusement (Kanye West recently told the world "I mean, my music isn't just music. It's medicine") but also come with literal illustrations to further enhance their unintentional hilariousness. It's all funny, but Ice T's threat that a bitter rival should "eat a hot bowl of dicks" results in one of the most disturbing images of all time.Marmite News NetworkTimed to coincide with an arguably more important battle for the hearts and minds of the nation, the Marmite News Network is currently reporting on the nationwide campaign to turn us into lovers or haters of yeasty spread. To this end, Fay Freely represents the Love Party, while Steve Heaving is rallying support for the Hate Party. Among Heaving's pledges is "to set up designated Marmite-eating zones", with a long-term goal to eradicate the "disgusting brown ooze" forever. Freely wishes to "criminalise all acts of face-pulling towards the Marmite-loving community". With more than a nod to the satirical Onion News Network, the site includes spoof news footage, party political broadcasts and a chance to cast your vote.Blog Roll: LondonThe London Nobody SingsGreat blog dedicated to songs about London from Morrissey's Dagenham Dave to Lord Kitchener's Piccadilly Folks.Jane's LondonPhoto blog with entries based around details and faded signs the untrained eye misses.LondoniLondon through the eyes of pop videos including Pulp's Disco 2000 plus paintings of forgotten capital landmarks.Boris WatchLook-alikes – like a cat with a slice of processed cheese on it's head – of the capital's great leaders.Shady Old LadyAlternative blue plagues for Spratt's Dog Food Factory and the Krays' favourite boozer.TranspontineSouth-east blogzine on Deptford punks, Peckham rappers and the Brockwell Lido squatters.What we learned on the web this weekWhere to watch incredible short film Nuit BlancheWhy the offside law is a work of geniusHow to tell if your child is a potential hippySometimes happiness hurtsHow many words Shakespeare knewThe evolution of the Fiat 500The origins of cyber harassmentHow much musicians earn onlineDavid Lynch likes a lot of different film-makersDarth Vader + police bike = Chinese action figure
Dead To Rights: Retribution, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360Dead To Rights: Retribution is a simple tale of one cop and his dog. That simplicity is underscored by a bare-bones plot, which has you ploughing through the usual multitude of identikit terrorist types, as well as its singular focus on punching then shooting assailants to death and occasionally biting them to death as Shadow, your faithful hound.Graphically, this is nowhere near as sophisticated as recent third person action games and doesn't compare to the two-year-old Gears Of War 2, let alone the exquisite Uncharted 2. What remains is a passable action game, whose flourishes do little to elevate it above the genre fodder it undoubtedly is. If you've been yearning for tepid, part-canine police action ever since you finished the far drearier Dead To Rights, then this is your lucky day. For the rest of us, there are better ways of wasting £45.Namco, £44.99Warpgate, iPhoneLike the 26-year-old classic Elite, Warpgate promises you an entire galaxy to explore at your whim. Trade commodities, mine asteroids, shoot down or assist members of the game's five factions, or splash out an extra £1.19 on a battlecruiser and £1.79 on 100,000 Galactic credits to make yourself suddenly terrifyingly rich and heavily armed. The downside is that while Elite thrived on space combat, Warpgate's a lame affair involving no control over your ship, leaving you sadly mashing a few fire buttons. And if you don't particularly fancy becoming a glorified market trader, all that's left is flying around the galaxy, which, while excellent in its sense of freedom, simply involves tapping a symbol on your iPhone and waiting for your little ship to reach its destination. Although the various collecting tasks will surely please the mildly obsessive, there's a lot less going on than appearances suggest.Freeverse, Inc, £2.99Games news: Xbox Live V1 killed offHaving given the world due warning, Microsoft has finally switched off the original version of Xbox Live, its online games service. Even for owners of the newer Xbox 360, that means any old Xbox games you might still be enjoying are no longer playable online, which, on the face of it doesn't sound all that bad. The problem is that, despite having been supplanted by Halo 3, ageing behemoth Halo 2 was still extremely popular as a multiplayer Xbox Live game, drawing a decent-sized community of committed fans six years after its release, who are now left to whine quietly on web forums, or, Microsoft hopes, simply upgrade to Halo 3 and carry on. Users of the current Xbox 360 iteration of Xbox Live will find everything is business as usual and without so much as a hint from Microsoft about any future console releases, that should remain true for some time.
Is this how the web looks to Facebook - with Mark Zuckerberg always at its centre? Photo byRobert Scobleon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamYour Mom's Guide to Those Facebook Changes, and How to Block Them - GiogaOM"Instant personalisation" is "opt-in by default, which means it is turned on automatically, and you have to specifically turn it off if you don't want these services to read your profile and customize their services for you."How to Restore Your Privacy on Facebook - LifehackerYou can't, really, but you can reduce the problem to an extent....1.5 Million Facebook Accounts for Sale in Web Forum, VeriSign Reports - eWeekFraudsters are being asked to pay $25 per 1,000 accounts with 10 contacts or less, or $45 per 1,000 for accounts with more than 10 friends.Forrester: HTML5 far from killing off Web plug-ins - InfoWorld"Forrester sees the 'either/or' scenario of HTML5 vs proprietary rivals as driven by vendor politics, not developer realities," and "inconsistent implementations of the draft HTML5 specification and immature tooling make building HTML5 apps that work with consistently across browsers and operating systems a real challenge."Apple [not] past Microsoft for second place in S&amp;P 500 &gt;&gt; MarketWatch"The S&amp;P 500 is float-adjusted, so it doesn't use the full market basis for Microsoft. Apple's float-adjusted market cap reached $241.5 billion, surpassing Microsoft's index market value of $239.5 billion."&#10;&#10;Except Microsoft's market cap is $275bn by the full measure...Case Study: How Open data saved Canada $3.2 Billion &gt;&gt; eaves.caFascinating: suspect charities were being used to funnel money for tax writeoffs. Open data meant they could be fingered - and stopped.#Posterity - How future historians will use the Twitter archives - SlateThey could be the only people who care what you ate for breakfast... Or at least, what you wanted people to think you ate for breakfast.Microsoft Touch Pack for Windows 7 Now Available - Windows 7 Team Blog ...Nice if you really wanted a Microsoft Surface, but it only works with a multitouch screen as your primary monitorDell Looking Glass tablet leaks: Tegra 2 coming your way in November - Engadget"It's running Android 2.1 on a Tegra 2 processor, with an optional TV tuner module so you can watch ATSC or DVB-T programming on the seven-inch 800 x 480 display -- the same resolution as the Streak," says Engadget.Dell Lightning: the ultimate Windows Phone 7 device leaks out - Engadget"The ship date is pegged at Q4, indicating this is a WP7 launch device," says EngadgetLinux on the iPhone: Android running on iPhone!Because we can.Digital Photocopiers Loaded With Secrets &gt;&gt; CBS Evening NewsYou may not have considered that a scanner + hard drive (= digital photocopier) could be a business risk. Well...For Developers | Data &gt;&gt; The World BankThe World Bank is starting to make its data accessible via the web site and an API.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Surveillance. Photo byquinn.anyaon Flickr.Some rights reservedGoogle's 'censorship' tool, released this week in what it said was an attempt to make more open the instances where governments try to control what is on the web, is fascinating. TheDatablog pulled all the data down into a spreadsheet(where you can find the original numbers such as data requests about users, and removal requests for content).But the one big weakness of those raw numbers - showing demands to provide details about users, or to remove content (the latter often ordered by judges, who aren't exactly "government") - is that they aren't balanced by how many people live in those countries, or how many are actually online there.So here's a mashup of that data - using population and internet penetration data fromInternet World Statsand Wikipedia.What is fascinating is how, once you allow for the level of internet connectivity, it's Brazil which was the biggest source of trouble for Google - principally because of its Orkut social network, which has taken off there and never given up.Yet it's plucky Armenia which leads the content removal requests per million people connected - a fascinating wrinkle in the statistics that we'll be asking Google about when we get a moment.Worth noting though that India and the UK are next up in data requests per million connected. That's rather worrying, because those are aimed at getting information about people, not removing content. Why is the UK so high in that? Who's making the requests? What for? (If you need a reminder of the meanings of the two, read theoriginal story from Tuesday.)Your thoughts on what else this might mean are of course welcome.Google censorship demands from government and judiciary, adjusted for population and internet connectednessCountryPopulationinternetpenetration %data requestsper millionremoval requestsper milliondata requests permillion connectedremoval requestsper millionconnectedArgentina4013442549.42.414.92.1Armenia32301005.803.1053.4Australia2011100080.17.70.89.61.1Belgium1099900052.86.10.511.50.9Brazil1815860303420.21.659.34.7Canada3194600084.31.30.51.50.6China133708000028.70000France6020000058.114.10.124.20.1Germany8249100063.85.62.38.73.6India10682140003.710.126.83.6Israel75319005240.77.71.3Italy5755300059.79.61161.7Japan12768700075.50.300.50.1Netherlands1627500085.64.10.34.80.4Singapore498760058.612.4121.21.7Switzerland739100075.55.70.77.50.9United Kingdom5977800076.419.5125.51.3United States29365500068.612.20.417.80.6Data sources: Google, Wikipedia, Internet World Stats
I have a malware nightmare. Every time AVG Internet Security carries out a whole computer scan on my PC, it comes up with a list of up to 50 infections. It tells me that it has managed to heal all or almost all of these infections. I have also tried running SuperAntiSpyware and Malwarebytes' Anti-Malware. Both often identify infections that they claim to have fixed for me, yet a few days later, they identify infections again.I browse with up-to-date Firefox rather than Internet Explorer, but I suspect that my children introduced some sort of infection during their internet ramblings. Should I be concerned?Andy ButlerIt's quite common for infections to return either because they were not removed completely, or because your PC has a backdoor Trojan or rootkit that enables malware to be redownloaded. In other words, your PC could be a bot. If this is the case, then you should be very concerned. Alternatively, your PC may have a security vulnerability, which is leaving it open to new infections after the old ones have been removed. Either way, cleaning up a compromised Windows PC takes time. In some cases, it's quicker and easier just to erase everything and reinstall Windows.Before embarking on that or any other clean-up routine, make sure you have all your irreplaceable data backed up. After that…1. Check whether or not your PC has a rootkit by running one of the free tools fromSophosorGMER, or possibly both. A "rooted" PC is permanently insecure.2. Run a standalone clean-up tool that will remove common infections quickly. Microsoft'sMalicious Software Removal Tool(MSRT) is the obvious candidate. However, it's the tool that Microsoft runs before installing updates to Windows, so you've probably run it recently anyway. A more powerful alternative is theKaspersky Virus Removal Tool 2010. You can set this for light, medium or heavy scan, and it will run in Safe Mode.Malwarebytes' Anti-Malware(MBAM) is also a good option, using the "Perform quick scan" setting.3. Restart your PC and run your anti-virus program of choice. There are plenty of free ones, including AVG, Avast, Avira AntiVir, and Microsoft Security Essentials, and there are several online scanners includingTrend Micro's HousecallandSymantec. It can be time-consuming and tedious to run multiple checks, but if your PC is in a very bad state, it may be worth it. No antivirus program is guaranteed to detect or remove every bit of malware in existence, and one will sometimes catch a virus that another has missed.If any particular bit of malware has survived to this point, note its name and use a search engine to find out whether there is a targeted solution for removing it. An example is Symantec's Conficker removal tool. Alternatively, look for removal instructions at a forum such asBleeping Computer,Tech Support Guy, andGeeks To Go.4. Restart your PC, go to Windows Update and install any security patches that you might have missed. Clicking the Custom button will let you review and choose the high-priority options, which are essential.5. Run Secunia'sPersonal Software Inspector(PSI) to see if you have any other programs or utilities with security holes. If so, update them. Microsoft has dramatically improved the security of its code (albeit from a low base) and a lot of malware now targets Adobe and Apple insecurities instead.6. Run the Windows Task Manager or, for preference,Process Explorerand/orAnVir Task Manager Freeto see what your PC is running. You should be able to eliminate some things from the startup routine, but the main purpose is to find any remaining malware. This may include programs that, via "social engineering" techniques or deception, you have installed deliberately.You will probably not recognise all the processes and services that your PC is loading. Look atthe Task List pages at Answers That Workand/or Paul Collins'Pacs Portalto find out what they do. Google the names of any files still not accounted for, and deal with them.Your PC should now be clean.From your AVG screenshots, it seems that many of your "infections" are tracking cookies, which are simply small bits of text that web sites have placed on your computer. They are not really malware, though they are potential threat to your privacy, since they could allow people to find out about your browsing habits. However, I don't think commercial firms are actually bothered about any individual's browsing habits; they're mainly interested in serving you effective advertisements.You can decide whether or not to block cookies via your browser settings, but many sites will not work properly or at all unless you allow them to drop a cookie. Gmail, HotMail, Amazon, eBay and other sites use cookies to identify you and your preference settings. However, some peopleblock "third party" cookies, which are typically placed not by the site you're visiting, but by advertising companies.Finally, make sure your children are using their own accounts on your PC, and that they do not have administrator rights. (If admin rights are needed for games, try to get them to use a separate account for these.) The majority of malware exploits don't work unless the account has admin rights, and this is one reason why Windows 7 and Vista are much more secure than XP.Another way to increase your security online is to use "sandboxing" to insulate the browser from the operating system.Sandboxieis a free option that's easy to use. If not, use Google Chrome as a more secure alternative to Firefox or Internet Explorer (Chrome has a built-in sandbox). You should also upgrade Internet Explorer to IE8, because the code is still on your hard drive, even if you don't think you are using it.Did I miss anything? Let me known in comments or ontwitter.com/jackschofield
It's a truth universally acknowledged that good games based on films are nearly as rare as good films based on games; Goldeneye on the N64 and one or two of the better Star Wars titles stick out as exceptions among a sea of dross.Could Toy Story 3, based on the eagerly awaited Pixar sequel and coming to pretty much every platform, be one of the few games that transcends its status as a mere film adaptation and actually stand up as an enjoyable game on its own merits?The chances seem slim, although the trailer does a fairly good job of raising one's hopes. The visuals look great – one could almost be watching sequences from the film itself (although obviously don't expect anything so impressive on the DS and PSP versions) — and some of the brief flashes of gameplay look to have the potential for fun.However, when character customisation is singled out as a major selling point, you've got to wonder if they really thought that's something potential players are going to get excited about.Unlikely to be an earth-shatteringly important release then, but hey, let's wait to give it a chance before completely damning it, eh?And in the meantime: what other decent games based on films are there? A quick Google search brings upthis list, which features a few dubious choices (Path of Neo? Really?) Surely there's better out there?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I would say it's a close one between my BlackBerry and my iPhone. The BlackBerry changed my life majorly when I first got one – the fact I could get my emails immediately was the most impressive thing. Since then, the iPhone is amazing. I got it about a year ago, and the things you can do with it – all the apps and games and things – everything you can think of is on there. So I love the iPhone as well.When was the last time you used your iPhone, and what for?I was watching live TV on it yesterday afternoon, when I had a bit of time to kill.What additional features would you add if you could?Maybe a better camera – a camera to be standard with a zoom. But apart from that, it has everything.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Oh no, not at all. I think the iPhone and BlackBerry and Google phone will be staples when it comes to technology.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I think they update technology a bit too frequently – you're always having to upgrade, or buy the latest version.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I had an MP3 player when they were first coming out, and I didn't like it – it wad too much fuss to get the music onto it. The iPhone is so much easier.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Research – make sure you research a lot before you buy anything.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Oh, definitely a nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably a car – an Audi R8.Mac or PC, and why?I was PC for life, but I got a Mac recently and they are extremely more efficient.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download more now, actually. I do get CD albums, but singles I just download. The last purchase was Alicia Keys' Element of Freedom.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?No, man – get up and do it yourself. What do you need a butler for?What piece of technology would you most like to own?A transporter please, so you coud be anywhere in moment – I'd finish work here at 5pm and be in Miami Beach by six.•Lemar's new album, The Hits, is out now
For a brief moment last night Marketwatch and many other financial-watching sitesgot very excited: Apple had passed Microsoft on the Standard &amp; Poor 500 market ranking. That must mean that its market capitalisation - the share price times the issued share capital - had passed Microsoft, right? So should Steve Ballmer just shut the place up and give the money back to shareholders?Unfortunately for those so excited, it turns out that S&amp;P uses a slightly different measure from most to measure market cap. As MarketWatch somewhat obliquely put it,"The S&amp;P 500 is float-adjusted, so it doesn't use the full market basis for Microsoft. Apple's float-adjusted market cap reached $241.5 billion, surpassing Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT 30.40, -0.99, -3.15%)  index market value of $239.5 billion, said Standard &amp; Poor's."As BusinessInsiderexplained,"According to aS&amp;P document, "float adjustment excludes shares that are closely held by control groups, other publicly traded companies or government agencies."The reality: afterMicrosoft's results last night, it still has a larger market cap than Apple: according to Google's finance pages,Apple's market cap is $242bn, whileMicrosoft's is $275bn- so Apple's is only 88% of Microsoft's.Apple and Microsoft stock price change, beginning in April 2000Then again, that's a hell of a change compared to five or ten years ago - and especially to December 2000 when Apple's stock price hit $7 (though it has had a 2:1 stock split since then, so the price then was effectively $3.50) compared to today's $266 or so.This brings us to the key question: what does market capitalisationmeasure? Yes, we know that it's the multiple of the stock price times the issued stock. But what does that mean?In short, the market capitalisation is the stock market's guess of the total profits that a company will make over its lifetime. This principle usually works better when a company issues dividends - as Microsoft now does - rather than when it doesn't (like Apple), because it's not driven by people ramping up the shares (or shorting them) in order to profit solely from those. You might wonder why anyone would hold stock in a company that doesn't issue dividends, but I believe that in the US such holdings can have tax advantages (being exempt from capital gains tax, for instance, under some laws introduced under George W Bush's administration).Apple doesn't do dividends, even though it's got an enormouscash pile of around $40bn; if it were a company in the UK, or if its shares were heading downwards, then you can be sure there would be stock market investors calling for it to "give the cash back to the shareholders". No such calls in the US, though.That, in turn, makes it worth asking: is Wall Street serious in thinking that Apple's profits in the future - built on a small market share in portable computers, a sunset consumer electronics item (the iPod) but one fast-growing sector (the mobile internet) - can really match Microsoft's, where it has the dominant desktop operating system and dominant office processing suite?Apparently so. Is that really sensible? Or just Wall Street froth? (Because we all know how they can get it wrong.) Only time will tell there. It's certainly interesting to seeMicrosoft's linkup with Facebook on docs.com- which looks like a masterstroke to get people using its file formats, using the world's largest social network as a springboard. Will it make money? That might not be important as long as it defends its monopolies. Because that, after all, is where Microsoft's money flows from.And Apple is doing rather well compared to a lot of other companies in the tech sector - at least when it comes to market cap....Update:in the comments, yrddraiggoch makes an excellent point about price/earnings and earnings per share - which, in the absence of a dividend, is about the easiest way to compare whether a company is overpriced or not.The price/earnings ratio (PER) is theshare price divided by the earnings per share (EPS)- and theearnings per shareis the profit minus the dividend, divided by the number of shares outstanding. And as the dividend here is zero, that's simple enough.So: Apple's present PER: 26.38. Microsoft's PER: 17.07. TheUS technology sector average: 21.52. So on that basis, Apple's shares are overpriced - they're above the industry average.Meanwhile Apple's EPS is 10.27 - and Microsoft's is just 1.82. (There isn't a sector EPS that I can find.)The brief conclusion: Apple's market cap isn't in line with other stocks. But then again, someone has to be above average, if someone is below it..
Oh, the nostalgia. Those three words: Marvel versus Capcom; they take me right back to the Dreamcast days, when the 2D fighting game was going through its first revival. The original MvsC was the culmination of Capcom's search for a decent cross-franchise smackdown - a noble quest that began with the 1996 arcade classic, X-Men vs Street Fighter, and also took in the stupendous (almost unbelievable at the time), SNK vs Capcom series.Marvel vs Capcom 3 will hit Xbox 360 and PS3 next spring, complete with an evolved Vs fighting system (hyper combos ahoy!), and three-on-three tag team action. With Capcom clearly up for a fight, which inter-license face-off would YOU love to see? You can pit Capcom against any TV, film or literature series with a suitable range of characters - and you've got to tell us why it would rock.To get us started, I'd suggest the following...Capcom vs LostThe metaphysical drama series is almost over, but whatever happens on that damn island, it's unlikely to end in a series of tag-team battles. More's the pity! So here's your chance to pit Ryu against Jack, Kate against Jill Valentine, and for the ultimate heavyweight confrontation, Zangief vs Smoke Monster!Capcom vs Kick AssMatthew Vaughn's energetic translation of the Mark Millar comic book is certainly kicking ass on the big screen - but how would it fare in 2D - against the might of Capcom? Let's have Hit Girl vs Cammy, Red Mist vs Viewtiful Joe and Kick Ass vs Guile!Capcom vs Shakespeare"Is this a dagger which I see before me, the handle toward my hand? Come, let me lob thee at M. Bison, then follow with a roundhouse." Yes, it's faintly educational fisticuffs. Chun-Li vs Lady Macbeth. Titus Andronicus vs Resident Evil's Nemesis. Caliban vs Blanka. Would also be great for pre-fight putdowns. "Teach not thy lip such scorn, for it was made For kissing, lady, not for such contempt." FIGHT!
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Star Wars KidIn 2002, a Canadian high-school student filmed himself in a basement, twirling a stick as if it were a lightsaber. The tape was discovered by schoolmates, who YouTubed it. Unhappy at his newfound fame, the Kid sued his chums, but it got him references on everything from South Park to&nbsp;Arrested Development.OK Go, Here It Goes AgainThe US band's performance of&nbsp;a dance routine on treadmills was an instant viral&nbsp;hit. A single shot, captured in an impressive 17&nbsp;takes, this award-winning video is used as an example of successful online marketing. The idea has also recently been borrowed for a Berocca&nbsp;advert.Dirty Dancing weddingOther people's wedding videos are normally dull, but Julia Boggio and James Derbyshire's was a bit different. Their jaw-dropping first dance was shared not only with their wedding guests, but the rest of the world too. Cue an Oprah invitation for the newlyweds, where Patrick Swayze was on hand to pay a compliment.Tina Fey does Sarah PalinThe 2008 US election was quickly redefined as the first YouTube election. Obamagirl deserves a mention for her ditsy pop videos, but by far the most entertaining clip was Tina Fey's impersonation of Sarah Palin on Saturday Night Live, which spread quicker than you could say, "I can see Russia from my house."Susan Boyle, I Dreamed a DreamWhen Susan Boyle's 2009 Britain's Got Talent audition was uploaded, the church volunteer and aspiring singer was propelled to stardom overnight. Diversity may have triumphed on British television, but they can't say they were the most-watched YouTube video of last year.The killing of Neda Agha-SoltanHer death on a Tehran street during the 2009 Iranian uprising was captured on a mobile phone and broadcast to millions around the world. Barack Obama commented: "I think that anybody who sees it knows that there's something fundamentally unjust about it."
A quarter of a million mobile phone users are to have their medical records tracked for more than 20 years in the world's largest study into the health effects of the devices.Network operators, including Vodafone and O2 in the UK, have agreed to invite a random selection of customers aged 18 to 69 to take part in the study, which will look for increased rates of cancer, dementia and other conditions, such as depression and sleep disorders.The cohort study on mobile communications (Cosmos) is the latest to be funded by the government's mobile telecommunications health research programme (MTHR), set up after the Stewart inquiry into mobile phones and health in 2000.Then it was concluded that, while there was no evidence mobile phones were dangerous, more research was needed to rule out an increased risk of brain tumours and other cancers over the long term. As a precautionary measure, the report advised against children using mobile phones unless essential.Mobile phone ownership has soared since the mid-1990s to more than 70m in the UK – more than one handset for every individual. Because cancers grow slowly, any increase due to mobile phone use is unlikely to have become apparent yet."The balance of scientific evidence to date does not suggest that mobile phones cause cancer but, because of the uncertainty, we cannot rule out the possibility that it might," said Professor Lawrie Challis, of the MTHR management committee."With many cancers it takes 10 or 20 years for symptoms to show, and most of us have not had mobile phones that long. There just hasn't been enough time for cancer to develop."The £3.1m British arm of the study, running alongside others in the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland and Denmark, will follow the health of at least 90,000 people for up to 30 years.With participants' approval, scientists led by Paul Elliott at Imperial College, London, will gather information from network providers on how much people use their mobile devices for making calls, texting and surfing the net, and compare this with their medical records over the duration of the study.Unlike previous studies, scientists will look for an increased risk of a broad range of medical problems, including brain tumours, leukaemia, multiple sclerosis, motor neurone disease, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, heart disease and psychological conditions. A report focusing on cancer risk is expected within 10 years.Previous studies claim to have found evidence suggestive of an increased risk of brain tumours with mobile phone usage, but many scientists say the results are inconclusive."Cosmos aims to fill in important gaps in our knowledge of mobile phones and health. By looking at large numbers of people across Europe over a long period of time, we should be able to build up a valuable picture of whether or not there is any link between mobile phone usage and health problems over the long term," said Prof Elliott.The Cosmos study will not look at the effects of mobile phone use among children, although some experts believe they may be especially vulnerable to mobile phone radiation, because they have thinner skulls and still-developing immune systems.Prof Challis said it was unrealistic to prevent older children and teenagers from using mobile phones, but suggested parents might want to keep children under the age of 11 from using the devices. "I think it's better if they don't use them, but it's up to parents," he said. "Generally I would think that's not a bad line to follow, but I'm a scientist, not a risk manager."
Bill Gates, the co-founder of Microsoft, donated $30m (£19.5m) to a new fund  to help poor farmers today in an effort to push wealthy countries into fulfilling promises to stump up billions in aid.The Gates Foundationhas focused primarily on health issues but sees aid for farmers as the key to helping people out of poverty. Gates, in Washington for the fund's launch, expressed disappointment that more money from the world's wealthiest nations has not been forthcoming.About $22bn to help farmers in the developing world was promised last year by the G8 at a summit in L'Aquila, Italy. They were acting in response to a proposal put forward by the Obama administration.Gates made the announcement about his contribution at a joint press conference at the Treasury with Tim Geithner, the US treasury secretary, James Flaherty, the Canadian finance minister, Elena Salgado, the Spanish finance minister, Yoon Jeung-Hyun, the South Korean finance minister, and Robert Zoellick, the World Bank president.Gates's $30m contribution goes into a $875m pot put together with the US, Canada, South Korea and Spain, but far short of the $22bn agreed by the international community.Asked why other major industrialised countries were not present, Gates said: "Good question. Clearly we have got some good people and, hopefully, we will get more."He added: "Budgets are tight but we are clearly not close to the Aquila announcement. The ambition is to get close to the commitments made at Aquila."The G8 is made of the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Canada, Russia and the US.An estimated one billion people are living on a dollar a day, 75% of them farmers. Over the last decade, the proportion of spending by governments in developing countries on farmers has been dropping and Gates said he hoped the new fund will be a turning point.His presence on the platform alongside government ministers highlights the increasing role of private foundations.The $30m brings the Gates Foundation contribution to agricultural development to $1.5b Much more has been spent by the foundation on health in the developing world.Gates said he hoped aid from the new fund will begin flowing before the end of the year to countries such as Rwanda and Ghana which had submitted plans for helping their farmers.In a comment piece in the Wall Street Journal written by Gates and Geithner, they said: "As the world's population increases in the coming years and as changes in the climate create water shortages that destroy crops, the number of people without adequate access to food is likely to increase. As that happens, small farmers and people living in poverty will need the most help."The fund will be used to help farmers gain access to better seeds, build roads and other infrastructure to link them to markets and to promote sustainable water use.The Senate foreign affairs committee todayyesterday began hearings into US involvement in helping small farmers in the developing world. John Kerry, chairman of the committee, said the US international aid budget was under strain but he was committed to protecting programmes to help farmers."Even in a tough budget environment, short-changing programmes like these will deliver little budget relief at enormous cost to our global efforts, including food security," he said.
I've just spent 20 minutes on a conference call, using the HTC Legend and I think my ear is bleeding. To explain, I'd had my O2 Sim card in the phone off and on for a week or so and had been enjoying surfing the web and emailing and texting and Tweeting (yes I am one of those twats, sorry) and it was all going well. It was only a second or so into the call that I realised I had not, as yet, used the latest in HTC's roster of Android devices as an actual telephone.I waxed lyrical about the design of the HTC Legendwhen it was announcedat Mobile World Congress and it is beautiful. Made from a single milled piece of aluminium it is a brilliant piece of engineering (and the fact that it is made from one piece of metal means you can drop it without it breaking in half) and lovely to look at and use to access the internet.The phones I've been using myself for the past month are HTC's two other new Android devices, the Nexus One – otherwise known as the Google phone – and the HTC Desire. The innards of the two phones are essentially identical and the difference on the outside is minimal. The big difference is in the user interface: the Nexus One is the device over which Google has had complete control, while the HTC Desire has HTC Sense layered over the top of it.The HTC Legend, meanwhile, has been available for a couple of weeks in the UK and is exclusive to Vodafone. Vodafone is also supposed to be stocking the Nexus One soon-ish,but it keeps being delayedbecause the search engine company has realised that selling a mobile phone takes a bit more customer service than just lobbing the device into the market.Anyway, the thing that has most surprised me about the Nexus One is that it is actually quite a nice phone to use as a phone. The iPhone has always made me feel like I am standing in a portable loo while calling someone. It is all echoes and feedback. The Nexus One, in contrast, feels, and most importantly sounds, like a phone.The HTC Legend, however, is cutting edge and not just in its design. It literally has a cutting edge. When it arrived in the UK, the Palm Pre came in for some criticism because when the keyboard was slid out,the plastic edge was sharp enough to slice cheese(which lead to the inevitableYouTube clips). Well the HTC Legend goes one better, that lovely milled aluminium case will slice your ear off when you hold the phone up to it and apply any pressure whatsoever.Why am I getting so het up about the device as a phone? Well firstly too many of the recent crop of smartphones have been rubbish AS PHONES. And secondly, form factor is one of the biggest differences between the Nexus One and HTC Legend. Both run the latest version of Android – Éclair – and can multitask and while the processor is faster on the Nexus One, I did not notice any major difference in performance compared with the HTC Legend, except in the area of battery life.The Nexus One's battery life is dire, comparable with the first batch of serious 3G phones, such as the SonyEricsson V800. Initially I had it checking and alerting me to everything from my office email to Twitter every five minutes. With a little bit of emailing and perhaps a quick game ofRobo Defense, a game to which I have become tragically addicted, the battery was gone in a few hours. A few basic energy saving tips, such as stopping the trackball from flashing when new emails arrived, using vibrating alerts solely for texts and turning down the screen brightness and the battery would just about get through a working day. Just. The battery life of the HTC Desire seemed slightly better to me, but as there is no difference in the batteries or processors of the two devices I would put that down to HTC Sense's better power management. I did not worry half as much when I realised that I had left the charger for the HTC Legend at home.The third point of differentiation between the three phones is the most obvious: that while the Nexus One has Google's unadulterated version of Android, HTC put its HTC Sense "skin" on top of it for the Desire and Legend. HTC Sense is hit and miss. For the Legend, it's a miss, for the Desire, it's a hit.HTC Sense leaves the Legend looking very cramped. It lends itself much more readily to the larger screen on the Desire. It integrates some basic functions such as Facebook and Twitter – through the pre-installed Peep client – but serious social networking junkies will probably prefer to set themselves up with multiple downloadable clients. The HTC Sense keyboard, meanwhile, is dire on both devices, containing all the normal qwerty keys plus a huge number of extra keys that have been grey-scaled over the top to make it nice and confusing.The Nexus One opts for the traditional qwerty keyboard but neither keyboard is as elegant or responsive as the iPhone. The Nexus One, meanwhile, integrates search much better across the device – as you would hope – than either HTC device, partly though the use of the "search" function key on the phone.Those search keys are part of the physical difference between the devices: the Nexus One opts for a trackball while the HTC Legend and HTC Desire have an optical trackpad. To be honest, they are both pointless. A properly working touchscreen interface and they would be utterly redundant. The HTC Desire and Legend also have four hard function keys at the bottom of the screen: a home button; a menu button that brings up relevant menus depending upon which application you are using; a back button, which cleverly works across apps so if you move from say, email to a Twitter client, pressing back will take you back to email; and that search function.The Nexus One has the same buttons – though the search button seems to work better across any application on the Google device – but they are part of the touchscreen. As a result, many is the time I thought I was pressing the space bar when composing an email on the Nexus One and instead sent myself back to the home screen.All three can, of course, download a host of applications from the Android Marketplace – which, unfortunately, is where Android still falls down. The sooner Google – or perhaps one of the mobile phone operators – realises that a third party arbiter of applications really is needed, the better. Having to hunt through countless pages of reviews (which divide neatly into obvious fan boy who probably had a hand in writing the app, creator of rival app slagging it off and plugging their product, and nutter out on day release who just wandered into a cyber cafe) in order to judge whether an app is useful or might actually be malware designed to steal all your information, is only going to appeal to a small minority of users.Android's marketplace is based on Darwinian evolutionary principles coupled with the wisdom of crowds, which is great if you only ever want early adopters to use your devices, but Google wants Android to challenge Apple's dominance in apps. It will never manage that unless the Marketplace becomes as "professional" as iTunes. Like the fact that you need customer service staff when you start selling hardware, Google has to realise that when you start offering goods through a central marketplace, someone has to carry the can for their quality. The "crowd" won't do.Back to the devices. And finally, as befits a device that has Google's logo on the back of it, the Nexus One is elegant when accessing the internet. So are the Desire and Legend. Pages are crisp and responsive (pinch and zoom perhaps a bit too responsive). Both devices make the web look sharp while the iPhone often rounds the corners off the web.In fact, that's the HTC Legend's problem writ large: it's just a bit too sharp, so for me it's a choice between the Nexus One and HTC Desire and it's going to be the latter. During a few weeks of use I had to reboot the Nexus One several times a week to deal with various functions that just seemed to die-off from time to time, especially email synchronisation. The HTC Desire did not require any rebooting.Finally, the volume button on the side of the Nexus One seized up after a few weeks. While that's not a problem for setting the level of media, ringtone and alarm volume – as all can be set through the phone's settings – there is no work around for in-call volume, meaning that anyone who called me also deafened me.For the sake of my ears, I relied on the HTC Desire.HTC LegendPros:Stylish design, good battery life for an Android device.Cons:That sleek design comes at a potentially painful price.Nexus OnePros:Screen makes the web come alive; integrates messaging, maps and search very well.Cons:Poor battery life and Marketplace apps can sometimes crash without warning. It's a phone you will find yourself rebooting occasionally.HTC DesirePros:All the benefits of the Nexus One without the crashesCons:You have to struggle your way through the Android Marketplace looking for apps while iPhone users jeer at you for the lack of choice you have.
McAfee hasadmitted that an update to its antivirus signature has paralysed corporate computers- but played down the significance, insisting that "less than one half of one percent of our enterprise accounts globally and a fraction of that within the consumer base".The fault means that a critical Windows system file is removed - meaning that the machine will not boot up. McAfee said that it had remedied the flaw in its scanning with a new update - but people whose machines were affected might have to fix the problem manually.Users were outraged. "Imagine hiring a personal bodyguard, when suddenly and without explanation, the bodyguard turns and shoots you in the face. That was the feeling I had for 7 hours and 15 minutes today, on a day that I had a LOT of work to get done," said David Henkemeyer in a comment on the blog.The response from the corporate community was not positive. There is doubt as to whether its estimate of the small number of clients affected could be correct: Ed Bott, a noted Windows commentator,remarked on Twitterthat "I believe McAfee's statements on this issue are composed of equal parts BS [bullshit] and CYA [cover your ass]. Spun, not stirred."Home users commenting on the post were clearly unhappy too - if they could get online. "I am down a computer with limited computer knowledge to get this back up. This is looking like this is going to cost me a lot of money that I don't have to fix," wrote Susan Jackson in a comment.Another commenter, Jerry Twomey, said: "Win XP SP3 machine now non-functional – No way to get to a "start" menu or a command line, (tool bar at bottom of screen no longer there) Consequently the other things suggested in the fixes and workarounds can not be implemeted. Attempts to get to a DOS window to put the .EXE file back in could not be done either. You need a 1). No network access fix 2).Fix that can be done from an external source boot. This is not an "inconvenience" it has been a total show stopper."The fault was introduced after McAfee tried to protect customers against "a new threat that impacts Windows PCs". But the cure turned out to be serious as well: it removed svchost.exe, a crucial Windows system file. That meant that computers which had applied the update would not boot. Although svchost.exe has repeatedly been the target of viruses, it is unclear why McAfee's update took this action against it - and the post by Barry McPherson, on the company's security insights blog, doesn't explain.In afollowup post, McPherson apologises again - while insisting that the update was released against "a legitimate threat".One of the commenters on the McAfee posted an11-step method to repair the damage. Use it at your own risk.Update:rival antivirus vendors have been quick to jump on the opportunity: Sunbelt Software, a provider of Windows endpoint security software, is offering McAfee enterprise customers who may be unhappy with recent events, six months of free maintenance added to any new order placed before June 30, 2010."Based on recent events, we are seeing record numbers of McAfee enterprise customers looking for an alternative solution for endpoint security," said Jim Moise, senior vice president of sales and marketing for Sunbelt Software. "In order to make the transition to VIPRE easier, we are offering them a simple financial incentive to move to our endpoint security solution."And Sophos reports that hackers have been stuffing search results to created pages which appear to be relevant - and which then infect visiting computers. Some of those turn up in the first page of Google search results on the problem."It's bad enough if many of the computers in your company are out of action because of a faulty security update, but it's even worse if you infect your network by Googling for a fix," explained Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for Sophos. "These poisoned pages are appearing on the very first page of search engine results, making it likely that many will click on them.  If you visit the links you may see pop-up warnings telling you about security issues with your computer. These warnings are fake and designed to trick you into downloading dangerous software, which could result in hackers gaining control of your corporate computers or the theft of your credit card details."All in all, this may have been an expensive outing for McAfee.And do you believe McAfee's numbers for the affected corporations?
It's allNick Clegg's fault. That fake tan that went wrong, Samantha Cameron's pregnancy, that ladder in your tights ... Twitter would appear, if one were to take it at face value, to have decided that the Liberal Democrat leader is the source of many of the world's woes.However, it's nothing of the sort; instead it was the reaction by denizens of the rapid-fire social network to the stories on the front of not one, but four of today's Tory-backing newspapers which appear to suggest that Clegg is not a worthy recipient of a vote.By midday it was the second most-tweeted hashtag on Twitter, second only to Earth day; in the UK it was the top hashtag, indicating that thousands of tweets incorporated it every hour.The trigger was theperfect storm of media coverage attacking Clegg: the Daily Mail saying he had insulted British pride, theDaily Telegraph pointing to paymentsfor a parliamentary assistant made into Clegg's personal account (a fact which the story included – though very far down the story), theSun accusing himof flip-flopping on foreign and immigration policy, and theExpress claiminghe "wants jobs for asylum seekers".Twitter users, perhaps aware that the newspapers might – as former Sun editor David Yellandpointed out earlier this week– not be entirely unbiased, reacted by creating the hashtag: if one could blame Clegg for those things, why not everything?In particular theDaily Mail's useof aneight-year-old article written by Cleggfor the Guardian, in which he criticises attitudes to Germany which seem stuck in the 1950s – and fail to recognise how it has reinvented itself since – for its front-page splash outraged many Twitter commentators, who rapidly pointed to the Mail's history of seeking to deny refuge to Jews fleeing the Nazis, and to Lord Rothermere's congratulatory telegram to Hitler for the Czech invasion in 1939.The rapid responses on Twitter indicate just how much shorter the feedback loop now is for the mainstream media and electors – and how dangerous it can be to attack politicians who are riding a wave of popularity.Whether it will have any effect on the readers either of Twitter or of the newspapers is harder to tell. Clearly, Twitter has never been the favoured stamping ground for Sun, Daily Mail, Daily Express or Daily Telegraph readers. And it is unlikely that any of the papers' editors will be taking notice of what it says.But it has at least provided some valuable comic content. Even Armando Iannucci, the writer of the political TV satire The Thick Of It,chipped in with a contributionthat sounded straight out of the accompanying film In The Loop: "#nickcleggsfault Nick Clegg lived in same town as a seriously ill man and never visited him,though he knows he has a spare kidney."Remember that line: it might turn up in the next series.
Just in case you missed this, the latest PlayStation 3 firmware update (that's 3.30, version numeracy fans) adds support for stereoscopic 3D gaming - alongside some improvements to the Trophy system.The only thing is, Sony hasn't released any 3D titles yet, and its BRAVIA HX803 and LX903 3D capable TVs don't come out in the UK until June. When youdopurchase one of those, you'll get access to four free downloadable PS3 titles: Wipeout HD, Motorstorm Pacific Rift, PAIN and Super Stardust HD.The TV range also offers '3D up conversion' which simulates a 3D effect on 2D footage. Will this work with games? Well, the last I heard, Sony waslooking in to the matter, but it seems as though at least a few titles will be compatible.Let's pretend it'll work with everything: which game would you slap in first?
Nokia has warned on profits as it battles to compete with bitter rivals Research In Motion, maker of the BlackBerry, and Apple, as well as the growing threat from handsets based on Google's Android platform.Shares in the Finnish firm plunged almost 14% as it announced worse-than-expected results over the first quarter, when it was forced to slash its prices. There is speculation that further price cuts could be on the way as it battles to maintain its market share.Nokia is the world's largest handset manufacturer, making roughly four out of every 10 phones sold worldwide. It confirmed the widespread speculation that it has delayed the launch of devices based on the newest version of its Symbian mobile phone software. The company has yet to produce a handset that can compete directly with Apple's iPhone in the very top end of the smartphone market and there are hopes that the Symbian^3 software platform will enable Nokia to regain some of its former magic.But Nokia said in its statement today that while it plans to launch the first smartphone based on the platform in the second quarter of this year, shipments are not expected until the third quarter, three months later than the market had hoped. The phone in question is widely believed to be the Nokia N8, a touchscreen phone that has a mammoth 12-megapixel camera. Nokia hopes it will compete head-on with the next generation of the iPhone – expected in the summer – as well as Android handsets such as Google's Nexus One and the HTC Desire.'iPhone killer'Today's results showed how desperately the company needs a so-called 'iPhone killer'. Fierce competition in the smartphone market is forcing it to slash prices, pushing down profits. Nokia's average selling price in the three months to end March was €62 (£54), down from €64 in the run-up to Christmas and down from €66 in the first quarter of 2009 as a result of "general price erosion" across Nokia's portfolio."We continue to face tough competition with respect to the high end of our mobile device portfolio, as well as challenging market conditions on the infrastructure side," admitted chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo.The company warned that it expects operating margins in its devices and services business to be between 9% to 12% in the second quarter of 2010, compared with 12.1% in the first quarter and 15.4% in the last quarter of 2009. There is speculation that the company is planning price cuts of up to 10% in an effort to regain market share.In the three months to the end of March the company shipped 107.8m phones, up 16% year-on-year but down 15% on the previous period. Of those, 21.5m were so-called 'converged mobile devices' – such as smartphones and mobile computers – which was up 57% year-on-year but only up 3% sequentially.Overall, Nokia's first-quarter sales were €9.5bn, up 3% year-on-year and down 21% on the previous quarter, with sales in its devices and services business of €6.7bn, up 8% year-on-year and down 19% sequentially. The firm expects second quarter sales in devices and services to be between €6.7bn and €7.2bn. Underlying first-quarter earnings per share rose 40% compared with last year to €0.14 – the first annual rise since the second quarter of 2008 – but by less than expected.For the year as a whole, Nokia stuck with its previous forecast that the industry will grow by 10% in volume terms this year, and it still reckons its market share will be flat in 2010 in terms of volume but slightly higher in terms of value.
Twitter users who mentioned McAfee, scaled by number of followers. Photo byMarc_Smithon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBill Gates on Journalism and Social Media (and the iPad, too) &gt;&gt; SFGateDon't read it only for the iPad stuff.Unlock Places API — version 2.2 &gt;&gt; Unlocking data"The Unlock Places API was recently upgraded to include Ordnance Survey's Open data. This feature rich data from Code-Point Open, Boundary-Line and the 1:50,000 gazetteer includes placenames and locations (points, boxes and shapes) and is now open for all to use! You canjust get started with the API."Will Wall Street require Python? &gt;&gt; ITworld"On 7 April 2010, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the federal agency charged "... to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation", proposed new rules covering "Asset-Backed Securities" [warning: 667-page PDF]. Administratively, this is a reaction to the trillion-dollar financial atrocities of the last few years, as well as a natural manifestation of the Obama administration's commitment to enhance procedural transparency. Shockingly, "... Python, a commonly used open source interpretive programming language ..." shows up on page 1 of the description. What is that about?" &#10;&#10;Excuse me, I'm just off to learn Python and get a Wall Street job..Scott McNealy Can Still Dish &gt;&gt; Fortune Brainstorm TechThe former Sun chairman/CEO thinks they should have called it the "cloud" in the 1990s instead of the "networked computer". Suspect that would still have earned "huh?"HTML5 presentation (HTML5 browsers only!) &gt;&gt; ApirocksYou'll need an HTML5-capable browser to view this interesting slideshow. Slide 22 is key for a lot of advertisers..Flawed McAfee update paralyzes corporate PCs &gt;&gt; ComputerworldIt wrongly identifies svchost.exe - so often the target (through replacement) of viruses - as a virus.Gray Powell's father: 'He was devastated" &gt;&gt; CNET NewsWell, it seems Gray still has a job.Chart of (another) day: Where Microsoft's Profit Comes From &gt;&gt; BusinessInsiderNote the stuff below the lines: Entertainment and Devices has dabbled with it for years, and Online Services have never made money ever.Chart of the day: Where Apple's Revenue Comes From &gt;&gt; BusinessInsiderAs usual, BI crunches the numbers usefully.OPINION: Morgan success at GAME will not be matched - MCVThe games trade magazine pays tribute to Lisa Morgan, saysin gher "role in turning a mid-size UK retail chain into an international giant must not be under-estimated. On joining from Dixons in 1996, GAME had less than 200 stores, but today it boasts 1,400 outlets across nine European countries, plus Australia."On Adobe, Flash CS5 and iPhone Applications at Mike ChambersThe Principal Product Manager for developer relations for the Flash Platform at Adobe explains the background to 3.3.1 and says some developers are shifting from targeting the iPhone to targeting Android.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Of course, it had to be the Daleks. When the BBC first conceived of the Doctor Who Adventures, its ambitious series of four downloadable computer games, these tenacious beings must have been at the top of the essential features list. And on 5 June, they will return, terrorising the planet right in City of the Daleks, the opening instalment.Commissioned by BBC Wales in conjunction with BBC Online, and developed by Sheffield-based games studio Sumo Digital, the series is certainly getting off to an explosive start. The Daleks have altered time to invade Earth in the year 1963 (intriguingly, the year Doctor Who first aired). When the Tardis arrives, swinging London has been utterly destroyed and the last living human is sheltering in Charing Cross underground station. Amy and the Doctor must now repair the continuum to prevent the invasion, or the Doctor's new assistant will fade out of existence. The problem is, the task will require a dangerous trip to Skaro, the Dalek home planet, and more specifically the looming metropolis at the core of their empire. Hence, the title.Featuring impressive likenesses of Matt Smith and Karen Gillan (who also voice all the dialogue) the game is essentially a very polished, very intuitive action adventure, designed with families very much in mind. "We felt that Doctor Who was perfect for a game – the TV series has so many parallels with games," says Ian Tweedale, editor of interactive at BBC Wales. "Also, although the game is great for young people who are already game players, we wanted to bring in a mass TV audience, people who may not play games, and introduce them to what games are about, and maybe whet their appetite to try more."The start point of City of the Daleks is an impressively destroyed Trafalgar Square, all collapsed monuments, smoking buildings and deep chasms leading to the fractured underground train lines below. You move the doctor by controlling his direction with the mouse and clicking the right button to walk. But watch out, there are Daleks all over the place.And here is where the development team faced a significant hurdle, more-or-less unheard of in game production – the Doctor is a devout pacifist. There will be no AK47 gunfights, no frag grenades. As Sean Millard, creative director at Sumo, puts it: "The Doctor saves humanity and solves all the problems of the universe through the power of negotiation and clever quips – which in themselves don't make for great gameplay. It would be brilliant if he had a lightsaber, or twin guns, but he hasn't. There was a lot of design time spent working out how interaction with the baddies could be made fun."Consequently, the action sequences are based around a stealth mechanic. Your first job is to sneak past a group of Daleks patrolling the area – their sphere of vision is shown as a green area, which you've got to avoid. Step inside the green and it goes to amber, then red, and they know you're there – cue first use of the phrase "exterminate".From here it's a mix of exploration and environmental puzzles. You've got to get through a barricade barring entry to the underground station, and a precariously balanced taxi on a steep incline in front of the barrier would seem to be the solution. Whenever you approach a relevant scenic item, an icon pops up in the bottom right offering an action – "climb" perhaps, or "talk". Clicking the left button carries it out. Most of the actions are context sensitive so you don't have to worry about learning lots of moves. And if you talk to Amy she'll usually reveal your current objective. The jokey interplay between these characters has been nicely reproduced, especially in the short movie segments between each playable area. For example, before the duo arrive in London the Doctor asks Amy which Beatle she'd most like to meet. When she replies "John or Paul", he asks why no one ever says Ringo. "There's no such thing as a sexy drummer," is her damning response.The Doctor gets a small inventory of items to carry around, and naturally, this includes, the sonic screwdriver, which brought in its own range of problems for the game designers. "It's very important in a game to have a strong internal logic," says co-producer Charles Cecil, a veteran designer of adventure titles like the famed Broken Sword series. "We spent a lot of time asking what exactly does a sonic screwdriver do? In a game players need rules that they can totally understand.""I'm not sure we ever got an answer to that," adds Millard. What the device DID mean was that the traditional video game means of barring a player's progress – the ubiquitous locked door – couldn't be used: the sonic screwdriver is a skeleton key. Instead, players will find that they must often solve logic puzzle-style mini-games to make progress. These may involve re-arranging circuit boards, or carefully removing sensors from the electrified innards of a Dalek's head unit. And these get tougher as the game goes on.The 3D visuals are hardly cutting edge, but that's not the point. The game has been designed to be playable on almost any PC or Mac hardware – the target platform is apparently an entry-level PC from four-years ago ("We've been testing it on BBC computers, which are, as you'd expect, the oldest in the world," deadpans senior BBC Wales Interactive producer, Matt Fidell). Also, there's a nicely stylised look to the two leads – and much of their character has been captured, right down to Matt's distinctive loping stride (the developers spent a day in London filming him just walking about).The environments, meanwhile, have perfectly captured the extravagantly coloured lighting and offbeat steam punk technologies of the series. Most of the backgrounds are produced as beautifully detailed 2D illustrations, which are mapped around the 3D environment. It's a beautiful, slightly retro effect harking back to Cecil's Broken Sword adventures, and particularly effective when the Doctor reaches Kaalann – the Dalek city. The planet has not been visited during the reboot of the TV series, and has never been fully visualized before.That, says Tweedale is the key beauty of developing a game based on the brand. "There are bits we can do in the game that we just can't do on TV, like having Trafalgar Square smashed up by the Daleks. We couldn't do that on television, even with CGI, it's just too expensive. Here, we can go to Skaro, we can envisage all sorts of things we couldn't do before."The game's writer, Phil Ford, has scripted episodes of Torchwood, Doctor Who: Dreamland and Sarah Jane Adventures. He was equally excited about the chance to explore new territories. "Everyepisode takes us to somewhere we couldn't do on TV. Everyone was really fired up that we would be able to go to Kaalann. That's why I like to do these animated spin-offs – they give you the opportunity to really broaden the Doctor Who canvas."A key element of the development process seems to have been the cross pollination of ideas between the Doctor Who team and the game developers. Usually, when a studio is developing a game tie-in with a major TV or film brand they have to slavishly adhere to the original design vision. Not here. For the design of Kaalann for example, the Sumo Digital artists were given just a one word brief by Steven Moffat and his team: brutal. Their original concept sketches were all sleek high-tech skyscrapers, but, along with the BBC team, they felt the city looked too human.  Someone from the TV series suggested Fritz Lang's Metropolis as an influence, and Sumo took this in a whole new direction. The result is a dense Art Deco-style cityscape beneath a raging orange sky.It's an impressive creation, and better yet, it has become canon. If the TV series ever comes to Skaro, the BBC design team will use the version seen in the game. Indeed, this crossover is already happening. At some point a scene used in the games will also appear in the current Doctor Who TV series, so the game team were invited on set. "We thought we were just going there to see what the sets would be like, but it turned out the designers were altering the sets to fit what we wanted in the game, which was a bit of a shock," says Cecil. "Right from the beginning we've worked very closely. There's been amazing co-operation."Even the actors are getting in on this sense of crossover. As Nicholas Briggs, the voice of the Daleks, explains: "The red Dalek speaks a lot in the game, whereas in the TV series, in Victory of the Daleks, the red Dalek doesn't say anything. So I had to come up with my red Dalek voice, which I will be using should the red Dalek ever re-appear!"The Sumo Digital team reckons there's around two or three hours of gameplay per episode, if you rush straight through the linear narrative. However, players who spend a little longer exploring the environments will find a selection of collectible cards featuring Doctors of the past, as well as well-known enemies, allies and differently coloured jelly babies. Apparently, the each game is a 250MB file, which is less than downloading an episode of the TV series. While the first episode is out on 5 June, the others are likely to follow on a monthly basis. They are all separate stories, but Millard reckons you'll get a more rounded experience playing them in sequence.The BBC has no idea what to expect from here. It's the first time the corporation has commissioned an interactive project of such size, and it could well open the doors to similar projects with other big brands. For now though, Doctor Who fans will have a thoroughly enjoyable experience, jumping into the shoes of their favourite Timelord and attempting to outwit the Daleks. Once they are beaten, the subsequent three adventures are likely to feature more of the Doctor's classic foes. Indeed, we've seen some concept art from another of the games – it features an Arctic science research base and some very familiar giant robots. Yes, the Cybermen are coming …•Doctor Who: City of the Daleks will be available from theDoctor Who websiteon 5 June
Given the large amount of games available for the under 7s the lack of coverage given to them is a little surprising. Or maybe it isn't. After all most readers – and writers – of mainstream games sites are "hardcore" gamers and unlikely to be too concerned with the latest Spongebob or Thomas the Tank Engine title. The Guardian gamesblog isn't going to reverse this trend too much but given that Keith and I both have young families we do try and do the occasional review or post.  Like today for example. I've recently been playing the newly released Dora Puppy with my 4 year old daughter.The game is basicallyNintendogsforDora The Explorerfans and is likely to appeal to 3-5 year old girls who like the idea of owning a virtual pet.  As you probably expect you get to feed and play with your puppy by flicking the stylus and shouting encouragement into the DS microphone. You can also teach the dog tricks and earn stickers and treats for your faithful friend. Parents are likely to be pleased by the colour and shape recognition challenges thrown in too.Unfortunately there are some problems. The stylus controls are surprisingly unresponsive at times and not as intuitive as you may expect from a game like this.  Given the limited attention spans of most 4 year olds this is a real issue. Parental help will be required at the start then. The game is easily picked up though and actually it is the rather limited number of tasks – rather than control issues - that is likely to be the main long-term concern.Unless you are some kind of super parent the incredibly annoying Dora instructional vocals that are played throughout the game means this isn't one for long car journeys. Dig out "I did it mum" or other similar child-friendly games that can be played with the sound down for that. But in small doses Dora Puppy will certainly appeal to the target audience and is an above average tie-in.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
AtFacebook's F8 developer conference, chief executive Mark Zuckerberg announced Facebook Docs, saying: "It's all of the power of Microsoft Office suite online with a simple Facebook integration."Facebook users will be able to create, edit and share Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents online, or upload them from their PC or Mac. Once on Facebook, documents work in much the same way as photos. In fact, Microsoft based document sharing on Facebook's photo sharing.The Facebook Docs beta is based on Microsoft Office 2010's Web Apps suite, and Microsoft's Fuse Labs worked on connecting it with Facebook. Fuse is derived from "Future Social Experiences". It has information and video demos on its blog atdocs.com/Facebook users will obviously benefit from the ability to create and share documents, though this seems much more likely to appeal to students than to businesses. Microsoft will benefit by getting up to 400 million users for its online Web Apps. This should get it off to a good start in the inevitable competition with Google Docs.Facebook Docs is still in beta, so it's not clear how many features it will offer. However, Microsoft's Web Apps suite is more powerful than Google Docs, and has the advantage of maintaining compatibility with the desktop version of Microsoft Office. With Google Docs, by contrast, what you get out of it is worse than what you put into it, so trying to "round trip" complex documents is basically a waste of time.Of course, Microsoft Office Web Apps will be available to everyone whether they are a member of Facebook or not. Facebook is providing the social features, such as documents appearing on walls and in profiles so that friends can comment on them, and so on. For some users, the combination will be worthwhile.In the long run, it's in Facebook's interest to provide access to a wide range of useful applications, not just to Microsoft Office. Also in the long run, Facebook users will probably turn out to be just a small subset of Microsoft's online Office business. But in the short term, the collaboration will help both companies to compete with Google. They're united partly by having a common enemy, but both have bigger ambitions.
The average social gamer is a 43-year-old woman. And social games – played on networks such as Facebook – are expected to generate about $1bn this year. Traditional console gamers might eventually be in the minority.Facebook might not sound like a particularly significant gaming market, but it hasmore than 400 million active users. If it were a country, that would make it the third largest in the world, ahead of the US. So, it's no surprise that the world's largest entertainment industry wants to move in.Reflecting the older, more female demographic, top Facebook games are mostly non-violent collecting or simulation games. A couple of years ago the big Facebook gaming craze was Packrat – a card-collecting, set-completing game. Now,it is Farmville, in which players plant virtual crops before harvesting and using the profit to improve their farm. Frankly, these games are dull. They tend to be unchallenging, not particularly innovative, and characterised by cutesy graphics. But I'm probably not their target market.More interesting, is the recent launch of what's billed as "Facebook's first soap opera". The intriguingSpirit of Adventuretells a story reminiscent of The English Patient – a woman discovers the diaries of a second-world-war airman. With trinkets to win for completing puzzles, it's gently enjoyable, and the fact that it centres around story rather than the gameplay is interesting.Increasingly, growth will come from groups who haven't previously thought of themselves as gamers: more diversity doesn't necessarily mean all the games will be great, but I'm excited to see what classics this genre throws up next.
Young men appear to dominate the smartphone market, buta Lady Geek survey conducted by YouGovpoints out that many users are women aged over 55, and that they are an "under-exploited audience".Perhaps not surprisingly, Facebook was the most popular app for women over 55*, but four games appeared in their top 15: Bejeweled, Sudoku, Solitaire and Scrabble.The survey adds that "22.5% of female smartphone owners over 55 found out about their favourite app from a recommendation from a friend, compared to only 12.9% of male smart phone within the same age band". However, they think "the majority of apps [are] pointless and redundant".Belinda Parmar, who wrote the report, says:"We set out on a mission to understand how older women use technology and raise the agenda of these 'forgotten' women. We are so obsessed with youth and yummy mummies in this country we forget that a third of our population is over 50. The women we spoke to loved what 'apps' could do for them whether it be 'snacking' on a 10 minute Bejeweled game or updating their Facebook page with new photos. A revolution is going on within this older group but no-one seems to notice or pay any attention to these women."YouGov SixthSense ran an online survey of a sample of 16,810 smartphone owners, including 1,639 men and women over 55. It found that, over all age groups, women were more likely to have obtained a new smartphone in the past six months than men, and "this is particularly the case for 25-39-year-olds".* In the US, the number of women over 55 on Facebook is almost double the number of men in the same age group (Source: Inside Facebook, Feb 2009).
Apple produced some stellar results on Tuesday evening: revenues up 48% year-on-year to $13.5bn, and profits upThe process is confused becauseApple has begun restating its year-ago earnings, to take into account the fact that it now recognises income and revenue from subscription-based products such as the iPhone (which may be sold on an 18-month contract) as soon as it gets it, rather than deferring it over the life of the device/contract as it used to.It began doing that in the most recent quarter, covering Christmas, which - confusingly - is the first quarter of its financial year. So previously, the second-quarter revenues were $8.16bn, not the newly-restated $9.08bn; the profits were $1.21bn, not the now-given figure of $1.62bn.The numbers also don't include the iPad, because the quarter ended on March 31 - the iPad was launched three days later.According to MacJournals, which chewed over the numbers, "At $5.445 billion, iPhone sales accounted for 40% of Apple's revenue. All Mac sales were 28%, all iPod/Music sales were 24%." Mac sales are 2.943m units, generating revenue of $3.76bn - which Apple says was 33% year-on-year growth, compared to market growth of 24%. (But Apple had a bad second quarter in 2009 for Mac sales.)But let's focus on the iPhone. Look at those numbers: 8.75m sold, more than in any quarter ever before. Clearly that's been helped by having it available through more networks, at least outside the US - in the UK, it's now on Orange, Vodafone and even through Tesco, as well as O2, the original supplier.An interesting analysis comes from Tomi Ahonen, a former Nokia executive. Eleven days ago he wrote a post entitled - unwisely, in retrospect - "iPhone in Memoriam: a history from the peak of its success" in which he suggested that the iPhone was a busted flush:"I am writing the first history of the once-iconic iPhone, written now in early April 2010, before Apple has released its first quarter earnings for 2010. This is literally the peak of the short reign that Apple's iPhone had as the most emulated smartphone. […] And mark my words, the numbers are now very clear, Apple's market share peak among smartphones, and among all handsets, on an annual basis, is being witnessed now. Yes its true, Apple cannot grow market share into 2011. But its not for reasons you might think."This rather quickly looked silly, and Apple commentor John Gruberpointed to itas an example of getting it really wrong.But Ahonen isn't giving up that easily. He'supdated the post- not once but twice. The first time to admit that these hugely expanded sales go "totally against my hypothesis", although he insisted that "it is still possible Apple iPhone annual market share has peaked" - though he also admitted that "it is not now 'certain' by any means."The second update is more interesting: he claims that the "missing million" sales "were due to Chinese New Year gift-giving where the Chinese culture does not celebrate Christmas, but gives gifts at the Lunar New Year which happened Feb 14 this year."While I don't quite follow why an extra million sales is a "missing" million, he goes on to afollowup blogpostin which he quotes Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's chief financial officer, saying that Apple has had $1.3bn over two quarters from the iPhone.Ahonen thinks that equates to about 2.2m iPhones sold in those two quarters, but strongly skewing to the more recent quarter, because it's the Chinese new year - with perhaps 0.25m in the first, and around 2m in the second.Trouble is, that kills off his previous hypothesis. If China now settles into iPhone-buying, then you could expect that there will be a second-quarter lift to its numbers in the form of Chinese new year gifts. Obviously, they could have chosen to give Android phones, or Windows Mobile phones. And maybe they did - we don't see unified numbers there.In fact, we haven't seen any Windows Mobile (of whatever flavour) licensing/sales numbers for a long time. Can anyone point us to them? Anyone? Because Reuters issaysthat "Microsoft's mobile phone business is in the doldrums":"The company's market share of mobile subscribers has also taken a deep plunge. Market research firm comScore says that between October and January, Microsoft's share of the market fell from 19.7% to 15.7%. RIM, the maker of the BlackBerry, remained the leader, growing from 41.3% to 43%. Apple 's iPhone increased slightly, from 24.8% to 25.1%, and Google's Android grew by more than 250%, going from 2.8% to 7.1%."But it's worse that that:"By the end of 2010, Microsoft will be so far behind its competitors that it will likely never catch up. The issue isn't just market share and the perception that Windows phones aren't as worthy as the competition. It's also that Microsoft is losing the app war -- badly. With developer interest lagging and market share dropping, there will be far fewer great apps for Windows Phone than there are for its competitors. And it is apps that drive mobile phone purchases."Ian Fogg of Forrester meanwhile points to the slowing sales of iPods - down 1% year-on-year - and the growing sales of iPhones, andsuggeststhat the iPhone will surpass iPods next quarter. It's perfectly likely. But before that, we've got another analysis to come: this one will look at iPhone OS devices (which isn't just iPhones. Oh no) and their likely effect on the web. Which could be dramatic.
The Acer Aspire 5738DZG is the world's first 3D laptop, and it's better than I thought. It could get even better in the future, if lots of 3D content appears, but there's very little available at the moment.The system comes with a TriDef 3D Media Player so it will only play TriDef content, such as the 20 titles available fromYabazam. These include a Rio Carnival travelogue ($14.99), The Curse of Skull Rock ($9.99), a pirate cartoon, and Stereoscopic Skydiving ($2.99). It's not a stellar collection, though even the short samples that ship with the PC show that the system has lots of potential.You can also convert 2D footage to give a sort-of-3D effect, with variable results. If you're a 3D buff, you could download a different 3D player and perhaps even make your own movies. But ordinary consumers who want to play off-the-shelf Hollywood titles appear to be out of luck. If your dream is to watch 3D Pixar movies on the train, don't hold your breath.The Aspire 5738DZG uses a passive polarising system, so you have to wear special glasses. The system comes with one pair of glasses plus a clip-on version for spectacle wearers. The TriDef system shows two images at once, using alternate lines, which effectively halves the vertical resolution of the 1,366 x 768 pixel screen. This isn't a problem with movies, but could make it hard to read text in games.Another drawback is that the 3D effect works best with the screen at the correct angle and your head at the correct distance in front of the screen. There's a "framing shot" of a vase of red roses so you can set it up before watching something. However, it's not suitable for family viewing.In other respects, the Aspire 5738DZG is a solid machine with a decent keyboard, glossy 15.6 inch screen, and Dolby Home Theater sound. It has 2GHz Intel Core 2 Duo processor, 4GB of memory, a 450GB hard drive, DVD writer and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium. It is rated 4.1 on the Windows Experience Index, with the baseline score being for the Aero (2D) graphics. It scores 5.5 for the processor, 5.7 for memory and 5.9 for 3D graphics. It's a long way from being a games machine (the new 5740D version has a Core i5 processor and much better graphics), but it should be fine for everyday use.The 5738DZG also includes monitor and HDMI ports, a multiformat card slot, Ethernet, and four USB ports, two on each side. The useful extras include a button to turn off the multi-touch mousepad, and two small buttons to turn the volume up and down.The case is wide enough for Acer to include a numeric keypad, though I'd like to see this separated from the main keyboard layout. Like many similar systems, the mousepad is under the main keyboard, which means it's well off-centre – a bit too far left for my liking. But these are things you can probably get used to if you use the system all the time.If the Aspire 5738DZG offered compatibility with a wide range of popular 3D movies and games, it might be a bargain. (The suggested retail is £629.99: it goes for less.) But if you can't realise the value of the 3D capabilities, what you've actually got is a low-end entertainment notebook at too high a price.Pros:3D effects can be impressive; solid construction.Cons: Shortage of compatible 3D movies; DVD instead of Blu-ray drive; price.Acer.com
