Carpet burnOver the years there have been innumerable scares associated with playing videogames, from their deleterious effects on the fitness of the nation's youth, to allegations that playing violent games actually makes you kill people. Issued by Microsoft itself, this particular concern has more credibility, and involves the recall of power leads from all Xbox consoles made before October 2003. Faulty leads can occasionally    heat up enough to burn floors and people. Microsoft has said it will replace old leads free of charge and that gamers should check the bottoms of their consoles for the manufacture date as soon as possible to avoid potential carpet damage.Seewww.xbox.comfor further details.
Project Zero 2: Crimson Butterfly Director's CutXboxOriginally released on PlayStation 2, Project Zero 2: Crimson Butterfly is a survival horror game in which your only armament is the Camera Obscura, a device that kills apparitions as well as capturing the moment for posterity. Although a deeply peculiar mechanic, battles to exorcise ghosts through the claustrophobic viewfinder of your camera create a tension quite unlike that    of shotgunning zombies. Plenty of jumps, a chilling atmosphere magnified by 5.1 surround sound noises and the interplay of near silence and shrieking spectres make this a truly affecting experience. Bizarrely, you can unlock bikini costumes for the game's two female protagonists, but apart from this quirk it's all sinister creaks and nasty surprises.&#183;Microsoft, £40SpongeBob SquarePants: The MovieGamecube, PC, PS2, XBoxSpongeBob SquarePants: much loved cartoon favourite, subject of a recent feature film and now the star of his very own desultory videogame cash-in. As used to be traditional for film tie-ins, this is the exact variety of soullessly generic platform game that most hoped was already a long-distant memory. Unexplained collection tasks, punishingly arduous mini-games and stills from the movie rather than clips all fit perfectly with a game totally lacking in artistry or invention. There is some joy to be found during the interludes with Bob, Patrick and friends, who are all voiced by the original actors and provide a little child-friendly authenticity, but the rest of it is the gaming equivalent of cold gruel.&#183;THQ, £40
Occasionally you may have cause to wonder how small your experiences of other countries' rubbish would be without the internet. Would you ever, for example, have had the opportunity to go toreklamok.gergoke.huand sample 101 Hungarian adverts from the 1980s? Number 29 "h&#250;zi, rugi, boogie" is very diverting.If ads are your thing, here are some other places to loiter and fill your veins with ancient marketing -uktvadverts.comis good for finding out who does voiceovers,commercialbreaksandbeats.co.ukwill help you name that tune andabsolutelyandy.comis the place to go if you miss old classics for Tango or Boddingtons.The blogad-rag.comis good for advertising news and scandal, whilecommercialcloset.orgcharts the evolving view of gays and lesbians in mainstream advertising from Ikea's Van Den Puup to the Mach 3 man.
March will be busy for mmO2, according to the telecommunications team at CSFB, with a stock overhang, a new competitor and the first indication of earnings guidance for the coming year, all expected to affect the stock.Up to 3.5% of the company - some 300m shares - will be placed around the middle of next month by O2's corporate brokers as part of the company's move to weed out its small retail shareholder base.March will also see the launch of a rival mobile operator from Stelios Haji-Ioannou's Easy empire. He will be using the T-Mobile network for his no-frills, simcard-only service.Then towards the end of the month O2 will release its pre-closed trading statement, the first time it will guide the market on its expectations for 2005."An overhang and the launch of easyMobile suggest a choppy March ahead," said CSFB in a note on the stock.Despite the fact that some of the news may hit on the downside - mmO2 shares eased 1.5p to 123.5p - CSFB upped its target price by 5p to 135p.
It was the week that was. Here's what gamesblog's been talking about since MondayMondayToys vs videogames vs consumer electronics: why is no one happy anymore?GTA creator's future is massiveWOW - an addict speaksTuesdayState of Play: is there a role for the New Games Journalism?Second lawsuit hits EA for Quality of Life chargesWednesdayIs freedom fun?Extra cheese pleaseThursdayMurdoch + EIDOS living in a treeBecome an eighties programmer 20 years too lateShotgun MarioReviewsFridayFinal chance for Xbox JapanThe eighties are so yesterday: welcome to the seventies!
TuneTribe, a music download site that caters for unsigned bands and independent labels, is in talks that could see it move into the offline world of CDs and vinyl.The venture, backed by the dance act Groove Armada, is expected to sign a record distribution deal that will get its most popular unsigned acts into shops. John Strickland, TuneTribe's co-founder, said he hoped to have a deal by the summer but ruled out teaming up with a record label."If we signed up with a record label then TuneTribe would be associated with that label. We have always talked about the democratisation of music, so it would probably be a distribution deal," he said.TuneTribe was launched last month after completing a &#163;1m fundraising. Mr Strickland said more money would be coming into the business following talks with City investment houses. The latest fundraising was backed by Patrick Rainsford, an Irish technology entrepreneur."We have had a number of investors saying they would like to put money in it," said Mr Strickland.TuneTribe has already cut deals with the Libertines, Paul Oakenfold and Morrissey, and offers an 80% royalty to artists, a higher percentage than the rate offered by rival services such as Apple's iTunes. Its best-known unsigned act is 3 Miles From, which has signed over its download rights to TuneTribe in a one-year deal.Mr Strickland said he expected to have the distribution deal in place by August 13, when TuneTribe will hold an open-air festival featuring Groove Armada and its most downloaded unsigned artists.The site will be relaunched in April by Rob Wood, the former editor of Jockey Slut magazine and now website editor of TuneTribe.The new site, the main public outlet for a business that will not have a large marketing budget, will include news and online ticket sales.
Remember thatspoofing problemwhich was affected Firefox and other browsers?The Mozilla Foundation has released an update to sort it out, reportsCNet:"Regular security updates are essential for maintaining a safe browsing experience for our users," Chris Hofmann, director of engineering for the Mozilla Foundation, said in a statement.Phishing attacks, which try to fool consumers into handing over sensitive information by creating legitimate-looking Web sites and e-mail messages, have become a central security concern recently. While vulnerabilities in Microsoft's Internet Explorer have been the focus of much of the concern, other browsers also have had their fair share of flaws.The update is available for Windows, Mac OS X and Linux atMozilla.org.
So Warner Brothers Interactive Entertainment hasannouncedthat it is developing a videogame based around the Dirty Harry movie franchise, and Mr Eastwood has signed up to allow his likeness to be used in the game. No word on gameplay yet, but is this going to be another case where a well-known license is used to front a bare-faced GTA wannabe? (Scar Face, anyone?)Following EA's purchase of The Godfather rights, and Majesco's mystifying deal to bring Jaws to videogame consoles, it seems the seventies have replaced the eighties as the decade of choice for retro-themed projects. Right now, acquisition managers all over the industry are frenziedly thumbing through copies of the Time Out movie guide for the next big brand. So to save them some time, here are a few suggestions...French ConnectionThe obvious choice for any company looking to go straight up against Dirty Harry. Battle drug dealers, engage in thrilling car chases, take control of the most belligerent and troubled videogame character ever! GTA meets... DriverSaturday Night FeverEscape the grim realities of working class Brooklyn in this urban dance adventure. Eek out a depressing living during the week, then spend your cash on ridiculous seventies attire before hitting the dance floor for a series of rhythm action challenges! GTA meets... Dance, Dance RevolutionApocalypse NowHunt down fatty psycho Kurtz in this dark 'Nam based shooter. Mini games include 'surf the Mekong', 'Nepalm the village' and 'Sober up Dennis Hopper'! Complete the missions and unlock the fabled, but crap 'French Plantation' level. GTA meets... Conflict VietnamClockwork OrangeTerrorise a near-future city in this squad-based thug 'em up. Beat up indiscriminate social stereotypes then survive the invasive Ludovico brainwashing! GTA meets... ManhuntAnnie HallWander an accurately modeled Manhattan nostalgically reflecting on a wasted relationship while attending trendy seventies social gatherings. But watch that neurosis meter! One painful memory too far and you'll have to combat... agonising self-doubt! GTA meets... Tokimeki MemorialDeliveranceTake on the rapids - and the inbred locals - in this remote forest extreme sports adventure. Out twang the banjo-playing freak child, then canoe for your very life as the mountain men close in with their strange inappropriate desires. GTA meets... I have absolutely no idea.
The Xbox was a major flop in Japan but Microsoft have already started moving to ensure Xbox 2 - or whatever it is called - doesn't suffer the same fate.Hironobu Sakaguchi, best known as the creator of the Final Fantasy series, has signed up to develop role-playing games (RPG's) for the "next-generation" Xbox. RPG's are hugely popular in Japan where the likes ofDragon Questsell like +3 hot cakes. The genre has also increased in popularity elsewhere, with games like, you've guessed it, World of Warcraft showing that punters can't get enough of stats and questing. Whether Sakuguchi's pedigree can help the new Xbox in Japan remains to be seen though.
The European commission is starting an investigation into the pricing of Apple Computer's digital music service after consumers complained that downloading tracks was more expensive in the UK than other parts of Europe.Officials are investigating whether price differentials on iTunes between the UK and other countries such as France and Germany of up to 20% are unjust and amount to a breach of EU pricing regulations.The inquiry comes after Which? - formerly the Consumers' Association - wrote to the Office of Fair Trading last September, asking it to look into iTunes' pricing across Europe.In the UK, iTunes charges users around &euro;1.20 (83p) a track against 99 cents in France and Germany.The OFT later referred the case to the commission, which yesterday said it would begin an investigation."The case mainly concerns the fact that prices for the downloading of music tracks from the Apple UK website are, allegedly, substantially higher than the prices for the downloading of the same tracks from the other Apple websites - in particular the French and German websites," a commission statement said.Apple declined to comment, but in a response to the original Which? referral it said its pricing was based on "the underlying economic model in each country"."That's not unusual. Look at the price of CDs in the US versus the UK. We believe the real comparison to be made is with the price of other track downloads in the UK," Apple said.iTunes has become by far the dominant force in the online music industry since it launched in Europe last June.Globally it is estimated to have sold more than 350m tracks, the majority in the US.
This week'sreviewsare dominated by one game - World of Warcaft. Rhianna is as a big a fan as I am, calling it the, "best MMORPG experience". I'verantedabout it recently, and thoroughly recommend it. Elsewhere this week Steve Boxer was dismissive about the latest FIFA game, Uefa Champions League 2004-2005. Quite rightly he wondered why you would buy this when you can, "buy a copy of Pro Evolution Soccer 4, with its silky passing system and immaculate player movement". Finally I had a look at Mario power Tennis for the Gamecube, a decent enough tennis game that will appeal after the pub. Next week's reviews include Star Wars: Republic Commando.
Apologies if you've already seen this, but it has really entertained me today. Turn your sound up and playSuper Mario Rampage- it's Super Mario... with a shotgun! Nintendo purists may wish to look away now.Incidentally, my pathetic highscore is 2580.
Chalk another one up for the bloggers. Less than a month after claiming that American forces had deliberately targeted and killed journalists during the war in Iraq, CNN's chief news executive, Eason Jordan, resigned.A typical media story, except his comments were not reported by the mainstream media, but on a weblog, an online diary. The remark, made in an off-the-record briefing at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, was blanked by most news organisations, but picked up by webloggers and disseminated across the internet. Jordan soon resigned, saying he did not want the company to be "unfairly tarnished".Jordan's is not the first scalp claimed by these vociferous armchair pundits, and it is unlikely to be the last. Over the past year or two, it has become increasingly difficult for anyone watching the web to ignore the rise of blogs. Former Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith has even said they offer the British right the chance to challenge perceived left wing media bias. "The internet's automatic level playing field gives conservatives opportunities that mainstream media have often denied them," he wrote in the Guardian.Weblogs, usually a parade of the author's private peccadilloes, have been hailed as a phenomenon by a host of supporters. Many claim they are the web's coup de grace, the heart of a personal publishing revolution to rival desktop publishing or the appearance of the first printing presses.For all the hyperbole, the heart of the weblog movement has always been driven by amateurism - hobbyist pundits voicing their passions or wannabe writers giving us a window   into their world. There are now millions of bloggers creating a network of interesting voices. Despite the grassroots "free" ideology, the hype has expanded further ever since it became clear that some people were making money out of the medium.Top-ranking webloggers such as American law professor Glenn Reynolds (www.instapundit.com) and transatlantic journalist Andrew Sullivan (www.andrewsullivan.com) have managed to elicit money from readers eager to give their support. Sullivan, probably the most successful blogger on the block, raises thousands of dollars a time from his regular subscription drives. Both have used their popularity to hook well-paying work. Reynolds, formerly an unknown lawyer in Tennessee, has written regular columns for MSNBC and Guardian Unlimited, while Sullivan has seen his writing career pick up again."It's possible for an individual, skillful blogger to have income from a blog," says Adriana Cronin-Lukas, a consultant for fledgling firm the Big Blog Company (www.bigblogcompany.net), and a serious weblogging evangelist. "But ultimately it is the communications aspect of the blog that brings money in - by blogging about a company or expertise."Others have found fortune in different ways. The anonymous writer behind Belle de Jour, the notorious and disputed diary of a London call-girl, has made a mint from her salacious stories, recently publishing a book and subsequently signing a deal for a TV series on Channel 4.A handful of budding entrepreneurs have even taken the bait and tried to cross blogging with traditional publishing to fish for profit. Nick Denton, a former Financial   Times journalist and experienced dotcommer, is recognised as the king of commercial bloggers.Although he remains cagey about the cash his ever-expanding Gawker Media empire brings in, his stock is high and the company's business model is profitable. The high-profile sponsorship from consumer electronics giant Sony for his latest project,www.lifehacker.com, shows how weblogs are gaining legitimacy with the traditional business community.Thanks to these high-profile success stories, thousands of bloggers hold out hope of turning their hobby into a paying job. It has become their digital El Dorado. Even top-ranking blog pioneer Jason Kottke (www.kottke.org) has decided to ask his readers to pay for him to be able to concentrate on his site full-time.In fact, for all but a select few, this city of gold will always prove elusive.   Instead, it seems the real way to make money from weblogs is not from producing the final product, but in delivering services to bloggers eager to live the dream.Take Evan Williams, one of the founders of Blogger.com, the pioneering personal publishing firm whose easy-to-use software helped put weblogs on the map. Six years ago, he was starting up a small software firm with a handful of friends. In 2003, the company was bought by search giant Google in an undisclosed big-money deal. Last year, he decided to leave the Mountain View firm, safe in the knowledge he had trousered enough to give him ample time to decide on his next step.Williams is not the only one to profit from weblog services. When Mena Trott started programming a weblog publishing platform with her husband, Ben, four years ago, she had   no idea it would change their lives. Their initial success led the couple to form their own company, Six Apart, and they have continued to grow."It's been unbelievable," she says. Last year they drew $11m (&#163;5.8m) in funding from Japanese investors and the company's global workforce now stands at 80 people. "We're financially strong, and we're growing."In January, Six Apart completed the buyout of LiveJournal, a long-standing diary/weblog platform with a user base of more than 5m people. Now the company has three products aimed at three markets, and a good profile among a business community that is providing them with income."We've now got offices in the US, Japan and Europe," Trott says. "I'm on the same speaker bill as Bill Gates and Steve Jobs. It's been a very good ride."With an estimated    30,000 weblogs being created every day, it is easy to see the business potential. David Sifry is a serial entrepreneur with a long history of technology businesses including Sputnik and Linuxcare. He, too, is making a living from providing assistance to the world's webloggers, with a blog-focused search engine called Technorati (www.technorati.com).Technorati is fast becoming one of weblogging's most innovative applications, searching the web in real time to let bloggers track who is speaking about them. The team - and many users - see it as a vital part of the interconnecting ecosystem that forms the heart of what is termed "the blogosphere"."I was a blogger and I wanted to be able to track the conversations going on about me and the topics, companies and people that I care about," says Sifry. "I also quickly saw that by watching what people are blogging about, we could use those people as a massive collaborative filter, or attention lens, on the world's events."With a small workforce and funding from venture capitalists, Sifry is blunt when asked whether Technorati makes a profit ("No"). But he is quick to point out that successful search engines can make good money out of something as simple as on-screen advertising. "Look at Google," he says. "They aren't doing badly."Many experienced dotcom players have suggested Sifry's firm might be snapped up by a larger company. It is certainly common in a technology sector where consolidatory acquisitions by major players is the norm. And while Google's purchase of Blogger is probably the most significant buyout the sector has seen so far, it is   not the only one. Bloglines, a web-based application that helps blog readers keep up with lots of sites at a time, was sold this month to search engine Ask Jeeves in a deal that had analysts buzzing with speculation.So, could the likes of Six Apart be booking tickets for the gravy train? Mena Trott says no. She dismisses rumours that the company may be bought by Yahoo, taking time to point out the irony that it is Six Apart's products that have allowed takeover gossip to flourish so widely."We operate the business as a growing company. We're not building to sell," she says. "I'm very happy that we make tools that allow people to communicate. But sometimes I'd prefer some moderation."Just as there are only a few superstar webloggers who can turn their hobby into cashflow, so the market for weblog services is limited. Despite its buoyancy, the market would find it impossible to accommodate too many companies. But the thousands of dollars pulled in by top weblog writers pale in comparison to the sums generated by big players in blog services. The temptation to join the fray could be hard to resist. Could this be another dotcom goldrush like that which collapsed so dramatically five years ago?Cronin-Lukas points out what the bean counters want to hear: blog readers are desirable consumers. "A recent survey by US-based ad network Blogads revealed 61% of blog readers are over the age of 30, and more than 45% spend five to 10 hours reading blogs each week."With figures like that, it will be hard to persuade some eager beavers not to jump on the bandwagon.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
Whatever did we do before Google? Most of us used AltaVista, and some still do. AltaVista was the best search engine of the 1990s, though it had powerful rivals such as Excite, Lycos and HotBot.Today, the major players are Google (www.google.com) and Yahoo (www.yahoo.com), with Microsoft arriving late with MSN Search (search.msn.com), and trying to catch up. Google replaced AltaVista because it produced better results, especially for people with limited search skills. AltaVista could probably find just as many pages, but Google's page-rank algorithm pushed the best ones to the top of the list.Also, Google was dedicated to search. Many sites were trying to become "portals" to the web, offering a range of services but making their search boxes smaller and harder to find. Google put a big search box smack in the middle of a clean, fast-loading page - an idea now almost universally imitated.By the middle of last year, the English-language search market had been reduced to a battle between Google and Yahoo. According to qSearch, the ComScore Media Metrix usage-tracking system, Google provided 54% of search results (including AOL search) while Yahoo delivered 41%.Yahoo's importance may surprise people who think of it purely as a directory. However, Yahoo bought up many of the search engines bested by Google, and its portfolio includes Overture, All The Web and AltaVista.Until this month, Yahoo also provided search results for Microsoft's MSN Search, which had 14.5% of the market. Microsoft is not new to   search, of course, and enabled PC users to search the web either from its Internet Explorer browser or directly from Windows. But it didn't think it was important to have its own search technology, and was happy enough to buy in the service. That is no longer the case.Did Microsoft suddenly discover a passion for search? More likely, it noticed that Google had done something nobody else had managed: it had found a way to make a lot of money out of search. After page rank, Google's most important innovation was to replace the ad banners users hate with small, targeted text advertisements that are often useful.Yahoo and Google have shown that a couple of graduate students with a bright idea can still build a world-beating company from scratch. This has encouraged other start-ups.There is much room for innovation. For example, it is no longer enough to search web pages: people want searches that cover PDF and Flash files, office documents and databases, images, and sound and video files. While page rank has been a great advance, other technologies can still be applied, including automated collaborative filtering (sites visited by other people who searched for the same words) and artificial intelligence.Much more could be done to make the presentation of results more useful. Clustering is the most obvious: grouping results in different categories to match different meanings of a word. Showing thumbnails of sites and geospatial mapping could also help.Google is the best search site, but it is not the best at everything, and still has much to do. With rivals only a click away, something could replace it tomorrow.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
Back to frontThe site at BackingBlair.co.uk wants to do nothing of the sort. Employing what it describes as "Orwellian" tactics to call something by its opposite (in George Orwell's novel, 1984, the Ministry of Truth produces propaganda, the Ministry of Love practices torture), the website is an advocate of tactical voting - with the aim to either oust Tony Blair, or give him a hiding in the general election. It falls short of full-blown satire, despite offering an edgy, fake poster and sticker campaign that has been spotted on the streets of London. The site is backed by Tim Ireland of Bloggerheads fame, who has done more to introduce blogging to parliament than anyone else, as well as a number of left-leaning bloggers. But what will voters, presumably visiting the site under the false impression that it is a sanctioned call for unity by the Labour party, make of it when they get there?www.backingblair.co.ukwww.bloggerheads.comFollow suitThomas Mahon of Savile Row has added bespoke tailoring to the list of professionals who keep a regular blog. Mahon, who has made suits for Prince Charles and Bryan Ferry, offers a frank insight into the life of a top tailor. English Cut, launched last month, tells of his life in Cumbria, his twice-a-week commutes to London, and his frequent visits to New York on sales trips. He also pens a pithy who's who of the famous street, and offers tips on what to do if you can't afford the &#163;2,000 price tag of a bespoke suit. Surprisingly, for a street as steeped in tradition as Savile Row, most of its tailors now support websites. The site of Kilgour, for example, has an admirable history section that tells how the street blossomed out of Lord Burlington's kitchen garden in 1695 to become the home of the suit now worn around the world.www.englishcut.comwww.8savilerow.com/historysr04.htmlMoral mazePolitics of a different sort is explored in a new site by a group of Californian web developers. Moral politics is a morality-based political quiz that helps plot your political persuasion across two axes. It charts a similar territory to that of the Political Compass, which inspired the US Libertarian Party's The World's Smallest Political Quiz. The new site replaces "moral rules" with an authoritarian/libertarianism axis, and "moral order" supplants the "left/right" axis. The site, designed for US politics, thankfully also displays distribution charts for other countries, including the UK. Of 1,233 UK respondents, 34.39% prefer socialism, which reveals more about people who like sites such as this than the true make-up of British politics. The trouble with these sites is they are not scientific, and you have to either agree or disagree with the questions when often you can do neither honestly. Even so, they can offer accurate representations of people's beliefs.www.moral-politics.comwww.politicalcompass.orgwww.self-gov.org/quiz.htmlSave the gizmoThe Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), worried by the disappearance of rare gadgets and software, has just launched the Endangered Gizmo campaign. According to the San Francisco-based pressure group, the species most under threat are Morpheus file sharing software, FireWire drives and even CD burners. What threatens the gizmo? "Government-backed technology mandates, lawsuits, international treaties, and behind-the-scenes negotiations in seemingly obscure technology standards groups," says the EFF. "Suppose instead that Hollywood and the record companies hunted down, hobbled, or killed these innovative gizmos in infancy or adolescence, to ensure that they wouldn't grow up to threaten the status quo?"www.eff.org/endangered/Draw interestStrindberg &amp; Helium is a witty web cartoon that features August Strindberg and "a joyous, floating friend created to brighten his day". It is so popular that it tops anything by the Swedish writer on the all-important Google rankings.www.strindbergandhelium.comArt on the moveGrafik Dynamo is an artwork by Kate Armstrong and Michael Tippett that loads live images from blogs and online news sources into a live action comic strip. The site, inspired by the work of Ray Liechtenstein, is constantly refreshed with new material.http://turbulence.org/Works/dynamoSix of the best: Hunter S ThompsonGonzo journalismwww.gonzo.orgHis life in quoteshttp://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/ Hunter_S._ThompsonFear and Loathing in Las Vegaswww.imdb.com/title/tt0120669His last columnwww.masl.to/?U18C2388AHis old attorneywww.ralphsteadman.comHunter Unlimitedhttp://books.guardian.co.uk/authors/author/0,5917,96582,00.html&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
GoogleGoogle, founded in 1998 by two Stanford University graduate students, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, quickly became the web's leading search engine because it was easy to use and delivered high-quality results.Rather than relying on users to frame intelligent searches to find what they want, Google's page-rank system massages the results to push the best sites to the top. Quality is decided by the number of other good sites that link to the same content.Now Google also provides other options on its front page to search for images, news stories, Usenet postings (under Groups), shopping sites (under Froogle) and, in the US, for local companies. PC users can also install a toolbar that adds Google to their browser, and download desktop search software that enables Google to search their hard drive.There are further options, not on the front page, to search mail order catalogues, and computer-related topics (Apple Macintosh, BSD Unix, Linux, Microsoft), US universities and scholarly publications.Google is now expanding beyond search and also offers email (Gmail), a blogging service (Blogger), social   networking (Orkut), and photo album software (Picasa). Most are useful, but in general, are not integrated to work together.YahooYahoo started 11 years ago as a simple directory of websites compiled by two Stanford University graduate students, David Filo and Jerry Yang. It soon became the most prominent site on the web, and expanded rapidly into a portal.It now offers email, instant messaging, a groups system (not related to Usenet), auctions, games, online stores, photo albums, home pages on the web (through GeoCities), and too many other features to mention. Many of these have become increasingly hard to find. The hierarchical directory that used to make up the front page has disappeared, and been replaced by a Google-like search box.Yahoo's options are: Web, Images, Video, Directory, Local, News, and Products. Yahoo used to get its web search results from Google but it has taken over a number of search engines, including AltaVista, and now supplies its own.If you run a web search on Yahoo, the results look almost identical to Google, and many of the top sites are the same. Yahoo's advantage, as a portal, is that millions of users go there for reasons that have nothing to do with search, but if they need to look something up, they may as well   use Yahoo rather than go to Google.MSN SearchMSN, the Microsoft Network, was launched in 1995 as a rival to AOL. It added Hotmail, instant messaging, shopping and other services as it grew into a portal, and in July 2000, it became the leading web destination, with more than 200m visitors a month. Two years ago, Microsoft decided that MSN's search should be powered by Microsoft technology, and this was finally released in 21 countries in 10 languages on February 1.Microsoft's offerings are: Web, News, Images, Desktop, and Encarta. It also has a Near Me button for local searches. The results pages look like Google's but adverts are more prominent. As with Google and Yahoo, the toolbar and desktop search software must be downloaded separately.Unadjusted searches at MSN are rarely better than Google and sometimes much worse. Most of its usage is therefore most likely to come from people who are on the MSN site for other reasons, or are searching from Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser, where it is the default.MSN Search does have a drop-down tool, Search Builder, which includes sliders that let you adjust the settings for sites that are more popular or have been updated recently. However, these are so cumbersome to use, it seems few will bother.Golden oldiesAsk Jeeves (www.ask.com) is one of the biggest engines outside the top table, and claims to be most people's "second favourite engine". The original concept of using natural language ("where can I find bike shops in Glasgow?") still holds true, although it also caters for keyword searching. The hard work is done by the Teoma engine (www.teoma.com), which Jeeves acquired in 2000. Both give clean results, including image and related search options, and Jeeves also offers MyJeeves, which remembers your searches and lets you save important ones.Other long-standing search names are still going, though most have been bought out by larger rivals or exist in radically different forms. Pioneer AltaVista (www.altavista.com) was bought out by a series of small firms until it was hoovered up by Yahoo, and it now uses Yahoo results, though it still boasts one of the web's best translators, BabelFish (babelfish.altavista.com). Other engines including Inktomi have also been consumed by the Yahoo brand.One of the web's earliest search successes, Lycos (www.lycos.com), is still around, though it, too, has changed hands many times. It now works in tandem with Hotbot (www.hotbot.com), a metasearch site that pulls results from across several engines to produce aggregated - and theoretically better - results.Dogpile (www.dogpile.com) is probably the best-known metasearch engine, and draws results from Jeeves, Google, Yahoo and others. It pulls answers from these and removes duplicates, but sometimes misses some of the more idiosyncratic results. It also searches across images, audio, video and news. If you find the results aren't quite your cup of tea, you could turn to MetaCrawler (www.metacrawler.com), which is also owned by Dogpile's parent company, Infospace. Metacrawler was launched in 1994, so it has a long track record, and it produces filtered results from a familiar range of sources.ClusteringSeveral of the lower league search engines use a technique known as clustering to help users filter out the best results. This intelligently divides a morass of answers into categories, to help users weed out unwanted pages - particularly useful if you get thousands of results on your keywords.Clusty (www.clusty.com) is still in beta-testing mode, but combines Google-like search functions with clustering options. A search for "Guardian Online", for example, pro duced clusters including newspapers, politics, journalism, entertainment, books and angels. You can build categories based on either topic, source or URL, and the news and image searches seem fairly accurate, even if they sometimes return fewer results than you might need.Australian-based Mooter (www.mooter.com) has a more visual approach, presenting clusters as a spider diagram, and shows a more traditional list when you click on your chosen category - but by the time you get to the results, they seem much the same as other engines.Kartoowww.kartoo.com) takes the visual option further by drawing Flash "maps" of search results. While visually interesting, it can be cumbersome and seems to throw up a lot of commercial results.Regular and real timeOther sites have chosen different ways to change Google's search paradigm. Some have opted for more regular - or even real-time - searching, taking results from the web as they happen rather than relying on an irregularly updated library of results.Daypop (www.daypop.com) trawls news sites and weblogs at least once a day, producing good results, while Technorati.com (www.technorati.com) applies itself purely to weblogs but picks up new pages within minutes of them being published. The basic search is adequate, though it sometimes suffers from time outs. The recently launched "tags" function incorporates blog categories, social bookmarking site del.icio.us and photo-sharing service Flickr to create ad-hoc keyword homepages.Local searchesSome search firms focus on geographical niches, favouring local results to offer what could be more appropriate answers. Several target the British market, including UKWizz (www.ukwizz.com), which looks quite basic and struggles to compete with Google's local search (www.google.co.uk).Newsnow (www.newsnow.co.uk), a British-based news searcher, sifts through headlines on news stories and categorises them by age. It is very good for basic searches ("Beckham", for example) but you have to pay to search for multiword phrases or inside the full text of an article.Exalead, which is still in beta, (http://beta.exalead.com) is a well-designed attempt to provide as many search options as possible, including geographically   based ones. It also includes audio and video searching, limited clustering and the ability to search for different document types - all without cluttering the interface.Honourable mentionsBlinkx (www.blinkx.com) drops keyword search in favour of clever artifical intelligence to find what you're looking for. The interface is clunky, but it draws results from the web, your desktop and other sources.Icerocket (< a href="http://www.icerocket.com">www.icerocket.com) is quite similar to the big engines, but provides a screenshot of the page the result comes from, and searches both blogs and photographs within blogs - though that seems limited.Singing Fish (www.singingfish.com) focuses on audio and video search. It is not perfect and is unlikely to give you huge numbers of results (just 10 for "Eminem Mosh", for example) but it is customisable and has a parental filter.Websbiggest (www.websbiggest.com) ranks pages by the amount of traffic they get, while Looksmart (www.looksmart.com), a survivor of the early days, focuses on being a portal, offering little to the search melee.Amazon-owned A9 (www.a9.com) organises and recalls searches easily (handy if you can't remember how you found that website last Saturday), but the basic results are provided by Google. It links up with Amazon.com and the Internet Movie Database, making it useful for searching across books and movies.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
It looks like the government is taking the threat to seriously. I'll letReuterstake up the baton:Britain launched a Web site on Thursday aimed at helping computer users avoid damage from Internet viruses and other online threats.The government-funded IT Security Awareness for Everyone site (www.itsafe.gov.uk) will give free advice on data protection and issue virus alerts to those who sign up."There is a clear need for easy-to-understand and simple, independent advice for non-technically minded people who use computers," Home Office Minister Hazel Blears said in a statement.So it's basically a government-funded virus alert service. Is this a sign that they realise the importance of the network?
You wake up in the middle of the night with a metaphorical light bulb glowing above your head. You spend the whole of the next week daydreaming about how you could turn that idea into a great business that will be fulfilling and very profitable. For most people, the light bulb pops and the idea remains just that. But for the select band of individuals known as entrepreneurs, the idea is just the beginning.If you are set on making something more concrete out of a foggy notion, the first thing you will have to think about is, inevitably, money. The need to raise what seems like a large sum of cash is the most challenging problem faced by start-ups. The fact that so many proto-Bransons are willing to risk trial by TV on the likes of the BBC's Dragons' Den - where hopeful entrepreneurs bid to impress a panel of skeptical millionaires looking to invest their money - neatly illustrates the lengths many will go to achieve success.The key aspects to consider when sourcing finance are: how quickly you need cash; how much risk you are willing to take to get it; and how much (if anything) of your company you are prepared to part with. If you are considering approaching friends and family as investors, take a moment to imagine how they will react if the business fails. More orthodox sources of funds include banks, business angels and venture capital trusts, cash incubators, factors and grant-giving bodies.Business angels are usually successful business people who enjoy investing in new ventures and who are willing to part with small lump sums if an idea impresses them. Typically, an angel would put up between &#163;10,000 and &#163;50,000 in return for a stake in your company (20% is usual). This kind of finance is speedy, as there are no formalities to go through, and angels often go with hunches. Venture capital funding works along the same lines, but you will need to provide potential investors with far more detailed information, especially if you are dealing with a Venture Capital Trust, which is listed on the stock market and invests other people's money.Business incubators, once associated with the dotcom boom, are often run by academic institutions and business schools. As well as providing funding, they can offer mentoring and consultancy in return for a stake in your company of about 10-50%.Factoring and invoice financing, also known as "risk finance", are popular sources of instant cash for young companies. In the UK, over &#163;100bn is managed by factoring and invoice discounting companies. A factor (most large banks have factoring houses) pays you up to 80% of an outstanding invoice. It then chases the customer for the payment it owes you and forwards the remaining money owed, less its fee (usually 2%). With invoice finance, businesses send their invoices directly to the bank, which pays them immediately, effectively subbing the company (again for a small fee). Invoice financing and factoring offer an immediate cash flow boost, as well as flexibility in terms of how much is borrowed and when.Then there is the Small Firms Loan Guarantee (SFLG), applied for through banks. This scheme aims to encourage new businesses that have good ideas but lack the security necessary to get a conventional loan. The Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) guarantees your bank loan and in return you pay it a premium of 2% a year on the outstanding amount of the loan.Banks remain the most popular source of external finance for small businesses, but it is important not to put all your eggs in one basket, according to Stephen Pegge, head of communications for business banking at Lloyds TSB.He says: "When businesses start up there are so many things to think of that it is tempting to just take the easiest finance. But young businesses are unpredictable, so it makes life easier if they plan their borrowing strategy."A lot of start-ups already have money, such as remortgage cash for the long-term and credit cards in the short-term. We encourage them to make sure they have the right mixture of finance. Factoring can be useful, as can equity finance in the form of a business angel. A good &#91;bank&#93; business relationship manager should encourage the client to think about structured finance with regular repayment dates and flexible sources of cash."Pegge says that once you're up and running you should review your cash structure every six months and make changes where appropriate.If you go to the bank looking for money, what will it expect of you? Pegge says: "There are three things we consider. Firstly, the person. Do they have the right experience to run the business? Secondly, is the business viable, how is it set up, how is it placed to cope with risk? Thirdly, we look at the individual proposition and assess how it should be structured financially."Flexibility is the cornerstone of Owner Driver Network (ODN) - not only in the way it is financed, but also how it is structured. ODN, which was set up in 2001 and is based in Waltham Abbey, Essex, is used by companies who need to outsource transport, storage and delivery operations.The company doesn't own any lorries and has low overheads. Instead, it acts as an umbrella business for a pool of 2,500 owner-drivers whom it hires to carry out contracts for clients. ODN employs just 12 people full-time and even has a "virtual board" of outsourced IT, finance and marketing expertise. This network structure saved the company from disaster, says managing director Terry King."Less than six months into starting the business, one of our major clients went bust, owing us &#163;80,000. Nine times out of 10 a business of the size we were then would have gone under - the amount owed was 60-70% of our turnover. If we had employed drivers and had our own vans we would have had overheads that still had to be serviced. In our case, we were able to slash our overhead base to fit our needs."ODN has doubled its business each year to annual sales in 2004 in excess of &#163;5m and expects to reach &#163;10m within a year or two. The business is currently funded by a mixture of a &#163;250,000 loan guaranteed by the DTI and invoice finance."Raising finance is a bit of a dark art," says King. "But funding rapid growth like ours is relatively simple, because the factoring houses run by banks aren't really interested in your track record. All they are interested in is the quality of the debt, because they are advancing you money on the basis that your invoices are going to be paid."Rachel Lowe's thirst to make her board game invention a success took her down the road less travelled by those in search of business finance. Keen to get her Monopoly-style game Destination London up and running, she presented her business case on Dragons' Den in front of 1.5 million viewers. The Portsmouth-based mother-of-two, who is completing the final year of a law degree, addressed the panel in the hope of raising &#163;75,000 for a 30% share in the company. They were vocally unimpressed and Lowe, 27, later described the programme as "a very traumatic experience". However, her game now sells well in Hamleys and has been trademarked across the world.Finding money to get the idea into the shops was difficult in the initial stages. Lowe says: "I won a &#163;1,000 Enterprise Challenge award and used the money to build a prototype game. Then I won a further &#163;2,000 and spent six months researching the market, before I submitted a business plan to HSBC in the hope of getting money through the Small Firms Guaranteed Loan Scheme."HSBC refused because they wanted to see enough purchase orders, so I got the attractions featured on the board game to pay for product placement. The money I got from their sponsorship helped to produce the first games."With a physical product to sell, Lowe found funding easier to secure. She received &#163;10,000 from South Coast Money Line, then a business incubator at the University of Portsmouth gave RTL a package of support worth &#163;25,000 in cash and services in exchange for 5% of the equity.The launch of Destination London was a success and RTL Games is now in a much stronger position with a good sales record, a distribution deal in place and big orders from direct client accounts. The key piece of advice Lowe has for new companies is "don't jump the gun".She says: "Don't be too desperate to take investment. Before you start selling you are in a very vulnerable position. Banks will not be forthcoming with funding as you are too much of a risk and investors will try and take as much of your company as they can for as little money as possible. Once your product is in the market place and doing well, you are in a much stronger position. Trust your instincts - if something doesn't feel right, don't do it."&#183;WeblinksBritish Business Angels Association (BBAA):www.bbaa.org.ukDTI:www.dti.gov.uk
Online alumnus Neil McIntosh has written a post on our sister Newsblog askingwhy Apple is lowering the price of its iPods when the gadgets are flying off the shelves:The simple answer is that Apple's ramming home its advantage while it can. It still makes good money from iPods, even with the prices cut, and it is reaping the benefits of volume production. And, for the medium term, the company is building a sturdy monopoly in digital music.Worth a read.
It's an incredibly sparse news day (apart from that Eidos story, of course), but one press release has caught my eye. Software manual publisher, Course Technology, is set to launch a book entitled, 'Retro Game Programming: Unleashed for the Masses', which promises to teach the reader, "everything that they need to build exiting (sic) video games on vintage 8-bit machines". The book covers four ancient platforms - the Commodore 64, Apple II, Atari 400/800 and the TRS-80. Author Earl Carey says of his opus:"My goal is to introduce the fundamentals of the Zen of programming using vintage computer systems. There are already a lot of hardcore hackers out there but there are a lot more people who's only knowledge of assembly language programming is that it is hard and they cannot do it."Is this really the case? Are today's molly-coddled programmers relying too heavily on APIs, off-the-shelf 3D engines and libraries supplied by console manufacturers? Certainly, I've heard that PSP developers are highly restricted in terms of how they interact with the hardware and what elements they can and can't have access to (the second CPU - or media unit - is strictly out of bounds to naughty coders who want to access a bit more processing clout).Most of the greatest advances in game design were achieved by brilliant coders who learned their trade writing directly to the CPU of eighties home computers. Are those maverick days well and truly behind us?On a similar retro-tinged note, I've just been sent a Java version of Grid Runner++, the recently updated version of the classic Jeff Minter C64 shooter. It's demo code and running quite slowly at the moment, but it looks lovely, with a great mix of modern effects and the original gameplay. Apparently, there's little hope of an Attack of the Mutant Camels conversion, though, as no source code is available. Jeff would have to write it himself, and he's busy on a top secret project which - shock, horror - isn't anything to do with Tempest.I've forgotten what I was originally talking about now.
Gosh, it's Thursday already. This week has gone swiftly, but we can't let it slide away without letting you know what's in this week'sOnline print supplementin the Guardian.The cover story is onmaking money from weblogs- and whether it's genuinely possible or just fool's gold. Sticking with the blogging theme, Graham Holliday takes a look at the globetrotting phenomenon offood bloggers.Following MSN's entry into the search market a few weeks ago, we've taken some time to look at the huge number of engines out there,picking out 25 for closer examination, while Jack looks at the widermoves being made.We've got a report from theRSA Security Conferencein San Francisco, and we talk toMike Lazaridis, the founder of BlackBerry maker Research in Motion.In comment, Dave Birch examines what he thinks is Britain's version of PayPal - the humblepostal order, Michael Cross says thatpolitical policy changes are bad news for ITand Jack takes a look atSun.Of course, that's not all. To see the complete list of news, reviews and featuresclick here.
Insider sources atEIDOS, one of the four remaining UK publishers and godfather of Lara Croft and the Hitman series, have leaked togamesindustry.bizthat a deal between it and Rupert Murdoch's News Corp is imminent.Murdoch has reportedly beentryingto get into the games business for some time, and the acquisition of some pretty hefty interactive intellectual property should secure its toe-hold in the market.
Time will tellAfter many years of texting, my friends and I are aware of how long a text may take to arrive (Alert to fraud, February 17). My worst case was 24 hours. Most people assume they are instantaneous, but if the banks expect me to stand at a cashpoint in the freezing cold waiting for confirmation to withdraw cash, the system is going to crash.Max CarsonCavershamIn the blackThe NatWest Black Mastercard has had this facility for more than a year already. I have one, and it works well. Mind you, it costs &#163;250 a year for a Black card - it would probably be cheaper to allow the odd fraudulent transaction.Chris ParkinsLondonSpare a thoughtNo one has pointed out that Apple keyboards have a spare USB port which the iPod Shuffle should plug into (Feedback, passim). The reader with the eMac should have had no problem.John HawkinsOn the mapThanks for flagging Google's first maps (they'll be good when they do UK) and various others. My favourite iswww.streetmap.co.uk.Large clear streetmaps for any address or postcode, then if you click one bar along the reducing scale, you get a 3km square raster extract from the Ordnance Survey 1:50 000 Landranger series. Ordnance Survey's Get-a-Map service (www.ordnancesurvey.co.uk/oswebsite/getamap/) is also good, but the maps are smaller.Peter HewittManchesterCall to accountUsing VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) PC-to-PC is not "free" as you suggest. I have to pay for the use of my phone line, which connects me to the net. If I am on broadband, I similarly have to pay. In any event, my computer set-up costs money, as does the software, and the regular upgrades I am supposed to make.Ron PressBristolBlogback - what the web is saying about OnlineThe UK holds the top spot for pirating  TV shows, followed by Australia and  then the US (Second Sight, February  17). I must say I'm surprised at the figures  for the US being so under average.http://www.livejournal.com/users/ngenesisJoe Gordon, an employee fired by Waterstones  for occasionally mentioning  bad work days on his blog (Second  Sight, February 10), has been hired by  Forbidden Planet to deal with the  comic book chain's online business.  As part of his new job, he'll maintain a  weblog to update customers on company  business.http://www.thoughtballoons.blogspot.comI've been pleased to see that World of  Warcraft's release across the pond  has been met with enthusiasm (One  for the record books, February 17), even if Blizzard did manage to screw  up another major release. World of  Warcraft keeps getting more interesting.  Although it was almost effortlessly  easy to learn the basics, there's a level  of scale and depth beneath the surface  that I constantly feel I'm just beginning  to appreciate.rendergaming.blogspot.comRupert Murdoch, famously sceptical  about "new" media, has gathered his  top management to work out a new  strategy for the internet (Onlineblog,  February 16). He can smell the money  shifting and clearly wants a slice of  the new pie.www.mobile-weblog.comRemoval of digital rights is a much  more critical issue for Napster than for  iTunes (Onlineblog, February 20). If  Napster DRM is easily removed, their  music rental model is completely nulli-fied. I could join for one month and  download 24 hours a day, getting  thousands of tracks for only $15.  That has to worry the record  company executives.Philblogs.guardian.co.uk/onlineThirty out of 14.1m Xbox power  cables are defective, so they're  replacing them all (Xbox fault found,  February 18)? Microsoft simply has  too much money to pay for this kind  of stupidity.Dazblogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesSay it costs Microsoft £4m - it  saves them being sued over a burnt  down house. They are just covering  their backs for a potentially large  lawsuit.Don Carlosblogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
Foodies are ditching Delia, turning off TV chefs and blogging their own shows. The food blog brigade's typical serving comes with a dash of passion, a dollop of honesty and half a pound of humour.Is My Blog Burning? (IMBB?) is a monthly event where food bloggers from around the world cook a dish using a specified ingredient or style on a designated day. About 50 bloggers post at each event Some are food professionals, but most are amateurs.Alberto, a trained sommelier who publishes the Il Forno baking blog from Germany, came up with the idea. "I noticed that often a post on one blog would inspire a few others to try or modify the same recipe and discuss it. I thought it might be interesting to put those people together." He posted his suggestion at Il Forno in January last year. The response was ravenous. The event is now in its 12th edition and has a full schedule for the year.Individual bloggers act as hosts and a dedicated website coordinates each event. Past IMBB? days have included fish, rice, terrine and barbecue dishes. The idea has spawned other popular events: "Wine Blogging Wednesday", "Sugar High Fridays" and a food photo competition called "Does my blog look good in this?" The events are rounded up as a list of hyperlinks at the host's blog with added commentary."I find it fascinating to see how each of us culturally interprets a single ingredient or cooking technique," says Kate Hopkins, of The Accidental Hedonist blog in Seattle. However, some bloggers have trouble finding time for the plethora of events. There are tentative plans to introduce a PDF version of each event.Food blogs don't appear to be a flash in the cyberpan. Foodpornwatch, a food blog tracking site, monitors 206 blogs and gets up to five requests a day for new blogs to be added. Blogads, the blog advertising company, has 28 food and drink blogs on its books with a combined monthly traffic of almost 1m readers.   Paris-based Chocolate &amp; Zucchini gets 100,000 site hits and 7,000 readers each day.Jay Rayner, the Observer's food critic, is a member of several online food forums, but reads just one food blog, Chez Pim - "She's very funny, has exquisite taste and she's a friend of mine" - and he doesn't see food bloggers as a threat to professional food writers. "I am writing in a different way, specifically to attract as broad an audience as possible," he explains. "The bloggers can offer up the quirky and the individual; we have to add value, by offering authority and consistency."Kate Hopkins was miffed that the 2005 Blog Oscars - The Bloggies - hadn't considered a best food blog category in the nominations stage, so created her own food blog awards. Nearly 8,000 votes were cast. Soon after, a food blog category appeared at the Bloggies. "I like to think they discovered the quality of writing and decided these food bloggers needed to be lauded," says Hopkins.Others are taking matters further. Taste Everything is a collaborative food award site that launched on Tuesday. It aims to "give credit to people and organisations creating exceptional food". A blog jury made up of 30 of the most popular food bloggers each has one award to define and give. "There's so much to celebrate about the growing independent food voice on the net," says Taste Everything organiser Hillel Cooperman. "This year, we have approximately 25 awards."Most food bloggers are in it for fun. For others, the combination of passion and free or inexpensive blog publishing tools bring unexpected benefits. "I'm starting to get offers to write for magazines and newspapers," says wannabe food writer Clotilde Dusoulier, of Chocolate &amp; Zucchini. "All these opportunities stem from my blog." She has an agent in New York and a potential book deal. She's not alone. Heidi Swanson, who blogs at 101 Cookbooks, published a vegetarian book in October. Many others are eager for a slice of the action. Jay Rayner watch out.Linkswww.ismyblogburning.comhttp://ilforno.typepad.comwww.accidentalhedonist.comhttp://chocolateandzucchini.comhttp://foodpornwatch.arrr.nethttp://chezpim.typepad.comwww.tasteeverything.orgwww.101cookbooks.comhttp://blogs.salon.com/0001399/www.2005.bloggies.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
The European commission is starting an investigation into the pricing of Apple Computer's iTunes digital music service, after consumers complained that downloading tracks was more expensive in the UK than other parts of Europe.Officials are investigating whether price differentials between the UK and France and Germany of up to 20% are unjust and amount to a breach of EU pricing regulations.The inquiry comes after Which? - formerly the Consumers Association - wrote to the Office of Fair Trading last September, asking it to look into iTunes' pan-European pricing.In the UK iTunes charges users around 120 euro cents per track against the 99 cents it charges French and German users.The OFT later referred the case to the EC, which today said it would begin an investigation."The case mainly concerns the fact that prices for the downloading of music tracks from the Apple UK website are, allegedly, substantially higher than the prices for the downloading of the same tracks from the other Apple websites - in particular the French and German websites," an EC statement said.However, the investigation is also looking into complaints that UK iTunes users are being prevented from accessing cheaper tracks via other European websites.Music fans in France and Germany must have a bona fide national address and a credit card or other payment method registered in the country to access the iTunes sites."The case is also aimed at verifying whether it is true that UK consumers are prevented from downloading the same tracks through the foreign websites and, if so, whether such territorial differentiation is compatible with EU law," the EC added.Apple declined to comment, but in a response to the original Which? referral said its pricing was based on "the underlying economic model in each country"."That's not unusual. Look at the price of CDs in the US versus the UK. We believe the real comparison to be made is with the price of other track downloads in the UK," Apple said.Apple's iTunes has become by far the dominant force in the online music industry since it launched in Europe last June.Globally it is estimated to have sold over 350m tracks to date, the majority in the US.Analysts at US securities firm Piper Jaffray predicts iTunes to reach 513m downloads by the end of this year and break through the 1bn barrier in 2006.But in addition to the EC investigation, Apple faces a number of legal actions, most based on allegations of monopolistic practices.Earlier this year Californian Thomas Slattery filed a lawsuit seeking unspecified damages against the company for making iTunes' 1m-plus tracks   available only to iPod users.Mr Slattery claims he was "forced" to buy an iPod in order to take his music collection, which is first downloaded onto a computer, with him in a portable format. This, he claims, is a breach of US antitrust laws.Earlier this month a French group sued both Apple and Sony, alleging that both companies' music services were anti-competitive because they only work with the companies' own music players.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Online bank Egg yesterday reported ballooning losses at its now-defunct French offshoot and a sharp increase in the amount set aside to cover bad debts in Britain.The bank's shares dipped on the news and appeared to drag down its majority owner Prudential with them.The bad debt worries overshadowed news of a small rise in profits at Egg's core British business, which has more than 3 million customers, most of them Egg credit card holders.Egg admitted it had been distracted by the failure of its plans to crack the market in France and by months of takeover talks that came to nothing.It is now concentrating its attention on Britain, where it wants to launch new products. The bank could link up with other companies to offer current accounts and a wider range of mortgages.Egg, which is 79% owned by Prudential, said group pre-tax losses for the 12 months to December 31 had trebled to almost &#163;107m.This was almost entirely due to its operation in France, where losses hit &#163;148m, compared to &#163;89m last time.Launched in late 2002, the French business encountered a number of problems, including the length of time required to take out a credit card in France.There was also bad publicity from its decision to close some dormant accounts after it took over another bank, and it offended some with a controversial advertising campaign. Prudential ordered Egg to close the business last summer.The last few French accounts were shut down last week and all that is left to do is some "tidying up," said Egg chief executive Paul Gratton.Asked if he wished the company had never ventured across the Channel, he said: "Hindsight is a wonderful thing. With the benefit of hindsight, yes."The bank also reported a 48% rise in bad debt provisions, up to &#163;203m from &#163;137m at the end of 2003.Some analysts suggested this was the result of having expanded too rapidly into personal loans. During the last three months of 2004 it notched up record sales of personal loans, mainly to its own credit card holders.The firm said it would tighten up its lending criteria, which would reduce the numbers of personal loans sold.Mr Gratton said it was keeping a tight rein on costs and that credit quality remained good, adding that it was predominantly selling the loans to people who had held Egg's credit cards for a period of time, whose credit histories it knew.The increased provisions reflected "the stage in the life cycle of the card and loan books, and the increasing proportion of personal loans in the book".Egg generated operating profits of &#163;74m at its British business, compared with &#163;73m the previous year. It said the strong second half had continued into January, when it opened 75,000 new credit card accounts, a new monthly record for the bank.As part of its efforts to concentrate on its successful core businesses, Egg recently sold its investment arm, Egg Invest, to fund management group Fidelity "at a small loss".Last year, Prudential failed to sell its stake in Egg, despite receiving expressions of interest from a number of companies. In recent weeks its shares have risen sharply on talk that a buyer may at last have emerged.Egg shares ended yesterday down 1.5% at 113.25p. At one point they were down 9%. Shares in Prudential were down almost 1.7%.
In the 1980s, the computer industry turned sideways. Twenty years later, that's become Sun Microsystems' turnaround strategy - it's now focusing on horizontal instead of vertical integration.In the early days, most companies were vertically integrated - they designed and developed almost all their own hardware and software, including chips, operating systems, applications and networking.After the PC revolution, the industry was organised horizontally. Companies competed to supply products such as chips, operating systems, applications etc, which were available across multiple brands and different architectures. For example, instead of half-a-dozen different platforms with different database programs (DEC's Rdb, IBM's DB2 etc), you could get   Oracle running on all of them.Almost all the vertically-integrated companies either went bust or changed their business model. Sun is one of the few that survived. It still designs its own Sparc processors, and maintains its own (Unix-based) Solaris operating system and other software, at least up to the application layer. Sun's former chief executive Scott McNealy called it "putting all the wood behind one arrow".Now, under new CEO Jonathan Schwartz and his head of software, John Loiacono, the company is taking a more horizontal approach.The strategy involves Sun supporting Intel x86-compatible and 64 bit AMD processors to the same level as it supports Sparc - "same day, same feature set," says Loiacono - up to and beyond 4-way systems. And if buyers don't want   Solaris on Sparc or x86, Sun will ship either Red Hat or SuSE Linux on x86 as well.The days when the x86 version of Solaris was neglected and almost abandoned are gone.The next layer up is Sun's Java Enterprise System software. The aim is to make all the modules available on both Solaris and Linux on the same day - and, going forward, on HP's HP/UX Unix and Microsoft Windows. The attempt to extend JES well beyond the reach of Sun's hardware or operating system is clearly a horizontal play.Loiacono admits he will favour systems where Sun owns intellectual property - the old vertical stack, including Sparc, Solaris and JES. But Sun's revenues from that business have been declining, and Sun needs to grow the x86/Linux and cross-platform JES businesses.In fact, only by growing these businesses will Sun get away from the perception that it is still just an old-fashioned, vertically-integrated company."I'm not fully horizontal and I'm not fully vertical, I'm somewhere in between," Loiacono says.Whether this will work or not is anybody's guess. Horizontal markets are tough, and it is hard to see Sun competing with Dell as a supplier of Intel-compatible hardware running Linux.But whether Sun succeeds or fails, it is an effort its customers can applaud.The main appeal of horizontal markets is that they make it easier to switch suppliers. As with Novell's move to support Linux, even if Sun doesn't pull in enough new users, it should provide the old ones with a better exit strategy.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.LinksOnly the Paranoid Survive by Andrew Grove
Imagine you are building an aircraft carrier for the navy. After years of work, the great ship is almost complete. You are just choosing a champagne vintage to send it down the slipway, when the admiralty calls: "Sorry, old thing, but there's been a specification change. The minister wants it to be capable of operating under water. Won't affect the launch schedule, will it?"Fantastic, of course. But government IT chiefs put up with this sort of thing all the time. Impatient ministers and nervous civil servants assume that a system based on  software is inherently flexible, capable of adaptation to any new policy that comes along.Computer suppliers collude, with their gung-ho language - "missions impossible accomplished" - and by assuming they   will make money on spec changes.As a result, systems accumulate more functions than a seaside resort in party conference season. Projects starting out as greyhounds mutate into overloaded pack camels.Over and over again, government IT schemes go wrong because time that should have been spent testing the software was needed to make last-minute modifications driven by policy changes. The tax credits fiasco was a classic example; another was the decision to change the rules for child passports midway through computerisation.One greyhound that is now doing everything short of pulling a milk float is the NHS national programme for IT. Despite its best efforts to avoid mission creep, the programme has had to take on new   responsibilities that were simply not on the menu when it was conceived three years ago.One example is a program called the quality management and analysis system (QMAS). The government needed it in a hurry to support a new deal with GPs, under which doctors get paid more if their patients' health improves. It is the sort of bright idea usually foisted on public agencies with little thought to the technology needed to make it work in time for the (inflexible) deadline.Amazingly, QMAS seems to be breaking this rule. The NHS says the software was delivered on time and on budget, and has been adopted by large numbers of GPs, who, of course, have a good incentive to use it.NHS IT chiefs are miffed at getting little media credit for the   achievement. Well, they are getting some now.But there is another side to the story. Any IT programme, even one funded with &#163;6bn of taxpayer's money, can draw on only a finite resource of skills and expertise. There is evidence that the NHS is already struggling to find people with the right abilities to implement its mega IT programme. Staid journals are bulging with recruitment ads, and tales abound of IT companies sending out technical staff with little knowledge of how the NHS works.Meanwhile, concern is mounting over delays in some of the programme's core components, notably the "spine" of the new care records service. Nothing disastrous, yet, but ministers would do well not to add to the workload, however tempted they may be.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
Many councils across the country are struggling to get small and medium sized businesses to understand that they could be severely affected by the introduction of electronic services by the end of this year.Local authorities have been instructed by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (ODPM) to make their purchasing more efficient by introducing e-procurement systems which means their suppliers will have to dispense with traditional trading methods and be able to accept and process orders over the web. However, with the deadline fast approaching, there are reports of large swathes of SMEs across the country who appear to be burying their heads in the sand as they are showing no signs of complying with the councils' electronic trading requirements. The possible consequences are that the offending SMEs could end up losing business to larger companies who have invested in the necessary electronic trading systems.In order to wake SMEs up to the risks of the status quo, a number of councils such as the London Borough of Newham are launching "kickstart" initiatives which are committed to making the transition easier for SMEs."Most SMEs don't understand what e-procurement means," says Graham Pilkington, project manager for Newham Kickstart. "If they are not geared up for it, it's going to be like not having a telephone. SMEs are terrible strategists. They are too close to what they are doing. They should be proactive. They should put pressure on their local authorities and say we are here and we are a vital part of the local economy."In order to make it easier and cost-effective for SMEs to trade electronically with the London Borough of Newham, there are plans to launch a dedicated East London Online portal which will be linked to the council's buying systems. Members of the council's kickstart initiative are now trying to persuade SMEs to sign up. So far about 30 have come forward.Andrew Pratt, managing director of Frank R Pratt, an east London-based timber merchant, has decided to participate in the initiative. "I think it's an opportunity which we have to grasp and make as much of as we can," he says. "The council is trying to get as many of the local businesses on board as it can. It's going to be a fairly steep learning curve for all of us. It cements our relationship with Newham council and shows we're forward-thinking and we don't want to be left behind."The response they have had so far has been fairly limited because people are fairly scared about what it entails. But without it, you could be left behind. You could end up not trading with large established customers."Through the east London portal, SMEs get their own e-commerce websites. Under the scheme, companies can pay about £240 a year and get 2000 products listed for selling. They can also use electronic invoicing functions which integrate with Newham council's back office systems. "We have to be careful we don't exclude local companies. You could end up with a situation where large contracted companies are the only ones who can afford to carry out the work," says Chris Hoar, commercial director of @UKplc, the company which is building and running the portal. "The councils want to make sure the local community does not suffer. They want the local businesses to get a slice of the cake," he says.Other councils across the country, such as Bristol City Council, have also launched a similar kickstart initiative and discussions are reported to be under way to extend the scheme to councils in the north of the country. "When we did our supplier analysis we found that 80% of our business is done with SMEs. Our concern was that we did not exclude smaller businesses from trading online with us," explains Russell Darling, account services manager for Bristol City Council. Chambers of Commerce and Business Link, as well as Bristol University and other public sector educational bodies, are supporting the initiative across the south-west region. So far, about 200 SMEs have been signed up to a dedicated Bristol ebusiness portal. There are thousands who have still failed to participate but Darling is confident that momentum is building and believes more SMEs will join in the near future. He stresses that the main appeal of 
joining the Kickstart portal is suppliers will get paid faster by public sector bodies in the region. "The information passes through the trading portal straight into our back office systems."Council officers who are backing kickstart initiatives argue that SMEs have the chance to develop new markets for their products and services. If they join the online portal in their region not only can they trade with councils and other public sector bodies but they can also trade amongst themselves.Colin Whitehouse, chair of the local government national e-Procurement project, admits that some councils have been more proactive than others when it comes to making electronic trading accessible to SMEs. He points out that every council should have a "selling to the council guide" on its website.In the run-up to the government's end of year deadline for the introduction of e-services, Whitehouse strongly believes that SMEs should now take up the available opportunities to improve their business processes. "Electronic trading with the public sector is about improving the internal capabilities of SMEs. If they have the ability to submit invoices electronically then they will get paid quicker. It improves their cashflow. If they can provide their catalogues into an online marketplace it shows them to a wider audience which could bring them more business."&#183;Weblinkswww.uk-plc.neteastlondononline.uk-plc.netwww.bucks.uk-plc.net/www.devon.uk-plc.net/www.dorset.uk-plc.net/www.bristolebusiness.net/
In a few weeks' time, a group of councils in Dorset expect to make a giant leap forward in e-government. They plan to take down their websites. The councils are not going back to the paper age, but replacing their individual web presences with the jointly operatedwww.dorsetforyou.com.The decision may be unprecedented. In the decade since government bodies started posting information on the web, the number of government websites has gone steadily upward. There are now at least 3,000.Every Whitehall department and public service agency has a website, as does each of the UK's 468 local authorities. Many government bodies have more than one site and the number of "microsites" aimed at specific issues grows every month. This week's arrival iswww.itsafe.gov.uk, which provides security alerts aimed at home computer users.However well each site works, the sheer number can confuse citizens. This is especially a problem in local government, because few ordinary people know which tier of authority does what job.One solution is a portal site, presenting information by topic regardless of the organisation responsible. An example iswww.direct.gov.ukrun by the Cabinet Office e-government unit. It is designed as a first port of call to all levels of government. Users can look for information and services under categories such as "money", "motoring" and "over 50s", for information cutting across agencies.In April, London, perhaps the country's most confusing system of   local government, will follow with its own portal. The site - the name is still under wraps - will link the 32 London boroughs and the Corporation of London, as well as many other bodies responsible for public services in the capital. Functions will include "find my nearest", which will hunt down a public or privately run facility from 5,000 websites, saysPeter Williams, programme manager at London Connects, an agency set up to coordinate e-government in London.However, neither the national portal nor the capital portal is intended to replace existing government websites. In London, this is a sensitive political issue - boroughs are wary of losing powers to the mayor and   London assembly. Williams stresses that London Connects is not trying to do anyone else's job: "It's there to drive traffic to other websites, not to replicate or replace them."Against this background, the Dorset initiative looks bold. It is a partnership of five councils: Christchurch borough, Dorset county, and east, west and north Dorset districts. The five have worked together to pool resources in the Dorsetforyou portal. Rather than running its own website, each authority contributes material to the single site, run on a content management system hosted by the county council. This means citizens, businesses and visitors do not need to know which authority or   tier of government runs a service.So far, the star application on the site is planning, says project manager James Vickery. "You can make applications and view geographical data from any of the authorities. It's true end-to-end integration."The councils have also created a common application form for job vacancies. Residents can search for services across all five authorities, reserve library books or make a complaint online.Significantly, the team decided to drop the ".gov.uk" domain name, in favour of ".com" - the idea was to avoid looking like a council website.Central government is delighted by the effort, which is in line with the new philosophy of public bodies   sharing "back office" systems.However, there are many reasons why the Dorset example may be difficult to replicate. It was funded with &#163;1m from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister's e-government budget. As this money is running out, councils will have to find their own funds. This is difficult if existing e-government contracts are running on different timetables. As it is, one of the five partners, North Dorset, is keeping its own website for the meantime because it is locked into a five-year IT contract.Joining up government on the web also involves delicate negotiation, with a risk of treading on local civic pride. The Dorset partnership has been working together for two-and-a-half years, and developing the website for a year, Vickery says. He is careful to stress that, although the county council is hosting the site, it is not taking powers from the districts and boroughs. "From an early stage, the programme was independent of the county," he says.Despite these efforts, two authorities in Dorset have yet to join. Vickery hopes to bring these on board eventually, along with public services run by voluntary organisations, together with NHS bodies and the police.It is simplistic to suggest Dorsetforyou as a model for the future of e-government. Some counties have irreconcilable political differences with their borough and district authorities. The current debate over regional government adds a further level of complexity. However, any venture that arrests the upward climb in the number of .gov.uk websites is commendable.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
Digital camerasCanon cropCanon refreshed its range of digital cameras this week, unveiling a pair of IXUS compact models and a top-end digital SLR. The &#163;399 IXUS 700, due next month, is a 7.1 megapixel camera with a 3x optical zoom and VGA video clip capture at 30 frames per second. The IXUS 50, on sale in April for &#163;319, is Canon's smallest ever five megapixel camera. It boasts a 3x optical zoom, a choice of 10 shooting modes, and 160 x 120 resolution video at 15 frames per second. Canon is also due to launch the &#163;749 EOS 350D eight megapixel digital SLR next month.www.canon.co.ukInternetKodak momentO2 has teamed up with Kodak to deliver a range of web-based photographic services for its camera phone users. The new website, www.o2.kodakmobile.co.uk, which will launch next month, acts as a storage facility, with images uploaded to the site either via MMS or as email attachments. Users can then create albums to share images with friends, and order prints of favourite shots. O2 has an introductory offer for the service, whereby users can get the first 10 prints free. There is no monthly subscription charge for the service.www.02.co.ukHardwareTake notePhilips is to bring its innovative WACS700 wireless music system, pictured below, to the UK in June. Aimed at non-technical music lovers, it comprises a hi-fi unit with a CD drive and a 40GB hard disk. The owner rips   the music on to the disk in the MP3 format at 128kbps quality and can play it back via the player's speakers and 2x40 watt digital amplifier. Alternatively, music can be streamed wirelessly, using the integrated 802.11g facilities, to Philips wireless music stations, which consist of speakers and an amplifier. The main unit can stream five playlists to up to five units. Philips is offering the main unit and a wireless music station for &#163;600. Further music stations can be purchased for &#163;200 each.www.philips.co.ukWirelessStay in controlLogitech has unveiled the latest version of its wireless diNovo Media Desktop. As well as a Bluetooth wireless keyboard and mouse, the system, also comes with a detachable diNovo MediaPad. This acts as a remote control for the PC, enabling users to select and launch digital media, such as images, music files and video clips. The latest version has been upgraded to allow control of iTunes, Musicmatch Internet Radio and Windows Media Player 9. Other enhancements include compatibility with instant messaging programs from Ya hoo and MSN, and improved battery performance for the wireless products. It is on sale for &#163;200.www.logitech.co.ukMobile phonesOrange dealOrange is trying to attract people to its 3G mobile phone network by running a two-for-one promotion on video-calling handsets. The deal, dubbed Try 3G, is available if you sign up to monthly tariffs of more than &#163;25 until the end of April. Additional incentives include three months of free data transfers, 30 minutes of free video calls and three full-length music downloads each month for three months. Orange is hoping to lure 3G customers as it competes with rival networks, such as 3 and Vodafone.www.orange.co.ukStat of the week - Brand-specific searchesIt seems consumers are less influenced by brands than marketeers like to think. A recent survey showed more than three quarters of all keyword searches are generic, with a far smaller proportion searching for particular brands than advertisers might have expected.Keyword searches by type, %General searchApparel71.5  Computers81.9   Sport/fitness77.3  Travel 77.2Brand searchApparel28.5  Computers18.1  Sport/fitness22.7  Travel 22.8&#183;Source: DoubleClick&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
Reel repeatsI want to copy some VHS tapes to VCD or SVCD but am not too sure how to do it.PhilJack Schofield replies:This is too big a question to tackle here, but searching Google for "VHS to CD", "VHS to VCD" and particularly "VHS to DVD" (including the quotes) will find lots of guides. VCD Rookie (http://vcdrookie.com) and the links atwww.digital-digest.com/page.php?file=links_dvd_svcdmay also be useful. Generally, the conversion involves using a video capture card, PCTV card or an external device, which can include a digital video (DV) movie camera. In this case, you would connect the VCR output to the camcorder input, and connect the camcorder's FireWire (IEEE 1394) output to a FireWire card on your PC.However, converting lots of VHS tapes will be a time-consuming and tedious process, and may involve upgrading your PC. Instead, I'd consider buying a DVD recorder or combined DVD recorder/VHS VCR system that will sit under your TV set and make the transfer much simpler. Examples of combined recorders include the Sharp DVHR250H, JVC's DR-MV1BEK, Daewoo's DF4150, and the Philips DVDR630. I'm thinking about this but have not actually tried it, so any comments would be welcome.Lap it upI have a laptop running a Pentium Processor Intel MMX Technology. Can I upgrade to Windows XP?Nigel WardJS:Technically, Windows XP and SP2 will run on any system with a 233MHz Pentium-compatible processor, 64MB of memory and the 1.8GB of free hard disk space needed during installation. However, "run" might turn out to be an exaggeration. I'd regard the practical minimum specification as a 900MHz processor with at least 128MB but preferably 256MB or more memory. Also, if you are still running Windows 95, bear in mind that you don't qualify for a cheap upgrade version of XP - the eligible systems are Windows 98/SE and Me - so the operating system would cost more than your laptop is worth. I'd suggest looking oneBay.co.ukfor a 900MHz or faster Pentium 3 notebook with up to 512MB of memory, such as an IBM ThinkPad T22, for about &#163;200 to &#163;250.Does not computeThe warning about Cyrix processors you published on July 5, 2001 should be extended to other programmes. I just attempted to install Norton Anti-Virus 2005 update on a PC with a Cyrus 6x86 processor, and after many problems I discovered it is not compatible with this processor. That was not stated on the box. Symantec suggests one returns the product to the retailer for a refund. However, the retailer is not prepared to offer a refund for a package that has been opened. I am now trying to put the computer together again.John ClareJS:Most software assumes you have an Intel Pentium processor, and the old Cyrix CX486 DRx2-20/40, CX486 DRx2-25/50, 6x86MX/MII PR233, 6x86MX/MII PR300, MII 433, MII 333 and Media GX Enhanced (266) chips are not considered to be "Pentium class". The problem is that Intel, AMD, Via, Transmeta and other companies have released dozens of processors over the past few years, and software houses are not going to check that their products work with all of them. In some cases, you can consider yourself lucky if they work properly with Windows XP on a Pentium 4. Check the manual to see if   your PC has a Socket 7 motherboard. If so, it should be possible to replace the Cyrix with a secondhand Pentium or AMD K-6 chip, though a new PC would be preferable.Backchat&#183;eBay users are threatened by phishing scams, and Paul North responds: "Christophe Cauvy &#91;and other readers&#93; may want to download the Netcraft toolbar fromhttp://toolbar.netcraft.com. It protects your PC from known visiting phishing sites and reveals the real hosting location of any website you visit. Therefore, when a phishing site looks like eBay, it will reveal it as actually being hosted in Romania, for example. It is free to download."&#183;Danny Edmunds's ADSL broadband worked well but created interference on his radio. Robert Auger writes: "Further to Mike Whittaker's excellent suggestion of placing just one ADSL filter at the master socket, if you can convince them there is a need for it, BT will replace the original socket with one that has an internal ADSL filter. This is only slightly larger than the conventional socket and solves all these radiation problems. It also appears to improve the reliability of the ADSL connection."&#183;We're still looking for an alternative to Intuit's TaxCalc, if that package disappears. Fred Brooks says: "I successfully used the free Legatio FreeFile package &#91;on the IR website&#93; to submit my tax return for 2003/04." Anthony Boggiano says: "We at Keytime are an Inland Revenue-approved supplier of self assessment software and have been welcoming former TaxCalc users." Seewww.taxpersonal.co.uk.&#183;People are looking for an alternative to Mailwasher now there isn't a free (as opposed to shareware) version. Niall Leonard says: "Take a look at K9 fromhttp://keir.net. It does everything Mailwasher does, but better - and it is free. I gave up Mailwasher Pro a year ago for K9 and have never regretted it."
Slick masterWorld of WarcraftPC (online only), &#163;34.99 (+ &#163;8.99 monthly subscription, first month free)VU Games/Blizzard Entertainment, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;It's hard to believe that Warcraft, which started in 1994 as a strategy game revolving around the battle between orcs and humans, could evolve during the decade into one of the best-loved real-time strategy franchises, not to mention the fastest-selling massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG).The idea of creating a character to adventure through a fantasy world, harnessing the forces of magic and mastering weapons to vanquish foes is hardly a new one for MMORPGs. But Blizzard has made World of Warcraft accessible for all levels, especially newcomers. An easy-to-use interface and combat system form the backbone, along with the wealth of races, storylines and environments from the established Warcraft universe.There are a large number of European servers for player-versus-environment and player-versus-player experiences, along   with two dedicated servers for role playing. There is some queuing on the more highly populated servers at peak times, but this isn't usually much longer than the time it takes to make a cup of tea. Lag can occasionally be a problem, particularly when large groups of characters are on screen at once.But these problems do not detract from the atmosphere, which is hugely entertaining for those that want a quick dip in as well as hardcore players.If you have followed Blizzard Entertainment's career through titles such as Starcraft and Diablo, you will know it has continually proven itself to be master of slick and enduring gameplay that captures the imagination and the spirit of fantasy adventure. World of Warcraft encapsulates all this and more, making it the best MMORPG experience.Rhianna PratchettBlast a winnerMario Power TennisGameCube, &#163;39.99Nintendo, &#42;&#42;&#42;Considering the shortage of decent plumbers, it is surprising that Nintendo icon Mario has had to look for so many careers. From golf pro and   kart champion to party host, Mario has turned his hand to numerous activities.His latest challenge is to take to the court with Mario Power Tennis. This title is easy to pick up and naggingly addictive. It is also needlessly frustrating. Initially, though, it is a blast.Featuring a host of Nintendo characters - Wario, Luigi, Peach - and no sign of Henman, it is clear that this is tennis in the loosest sense. Timing and movement are crucial, but so is the ability to use the new power shots. These are special offensive and defensive shots that players can use when their racquet glows. They can help you reach winners and turn a match around.Unfortunately, while traditional groundstrokes, lobs and passes are all implemented well, it is the power shots that get the focus. And that gets annoying, mainly because of the intrusive animations that occur every time one of these shots is played.Being a Mario title, you expect garishly colourful graphics, but the childish look masks a surprisingly   subtle and tactical game, which, despite its flaws, adults are likely to enjoy as much as their offspring.Greg HowsonEA scores own goalUefa Champions League 2004-2005PlayStation 2, Xbox, GameCube, PC, &#163;39.99EA Sports, &#42;&#42;&#42;If ever a game epitomised the vice-like grip Electronic Arts holds over the games industry, this is it. One shudders to think how much EA paid for the official licence to football's most prestigious club competition. And one wonders why the company bothered - perhaps because it can?Uefa Champions League 2004-2005 is based on the Fifa engine, so it features an immaculately assembled soundtrack, glossy graphics, impressive commentary - and gameplay well below the standard established by the best football game, Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer.It at least strives to add new features to Fifa Football 2005's blueprint. The main mode is mission-based, so you begin by having to win a Premiership match to qualify for the next Champions League competition. You are then set a variety of tasks, ranging from beating your reserve team on the training ground to beating sides by a certain margin, before embarking on the full Champions League programme.Annoyingly, the game forces you to enter the transfer market but it has acquired a few new features beyond Fifa 2005, including a free-kick system that works.If you work at the game, you can get to grips with its vagaries, but why should you, when you can buy a copy of Pro Evolution Soccer 4, with its silky passing system and immaculate player movement?Steve Boxer&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.Top 5 games  All formats1.Mercenaries2.Star Wars: Knight of the Old Republic 23.The Spongebob Squarepants Movie4.Sonic Mega Collection Plus5.Need for Speed: Underground 2&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
Electronic commerce is looking good. Globally, e-commerce grew by half again last year, and if my experiences are anything to go by, then actually going to the shops to buy a cooker, TV or a CD is on the way to becoming a quaint affectation. Online sales were 7.4% of Visa's total transaction volume last year.Britain's retailers are at the forefront of the electronic commerce revolution. More than a decade on from the introduction of the web, they have seized the opportunity to reach new markets with new products. One of the biggest success stories is eBay, which is a much more interesting window into the future than electronic mail order. Like many others who use eBay, I have a PayPal account and participate fully in the global online economy.Although PayPal - which handled $19bn in payments last year - was not invented by banks, they, too, have been innovating. Only two millennia after the first coins were struck, British banks came up with the cheque (1659), but then passed the baton to US banks, who came up with the credit card (1958). The pace of innovation accelerated, and the UK soon saw Switch get off the ground (1988), and the rise of the debit card. Banks have been working on internet payments, and I am sure they are planning new products in that space.But what if you want to participate in the new economy's global car boot sale and don't have a bank account? Frankly, your choices are pretty limited. The European Commission's Electronic Money Directive hasn't (yet) invigorated the   retail e-payments sector, but there is one UK-based person-to-person retail non-cash payment service that grew 6% last year and handled &#163;338m in transactions. Yes, it is the postal order.We are a conservative people, the British. Apparently, if you're a teenager buying a mobile phone on eBay, then a postal order is your best bet. A &#163;20 postal order (the maximum value) will set you back &#163;1.25 (ie a transaction charge of 6.25%), so it is not cheap. But then, what's the competition?One of the first things I wrote about electronic commerce was the observation that the new channels would need new payment products. Payment products are not like other products. If the TV industry doesn't invent plasma screens and integrated DVD players, so what? But the lack of appropriate   payment products harms the whole economy - it is a barrier to free trade and economic growth.A decade ago, we were hoping that the Digicashes and Mondexes, Cybercoins and eCharges would turbocharge online commerce. But here we are in 2005 getting excited because the Post Office is going to update the postal order service to print orders to any required value, instead of the fixed denominations of 50p, &#163;1-&#163;10, &#163;15 or &#163;20.It is the British version of PayPal - and it was introduced in 1881. If you thought the digital money revolution had come and gone you are mistaken. It hasn't even started.
How did the BlackBerry evolve?RIM got into wireless data in 1987, one of the first companies to do so. Many of the early APIs (www.pcwebopedia.com/TERM/A/API.html), protocol software and interfaces and radios allowed us to recognise that what people wanted was wireless applications. We started experimenting with wireless email and built prototypes. These were unwieldy but allowed our guys to work from home, so the challenge was to make them more practical.Has the UK been slower to adopt wireless than the US?No. I think the UK has been very advanced in its    adoption of standards such as GPRS and GSM and I think it is very much a UK culture to use messaging and mobiles. I think there was a resistance to the idea of push email (www.pcwebopedia.com/TERM/p/push.html) because everyone here was using SMS. It required education to explain that in an enterprise environment, the security requirements are far more critical, and smartphones such as the BlackBerry can now provide the level of security that IT departments demand.Are we finally seeing 3G take off?This is the big surprise. BlackBerry began life on a two-way wireless paging system. We wanted to ensure the experience was compelling and reliable on low bandwidth, high-latency systems. When we ported the technology to 2.5G or GPRS technology, it unleashed the power of the platform and the application. Everything became immediate and   reliable ... and then we added the browsing experience. For the first time, there was enough bandwidth and latency to make it a compelling experience.Usability versus specifications?The most successful technologies tend to be incredibly simple but reliable. Look at the iPod ... it does one thing extremely well. It also looks good. The PDA/smartphone market is enormous. There's never been a market like this - 650m phones sold last year! Customisation, brand and experience are as important as features.Favourite gadgets?The one I have on all my desks and use everywhere is my Texas Instruments calculator (www.ti.com). It doesn't sound exciting but with my engineering background, one of the things I've found useful is to crunch numbers and make sure data is correct. I also like the Nikon D70 (www.nikon.co.uk/D70Voucher/about/about.asp). It takes incredibly good pictures.Spam?Spam is almost a way of life ... There has been direct-mail advertising for years. At RIM, we use incredibly effective software called SpamAssassin (http://spamassassin.apache.org).&#183;Visit:www.blackberry.comandwww.rim.netMike Lazaridis's bookmarkshttp://news.bbc.co.uk/text_only.stmwww.bbc.co.ukwww.google.comwww.yahoo.comwww.infosyncworld.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
The difficulty with being a start-up business in the UK is that we have no entrepreneurial culture and we're tied beyond all reason by red tape the whole time. At least, that is the received wisdom about what the current government - and, to an extent, its predecessors - are doing to the business community. But how true is it, and what specifically could the authorities change?The first thing a company is likely to need when it sets up is, of course, money. This is where the government can offer grants for deprived areas, help with IT costs in some cases and other facilities. Nick Smailes, director of hi-tech business incubator SetSquared, believes his organisation is good at finding funding for qualifying businesses - but others query the value of such a service. "Our research says that the majority of companies - about 66% - start with their own private funds," says Diane Blinkhorn of Bibby Financial Services. "Not many people go to informal investors or government agencies. Furthermore, we would say the majority of the small business' time tends to be spent on administering the business rather than going out and selling their services or goods."There is, of course, more to SetSquared. The service itself is funded out of the government's Higher Education Innovation Fund, which ultimately devolves back to the DTI. It offers mentoring and business advice as well as premises and other facilities to ventures that have a link, or will have a link, with the universities with which it's associated. "We look to have companies formed and out of the door within 18 months," says Smailes. "We've seen three floatations of our start-ups in the last nine months."This sort of success isn't to be belittled, but there are people who worry more about the overall effect of government on the business community. Bob Jones is chief executive of IT company Equiinet, which is his fourth business, so he's seen start-ups under a number of administrations. "We hear from Gordon Brown how good it is to be an entrepreneur and start your own venture. In support of that, government tax incentives for investment by individuals in early stage companies have improved dramatically in recent years both as tax relief on the initial investments and also favourable tax treatment of the gain," he says. "Rather counterbalancing that we have the situation where public sector spending has never been greater, but little of that filters down to smaller businesses. And the red tape - compared to when I set up my first business in 1982, is horrendous - not difficult to deal with, but a burden and a cost."Others are more sanguine about the government's approach, considering its overall effect to be greater than the sum of the red tape's parts. Adrian Smith heads up the Edinburgh Pre-Incubator Scheme (EPIS). "I'm as much concerned about bigger factors," he says. "In reality, filling in more or fewer forms for an SME is nothing like as challenging as facing interest rates that can double or treble, an economy you can't plan on, a tax regime that seems to disincentivise profit - there are bigger things at stake." The stability the country has seen is far more important, he says.He points to Gordon Brown as the architect of this steadiness: "He's a chancellor with little chance of being prime minister, which means he concentrates on his work - a lot of others have been career politicians who see themselves as being on the way somewhere else, and the economy always suffers from that. What small companies really need is periods of stability."Jones agrees with Smith that the current climate is positive, and concedes that the times have changed and in many ways brought the red tape with them. "In 1982 who had heard the term entrepreneur? Certainly not central government. There were no tax incentives and, because government didn't laud entrepreneurs and declare the importance of small businesses, large conservative companies were much more reluctant than they are today in placing business with small ones." The climate is currently good for start-ups, he says. "There are many potential sources of funding and many entrepreneurs are the heroes of our business community." It's not all good, though. "The ever increasing bureaucracy and red tape irks me terribly. I and others complain vociferously but it's tough to change. Entrepreneurs need to accept it for the necessary evil that it is and focus their attentions on their real business issues."These real business issues can come down to the personality behind the business. Smailes confirms that one of his most difficult tasks can be in persuading someone with an idea that they're not the right person to run the business. "You get this person coming through the door and you have to persuade them they're not CEO material," he says. "Often, though, once we've talked them through the red tape and the customer meetings they're only too happy to go back to the development lab!"Personality-based or not, there appear to be plenty of people who'd like to see the red tape (or "essential legislation" as others will see it) made easier for the start-up. Whether the government will listen, or whether it's possible to achieve, remains to be seen.
Abusiness trip to Florida is a bit of an ordeal at the best of times - even in BA premium economy. But when you find yourself delayed for 24 hours and rerouted on the outward journey - and then told to squeeze on to a chartered Boeing 767 run by the tiny Portuguese carrier, EuroAtlantic, on the way back - you might feel you have justified cause for complaint.On the other hand, as one of the passengers admits, it could have been worse. EuroAtlantic's fleet of three includes a plane now rarely seen outside aviation museums - the Lockheed Tristar 500, which ceased production in 1983 and is now relegated to the "classic" section of BA's pilots' website. (Those who value comfort above youth might like to know that it offers 30 inches of legroom in economy compared to the 767's 28 inches.)The decision to charter the 767 was taken in order to avoid cancelling the flight altogether, according to a BA spokeswoman. "We have experienced some operational difficulties on flights to Tampa and Nairobi in the last two weeks," she said. "Customers have been given the choice to rebook on another BA flight to the same destination, rebook on another BA flight with any additional cost paid for by them, or refunded.""This is not an ongoing issue," she added. "We are anticipating returning these routes to normal very quickly."Given the choice between eight hours of boredom and discomfort or a much longer wait for the next plane home, most passengers would choose the former. But when airlines like BA vaunt the standard of their long-haul service and even mention the generous seat pitch at the time of booking, travellers are likely to feel aggrieved if the flight is outsourced to an airline with cramped cabins and no 
seat-back TV or power points.In common with most airlines, however, BA's conditions of carriage insist that its first priority is to get you to your destination on time - even if that means travelling on another airline or a different plane. In other words, there is no automatic compensation for passengers deprived of the comforts they were expecting. Any air miles, Executive Club perks or partial refunds you do receive will be entirely at the airline's discretion.However, the EU's new Air Passenger Rights - which came into force on February 17 - are on your side. Airlines which cancel a flight are obliged to refund your ticket (and fly you home, if you are abroad) or provide "alternative transport to your final destination". In practice, this means a flight on whatever aircraft is available, or a long bus journey from an alternative airport.
If the carrier bumps you off the flight or cancels it altogether, and you refuse to volunteer for a refund or an alternative flight, you are entitled to compensation - which varies between 250 euros for short-haul and 600 euros for long-haul flights. The EU is also keen to ensure that passengers are not stranded at airports without food or accommodation during long delays, as has happened with some no-frills carriers.Additionally - and this is a clause that you won't find in the EU's factsheet, posters or leaflets - downgraded passengers are entitled to a 30% rebate on the price of their ticket for short-haul flights and a generous 75% rebate on long-haul flights.This has not gone down well with airlines, which see no reason why they should have to stump up for delays that are not their fault. The International Air Travel Association, which represents the interests of most of them, is furious with the new rules. It says they contradict the Montreal convention's axiom that airlines cannot be held responsible for bad weather. The EU's advice to travellers is confusing, says a spokesman, and drafted by "people who do not bother to understand the airline industry". It has asked the European Court of Justice to review it.BA says it has already acted to ensure it complies with the new legislation. "We already offer generous denied boarding compensation.We also provide rebooking, re-routing or a refund when we cancel a flight. In addition, we provide assistance and care in the case of delayed flights unless the reasons are outside our control."And therein lies the problem. When does a delay or cancellation cease to be the airline's fault? Bad weather and security scares are obvious examples. Airport congestion, staff sickness and subsequent knock-on delays, or a combination of all three, are a more difficult call.Passengers flying on a non-EU carrier will also find that the EU's regulations only apply on the outward leg. So a cancelled flight into JFK does attract EU compensation, but on the return to Heathrow the American rules will apply.Anyone who thinks their travel insurance will bail them out is likely to be disappointed. Most standard policies offer around a paltry £10 to travellers delayed for at least 12 hours, £20 for 24 hours and so on up to a maximum of £100. "As far as the insurers are concerned," says a spokesman for the Association of British Insurers, "it's not going to change." It simply isn't worth their while to pursue the airlines for compensation on behalf of policyholders. That will be your job.The EU's new rules are a boon if you travel regularly on no-frills airlines with poor compensation, and downgraded travellers on long-haul flights may also benefit. But be aware that Iata is fighting the new rules and a well-informed customer services manager may simply quote the Montreal convention back at you. If all else fails, and you are flying with a full-service airline, a politely-worded letter quoting your frequent flier membership number might well produce faster results than an appeal to the EU - at least until the European court delivers its verdict.News in brief&#183;BA passengers can now check in online up to 12 hours before departure; Executive Club members can check in 24 hours in advance. Many domestic passengers can also print out their own boarding passes at home.www.britishairways.com/travel/olciboard/public/&#183;On June 2, SN Brussels will begin operating nine direct flights each week from Brussels to Glasgow (www.flysn.co.uk), while Luxair (www.luxair.co.uk) now flies from London City to Luxembourg four times daily on Embraer 135 jets. Jet2.com has introduced a Manchester-Edinburgh service from £30 return .&#183;You can now book advance TGV tickets at discounted ("Prems") rates atwww.tgv.co.uk/offersand through tickets to Europe via Eurostar (which are much more expensive) atwww.tgv.co.uk. The same site has a useful rail map of Europe which you won't find elsewhere. Not perfect, but a great improvement on TheTrainline.com's European booking service.&#183;WeblinksThe EU's new Air Passenger Rights:europa.eu.int/comm/transport/air/rights/info_en.htm
IBM Global Financinghas launched specific funding for small to medium enterprises wanting IT equipment. Called IBM Financing Advantage, it aims to secure agreements for funds within an hour for people looking for up to $300,000. The company believes that the small business community - by which it means companies with between one and 1,000 employees - typically has as much in terms of the need for IT as anyone else, but is less likely to have large reserves and access to other credit deals in order to realise this requirement. The scheme will cover non-IBM equipment as well as the company's own stock.Software company Intuithas released Quickbooks 2005, its accounting system for the small business market. This time the company is pitching it at people who want to transact electronically, not only with customers and employees but also with the Inland Revenue. It integrates electronic payment functions from Barclays, Bottomline and Worldpay and also works alongside BACS so staff can be paid automatically from the desktop. The company believes this is the first time these functions have been made available to the smaller enterprise. An accountants' edition means that if your accountant has the software, he or she can receive your accounts electronically, enabling faster processing at year-end time.Newcastle's e-governmentstrategy is getting a boost with the launch of a web portal for the local business community. Found atwww.newcastle.comit was under development as this issue went to press, but its aim will be to encourage people to network and find new business opportunities. Among its features are an electronic marketplace, a job board, a space for small businesses to work together on large tenders and online training.Pipex is launching Voiceover IP's (VoIP) small business offering. VoIP involves using a broadband internet connection to carry voice as well as data, so you can effectively make a phone call across the internet without incurring any charges as long as the call recipient is also using the internet rather than a standard phone line. There is a lot of speculation around at the moment as to just how much money businesses and consumers will be able to save using the system (and how telecom companies will need to adjust their businesses to continue if the market shifts towards cheaper services). We will keep you up to date as specific product offerings emerge.Brighton PR company VadaMedia has done some research on the most effective ways of getting new business and found, unsurprisingly, that word of mouth is the best recommendation. Ninety four per cent of businesses quizzed said so, and, indeed, 64% of new business came into organisations that way. Websites, in spite of the amount of interest in these in recent years, came only third in importance, with e-mail being the least effective, partly because of the risk of being accused of spamming. Other methods that didn't perform well included cold calling and online advertising, mostly because the online world isn't good at delivering the specific audience a company might want.Business Link for London islaunching two schemes likely to be of interest to new entrepreneurs. The first is called StartQuest, which is a six-week course for people considering starting a business in London. It will be free of charge and will operate by e-mail. You can find details atwww.businesslink4london.com/start. Meanwhile, the same organisation is pushing for further input from the Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) community; it hosted a conference called "Empowering Community Organisations to Promote Sustainable Economic Regeneration in the Capital", celebrating BL's Knowledge Centre on BME issues and Reflex, an Islington-based business project for minority groups.Hewlett-Packard haslaunched a set of seven notebooks for the business community. The company believes its new offerings improve on security, ease of use and reliability for professionals. The range includes the nc4200 which is the ultralight version, the nx6110 which is the cost-effective version and the nc6220 which majors on its thin profile. Price will depend on memory, screen resolution and similar considerations, while availability will be staggered over the next few months. Optional features will include light-sensitivity so that the screen can calibrate itself in sunlight, and extended battery for working all day without recharging.IT service company Newelland Budge has published research on the extent to which companies are risking their livelihoods by using wireless networks. The company assessed over 2,000 of the networks across seven cities in the UK and discovered that 62% of companies overall had failed to take even elementary precautions against hackers getting in - and some of the precautions can be as basic as ensuring there's a firewall or that people need a password before "borrowing" a bit of airspace.
Since the Freedom of Information Act came into full force on the first day of this year, attention has largely been focused on sinister tales of late-night paper purges in government departments across Whitehall.As the bells rang in 2005, the UK joined more than 100 other countries in allowing individual members of the public access to official records held by almost all central and local government bodies. While the prospect of potential access to data held by the likes of the NHS, the police and the armed forces has proved a mouthwatering one, little has been said of another group who will be affected by the Act, positively detrimentally: private businesses who supply services to central and local government.The public sector is a massive purchaser of goods and services and as such accounts for 40% of the UK's Gross Domestic Product. Officialdom spends a combined £38bn per year on everything from IT and medical supplies to catering and training courses.Clearly, government is an important market for small and medium-sized businesses. Indeed, the government is committed to using more SMEs as suppliers, as it strives to improve efficiency in procurement. It is these businesses that should be aware of how sensitive commercial information could come into the public domain under the new terms of the Act.Companies wholly owned by public sector bodies are already included in the FOI Act. As use of the Act becomes more commonplace, it is inevitable that information held by public bodies in relation to their dealings with the private sector will be subject to access requests. It will therefore require little extension to bring suppliers to the public sector fully into the Act.
Under the Act, individuals have a right to information concerning all public contracts and procurement activity held by public authorities, subject to certain conditions and exemptions. This applies to information held by another person on behalf of the authority (for example, an outsourcing partner).Neither the identity of the requester, nor the use to which the information may be put are grounds for withholding information. This means one supplier can seek information on another purely for commercial purposes. What is more, the Act is retrospective and covers existing contracts.What does this mean in practical terms for businesses? Companies who enter into competition for lucrative contracts could effectively be forced  to show their hand and disclose previously secret details of pricing, tender bids and contracts.Both public and private sector organisations need to consider carefully whether responses to tenders and service agreements submitted to public authorities by private sector contractors could be disclosed under the FOIA.What steps should businesses who sell in the public sector take? Firstly, they should identify all public bodies holding information in relation to business dealings. It is vital that all staff are aware of the law and keep up to date with case law and changes to the Act.According to the Federation of Small Business legal helpline, there are exemptions that businesses can take advantage of. The most commonly employed of these is likely to be Section 43 of the Act, which offers qualified exemption if a "trade secret" is likely to be disclosed.Section 43 has two main strands: trade secrets and "information likely to prejudice the commercial interests of any person (including the public authority) holding it". This prejudice could involve giving commercial advantage to the competition, or harming customer confidence.A trade secret is defined as information that, if disclosed to a competitor, would damage a business. The term could cover anything that a bidder or supplier does in the course of trade that is unique to them, or gives them a competitive edge and is not already commonly known.It remains to be seen how Section 43 will be interpreted by public authorities and what will constitute a sufficient degree of "prejudice" to afford protection. The information commissioner is in the process of exploring the correct applications of the exemptions.According to the commissioner, in either case the public authority must consider the public interest in disclosing or withholding information, and decide whether the public interest in applying the exemption would outweigh the public interest in making the disclosure.The FSB has said it is "broadly in favour" of the Act. A spokesman said: "We can see advantages in the transparency afforded by the Act, especially for companies trying to win contracts with local authorities." However, the Federation has voiced concern that businesses involved in the public sector are unprepared for the extra regulations.While the public interest will rarely justify disclosure of a trade secret, there will be circumstances where commercial sensitivity is not a sufficient justification for non-disclosure for the protection of the public. A spokesman for the Local Government Association said each case would be considered by the relevant public body as it arose.As more and more companies competing for a piece of the huge public sector business pie, and demand disclosure of prices and tendering process information to do so, many small businesses will be left asking: "what price freedom?".
The idea of a missing pets bureau is irresistible in a country in which we're notorious for loving our pets - but when founder and MD Rupert Honywood set the thing up he found out quite quickly that the number of calls would grow faster than his skeleton staff, he toldGuy Clapperton.GC: So, tell me about your business.RH:The Missing Pets Bureau has been operating for about six years. We started off as a very small operation with three of us, and it was formed as a consequence of a friend of ours who had two dogs stolen. As we've worked with the police and dog rescue centres and so on, our reputation has got known and the service has grown astronomically. We also introduced a pet identification service about two-and-a-half or three years ago, and our call volume has grown astronomically as a result.GC: So how many people are in the organisation now?RH:There are now about 38.GC: So call volumes grew - how much?RH:Five or six years ago there were only about 100 calls a week, and now we're taking about 1,500-2,000 a week depending on the time of year.GC: And is that a problem?RH:No - I have to say that right from the beginning we had a good set-up, we got to know about the functionality we could have with non-geographic numbers so we've got full escalation procedures so that calls can come into the office hub, but if we get overwhelmed with calls we use a big call centre with 200 seats.GC: Could you explain call escalation and non-geographic numbers, and how you went about finding out about all that stuff in the first place?RH:At the time we looked at non-geographic numbers like 0845 numbers and also 0800 numbers. With the type of client we were working with we wanted to encourage people to speak to us, and also we wanted to be very responsive in terms of call times. Also, because we partner up with a number of insurance companies, we don't always have control over the number of calls coming in because they might have their various marketing campaigns; as a consequence we might have 25-30 staff in one day and think that's enough, but we might not be aware that one of our insurance partners has just done a big door-drop with half a million people, so we aren't able to deal with the amount of calls coming through. So using non-geographic numbers, with the amount of intelligence that incorporates, gives us the flexibility in terms of how calls are routed.GC: So the numbers went up drastically - what steps did you take to cope with that?RH:The first thing was the investment in people. If you haven't got good staff then you haven't got an operation that's of value to anyone. Web-based technology is very important. Also, we moved into an office premise 18 months ago and we're having to look for premises again now.GC: So you moved to a new service, Totem - why?RH:We wanted a very high level of sophistication in terms of call routing and Totem was able to meet that requirement.GC: So you wanted people to work out of the office or something?RH:It's more to do with intelligent routing, so in the event of high volumes or out of hours cover, the network would be able to support the call handling requirement we actually had rather than relying on a telephone system where effectively for every line coming in you had to transfer it using another line going out, which makes it very inflexible. So it was a technological requirement. The second requirement was cost; we'd looked at a number of service providers but they weren't flexible enough in terms of the overall package.GC: So how did you go about finding Totem, and speccing out your needs?RH:A supplier was recommended to us. We contacted four or five suppliers and felt that Totem represented the best value to us, and from that point we had a salesperson who came to see us and they liked what we had to say.GC: So, what does the Totem Service actually cost?RH:It's worked out in payment per minute, so with Freephone calls we pay around 3p a minute. We do pay a small rental but that's nominal.GC: How are you measuring any return on investment?RH:Every single registration we take from a client is recorded in our database and we're very hot on sourcing where those registrations came from, and which numbers were actually dialled. We only need to look at what's been happening at the Missing Pets Bureau and we've seen sevenfold growth last year.GC: How long has the system been in place?RH:It went in 18 months ago so it coincided with the beginning of the curve.GC: And how has the system helped that growth?RH:Totem is a service provider and a good one, but the customer wouldn't be aware that they're using Totem. It's helped us to grow because of the flexibility of the Totem network. If we hadn't got the flexibility of that system it would be a lot more expensive to operate and we'd need a lot more staff .GC: So you're happy with the service - any plans to grow your use of it?RH:We're very happy. We do use a couple of other providers in specialist areas but Totem fulfils the need for about 80% of our call traffic. It's quite probable that we'll go back to Totem with requests for free phone numbers with intelligence built into the network, and that's a demonstration that the system we've agreed with them is a success.
It sounds more like something dreamt up by Carry On film scriptwriters than Brussels bureaucrats, but the EU's WEEE (waste electrical and electronic equipment) directive, due to be enforced this year, should have a major impact on the future of consumer electronics in the UK.At its heart is the drive to ensure that consumer electronics are recycled by placing the responsibility to collect goods and send them for sorting on manufacturers and retailers."The directive will help finance recycling facilities throughout the country. Consumers will be able to take products back to central collection points, either through upgraded local civic amenities sites, or via organised local take-back days at designated sites," says Mike Sadler, commercial manager at recycling company Valpak.Retailers must aid the recycling process and several, such as Dixons, have been running take-back schemes, where consumers can leave goods at local stores."Instigating the directive could prove very difficult," says John Carter, head of quality for Toshiba Information Systems. "We have been waiting for the government to provide details on how the scheme will work."Even when the government sets out the proposals, it will take an enormous effort to have all the systems up and running for the proposed start date of August 12."Each manufacturer will pay a fee dependent on their sales," explains Adam Hooker, of recycling websitewww.letsrecycle.com. "So, if Sony has a 10% share of the UK TV market, it will pay 10% of recycling TV costs." Yet collating information about who should pay what, bearing in mind the huge number of smaller manufacturers who may know little about the directive, could be a problem.Carter believes the August deadline is unrealistic and that the UK will follow Germany in asking the EU for an extension. He is also concerned about where the money to fund the scheme will come from. "PC manufacturers are just recovering from a very tricky few years. The last thing they will want is to increase prices to fund the directive."Terry Hughes, of telecommunications hardware company Mitel, believes that manufacturers who take recycling seriously might be able to recoup some costs. "You have materials in TVs like gold and glass which can be recycled."No matter how well funded and organised, the schemes will only work if they capture the public's imagination. "If the consumer does not take responsibility for correct disposal of their electronics goods," adds Carter, "any directive will have been in vain."www.recyclemore.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
After trying not too successfully to develop a phone version of the BlackBerry last year, Research In Motion has teamed up with an established mobile manufacturer. The result is the Siemens SK65 - a handset with BlackBerry software.The SK65, apparently signed up by four networks, is a large, stylish phone in a sober black case. Cleverly, it spins out into a cross shape to reveal a solid and eminently usable Qwerty keyboard. The trademark BlackBerry push email system is easy to set up and works brilliantly if using a corporate server. Less convincing are the dull 2in 132 x 176 pixel 65k colour screen, the fiddly control keys and the not very intuitive interface. Siemens could also have offered more than 30MB storage.The SK65 has neither camera nor MP3 player, but users are offered Bluetooth and a voice recorder. Can't imagine many consumers wanting one, but the SK65 could become a common sight in boardrooms.www.siemens.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
PC sales upGartner researchers are predicting that worldwide PC shipments will reach 199m units this year, a 9% increase on 2004, according to preliminary forecasts. Last year's total of 183m units was 11.6% up on 2003. Gartner reckons growth will be driven by sales of mobile PCs, which are expected to grow by 17.4%, compared with 6.1% growth in desktop PCs. But Gartner expects growth to slow to only 6.7% next year. George Shiffler, principal analyst for Gartner's Client Platforms group, says: "We believe professional replacement activity peaked in 2004 and will decelerate sharply over 2005. While home replacement activity will continue to provide some strength to the market in 2005, it too seems likely to slow by year-end."www4.gartner.com/DisplayDocument?doc_cd=126200Fighting evilConcerns about "evil twin" wireless access points are being tackled by academics at Indiana University. The "evil twin" is a pirate access point installed near a public wireless hotspot. To anyone logging on to the wrong system, the evil twin looks like the genuine access point, but its owner can steal passwords and other important data. The solution, according to Indiana's Markus Jakobsson and Steve Myers, is to use mutual identity authentication, which effectively reveals the evil twin's real identity. Jakobsson is developing software for PCs and Macs to provide suitable authentication, and beta test versions should be available this spring.Malware bruiserFollowing a Microsoft U-turn, this summer will see the release of a beta test version of Internet Explorer 7.0 for Windows XP with Service Pack 2 (SP2). At last week's RSA Security Conference in San Francisco, chairman Bill Gates said the main new features will be defences against phishing attacks and malware. The browser will guard against spyware programs, and will make the ultimate web link locations visible so that phishing gangs will not be able to imitate e-commerce websites. What has yet to be clarified is whether Microsoft will also provide a version for Windows 2000.http://masl.to/?G5E54398ATalking pointHarrogate International Centre, which is owned by Harrogate Borough Council, is implementing a &#163;1.2m five-year project to update its IT and organisational infrastructure. The plans will bring touch-screen kiosks to the town centre and neighbouring towns, as well as providing wireless internet access throughout the conference and exhibition halls. When completed, the system will make it easier for visitors to book accommodation, register for events and get the best from their visits. The project has been developed in conjunction with the SocITM Consultancy.http://masl.to/?P4061298ASon of SanEMC has had a huge impact on the big systems storage market, and is now going after the little guys with cheaper Clariion disk arrays. Its new Sans (storage area networks) use iSCSI (Internet SCSI) Ethernet connections instead of Fibre Channel. This can halve the cost - though it can also halve performance. Dell is selling the new system, starting with the entry-level Dell/EMC AX100i, aimed at small organisations and workgroups running programs such as Microsoft Exchange and SQL Server. Dell claims that "customers can set up the AX100i on their own, connecting to a standard Ethernet network in just a few steps using intuitive wizard-based tools". Prices start at &#163;3,300.www.dell.com/storageRouted outHewlett-Packard's ProCurve division is introducing "virus throttling" technology, announced last year, with its first wide area network router. Virus throttling aims to provide protection against unknown viruses and worms by detecting unusual network activity. The suspected virus or worm activity can then be slowed down or blocked until eradicated by IT staff. Support for this pre-emptive protection system is provided in the latest ProCurve router, the 7000dl. This is a network edge router for connecting remote local area networks. Although designed to allow remote branch office connection, the router can also be used by small businesses to provide secure internet access and virtual private network access.http://tinyurl.com/4298c64 bitesIntel is selling five versions of its Pentium 4 processor that can use 64-bit addressing, but is still playing catch-up with rival AMD, which has had an extended 32-bit chip available since 2003. The Pentium 4 600 series processors offer backwards compatibility with existing software but will also run Microsoft's 64-bit Windows operating system for desktops, which is due in the next few months. Although Intel sees the immediate market as being for games PCs, the introduction of cheaper 64-bit Celeron chips later this year will probably make the 64-bit architecture the standard for all desktops.http://masl.to/?S3265198A&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
New mobile phones tend to get most of the attention at 3GSM, the mobile industry's annual conference in Cannes, along with new music and video services that network operators hope will make as much money as SMS. But as T-Mobile's chief executive, Rene Obermann, pointed out, it was business users who first paid real money for mobile phones and they may be the most profitable market in the future, too.With business spending on mobile technology set to increase by 25% rather than 2.5%, according to a survey conducted for O2, there should be plenty of money to go around.More than 70% of businesses in the O2 survey already have some access to mobile email, and the next step is to give workers access to other company systems when they are on the move. Companies also want to get more workers connected - only 25% have the majority of workers able to read email on the move.That makes two of the show's most unexpected announcements - the agreements between Nokia and Microsoft - among the most interesting. Most have focused on whether putting Windows Media files on Nokia phones will rival the iPod - or Motorola's iTunes phone, which was shown in Cannes. But for businesses, Nokia's plan to use Microsoft's Exchange Server ActiveSync technology to synchronise email, contacts and appointments onto future Series 60 and Series 80 phones is far more important.Being able to see new emails, changes to your diary and other data on your phone is what has made Windows Mobile smartphones particularly interesting for business users. (Operators also like them because users typically spend more money on services and bandwidth.) Similar features have driven the huge popularity of BlackBerry devices - more than 40% of businesses in the O2 survey are planning to adopt BlackBerry.The advantage of the ActiveSync option is that companies don't need to add software or hardware to their Exchange email servers. Also, they don't need to replicate email onto a less secure third-party system, or open up their firewalls to allow email through. It's an advantage that PalmOne spotted last year when it also signed a deal with Microsoft, and the end result will be that Nokias, Windows Mobile smartphones and PalmOne Treos will all offer the same email synchronisation.Signing up with Microsoft's enterprise system also suggests Nokia plans to concentrate on handsets and phone features, rather than on its own enterprise integration solutions, to make Nokia phones more valuable to businesses.The industry is still experimenting with what makes a good business mobile. Is it adding a touchscreen or a Qwerty keyboard so you can type more than yes or no, but still ending up with something that feels like a mobile phone?Often manufacturers try to appeal to consumers by including features such as cameras, which businesses don't want to pay for and may see as a distraction or a security risk. However, HP is planning to offer customised versions of its iPaq hw6500 Mobile Messenger phone, which it pre-announced at the show, with or without a camera as customers and operators prefer.HP's Mobile Messenger has built-in GPS, along with software that triangulates phone signal strength to figure out where you are if you can't get a GPS signal. T-Mobile is also planning to offer GPS as an option on all its UK smartphones.The demand for GPS has surprised manufacturers. According to David Quin of ALK - who was showing off the Windows Mobile smartphone version of the CoPilot route-finding software by using it to dodge traffic jams in Cannes - most businesses want it for more than tracking employees in real time; they want to check back at a later date and see if people were where they were supposed to be.Building in more features puts up manufacturing costs, and the subsidies on many phones means it is not the buyers who are paying for it. This may be behind Obermann's call to drop subsidies on phones, and reduce roaming rates and bandwidth charges instead. T-Mobile is switching to flat fees, which it says make US phone usage twice as high as for UK users. Large businesses are often on flat-fee tariffs already, but smaller businesses could save money with a T-Mobile deal.Obermann also wants to make phones and services simpler, so customers use them more often. However, most operators are talking about introducing more new   services and personalising them, so you can pick and choose the ones you need.Developing new services is a problem because of the complexity of the systems inside mobile networks - everything has to be written from scratch to work with the operational and billing systems. So companies such as IBM, HP, Microsoft, Unisys and, most recently, BEA have been developing service delivery platforms that use emerging phone equipment standards like Parlay to let developers write services without worrying about how the equipment does what they need it to do.BEA's new Da Vinci software gives Java developers access to network services such as SMS alongside more familiar tools like JSP, and it uses Web Services to link to back-end systems. Microsoft also launched a new version of its Connected Services Framework in Cannes. This lets developers combine services from different providers, so they don't need a detailed understanding of the billing systems of three different network operators to build a service that works with all of them.But convergence between voice and data seems, as always, to be just around the corner. While phone manufacturers like i-mate and Motorola announced partnership deals with Skype, the peer-to-peer VoIP operator, all that users will see is that their new PDA phones come with Skype software pre-installed. They'll still need to switch from standard GSM to Wi-Fi if they want to use Skype for calls. There is no seamless roaming from narrowband to broadband data, and you don't even get a combined address book.Another idea is to skip the integration and use your mobile phone like a fax machine. Realeyes3D has already produced software for sending handwritten messages from a phone - now you can snap a purchase order or a map with a camera phone and send it to a fax machine or email inbox. It arrives as a picture rather than a document, but it's a quick way of sending data. It is the kind of sticking plaster solution that better standards and better development tools should make unnecessary.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
BigDog trots purposefully across the landscape, splashing through puddles and pushing through the long grass. It might be slow by the standards of most dogs, but for a walking robot, BigDog is quite an athlete.According to Marc Raibert, president of Boston Dynamics, BigDog is the first of a new breed of walking robots that could revolutionise transport.Walking robots have been around for decades, but Robosapiens and friends are still just toys. This is set to change now that the Pentagon has set its sights on payload-carrying legged robots.The US Army Tactical Command has called for a robotic mule, for which BigDog is the precursor. It is an irony that as technology increases, soldiers are weighed down with more and more kit, from satellite navigation to battlefield computers, and loads can often exceed 40kg. The mule will be a semi-autonomous robot that will accompany soldiers on terrain unsuitable for wheeled vehicles, providing a modern equivalent of the traditional pack mule. For this role it needs to be capable of matching human marching pace.This is not the first time the US army has ventured into this area. In 1968, it contracted General Electric to build the Quadruped Transporter, otherwise known as the Walking Truck, for the jungles of Vietnam. Designed by Ralph Mosher, it looked like a car with legs instead of   wheels. A petrol engine powered the hydraulics, and the driver controlled the legs using his own arms and legs. It carried out impressive demonstrations, including climbing on to a platform built out of railway sleepers.However, the Walking Truck was cumbersome and required a skilled operator, due to the limitations of the electronics of the day. The program was cancelled; perhaps its most conspicuous legacy was to provide the inspiration for the Imperial Combat Walkers of The Empire Strikes Back.The robotic mule has far more advanced electronics and will work with minimal human guidance, perhaps no more than an instruction on who to follow. Part of the secret is in learning from nature. Many biomimetic robotics programs copy the designs that nature has perfected over millions of years, including robot snakes and lobsters. However, Raibert uses a different term."What we are doing is 'biodynotics'; biologically inspired dynamic robots. Biomimetic implies a slavish imitation of nature; biodynotics looks for the physical principles used in nature, then uses them in robots."The BigDog team comes from a range of organisations, including Boston Dynamics, MIT, Harvard and Stanford. One member is a biologist with expertise in animal locomotion, and Nasa's Jet   Propulsion Laboratory is helping integrate the vision system.Fitting everything into a self-contained package is a challenge, as is perfecting the control system. "There are tradeoffs with speed, the roughness of the terrain and the payload," says Raibert.A human judges these things automatically, and knows instinctively that carrying a heavy pack means you have to look for the shallowest gradient. BigDog's designers are steadily learning the same principles. Perhaps surprisingly, the amount of computing power is quite modest, equivalent to a high-end desktop PC.BigDog is a long way towards meeting the goals set for the robotic mule. The maximum payload is determined by the force on the leg at its deepest bend, which is greatest on steeper slopes. BigDog weighs 70kg, and has proven capable of climbing a 30 slope (steeper than one in two) and carrying a load of more than 50kg. It is petrol driven, but other sources are under investigation.The robotic mule only needs to keep up with marching pace, but BigDog is also being used to test ideas for a faster robot for Darpa (Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency). Raibert talks about a speed in the "tens of miles an hour" range - less than the 22mph a human sprinter can manage, but faster than any existing legged robot.Having successfully completed phase I development, BigDog is moving into phase II, the second of a three-phase program. If successful, it will pave the way for a menagerie of robotic walking machines, from scouts and pack mules to rescue vehicles and warriors. The US army uses small tracked packbots for reconnaissance and is getting ready to deploy Swords robots for remote-control firepower. Both are slow and have trouble with rough terrain; effective legged robots could supersede them.The next stage will come when the technology becomes available for the civilian sector. The possibilities are endless, and not just for farmers or campers needing a load carrier and mobile power outlet. The technology could produce the ultimate all-terrain hands-free buggy.The first robotic mule will be expensive as it has many aerospace-grade components, but Raibert estimates the price of a commercial version could be "similar to a car". This is likely to drop rapidly as the number of units goes up.&#183;Weapons Grade: How Military Advances Change Our World, by David Hambling, is published today&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
San Francisco's Moscone Center was transformed into a facsimile of Chicago during the prohibition years for RSA Security's annual conference this month. The theme was chosen because code breaking played a big part in smashing the gangs caught up in the bootleg liquor trade. But were these not the same gangs who extorted vast sums of money to protect organisations from unnamed threats? Who says Americans have no sense of irony?One thing that differentiates RSA's conference is that it welcomes competitors to take part. Keeping friends close as attendees, and enemies even closer by bonding with them as sponsors, creates an event that feels dangerous and unpredictable.This year, it included a showdown worthy of the St Valentine's Day Massacre, even though the big guns arrived a day late on February 15.First to take a few pot shots was Bill "Babyface" Gates. During the previous week he had taken over the Sybari gang to gain new weapons to fight the virus and spam scams. At the show, he vowed other virus, spam and spyware outfits should watch out   as Microsoft developed the best protection racket in the world. The next version of Internet Explorer, due in test form this summer, will also contain code to fight malware and spyware, as the company starts the second wave of its Trustworthy Computing initiative.Microsoft seemed to be getting the lion's share of good news. Elsewhere at the conference, two Florida-based researchers - one a Linux fan and the other a Windows supporter - revealed the results of a shootout between Linux and Windows servers. The bottom line is that the Windows Server 2003 environment is more secure than Red Hat Enterprise Server 3.The systems under comparison were running databases, scripting engines and Microsoft or Apache web servers. The criteria, which both parties agreed to beforehand, included the number and severity of reported vulnerabilities, the number of patches issued and the "days of risk" - the period from the first report of a vulnerability to the date a patch is issued. This totalled just over 30 days for Windows, compared with 71 days for Linux.It made Babyface's day, but warm fuzzy feelings rarely last long in this   racket. No doubt the results will be disputed.Next on stage was the conference godfather, Art "Don" Coviello, RSA security's chief executive officer. His mood was serious as he summed up the past 12 months - a year when the confidence of the industry was severely shaken by continuing swarms of worms and viruses, and hordes of remote-controlled zombie computers launching denial of   service attacks on websites.But Don Coviello was not having a good show, and upstart platinum sponsor Verisign was being a pest of a guest. A key product in the RSA armoury is its SecurID token, which throws up a new password every minute. Verisign unveiled its version of a password token with a showtime special offer to users of "competing" systems - and Verisign's $10 per token undercut   RSA's protection charge by a third.The Don saw a turf war start and took action. The main act was to announce that later this year, a single sign-on service will be available based around SecurID. Websites will be able to subscribe to SecurID and federate the use of the tokens with other sites in the scheme. This not only shot holes in Verisign's plans, but also peppered Microsoft's Passport sign-on system in the crossfire.Following Coviello's departure, John "Debugs" Thompson, the head of Symantec, took the blunt axe as his weapon of choice. Before laying out Symantec's corporate protection plans, he ground his axe on Microsoft's reputation, pointing out that its efforts were noble but limited to Windows, and that Symantec offered products for many operating systems. He added: "We aren't distracted by computer games and a lot of other, unrelated stuff."A new dawn brought John Chambers, Cisco's chief executive and Inside IT's conference host. Eschewing the stage for the aisles of the auditorium, Chambers prowled around preaching self-healing in his evangelistic Texan drawl. "Bring me your sick networks, your broken switches, your tangled cables, and I will make them whole," he seemed to imply.Cisco launched 10 products to support its Self Defending Network strategy. Other companies call this approach self-healing networks, adaptive architectures, virus throttling and so on. What Cisco is peddling is not unique. Like all the others, it looks for anomalies that may indicate malware in operation. It then isolates that sector of the network and neutralises the threat.The main difference in Cisco's approach is that it takes a network view of a system rather than a server-centric view. This different perspective treats all network devices as potential candidates for electronic death row.The security mob is heading for Japan, but will be in Vienna in October for the RSA Security Conference 2005.www.rsaconference.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
The UK holds the top spot for pirating  TV shows, followed by Australia and  then the US (Second Sight, February  17). I must say I'm surprised at the figures  for the US being so under average.http://www.livejournal.com/users/ngenesisJoe Gordon, an employee fired by Waterstones  for occasionally mentioning  bad work days on his blog (Second  Sight, February 10), has been hired by  Forbidden Planet to deal with the  comic book chain's online business.  As part of his new job, he'll maintain a  weblog to update customers on company  business.http://www.thoughtballoons.blogspot.comI've been pleased to see that World of  Warcraft's release across the pond  has been met with enthusiasm (One  for the record books, February 17), even if Blizzard did manage to screw  up another major release. World of  Warcraft keeps getting more interesting.  Although it was almost effortlessly  easy to learn the basics, there's a level  of scale and depth beneath the surface  that I constantly feel I'm just beginning  to appreciate.rendergaming.blogspot.comRupert Murdoch, famously sceptical  about "new" media, has gathered his  top management to work out a new  strategy for the internet (Onlineblog,  February 16). He can smell the money  shifting and clearly wants a slice of  the new pie.www.mobile-weblog.comRemoval of digital rights is a much  more critical issue for Napster than for  iTunes (Onlineblog, February 20). If  Napster DRM is easily removed, their  music rental model is completely nulli-fied. I could join for one month and  download 24 hours a day, getting  thousands of tracks for only $15.  That has to worry the record  company executives.Philblogs.guardian.co.uk/onlineThirty out of 14.1m Xbox power  cables are defective, so they're  replacing them all (Xbox fault found,  February 18)? Microsoft simply has  too much money to pay for this kind  of stupidity.Dazblogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesSay it costs Microsoft £4m - it  saves them being sued over a burnt  down house. They are just covering  their backs for a potentially large  lawsuit.Don Carlosblogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Press releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
Golden oldiesAsk Jeeves (www.ask.com) is one of the biggest engines outside the top table, and claims to be most people's "second favourite engine". The original concept of using natural language ("where can I find bike shops in Glasgow?") still holds true, although it also caters for keyword searching. The hard work is done by the Teoma engine (www.teoma.com), which Jeeves acquired in 2000. Both give clean results, including image and related search options, and Jeeves also offers MyJeeves, which remembers your searches and lets you save important ones.Other long-standing search names are still going, though most have been bought out by larger rivals or exist in radically different forms. Pioneer AltaVista (www.altavista.com) was bought out by a series of small firms until it was hoovered up by Yahoo, and it now uses Yahoo results, though it still boasts one of the web's best translators, BabelFish (babelfish.altavista.com). Other engines including Inktomi have also been consumed by the Yahoo brand.One of the web's earliest search successes, Lycos (www.lycos.com), is still around, though it, too, has changed hands many times. It now works in tandem with Hotbot (www.hotbot.com), a metasearch site that pulls results from across several engines to produce aggregated - and theoretically better - results.Dogpile (www.dogpile.com) is probably the best-known metasearch engine, and draws results from Jeeves, Google, Yahoo and others. It pulls answers from these and removes duplicates, but sometimes misses some of the more idiosyncratic results. It also searches across images, audio, video and news. If you find the results aren't quite your cup of tea, you could turn to MetaCrawler (www.metacrawler.com), which is also owned by Dogpile's parent company, Infospace. Metacrawler was launched in 1994, so it has a long track record, and it produces filtered results from a familiar range of sources.ClusteringSeveral of the lower league search engines use a technique known as clustering to help users filter out the best results. This intelligently divides a morass of answers into categories, to help users weed out unwanted pages - particularly useful if you get thousands of results on your keywords.Clusty (www.clusty.com) is still in beta-testing mode, but combines Google-like search functions with clustering options. A search for "Guardian Online", for example, pro duced clusters including newspapers, politics, journalism, entertainment, books and angels. You can build categories based on either topic, source or URL, and the news and image searches seem fairly accurate, even if they sometimes return fewer results than you might need.Australian-based Mooter (www.mooter.com) has a more visual approach, presenting clusters as a spider diagram, and shows a more traditional list when you click on your chosen category - but by the time you get to the results, they seem much the same as other engines.Kartoowww.kartoo.com) takes the visual option further by drawing Flash "maps" of search results. While visually interesting, it can be cumbersome and seems to throw up a lot of commercial results.Regular and real timeOther sites have chosen different ways to change Google's search paradigm. Some have opted for more regular - or even real-time - searching, taking results from the web as they happen rather than relying on an irregularly updated library of results.Daypop (www.daypop.com) trawls news sites and weblogs at least once a day, producing good results, while Technorati.com (www.technorati.com) applies itself purely to weblogs but picks up new pages within minutes of them being published. The basic search is adequate, though it sometimes suffers from time outs. The recently launched "tags" function incorporates blog categories, social bookmarking site del.icio.us and photo-sharing service Flickr to create ad-hoc keyword homepages.Local searchesSome search firms focus on geographical niches, favouring local results to offer what could be more appropriate answers. Several target the British market, including UKWizz (www.ukwizz.com), which looks quite basic and struggles to compete with Google's local search (www.google.co.uk).Newsnow (www.newsnow.co.uk), a British-based news searcher, sifts through headlines on news stories and categorises them by age. It is very good for basic searches ("Beckham", for example) but you have to pay to search for multiword phrases or inside the full text of an article.Exalead, which is still in beta, (http://beta.exalead.com) is a well-designed attempt to provide as many search options as possible, including geographically   based ones. It also includes audio and video searching, limited clustering and the ability to search for different document types - all without cluttering the interface.Honourable mentionsBlinkx (www.blinkx.com) drops keyword search in favour of clever artifical intelligence to find what you're looking for. The interface is clunky, but it draws results from the web, your desktop and other sources.Icerocket (< a href="http://www.icerocket.com">www.icerocket.com) is quite similar to the big engines, but provides a screenshot of the page the result comes from, and searches both blogs and photographs within blogs - though that seems limited.Singing Fish (www.singingfish.com) focuses on audio and video search. It is not perfect and is unlikely to give you huge numbers of results (just 10 for "Eminem Mosh", for example) but it is customisable and has a parental filter.Websbiggest (www.websbiggest.com) ranks pages by the amount of traffic they get, while Looksmart (www.looksmart.com), a survivor of the early days, focuses on being a portal, offering little to the search melee.Amazon-owned A9 (www.a9.com) organises and recalls searches easily (handy if you can't remember how you found that website last Saturday), but the basic results are provided by Google. It links up with Amazon.com and the Internet Movie Database, making it useful for searching across books and movies.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published please say so.
They seem to have garnered a lot of coverage this week, one way or another, but there's even more news fromAppletoday - this time nothing but good.They've revamped both the iPod Mini and iPod Photo, with new models and lower prices which are seemingly aimed at extending Apple's grip on the digital music market. The second generation Mini now comes in the traditional 4GB size for just £139 and a new 6GB model for £169. That's a substantial reduction in price.Just as big are the changes in line for Photo, which drops down to a 30GB model for £249 and a 60GB model for £309. With prices like that, they're basically moving very close to bog-standard iPod prices (probably ready to replace the black and white screen iPod in the long term).Apple are also hooting about increases in battery life for Mini and trailing a new soon-to-be-released product called the iPod Camera Connector which (in a kind of "does what it says on the tin" way) let you "import photos from your digital camera... for instant viewing and slide show playback on iPod photo".I just spoke to Greg Joswiak, Apple's vice president of hardware product marketing, who gave me the official line. "We're now in a position to deliver the best product at the best prices for anyone who loves music," he said.When I asked him whether these substantial price cuts were because the top end models had been overpriced and underselling, he said that these reductions had been long-planned."We have continued to do well, and we've now sold 10 million iPods to date - 8 million in the last year, and we want to continue to lead this market." The iPod Photo, he said, "It was intentionally positioned at the top of the range in the last quarter," and that pressure from rivals had little to do with the cuts.What about existing customers? After all, someone walking into an Apple store yesterday and picking up a 40GB iPod Photo for more than £359 would now feel pretty miffed when they saw that today they could get a model that was 50% bigger for around fifty notes less."We're sympathetic," said Joswiak. "But that product is just as good a product today as it was yesterday."Well, that's true enough, but it was also a lot more expensive. Have the lessons of the cheap and cheerful Shuffle shone through and shown Apple a way forward? I don't know. Certainly higher volumes are helping Apple cut down the cost per unit of iPods, but I get the feeling that they've now realised they can make an awful lot more money by appealing to one of the most basic consumer instincts - the desire to pay low prices. That change has been a long time coming.
