Nintendo has officially revealed the final controller design for its forthcoming Wii U console. Named the GamePad, the tablet-style pad features two freshly added analogue sticks at each side of the 6.2in touchscreen as well as motion sensors and a built in universal remote control for television sets.The device also supports near-field communications (NFC), allowing it to read information to and from compatible objects such as action figures or special game cards placed on screen. NFC compatibility will mean the console could feature games such as Activision's hugely successful Skylanders, which lets players change their onscreen character by placing different figures on the "Portal of Power" NFC peripheral.During a half-hour video presentation on Sunday, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata also revealed a new dedicated social networking service for the console, named Miiverse. Using the customisable Mii characters that all Wii and 3DS users can create, the service appears to load up automatically when the console is switched on, showing what the viewer's friends are playing at that time.It also looks like owners will be able to use Miiverse to ask for help and chat during games. Messages can be typed on the GamePad screen or hand-written using a stylus – these can then be viewed on the GamePad display or even accessed via computer or smartphone browsers.Players will also be able to set up in-game video chats with their friends while playing. It's not clear, however, whether the new service will work like Xbox Live or PlayStation Network, offering achievement points and pervasive user accounts to players.There is also no word yet on the tech specs of the Wii U console itself, or on the release date and price of the machine, though it is due to be released by Christmas 2012. More details, including launch games, are expected to be announced at Nintendo's pre-E3 press conference on Tuesday.
The latest numbers for the access to Google Play - in other words, what the mix of devices that are active and connecting to Google's app market - are in.Covering the 14 days up to 1 June, they pretty much confirm what we predicted here at the beginning of the year:2012 is the year of Gingerbread. That's right, the version of Android that was released in December 2010.TheAndroid developer platform versionspage shows that Ice Cream Sandwich, released in November 2011, has now risen to 7.1% of devices accessing the market, up from just 4.9% a month ago. That's a 2.2 percentage point growth in a month - not an unprecedented amount (Gingerbread saw faster growth in mid-2011) but given the size of Android's device base now, it becomes harder to make an impact.Google Play: proportion of devices running different versions of Android accessing within 14-day period, since January 2010(Click the image for larger version, or view thelarger image here.)A few points.• Gingerbread + Froyo (2.2) make up 84.1% of the devices hitting Goggle Play. And devices hitting Google Play is indicative of people looking for apps.• Gingerbread is 65% on its own, though its growth has pretty much stopped; 18 months after its launch it's probably headed for a downward path after this as existing Gingerbread devices get updates to Ice Cream Sandwich. Froyo hit 65.9% in May last year, and then began heading down.• there's a tail of devices running Android 1.5 ("Cupcake") from April 2009 which keep on hitting Google Play; they're only 0.3% of the total, but as the total keeps rising month by month (surely - it's impossible for the 80m or so Android phones shipped in the first quarter of this year to have just been replacements) that means that there are more Android 1.5 devices being sold. Puzzle: what? And where? And doing what that they keep hitting the Google Play market?• Froyo is at 19.1%, down from 30.4% in January. In my article of December, I said that "Froyo will remain a significant market for developers to target at least through the first half of 2012; there are so many handsets running it out there (more than there are RIM subscribers) that it would be foolish". I'll stick with that.• without some more data from Google about activations and total numbers, it's impossible to put hard numbers on how many devices are running each version. In February Andy Rubin, Android chief,said there were 300m activated and 850,000 being activated every day- which by now would easliy take you to 400m. (But of course you have to allow for devices being retired.) At 400m, that would be 28.4m devices running ICS.We'd like to analyse the figures about screen sizes, butthosehaven't been updated yet - at present they're still showing the May figures. It might give some information about, for instance, what proportion of devices are the famed Samsung Galaxy Note, and so on. Possibly it might even give us some clues about those mysterious Cupcake devices. We're really intrigued by them.
Sing, O muse, of the wrath of the publishers, as Homer might have said if he was trying eke a living from his stylus in the digital age. Beset by pirates, ravished by Amazons; it's stormy on the wine-dark sea right now.Still, good stories will find readers, whatever the medium. The Orange prizewas won last week by Madeline Millerfor The Song of Achilles, her outstanding retelling of Achilles' story from the point of view of his lover, Patroclus. Bloomsbury, her publisher, immediately ordered a 35,000-copy reprint. It jumped to No 14 in the Amazon Kindle store's chart the day after the prize was awarded, up from 557 the day before.I went searching for a pirate version for the Kindle on the internet, expecting, given the dire predictions bandied about, to find it with ease. After an hour of searching, I had acquired one immovable new home page that masquerades as Google, an exhortation continually popping up to play bingo, various proposals from hot girls who want me and a very bug-infested, irritated computer. Plus one ripped-off audioclip of the first five minutes of The Song of Achilles – the bit when the book feels familiar and derivative, and before Patroclus' sad strangeness becomes evident.Perhaps I am to cyber-theft what Miller's Patroclus is to cheeriness. So I rootled about elsewhere and found reams of pirated stuff that could stock my Kindle for years. Huge packages of hundreds of titles are just waiting to be downloaded – many of them populated by dead and out-of-copyright authors, but by no means all. In one package I found all of Bernard Cornwell's 24 Sharpe novels. All the research, all the painstaking ferreting out of historical detail and the careful plotting; just so some immoral muppet masquerading as a free speech warrior can upload the lot and another immoral muppet can download it with a cheery "Thankz mate" in the comments box.It's difficult to get any accurate picture of the scale of pirating. Clearly it exists, but perhaps so far the books industry has evaded the problems that beset the music industry. By engaging with digital, however sulkily, publishers are not pushing readers into the arms of the pirates as the music moguls did to their cost. Once people are used to free, it's hard to woo them back.Some piracy is inevitable. But on The Pirate Bay, and some of the other bit-torrent sites I visited, the popular ripped-off books tend to be porn-based, or technical manuals, rather than Orange prize types beloved of the voracious readers targeted by publishers.While the pirates are the bogeymen, the real threat comes from Amazon. The migration to digital is utterly dominated by one company. The Kindle is becoming the "Hoover of e-readers", the chair of the Society of Authors, Lindsey Davis, told the Bookseller. In the US, the publishers facing a lawsuit for fixing e-book pricinglashed out last week, with Penguin accusing Amazon of"predatory" and "monopolist" behaviour. The company'salleged avoidance of paying corporation taxin the UK is also raising hackles.But the persistence of digital rights management (DRM) technology to limit sharing of digital books across platforms is entrenching Amazon's position. As more people buy Kindles, heavy book-buyers such as me end up with a Kindle stuffed with books I like toting around with me, making it hard to move to another platform no matter how queasy I feel about dancing to Amazon's tune.Two subsidiaries of the publisher Pan Macmillan are experimenting with dropping DRM – Tor UK, a sci-fi publisher, and Momentum Books, an Australian digital-only imprint. Others are nervous about following suit, largely over fears about making it even easier for the pirates.Meanwhile, Waterstones' decision to jump into bed with Amazon, andencourage shoppers to buy e-books via Amazon in its stores, has caused ructions in the book trade. Despite all the criticism of Waterstones' managing director, James Daunt, for the move, there is an idea there that could work. He plans to expand the Café W concept, making the bookshops the centre of a community that reads digitally as well as traditionally. It's about the book-buying experience as much as the books.Loitering on gamers' forums I found former freebie-hunters happy to pay to download paid-for games fromSteam, an online gaming site. They were willing to pay because it was easy to use and they engaged with the community aspect, the chatting to other gamers. This concept ought to translate to books; online as well as in cafes. Remember book clubs, after all.At the moment, no e-reader on the market matches the Kindle, but its store is uninspiring, and its algorithm-led attempts to chum up to users are terrible. Anyone who can produce a good e-reader and back it up with an engaging community for book lovers could take on both Amazon and the pirates, if publishers are bold about ditching DRM technology.Yet whingeing and hoping for a miracle are the twin strategies likely to dominate this week's literary festival in Hay-on-Wye, where local booksellers are calling for a ban on Kindles. As Homer really did say: "By their own folly they perished, the fools."
The problem with living through a revolution is that you've no idea how things will turn out. So it is with the revolutionary transformation of our communications environment driven by the internet and mobile phone technology. Strangely, our problem is not that we are short of data about what's going on; on the contrary we are awash with the stuff. This is what ledManuel Castells, the great scholar of cyberspace, to describe our current mental state as one of "informed bewilderment": we have lots of information, but not much of a clue about what it means.For many years, the most assiduous provider of data about the ongoing revolution has beenMary Meeker, an industry analyst who once worked for Morgan Stanley, the investment bank that acted as lead underwriter for the Netscape IPO in August 1995 (and thereby triggered the first internet boom). She began making an annual conference presentation, "The Internet Report", which acquired legendary status in the industry because it distilled from the froth some elements of reality.Ms Meeker is now a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caulfield &amp; Byers, one of Silicon Valley's leading venture capital firms, but she has not abandoned her old habits. Last week she presented her latest annual report –now labelled "Internet Trends"– at theWall Street Journal's All Things Digital conference in California.It's a whopping 112-slide presentation, which bears serious contemplation. Buried within it are some startling numbers. For example, Meeker estimates that there are now 2.3 billion internet users worldwide, which is nearly a third of the world's population and that number is growing at 8% per year. But what's more startling is there are now 1.1 billion 3G mobile subscribers and that they are increasing at 37% per year.What's significant about that? Two things: first it means that already a significant proportion of the world's population is accessing the internet via a mobile phone rather than via a fixed-line connection. Second, smartphones currently account for less than a fifth of all the mobile phones in the world – which means that the market for internet-enabled phones has a lot of room for further growth. So stand by for a continued increase in the number of smartphones used across the world.If you're a mobile network provider, this is probably great news: more and more customers to fleece with expensive data plans. If you're Facebook, then it's less good news because mobile advertising is much less profitable than standard online advertising. Slide 19 of Meeker's deck estimates that the eCPM (short for "effective cost per mille" – cost per thousand impressions) for mobile ads isfive timesless than the desktop equivalent. This explains some of the reservations buried in Facebook's pre-IPO filings to the Securities and Exchange Commission. It may also explain why Facebook is allegedly determined to launch its own smartphone: it's best to control the hardware if you're having difficulty squeezing juice out of ads placed by others.If, however, you're concerned about things such as freedom, control and innovation, then the prospect of a world in which most people access the internet via smartphones and other cloud devices is a troubling one. Why? Because smartphones (and tablets) are tightly controlled, "tethered" appliances. You maythinkthat you own your shiny new iPhone or iPad, for example. But in fact an invisible chain stretches from it all the way back to Apple's corporate HQ in California. Nothing, but nothing, goes on your iDevice that hasn't been approved by Apple.And even if you're not an Apple fanboy and sport an Android-powered mobile device, there is still the problem that your access to the internet is regulated by a company – your mobile network provider – which is free not just to charge prohibitively for access but also to decide what you can access and what you can't.This might not seem a big deal – after all, it's just capitalism doing its thing. But what it means is that with every new smartphone subscription we take another tiny but discrete step&nbsp;towards a networked world dominated by powerful corporations&nbsp;that can not only "regulate" the system in their own interests, but also control the speed of technological innovation to a pace that is convenient for them rather than determined by the creativity of hackers and engineers.This kind of dystopian outcome has long worried observers such as Harvard academic Jonathan Zittrain who saw the rise of the tethered appliance asa threat to the creative "generativity" of the internet. Up to now, critics have pooh-poohed these fears as unduly fatalistic. The data in Meeker's latest report, however, tell a different story: they point towards a tethered future in which we are the goats. Except that we will be the first goats in history who loved their tethers.
One of the most popular app store titles,SpellTower(£1.49, Zach Gage, iOS) has received a multiplayer update. What at first appears to be yet another word game soon becomes fantastically addictive with its mix of word-finding and Tetris.Letters fall from the top, the aim being to construct words from adjoining letters (those tiles then disappear). Words of five or more letters clear tiles around them, using a rare letter such as z clears the row, and each word can only be made once. There are different modes, from the simple "tower" to the more tactical "puzzle", but basically, if the pile of letters reaches the screen's top it's game over.Now with bluetooth "battle" mode, forming words on your screen sends tiles descending upon your opponents – ruining their plans and taking you closer to victory. It makes for an even more compelling purchase.
Offering a speculative look at near-future military operations,Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldieraims to re-energise the long-running Ghost Recon series with the barest hint of sci-fi. As far as tone goes, it's a success – an arsenal built upon current developments in combat technology means the game remains grounded rather than far-fetched; victory coming from putting skills to best use rather than employing overwhelming firepower. Its refined cover system and simplified squad commands help deliver a much more streamlined experience, while a nice extra touch for Kinect users is the ability to modify weapons with gestures,Minority Report-style.However, the story campaign serves more as training for the multiplayer modes than as a robust challenge in its own right – almost all the emphasis rests on the game's online components. That said, the target audience is likely looking for precisely that level of competition and will be well served by the variety on offer.
When Nintendo makes a game based on a real sport, it usually gives the company's iconic plumber the helm, and as an expert crafter of fantasy and good cheer, naturally he is on court forMario Tennis Open. The courts are splashed with brilliant colours, players plucked from a cast of classic Nintendo characters, with rackets that possess special abilities.Yet in spite of all the excess, at its core the game does capture a little of the basis of tennis. While it is a universe away from being a simulator, Nintendo's creation succeeds in delivering some sense of the pace and strategy of the game.On the downside, there's little here in terms of modes and extras beyond the tennis, and the touch-screen controls are less than intuitive, but some fine button controls, a smattering of enjoyable minigames and impressive AI in the doubles matches do much to redeem the shortcomings.
Playing as fireman Tom Riley,Resistance: Burning Skiespitches players into a no-surprises mission to rescue his family in the midst of an alien invasion. "No surprises" seems to be the defining trait of this first-person shooter (FPS), as it proves capable but largely uneventful, delivering nothing gamers won't have experienced better elsewhere.What it does best is show how much potential the Vita has in delivering a portable shooter. Twin thumbsticks give a full range of movement, while icons for grenades, secondary fire options and your ever-present axe are located on the touchscreen, in easy reach of the player's thumb. Other controls prove less adept, such as activating sprint by tapping the rear pad, but there's nothing truly broken in the mechanical workings of the game. Weapon variety is decent, with some imaginative alien tech thrown in, but underwhelming compared to the PS3's Resistance entries.Unfortunately, all these positive elements are restricted by world design that is inherently linear. Taking gamers on a by-the-numbers romp through the devastated east coast of America, the occasional set pieces offer sensation but little substance, no alternate routes and an almost depressingly small window for tactical play. An uninspiring online option offers a serviceable assortment of multiplayer modes but, like much of the game, they seem merely to be ticking boxes rather than something to be excited by.Resistance: Burning Skiesis by no means bad, but in being the premiere FPS on Vita, it should have reached or exceeded expectations. Instead, what might have been exceptional remains mediocre.
The Queen's diamond jubilee has been marked by a new Google Doodle featuring her silhouette, two diamonds in place of the 'O's' from the tech company's name and two of her beloved corgies.A gold-bordered blue robe with a diamond pattern flows from the silhouette, which is reminiscent of postage stamps, while the 'E' from Google sits on top of her crown.Events staged in tribute to the Queen's 60-year reign will be held across the UK during the extended four-day bank holiday, with spectacular public activities planned for the capital.The Royal Navy warship HMS Diamond signalled the start of the festivities in dramatic fashion by firing a 21-gun salute that boomed across Portsmouth harbour.The Queen starts her celebrations in earnest on Saturday with her traditional visit to the Epsom Derby to watch the thoroughbreds race.Preparations for a spectacular diamond jubilee river pageant on Sunday are also in place with up to a million people expected to line the banks of the River Thames and nearby open spaces to watch a 1,000-strong flotilla sail down the Thames, led by a royal barge.A special musical tribute to the Queen – diamond jubilee concert – will take place on Monday night, with pop veterans Madness performing on the roof of Buckingham Palace.A St Paul's Cathedral service of thanksgiving will be the highlight of Tuesday, ending with the Queen appearing on Buckingham Palace's balcony to acknowledge the tens of thousands expected to fill The Mall.
Resistance: Burning Skies, PS VitaIn the Resistance series, the second world war ends and aliens invade, first Europe then, in Burning Skies, fortress America.You're Tom Riley, the franchise's usual Joe Everyman, in this case spending the first five minutes as a fireman before getting down to business. All the familiar firearms are back, including the bullseye, which lets you tag enemies for auto aim, and the auger that lets you shoot through cover, along with additions like the mule, a crossbow cocked by dragging your thumb across the touch screen. Touch control is also used for melee attacks and lobbing grenades, proving generally useful even if it does create accidental grenade tosses, a problem that's predictably catastrophic in confined quarters. The Vita's beautiful screen and nicely balanced analogue joysticks make this as close to the PS3 games as you can get without mains power and a TV: a solid, if somewhat undifferentiated first person shooter.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £34.99Dragon's Dogma, Xbox 360 &amp; PS3Dragon's DogmaLike Skyrim, Dragon's Dogma gives your character a huge, monster-infested world to explore and, like Dark Souls, you'll need to engage in combat with the world's interesting and often lethally clawed denizens. Even though its over-familiar bestiary, dungeons and city folk in need of favours are so routine they're almost invisible, taking on the game's battles involves a novel twist in the hired hands called pawns. Working autonomously, pawns act as helpers in battle, rarely getting in the way or behaving suicidally, while your personal pawn can be hired by other players when you rest at an inn, providing extra income. Although the story has none of the visceral intrigue of The Witcher 2, with flimsy characters and pseudo-Shakespearian dialogue, the wonderful mechanics of its combats and skills, along with the impression it creates of a murderously unpredictable world, make it an involving adventure.Capcom, £39.99Games newsJet Set RadioDiablo 3is officially the fastest selling PC game of all time, managing to shift 3.5m copies in its first day and more than 6.3m in its first week. Things haven't been entirely trouble-free, with reports of some player accounts being hacked, as well as publisher Blizzard's confirmation that the game's real money auction house has been delayed indefinitely …Also out this week areSBK Generations(Xbox, PS3, PC) for armchair super-bike admirers;Summer Stars 2012(Xbox, PS3, Wii) delivering a pre-Olympics fix of swimming, cycling and athletics; whileScania Truck Driver(PC) lets you project yourself into the white-knuckle world of the HGV driver …Finally, Sega has announced that its wacky hip-hop flavoured skating game,Jet Set Radiois coming to PlayStation Vita, promising a playable version at this week's Electronics Entertainment Expo.
Hmmm, I'm not finding this one easy, to be honest. They may have added a few scoops and ridges to this latest generation of Vauxhall's compact MPV, and given it headlights that look from the front&nbsp;like a pair of boomerangs. But&nbsp;it's still a Zafira, one of the dullest vehicles on the road. A&nbsp;Zzzzzzzzzafira, I sometimes call it.I happen to mention on Twitter that I'm struggling to attain my usual lofty pinnacles of insightful motoring journalism, looking for inspiration. "I know from experience it's a s**t car", says @philippapotts. She tells me about some handbrake problems she's had, and that it's dull to drive. She's talking about the previous generation Zafira (duller still), so it would be unfair to take Philippa's comments on board. One of my so-called rivals, from another so-called newspaper, says his nephew was sick in the one he tested.Then@SarahMillican75sends me a tweet: "Does it smell nice? Is there somewhere you can keep an emergency tampon? Can I overtake arseholes without worrying? There," she writes, indicating the direction a motoring report should take. Hang on @SarahMillican75, theSarah Millican, off the telly! She's helping me with my review, how very excellent. I like her approach, too. From now on my reviews will take that format. Those are the questions I'll be asking. And answering. Here goes then.Odour. Right now this one smells of a new car, but one day it will smell of crisps, as all Zafiras do, because they're cars for families with lots of children. Crisps and sweets and maybe vomit. Like the man from the Independent's, hahaha.Tampon storage. Excellent. There all sorts of glove compartments, cup holders, sunglasses pockets (34 in total, Vauxhall says) etc which would do very well. Perhaps you're thinking of bulk buying? Not a problem. This is what the Zafira Tourer is excellent at – versatility in the back. Folding seats provide almost endless permutations depending on how many people/how much stuff you've got to carry. So you could have five children back there. Or perhaps two premenstrual women, separated by a central console (it can be a testing time, I'm told), with loads of room behind them for boxes of feminine hygiene products for when it all kicks off.Arsehole overtaking. Less impressive. It's probably a better drive than the previous model, but it's still a bit of a bus, to be honest – heavy, a little sluggish. But then it really is a bit of bus, so what do you expect? No one buys a Zafira for driving thrills. Or for any other kind of thrills. Unless you're into storage. Or being – and staying – behind arseholes. So to speak.Vauxhall Zafira Tourer 2.0CDTi 16vPrice£24,565Top speed120mphAcceleration0-60 in 9.1 secondsAverage consumption54.3mpgCO2 emissions137g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating5/10
The smartphone patent wars have heated up further, with Microsoft and Nokia hitting back at claims by Google that they are feeding mobile patents to a "troll" company that aims to extract billions of pounds of payments from handset makers and so push up prices.In a regulatory complaint filed on Thursday evening with the European Commission, the US Department of Justice and the US Federal Trade Commission, Google says that the two companies "are colluding to raise the costs of mobile devices for consumers, creating patent trolls that sidestep promises both companies have made. They should be held accountable, and we hope our complaint spurs others to look into these practices."Google is understood to be concerned that a company called Mosaid, which is building a large patent portfolio, will begin suing makers of handsets running Google's Android mobile software over claims that it infringes them. Last September Mosaid, based in Ottawa,took control of 2,000 Nokia patents, including a large number deemed essential to various phone standards. Microsoft is also understood to have given it control of a significant number of patents.Microsoft brushed off Google's claim as the "desperate tactic" of a company facing regulatory questions about its dominance of online search and digital advertising.Nokia also rejected Google's complaint, saying that any suggestion of collusion was wrong. "Both companies have their own IPR [intellectual property rights] portfolios and strategies and operate independently," it said in a statement. "Nokia has made regular patent divestments over the last five years. In each case, any commitments made for standards essential patents transfer to the acquirer and existing licenses for the patents continue. Had Google asked us, we would have been happy to confirm this, which could then have avoided them wasting the [European] commission's time and resources on such a frivolous complaint."But the Finnish company then twisted the knife, adding: "We agree with Google that Android devices have significant IP infringement issues, and would welcome constructive efforts to stop unauthorised use of Nokia intellectual property. Nokia has an active licensing program with more than 40 licensees. Companies who are not yet licensed under our standard essential patents should simply approach us and sign up for a licence."Nokia is suing Viewsonic, an Android device maker, claiming that it has not licensed standards-essential patents for a tablet being sold in Europe. European and US rules say that when a company submits a patent as essential to a standard, it must also agree to license it on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminary" (Frand) terms – so that licences cannot be withheld unreasonably, nor charged on different bases for different licencees. Equally, the patent holder can reasonably sue if a company implements the standard but does not license the patent – as Nokia claims Viewsonic is doing.Google declined a request to share the precise content of its complaint lodged with the regulatory bodies with the Guardian. While it this week won a significant victory over Oracle, which had claimed that Android infringed both copyright and patents on its Java programming language acquired from Sun, a significant number of Android handset makers have signed per-handset licences with Microsoft over patents, while Apple is suing Samsung, HTC and Motorola – three of the largest Android makers – over patents."Patent trolls", formally known as "non-practising entities", are companies which own patents but which do not make anything of their own. They then use the threat or procedure of litigation to force companies that they say infringe patents to pay licensing fees. However, Mosaid does not only use patents; it is also amanufacturer of Nand flash memory.Google's attack on Microsoft and Nokia marks the escalation of the legal brawls among technology giants trying to gain the upper hand in the rapidly growing market for mobile computing.Motorola Mobility, now owned by Google and acquired for its 17,000-strong patent portfolio, has so far resisted efforts by Microsoft to pay for its use of Android – instead hitting back with its own patents on video and other systems. But in April the EC opened an inquiry into Motorola's refusal to license "standards-essential" patents used for 3G to Apple and for H.264 video decoding to Microsoft.Nokia joined forces with Microsoft last year when it agreed to adopt Windows Phone as the operating system on its cellphones.Mosaid has made it clear it believes it is sitting on a potential goldmine.After Nokia and Microsoft sold it the patents, Mosaid estimated the royalties from the intellectual property rights could bring it more $1bn in revenue over the next decade. Under terms of the sale, Mosaid keeps one-third of the revenue from the patent royalties with the remainder going to Nokia and Microsoft. That means Mosaid's revenue estimates imply the patents could generate licensing fees of $3bn during the next decade.Mosaid declined to comment on Thursday. It is already Apple for alleged patent infringement in a Texas federal court.Some of the patents cover parts of open-source software known as the Linux kernel, a form of freely available computer coding that Google used in building its Android operating system. Google alleges Mosaid is reneging on a commitment that Nokia made in a 2005 regulatory filing when the company pledged not to enforce patents against software relying on the Linux kernel.
In its time, the original Star Trek series has inspired many inventions – the flip-open mobile phone (based on the crew's communicators), handheld medical diagnostics (based on its tricorder) – but now an engineer of 30 years standing says we should go the whole way and build the Starship Enterprise.The cost? A trillion dollars (£648bn) – but if spread over 20 years, argues "Dan", who has proposed the idea, it would cost only 0.27% of the US's gross domestic product, or about half what the Apollo project did in the 1960s."Just look how many young people were inspired to study engineering by the character Scotty from Star Trek," he writes on the websitebuildtheenterprise.org, which was set up to push the idea. "Well, I bet a lot of young people would be inspired if we actually built the first generation of /Scotty's ship/.""Dan" admits that it won't actually be the dilithium-powered warp-driven faster-than-light photon torpedo-bearing galaxy-class starship piloted by Captain James T Kirk. He writes: "The Star Trek adventures in the NCC-1701-x Enterprise ships take place starting in the year 2245. Our technology today is just not up to building a starship; that will have to wait for a Gen4 ship or later."But he does think that we could still build an interesting and useful spaceship that would be just as large as the fictional one, but with some differences. It would have a 1.5 gigawatt nuclear power plant rather than dilithium crystals; artificial gravity in its saucer-shaped crew quarters generated by rotating one part of it (rather as in 2001: A Space Odyssey), and a contra-rotating ring to stabilise the ship, perhaps filled with water or propellant.The reason for his modest proposal – which would require budget trimmings in other parts of the US – is, he says, that there's too little that's inspiring about modern space projects such as the International Space Station, which has cost about $100bn."The average person is left wondering why we are spending billions of dollars to build and maintain these fragile habitats," he writes on the site. "There is just not much inspiring about them, and they haven't mattered much for advancing science either. The ISS may cost over $100bn before its final days, and one must wonder what better space exploration projects could have been funded in its place.''Aboard the ISS there is no gravity, living quarters are cramped, you sleep floating in space – even using the toilet is comical and primitive. We are still stuck in the 1960s in many ways when it comes to putting human beings into space."Instead, he thinks, "As the second decade of the 21st century rolls along – isn't it time to expect something much grander for our human endeavours into space? Isn't it time for something that will truly inspire us again while at the same time definitively giving humanity a sustainable, permanent presence in space?"America is an affluent nation with 27% of the world's GDP. We can afford to dream much bigger."Ambitious – but Peter Bond, editor of Jane's Space Systems and Industry, and a longtime advocate of more ambitious space programmes, thinks it won't fly politically: "Nasa's current budget is about 0.1% of US GDP, so this would involve doubling or trebling that, and with America's political and budget situation I just don't think that's going to happen."Bond said that while "it's a great, fun idea", it would only be feasible if other countries could be persuaded to come aboard – as happened with the ISS. "Maybe if they got China, India, the Japanese and everybody else on board they could afford it," he said.Which was, of course, another feature of the USS Enterprise as portrayed in the 1960s series – its mixture of races and nationalities. At the time it was surprising – but maybe it just suggests that the 23rd century will be as financially strapped as this one is turning out to be.
'Hello Sweetie! Why do our dates always end in the destruction of the universe?By this time of year, we would ordinarily be well into a new series of Doctor Who. But thanks to the BBC's wibbly-wobbly, timey-wimey scheduling of the show lately, we're being kept waiting until autumn for the final days of the Ponds.So with the arrival of The Eternity Clock, a side-scrolling platform puzzler for PS3 and Vita, we're as excited about the year's first new Doctor Who as we are apprehensive about the historically lousy quality of Timelord-related gaming thus far.A time-storm surrounds the Earth, and the Doctor and River Song must travel across time to stop it. The go in search of something called the Eternity Clock, a planet that is a record of everything that has or will ever happen in all of existence.With Amy and Rory off-screen and not mentioned, we must assume this takes place somewhere between last year's finale and Christmas special. Or it could be in one of the incremental gaps we're told will separate the first block of this year's episodes, which will lead to their exit.It's a shame not to see the Ponds, but with them on their way out and the game purportedly the first in a trilogy, that's hardly surprising. In any case, there are few sights that make me smile as much as the sight of Doctor Song breaking out of her Stormcage Containment prison facility by smooching guards with her hallucinogenic lipstick.That, from the outset, is one of the things that the game gets right. And rather wonderfully, both Matt Smith and Alex Kingston have shot motion-capture sequences and extensive voice work to give this the feel of a proper canonical Doctor Who story.The writing and the delivery is as good as you'd expect, and seeing them both skirt between Elizabethan, Victorian, present-day and far future eras, facing off against (some beautifully rendered) Daleks, Cybermen, Silurians and Silence goes some way to providing the kind of expansive, psychedelic mash-up story that gaming could afford Doctor Who. If only that were not the end of the good news ...'This storm is tearing time to pieces in here. I don't know how much longer we can take it!'Unfortunately, any sustained period of time spent actually playing The Eternity Clock will leave you with a similarly desperate feeling. Doctor Who games have always set very specific problems.The Doctor's MO is that he never uses violence, which is all very well in a TV drama, but leaving a game dependent on stealth and puzzles and keeping it pacey enough to actually feel like Doctor Who. Having the less-Pacifist River onside means enemies can at least be stunned, and she can disable guards with her lipstick.Equally, developer Supermassive has come up with a novel way of being able to kill our hero without him regenerating – the Eternity Clock just resets time. And unlike the dire Nintendo effort of two years ago, Back To Earth, the 2D side-scrolling format provides a fathomable way in to non-gamers who just want to explore the world of Who.But it's so unweidly, laborious, repetitive, as well as being often fiendishly and unfairly difficult that it's difficult to imagine anybody sticking with it for very long with anylessincentive than the actual destruction of the universe. It's a shame, because there's still a great Doctor Who tie-in destined to get made in the mists of time. This is one step closer, but certainly not it.Mysteries and QuestionsAside from the question of "when will somebody finally make the game that Doctor Who deserves?" there's little here to advance any particular ongoing story. Or is there?Part of the unlockable content in the game lets you find pages of River's diary. Could some still-to-come TV plot-points be hidden within them? Nevertheless, I'm hoping to meet the fabled Jim The Fish.Time-Space DebrisYou can also unlock the Doctor's collection of hats, over and above the fez and the stetson the Doctor was so cruelly shot off his head by fashion-forward River. Yet pointlessly, you can't actuallywearthem.Just like on the revived TV show, the Cybermen provide a weak link. One of the most ludicrously frustrating sequences sees a vaguely-described puzzle force you to wait several long minutes for them to stomp up some stairs and smash a window. And then likely have to do it all over again.Could there be a way to satisfactorily incorporate the Silences' biggest sell, which is their memory-proofing? Nowthatwould be cool.All that prison food probably means River hasn't been eating properly. Her avatar is virtually emaciated.Still, let us at least be grateful that this is not Back To Earth for Wii.Doctor Who returns to TV this autumn. And not a moment too soon!
When websites suggest PC configurations, usually you can choose between "home computing" and "gaming". If the former is 0 and the latter 100, where does photo processing lie? 50? With this in mind, could you suggest a good configuration for a dual-monitor PC that would be used to process photos with Adobe Photoshop CS6 and Lightroom 4? There's home computing to do too, but photo processing would be its raison d'être.I'm thinking of spending up to maybe €1,500 (£1,208), not counting the monitors, on a high-end system that will be fast, as energy efficient as fast can be, and that will continue to deliver the goods for four years or more. Lots of memory, fast disks, including possibly an SSD, fast processor (Ivy Bridge?), a GPU that can give PhotoShop a helping hand….AllenTo answer your first question, "photo processing" now covers most of the spectrum between "home computing" and "gaming", from 0 to 90. Almost everybody now does some photo processing on their PC, even if it's just cropping images and removing red-eye. Today's home computers can also run PhotoShop, and according to Adobe, even PhotoShop CS6 (Creative Suite 6) only needs a minimum specification of a Pentium 4, 1GB of memory and 512MB of video RAM.  Myseven-year-old Dell desktop, with its new graphics card £20 memory upgrade, beats that.On the other hand, if you are a professional editor using PhotoShop with lots of layers, and lots of filters, to manipulate gigabyte files, then you will want the sort of high-end system designed for gaming or, more accurately, video editing with Adobe Premiere, After Effects and so on.Your 50 rating suggests you are somewhere between the two extremes, and you have a good idea what you want. The tricky bit is getting a balanced system without any obvious bottlenecks. You can almost always get more performance by spending more money, but you quickly run into the law of diminishing returns. For example, it's not worth your while spending twice as much on a graphics card that delivers a 10% improvement in overall performance.The choice of processor is relatively simple: go for an Intel Core i7 Ivy Bridge if you can afford it, or a Core i5 if you are willing to compromise. The Ivy Bridge versions are smaller and slightly faster than the Sandy Bridge versions, but there's not a massive difference. I don't think the quad-core 3.5GHz i7-3770K Ivy Bridge would be noticeably faster in your system than a Core i7-2600K Sandy Bridge, the main advantage being the better built-in graphics. Otherwise, the Core i5-3570K is only a little slower and, being a lot cheaper, is much better value.When it comes to memory, it depends on the size of the photos you want to process, but 8GB is the minimum, and 12GB is probably the "sweet spot". You could go for 16GB if it's within your budget, and if possible, get a motherboard that supports 32GB or more. You will obviously need a 64-bit version of Microsoft Windows 7 to exploit this much memory.The choice of graphics card is the hardest part, and if you are not building it yourself, you may want to buy a PC with no graphics card and add one later. Just be sure to get one that's on Adobe's list ofSupported NVIDIA graphics cards for GPU acceleration. Strictly speaking, these are recommended for video editing, but the long-term trend is towards using the graphics processor to accelerate repetitive operations.From what I read, the Quadro 2000 seems to be the pro choice for PhotoShop users, but the GeForce GTX 570 has a better specification and should deliver better performance for half the price. (The Quadro 2000 is based on the old GeForce GTS 450.) The Top 50 machines on Bill Gehrke's page ofPPBM5 Benchmark Resultsare all GTX cards, and there are three GTX 570's in the top 10. The newer and more power-efficient GTX 670 is not yet on Adobe's list.When it comes to hard drives, speed is important for PhotoShop performance. However, 7,200RPM is good enough, and 10,000RPM is probably not worth the extra cost. Go for a drive such as a WD Caviar Black, Samsung Spinpoint F3 or Hitachi Deskstar 7K3000, and ideally, for two hard drives. (Two 1TB drives would be better than one 2TB drive. Of course, one physical hard drive partitioned into two drives is not the same thing at all.)Some people want three or four drives for heavyweight photo editing, with Windows and CS5 on different drives, and an SSD (Solid State Drive) for scratchpads. However, SSDs are still expensive – perhaps twice the price of a WD Caviar Black for a quarter of the storage – and probably not as reliable. Personally, I'd spend the money on extra RAM, which reduces the need for scratchpads and disk access, but I've never tried running PhotoShop with an SSD so I could well be wrong.Tom's Hardware has benchmarked a number of SSDs and produced anSSD Hierarchy Chart.As for energy efficiency, that barely comes into it. The Ivy Bridge chips are more energy-efficient than the Sandy Bridge versions, and an SSD would save a bit of energy compared to a traditional hard drive. Against that, the graphics card will consume tons of power, and you should make sure your PC has a beefy power supply to keep everything running comfortably. OneGeForce GTX 570 reviewmeasured this card as taking 369W under full stress, so the minimum PSU would be 600W. To allow some headroom, I'd aim for a bit more.A PC with a Core i7-3770K, 16GB of memory, GeForce GTX 570 graphics card, terabyte hard drive, 256GB SSD and DVD drive should come in around your £1,200 or €1,500 budget. Unfortunately, it might be hard to find one off-the-shelf, especially with a large power supply. (I checked a likely prospect, theDell XPS 8500, but that has a 460W PSU.)However, there are plenty of small companies that build this kind of PC to order. For example, theThe Vanquish 1250 PCfrom PC Specialist Ltd comes close, and you could probably spec a system atCougar Extremeand similar sites. If you can find a supplier within driving distance, that would be good.I reckon this PC will last four years, but if you go for a lower specification today you could give it a "mid-life kicker" after two years. For example, if you go for 8GB and two 1TB hard drives, the mid-life kicker would be to increase the memory to 16GB and add an SSD, or perhaps upgrade the graphics card. After two years, you should have a good idea where the system's bottlenecks are, and you can address those.
It is a truth universally acknowledged that for Microsoft's upcoming tablet strategy to be a success, there's going to need to be a ton of apps available. It's part of what's known as the "ecosystem", the amorphous mass of software, content, support, and mindshare that turns a platform into a bestseller (iOS) as opposed to a messed-seller (RIM).But each platform also has a second ecosystem which acts as a catalyst to the first. Developers have their own ecosystem of information, community, components, and support in order to build the apps that make up the first ecosystem.Problem is, one essential part of this second ecosystem that developers use to build their apps is moving far too slowly to be useful to Windows 8.In fact, if it doesn't get its groove on and really start moving, you can kiss the chance of having a decent set of apps at the launch later this year goodbye.PolyglotOver the past few years, the Microsoft developer community has been maturing and changing so that it looks much more like the world of non-Microsoft development. The hallmark over in the non-Microsoft world is one of a collegiate, almost academic atmosphere with lots of great sharing and ideas. This new style of working is coming over to the Microsoft world and I love it, and I think most Microsoft developers love it too. It's got the potential to turn us all into proper hackers again.Microsoft developers now understand that today they have to be polyglot developers – able to work with .NET, but also with JavaScript, jQuery and functional languages, and to know their way about *nix boxes, and so on. The knock-on effect is that most developers have managed to shed their "not invented here" (NIH) syndrome and have really gone full pelt after aggregating open source projects into their software. It's no longer about vast, proprietary enterprise frameworks. It's relatively normal to find much more straightforwardly constructed line-of-business (LOB) and retail software made up of bundles of open source software projects.And it's that part that's really screwing up the process of developing for Windows 8 tablets. Almost none of those open source projects that people want to use are available on WinRT yet, despite developers having had access to the toolset for nine months already.It's not really .NETThe problem is that WinRT isn't really .NET. Ignoring the fact that you can actually build Metro-style apps without going anywhere near .NET, even the bits that look like .NET aren't. (You've never lived until you've seen .NET exceptions containing COM HRESULTs.) Projects that work fine on .NET have to be ported over to WinRT. (This is similar to the way a lot of open source components got ported to Silverlight, but Silverlight is still just .NET and doesn't have the slightly barking WinRT stuff mixed in.)At this point in the game, you're going to get two sorts of developers building apps for Windows 8. A tiny minority will be proper developer shops with real money and real expectations of realising a return on their investment. The remaining 99% will be jobbing software hackers working in "cottage industry" mode at the evenings and weekends.This is already happening with Windows Phone. Yes, apps are going up to theWindows Phone Marketplacebut it's slow and steady because of this "cottage industry" approach.But let's say you want to build an app for Windows 8. Likelihood is you'll want to use some open source projects that you're already familiar with.We'll make this specific – don't worry if these projects or concepts aren't familiar to you; what these things actually do isn't important in this discussion. You want an inversion of control container. More specifically, you want to use the popular open source projectTinyIoC. TinyIoC is owned bySteve Robbins, and it's a fairly typical .NET open source component. Steve has a day job, and TinyIoC is popular because it's good, usable, and because Steve offers good support.Problem is, TinyIoC doesn't yet run in WinRT. (It will do, by the way.) So you now have two options – you can port it over and contribute to the project, or you can use something else. Either option is unattractive to developers operating in "cottage industry" mode as it's not like you've got someone paying you to do this. You're sponsoring yourself. The opportunity cost (ie, what you lose out on doing by making the choice) of faffing about is high.Let's say you port it yourself. The issue now is that because the ecosystem is so ropey, it turns out that TinyIoC has some unit tests that useMoq. OK, but Moq doesn't run on WinRT either.Whereas TinyIoC is – well – tiny, Moq isn't. Moq is huge, and complicated, and outstandingly popular. And it's also full of crazy IL emitting magic that makes it very, very hard to port.(Incidentally I have been trying to port Moq to WinRT. You can find my effortsover on GitHub. I could really do with getting in touch with people who use Moq to make sure it works well in Metro-style development. Please do give me aping on Twitterif you can help.)Not having Moq in the WinRT developer ecosystem is far more serious than not having TinyIoC, because Moq is a much bigger and more popular project, so the chances of any given developer wanting to use it are that much greater. And the problem gets harder because Moq depends on something calledCastle, which is absolutely gigantic andalsonot supported on WinRT. Not having Castle starts knocking all sorts of projects offline. Incidentally, Castle is also outrageously hard to port.This happens everywhere you look. WinRT was announced nine months ago, but it's only in the past two weeks thatSQLite.org has come out and said it will support SQLite in WinRT. NHibernate? No. RavenDB? Yes, for a client, no for embedded. I looked at porting RavenDB's embedded mode, and that's got a slew of components that aren't supported on WinRT yet.On Nuget (the Windows packaging framework for open source projects), of 6103 packages,only 23 are tagged as WinRT.There are some bright spots: Json.NET 4.5 (a very popular JSON handling framework)does support WinRTas doesMVVM Light.Incidental dig at RIMIncidentally, look at RIM's developer ecosystem. No content, no tools, no open source support, nothing to speak of. Now look at any other developer ecosystem. Now back to RIM. See the problem? (There are no examples of a platform succeeding without a vibrant developer ecosystem, by the way.)Stop/startThose of us who are keenly watching Microsoft's transition into a post-PC world with Windows 8 know that to get any traction in retail against the iPad it needs an ecosystem. And for an ecosystem, it needs apps.So at this point I'm really wondering where all these apps are going to come from, at least in the short term.Microsoft knows how to build and support grassroots communities. (In particular Microsoft UK is doing a great job of this with various Windows 8 hacking sessions around the country. Take a lookMike Taulty's blog, and theMSDN UK blog.) Community content is building up, and there is more discussion on Twitter.But what's missing from the ecosystem is the open source project support, and that's chicken and egg. That side seems to be barely moving. And, interestingly, I'm not sure what Microsoft can directly do to jolly that side along in the immediate term short of targeted, specific support.Most of these projects, like Steve's TinyIoC, are just as "cottage industry" as the apps that they're looking to support. If the project owners don't see the demand for their tools in WinRT, the ports will be slow to come. And if the ports are slow to come, developers will get frustrated and stop trying to build apps for retail sale. If they stop trying, the Microsoft Store will have no apps and the iPad will win.What we need is those who run open source projects can either take the initiative port their stuff to WinRT, or find people – like me – who are happy to help them in their efforts. Surely with the Olympics and a jubilee, this is a good time for us all to pull together as a team?There are still tickets available to see Matthew talk at theProgramming Metro-style Apps Workshopin London on 13 June
Fifa isn't really a game, goes the perennial message from its creators – it's a continually evolving simulation. Every year, David Rutter, the producer of the series since 2007, has to sit in demo rooms around the world and explain to groups of skeptical journalists what this means.Fifa 13 doesn't merely refresh Fifa 12 with new players and modes; it's the latest instalment in an obsessive odyssey towards realism. We might not all buy the message, but that's the heart of it. They do love football at EA's sporty Vancouver campus and they're determined to do it justice.That doesn't always mean a total rewrite of the entire engine, either. The through line of Fifa 13 seems to be refinement."Last year was about lots of new technology," says Rutter. "The player impact engine did a good job of updating the fluidity and dynamics of the game - it introduced all these amazing animations, some of which were quite humorous, but on the most part added a sense of continuity. However, they didn't really change the game so much. This year we wanted to take the technological additions and build true game-changing features on top of them."For attacking teams this is going to mean much more cohesive and expressive behaviour from AI players. "We're doing a lot of work with off the ball runs," says Rutter. "Being able to stay onside better, creating a feeling of the team as a whole attacking with you."This should put an end to players running in and out of offside positions, blindly prompted by the movements of their team-mates – instead, they should decide where they want to go, and then subtly adjust their direction, shape and pacing depending on the defensive line. "Think pathfinding," says Rutter, "but significantly more committed, dynamic and aggressive."Rutter also talks about the reactive behaviour of top players – the way Van Persie will realise he's in a poor position, then duck out to forge some space for himself. "Our players will now do that too," he says. "Players will bend their runs wide to allow the ball to be played in behind them."Or, if they have nowhere to go, they'll run slightly away from the goal to open up space. They'll also whip around defenders to stay on their run – they're much more decisive."During my hands-on demo, I saw a little of this happening, especially with computer-controlled players responding much earlier to my attacks. When you go forward, they'll make themselves available even when they're probably a couple of passes away from the ball. Although Fifa players have always stuck a hand up to request the ball, they do seem to be doing it a lot earlier in Fifa 13, gaining a few yards on defenders since last year.The most controversial element is likely to be the push/pull option, located on the B button, which allows players to start physically grabbing and shoving an opponent before they've even received the ball, potentially stealing possession.It needs to remain within the laws of the game though and yellow cards will be shown for persistent muggers. More subtly, defenders will now be able to simply step in front of attackers to gain possession, rather than going in with a risky tackle – this will also allow you to shepherd the ball out when it's approaching the touchline.In play, what this all adds up to is a noticeably more springy, improvisational game. The ball rebounds off shins and backs, or richochets between players, squirming out at unforseen angles.While players were certainly capable of clattering into each other in Fifa 12, there is more sense of controllable aggression here, thanks to the push/pull mechanism – even though the ramifications of a nudge in the attacker's back might not always be favourable, given the frisky new physics.As for the dribbling system, pushing both triggers while on the ball gets you a revised close control mode in which your player simultaneously strafes and dribbles, while facing the goal or the incoming defender. The system is much more expansive than previous iterations, allowing you to cover a lot more ground and really tease at the back line, looking for opportunities to sell the defender one way, before darting the other – apparently, they've taken elements of the skilful ball control engine from Fifa Street and added them to the main Fifa 13 system, via the left analogue stick."We wanted you to be able to really enjoy those moments when you're attacking goal," says Rutter. "Ronaldo will chop the ball one way then burst round the other side – this is something you can do in Fifa now. It's triggered contextually, so it'll happen automatically, but you can also instigate it yourself. This idea that you can lure the defender in then ghost past them at speed is one we've always wanted to achieve, and being able to do it while facing the goal is great."Part of the refinement has involved actually reducing the ability of some players. First touch control has gone through the mincer: "We're now calculating the outcomes of the player receiving a ball, based on context," says Rutter, who also tells us the new system is based on the shooting engine, and will give defenders new opportunities to take the ball from the attacker – and vice-versa."How the ball is spinning, the speed it's traveling, whether it's rising or falling … and also the position of the player, whether he's running, whether there's a defender pushing him – all detemine whether he'll be successful when the ball lands at his feet."In effect, a 50-rated defender won't be gracefully receiving long distance passes on one perfectly outstretched foot anymore. "It's not realistic, it's not football," says Rutter. "We need to allow for variety, drama and unpredictability. You're going to have to think more intelligently about how you're going to control the ball in difficult situations."Another interesting change is in the freekick system, which I've always had problems with in Fifa. You're now able to line up several players to pull off feints and fakes before actually taking the kick.Meanwhile, if you're defending, you can add extra players to a wall and hit a button to make them jump and reform, or even sneak forward (but the player you're in control of will get carded if he tries it on too much). For many, this won't address the single biggest criticism of the Fifa freekick mechanic – the sheer difficulty of scoring from a set-piece – but it at least adds some more options.There is clearly some balancing to do elsewhere. If there is to be pushing and pulling, you want it to be immediately effective; especially when you have a juggernaut like Micah Richards applying pressure to Jermain Defoe.However, on several occasions I had to virtually attack the opposing player to get him off balance. Also, turning on the ball feels a little slow, so the spinning, squirted passes that Tevez often feeds to his co-strikers feel tantalisingly out of reach.Nuanced is probably the right word for it all. Fans who were beginning to read – and even tire of – the staccato physical quirks of the last title, will find a whole new range of possibilities and outcomes. Fifa 13 may not currently look like an extraordinarily different beast to Fifa 12, but under the hood, it's seeking to tweak and fine tune what worked and quietly eliminate what didn't.And of course, there will be changes to the game's range of modes, including its ever-growing online component – all of which we'll deal with in another article. For now, a roomful of games writers are getting their hands on the immediate future of the Fifa simulation – and they're enjoying every second.
Europe's antitrust chief has given Google until 2 July to offer changes in its search results and advertising rules or face the threat of being taken to court and potentially huge fines.Joaquin Almunia, the head of competition policy, has set out in a private letter the European commission's concerns on how Google's dominance – where in Europe it has about 90% of searches – could be harming competition.Almunia's letter is only one of many battles the US company is fighting against the threat of government regulation. The US and South Korea are also investigating whether it is abusing its near-monopoly in search, while in Europe, accusations that it is invading people's privacy and even snooping on online conversations are coming under scrutiny from French and German regulators.In a statement, Google told the Guardian: "We operate in over 100 countries around the world, and the internet is disruptive by its nature. It's understandable that our business should attract scrutiny and sometimes complaints in a few of those countries. We're always happy to answer questions authorities may have about our business."Unusually, Almunia has indicated that he is ready to deal with Google, rather than taking it to court – evidence, a Google spokesman suggested, that "we've have been co-operating with their investigation and that issues can be solved through conversation".Yet the investigations are mounting up so rapidly that many doubt Google can escape some strictures. For the company which in 2001 adopted the motto "don't be evil" as a counterpoint to Microsoft, which was then being sued for monopolistic practices in the US and Europe, it is a strange reverse."What's happened is that Google's popularity and virtually unprecedented success have made it a target," says Whit Andrews, an analyst with the IT research companyGartner. "Google doesn't understand why when it provides a superior product, which it believes it operates transparently – why everybody then seems to want to stop it."He says that "instinctively, Google believes it's providing the best search engine, and that that should indemnify it from the slings and arrows of government interference".But it hasn't. Almunia, inhis letter on 26 Mayto Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, says that among his concerns are the ways Google treats links to its own "vertical search" services – specialist topics such as shopping, news or travel – preferentially to rivals. Such complaints from a small British shopping search site called Foundem helpedtrigger the abuse of monopoly investigation in November 2010. It is not illegal, as such, to have a monopoly in search; but it's certainly illegal to use that to handicap rivals in other fields.Schmidt last week said he had not seen the specifics of Almunia's complaint,  but was happy to talk to him. "He's encouraging us to have a conversation, and we completely agree. We disagree that we are in violation in general," he said in London.If Almunia prevails – as he is expected to, one way or another – then Google will have to change its search results, and perhaps even give rivals in some fields star billing. That will be galling for the company as it tries to extend its hegemony across shopping, travel, and news. Yet it may be the only practical way out.But the European commission is only the start. In France, the data protection commissioner, the CNIL, haswritten to Googledemanding more detail about the changes in its privacy policies. "The answers provided by Google are often incomplete or approximate," tuts the CNIL, which has given the company until 8 June to explain how the data it collects about users – that's pretty much everyone in Europe – is processed and how long it is stored.In Germany, the district attorney in Hamburg is considering a prosecution under wiretapping laws. A key driver was a report published in April by the US federal communications commission (FCC) about Google's collection of data from wireless internet connections to homes and businesses while it was compiling its Street View picture maps in 2010 and 2011.The Hamburg data protection commissioner found Google's Street View cars werecollecting not only the names and locations of networks, but also data being transmitted without password protection. Although each capture lasted less than a second, that could be up to a megabyte of data – equivalent to a number of emails. One incriminating one in France included a married man seeking an affair, the CNIL found.What the FCC report revealed was that the data collection was not, as Google repeatedly insisted, a mistake. A Google engineer wrote the code to do it, told colleagues about it, suggested it be reviewed by lawyers (it wasn't), and when the collection was complete tried analysing it to see if there was anything Google could use for future services.In Germany, where individual privacy is taken extremely seriously and has extra legal protections, this has triggered a long-running investigation by the Hamburg district attorney, which has not yet decided whether to prosecute Google. If they don't, then the Hamburg data protection commissioner, Dr Johannes Caspar, will be waiting. The FCC report, he says, makes any infringement worse: "We have to think about the probability of Google in this case doing something wrong, which is to store data of conversations of people via the internet. It was just decided by one employee, he talked about it and so the circle of people who knew about it was bigger. So we have to think about the responsibilities of the management of Google."In the US, the federal trade commission is investigating both Google's tweaking of vertical search to favour its own products — thoughSchmidt told a Senate hearing last Septemberthe situation was more complicated, and thatwhat the senators saw as favouritism for Google productswas a confusion between price comparison  and sales sites.So are the FTC or Senate likely to pursue Google for tweaking search results to favour its own, as the Department of Justice pursued Microsoft in 1998 for insisting that Windows licences must come with Internet Explorer? "Microsoft made key errors: consumers began to perceive it as taking advantage of them. PCs cost a lot, Office cost a lot, but the operating system was becoming less important, so Microsoft became vulnerable to regulatory attack."If the mood towards Google changes in the US – if it is felt to be taking advantage of users – a similar change might follow, but not in an election year, he suggests.Certainly, some in the US have become disenchanted with Google: Jeffrey Katz, chief executive ofNextag, a price comparison site, told the Guardian that when Google was a young startup, he was happy to work with it. Now, he says, "they control peoples' view of the net – and it isn't a level playing field." About 90% of users never go past the first page, so anything off there is unlikely to be seen; while Google's products consistently feature among the top three, so they are "above the fold" of the page, not even requiring scrolling to see and click on them. "It's not accidental," Katz says. "It's undeniable. What's questionable is why more people aren't speaking up about it. Maybe they're worried about what Google will do."He says the claim, repeatedly made, by Schmidt and other Google executives such as chief executive Larry Page, that the competition is just a click away, is "such a disingenuous statement by billionaires". He said: "Why would the average person do that? Ask them what other search engines exist and they'll fall silent."Andrews thinks there is more chance that European regulators will act than American. "In an election year, trying to put Larry Page's head on the battlements isn't going to pay off for a US regulator unless Google makes a mistake that leaves it with a villain's role." In Europe, he thinks, the mood is different: "European citizens turn to regulators to be their conscience. It's much more likely there will be substantive action in Europe." With the clock ticking to Almunia's deadline in July, Google must hope to avert that.Pending and playing out: the charges against Google• European commission: the antitrust commissioner has given Google until 2 July to respond to concerns that Google favours its own products over rivals' in areas such as shopping and travel; that it copies rival sites' content to display in search results; that it bans rival advertisers from showing ads on pages it controls; and that it prevents advertisers exporting details of their campaigns with Google. If the two sides can't agree, a costly court battle will follow.• European commission: Motorola Mobility, which makes mobile phones and set top boxes, and which has been owned by Google since last week, is being investigated under antitrust rules for instigating lawsuits with Microsoft and Apple over "standards-essential" patents for technologies such as 3G and video decoding. It could face fines; Google has shown no signs of dropping the lawsuits.• US: the federal trade commission is investigating Google's hacking of the iPhone's browser to plant cookies which could track people, bypassing a setting intended to block them. It could demand a swingeing per-person per-day fine that would amount to tens of millions of dollars.• US: the FTC is considering whether to bring a case like the EC's over "vertical search" and promotion of Google products in travel and shopping.• European commission: the antitrust commissioner has begun investigating whether smartphones running Google's Android software, which now make up more than half of smartphone sales worldwide, give Google an unfair advantage. By default, they use Google's browser and hook up to its email and calendar services.• Germany: the Hamburg district attorney is considering whether to sue Google over collection of data from open wireless internet networks.• France: the data protection commissioner, the CNIL, is leading a Europe-wide investigation of Google's change to its privacy policy earlier this year. Google has until 8 June to respond to questions about precisely what data it processes and how long it stores it.• Korea: the Fair Trade Commission on Monday inspected Google offices in Seoul, following complaints from two rival search companies, Daum and Naver, that Google is restricting mobile service providers and smartphone makers from putting other mobile search portals into the Android phone software before they are sold. Daum and Naver together have about 79% of the desktop search market in South Korea, compared to Google's 9%, but Android phones make up a much bigger proportion of smartphone sales.
As you may just have noticed, the Queen's diamond jubilee celebrations begin on Saturday. We can all prepare for three days of Union flag-waving fun – except those of us who are going to E3, of course.Anyway, never let it be said that the video game industry is unpatriotic. For example, Cambridge-based developer Jagex is hosting an online street party in its massively multiplayer game, Runescape. On 2 June, players will get to feast on cream teas and fish suppers while watching a procession by a virtual Queen. There will also be suitably majestic souvenirs and treasures to collect – including corgis!Here's a video of what Runescape fans can expect:Meanwhile, EA has created a special Sims 3 celebration video, showing the Queen celebrating with her family – all represented as Sims characters. Have a patriotic look:After all that, you're no doubt swelling with jingoistic pride and regal admiration. So let's keep that feeling alive by asking this weekend's crucial questions – which have been the finest ever video game monarchs? Kings and queens have, of course, been a crucial element of fantasy adventures, and we no doubt all have our favourite pixelated prince regents.So, let's enter the world of "virtual royalty". Here are three of my favourites to get you started.King of All Cosmos (Katamari Demacy)Resplendent in blue robes, tight red leggings and enormo-tube head gear, the King of all Cosmos is the mad, capricious task master of Namco's wonderful Katamari series. Having destroyed most of the universe in a drinking binge, he sets his son the task of repairing everything. "Sending Things to Earth – trees... elephants... hopes... dreams...," he says in the best speech our Queen never gave.Princess Peach (Super Mario Bros series and more)A raging super nova of pink, Princess Peach is the constantly imperiled monarch of Mushroom Kingdom. Peach is a regular cast member in the Super Mario series, but she has also starred in her own eponymous adventure, Super Princess Peach on the Nintendo DS, in which the traditional roles are reversed and she must rescue a kidnapped Mario. Soooo pink.Queen Myrrah (Gears of War)The pitiless ruler of the Locust hordes, Myrrah is curiously non-monstrous in form and highly reminiscent of the gloopy Borg queen in a lot of ways. She's also the buzzing doubt in Marcus Fenix's ear throughout the adventure, a reminder that, in many ways, the human and locust civilisations are not so different.Okay, over to you, let us know your favourite video game rulers!
The latest Apps Pitch comes from Ukrainian publisher Readdle, for itsScanner Proapp for iOS. Originally released for iPhone in 2009, it was recently updated with a native iPad version too.What does your app do?Scanner Pro transforms your iPhone or iPad into a portable scanner. The app allows you to scan any document, receipt, whiteboard or paper note and converts it into a good-looking PDF file.The special algorithm improves the quality of a scan by detecting the borders, fixing geometry and removing the shades. The documents can be e-mailed or shared instantly via Dropbox and Google Docs, or faxed.What platform(s) is it on, and what plans do you have for any others?Scanner Pro is a universal application, available both for iPhone and iPad. Please note, only the new iPad has a decent camera to produce good results, whereas the iPad 2 has only 0.7 MP camera.At Readdle, we primarily focus on the iOS platform. At the same time we keep an eye on other platforms like Android and Windows Phone.What's the business model and why did you choose it?The business model is pretty straightforward: Scanner Pro is a paid application, which does one great thing – scans documents and converts them into PDFs. And the app does it well. We have created a value-based product, rather than a pack of nice features. When you think about the amount of time you can save with Scanner Pro, the price of £4.99 is already a bargain.We believe that such straightforward model works best for productivity apps. Focusing on the main task is vital for a business tool, this is why we want to keep our users free from various distractions (which are usually present in free apps).Why is the app innovative - what are the key features that you think set it apart and/or make best use of the platform?Looking back into 2009, it is clear that Scanner Pro had defined the whole concept of scanning apps in the App Store. The idea of scanning with the iPhone camera was great, because people always have their iPhones with them. Scanner Pro took this technology to a whole new level, making really complex image processing easy and fun.In less than a minute, you can scan and e-mail a 7-page agreement right from your iPhone. The files can easily be shared via Dropbox or Google Drive. For those who worry about privacy, password protection makes your app safe and reliable.What's the competition like - what else is out there in this area?With 350,000 downloads and 80,000 monthly active users, Scanner Pro is one of the most successful business apps out there. The competition is inevitable from both hardware and software sides. However, the market is not saturated and we want to help people discover the great things they can do with their iOS devices.The main competitor for us is a traditional approach of using hardware scanners by the majority of people. Of course, there are a few scanning apps in the App Store. Each time we add something new to Scanner Pro, other apps add similar features within several weeks. But until we are ahead of the competition, copycats do not worry us that much.What are your future plans?We received a tremendous amount of feedback and knowledge from thousands of our users by now, this is why Scanner Pro evolves. Finally, it is possible to develop and implement this technology on a massive scale.Scanner Pro is being continuously improved. We are adding new use cases, scenarios and features. For instance, an automatic sync between an iPhone and iPad versions will be added soon. Once you scan something with your iPad, the document will automatically appear on the iPhone (and vice-versa).At the same time, we are researching the way to do OCR properly. The new version of Scanner Pro is coming out in two weeks with tons of UI improvements.Tell me about yourself and your companyReaddle is a Ukrainian based company founded in 2007. We focus on creating innovative business and productivity apps for iOS, which give great value for those who use them.Over 4m users worldwide, top positions in the App Store, numerous awards and most importantly great feedback from our users who are thankful are the things that keep us going. A team of almost 30 people is currently located in Ukraine, and we plan to open an office in the US this year.There are a few other popular apps from Readdle such as ReaddleDocs, PDF Expert, Calendars and Printer Pro. The main goal for us is to create a new era of mobile productivity.Imagine a scenario where you are away from the office scanning an agreement with Scanner Pro, signing it with PDF Expert and e-mailing right away. Later on, you are able to print it out with Printer Pro directly from your iOS device (wirelessly).This is just one of many use cases our teams is working on. So an ultimate goal for us is to lead the innovation and simplification of mobile technology in business and personal productivity.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInside Nokia's struggle against Apple's iPhone &gt;&gt; WSJ.comNokia Corp.'s new top-of-the-line smartphone sells for $200 less than Apple's cheapest iPhone 4S. But under the hood, Nokia actually pays more for the phone's components, according to an analysis - underscoring the challenges for the Finnish cellphone maker as it struggles to compete in the cutthroat mobile marketplace.$209 of parts in the Lumia 900, sold for $450; $190 for the $649 iPhone 4S, IHS Suppli says.Pictures and vision &gt;&gt; Robin SloanSo the titanic showdown between Facebook and Google might not be the News Feed vs. Google+ after all. It might be Facebook Camera vs. Project Glass.It might, in fact, be pictures vs. vision.I'm saying it that way for effect, of course. In truth it's pictures and vision. Facebook users will continue to upload a significant fraction of a billion photos every day. With luck, Google will get something going with Glass. These things can thrive side by side. If Google is truly successful, point-of-view images and video clips will start showing up on Facebook, too. Everything mixes and merges.Down wonder: mobile payments in Australia &gt;&gt; Dave BirchThe Consult Hyperion director is a longtime advocate of cashless transactions, especially by mobile, and here he points out that they're better at it down under than the UK is.Microsoft to offer 80-inch Windows 8 tablets for offices &gt;&gt;Wired UK"Steve Ballmer has an 80-inch Windows 8 tablet in his office. He's got rid of his phone, he's got rid of his note paper. It's touch-enabled and it's hung on his wall."This description of the Microsoft CEO's workspace, given to Wired.co.uk in Redmond this morning, came from Microsoft VP Frank Shaw. But while it conjures an amusing image of Ballmer using his mighty palms to bat at a Windows Phone-like Metro interface, it's a scenario Shaw said is eventually going to be available to the public."It's his whiteboard, his email machine," Shaw said, "and it's a device we're going to sell."Why Cisco stopped making tablets &gt;&gt; NYTimes Bits BlogThe reason is clear from Cisco's announcement, but there is added benefit from reading between its lines. It blames what the industry calls B.Y.O.D., or bring your own devices.Cisco said it realized that 95% of organizations now "allow employee-owned devices in some way, shape or form in the office, and 36% of surveyed enterprises provide full support for employee-owned devices."Launched in June 2010. Oh, you hadn't heard?Asustek, HTC back off from new Chromebook &gt;&gt; DigitimesSome notebook players pointed out that the first-generation Chromebook's sales were significantly impacted by its hardware design and competition from netbooks which have seen average prices already drop to only US$299-399, and users are more familiar with the Windows operating system. As a result, currently, Chromebooks may find it difficult to replace netbooks in the market, the notebook players noted.First bunch of Chromebooks sold fewer than 200,000, so Acer cashed out. If the Chromebook can't compete with netbooks, then it's a ultra-niche. Same problem that Linux netbooks had: Windows owns the desktop. (Note: link goes behind paywall after time.)New Samsung Chromebook &amp; Chromebox review: Chrome OS grows up &gt;&gt; The VergeDavid Pierce:The success of Chrome OS hinges on whether or not you can live and work inside a browser. Personally, I learned fairly definitively that I can't -- at least not yet. There are apps that I use every day, like Skype, that simply don't exist in the world of the Chromebook. Other apps like Twitter, IRC, and Google Talk have web-based counterparts, but they're far below the quality of native desktop apps.I also do a lot of photo editing and uploading, which Chrome OS just isn't suited for; there's a photo editor, but if you want to do more than crop or rotate a photo, you'll need a separate app. There are online photo editors -- I used Aviary a lot while using the Chromebook -- but they're neither as powerful nor as usable as iPhoto or Lightroom.I suspect I'm in the minority, though, and for most people Chrome OS would be totally sufficient.Non-owners of Chromebooks, what say you?Eternal Flame: speaking of security &gt;&gt; The RSA Blog and PodcastCyber reconnaissance efforts like Flame are a natural extension of good old human-based intelligence networks and, in a way, the clandestine behind-enemy-lines field work that sets the infrastructure for signal intelligence operations. It's the digital equivalent of a state- sponsored covert reconnaissance operation. Unlike a physical operation conducted by spies or paramilitary troops, where people might actually get caught, here it's a far cleaner operation with less traces leading to the origin and more ways to camouflage the exact identity of the attacker.Why the Leap is the best gesture-control system we've ever tested &gt;&gt; Wired.comWould the Leap 3-D gesture device disappoint us during a real-world hands-on? No - far from it. We were somewhat surprised to discover the Leap is everything portrayed in the Leap Motion video. You can see everything we observed in our own video below.Like the Kinect, the peripheral tracks human body gestures, and translates this movement into corresponding motions on a video display. According to Leap Motion, its input device is 200 times more precise than Kinect or anything else on the market. It's a bold claim that's difficult to test. So we sat down with Leap Motion co-founders Michael Buckwald and David Holz to wiggle our fingers at the new device.Very interesting indeed. But whatpreciselywould you do with it?Ari Emanuel session highlights video &gt;&gt; AllThingsDEmanuel is a big name in the (viewing) entertainment industry. It's a classic clash of LA and SF.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Oracle's high-profile lawsuit against Google, in which it claimed that the search giant's Android mobile software infringed both copyrights and patents obtained from Sun Microsystems, is in tatters after the judge in the case ruled that key elements of Sun's software cannot be copyrighted, and so were not infringed.Judge William Alsup ruled that the 37 application programming interfaces (APIs) for the Java programming language used in Android are not covered by copyright – meaning that Google's use of them in Android is not infringement. Oracle said it will appeal against Alsup's ruling.His decision means that Oracle, which had gone into the case confident that it would win a multi-billion-dollar ruling that might lead to a levy on every future Android device sale, has effectively wound up with nothing."This is now effectively a total loss for Oracle, across the board," Brian Love, a Stanford Law School expert on technology and intellectual property law, told the San Jose Mercury News. "It's absolutely the best possible case for Google."The outcome reinforces previous US cases which have declined to extend copyright law so that it would cover interfaces between programs or languages. Programming languages cannot be copyrighted."To accept Oracle's claim would be to allow anyone to copyright one version of code to carry out a system of commands and thereby bar all others from writing their own different versions to carry out all or part of the same commands," Alsup, who has programming expertise, wrote in his ruling. "No holding has ever endorsed such a sweeping proposition."He did note tha:t "This order does not hold that Java API packages are free for all to use without license.  Rather, it holds on the specific facts of this case, the particular elements replicated by Google were free for all to use under the Copyright Act."Oracle can win damages for other copyright infringements that were found in the case, but those have a statutory ceiling of $150,000 in a case that has cost both sides millions.For Oracle, it has also seen its high-stakes approach fall away. Before the trial, Google made an offer to settle which would have led to a very small share of the advertising and other revenues that it has received through Android's use. Oracle rejected it.A jury in the long-running case had found on 7 May that Google infringed eight APIs, but couldn't agree on whether Google was covered under the "fair use" provisions of US copyright law, which allow limited uses of copyrighted works to create others.Now Alsup's determination makes that moot. The APIs, said Alsup in his ruling, form "a system or method of operation under Section 102(b) of the Copyright Act and, therefore, cannot be copyrighted … the Act confers ownership only over the specific way in which the author wrote out his version. Others are free to write their own implementation to accomplish the identical function, for, importantly, ideas, concepts and functions cannot be monopolised by copyright."To overturn the ruling, Oracle would have to reverse Alsup's determination in legal arguments, and then get a fresh jury to decide that Google's use of the APIs fell outside "fair use".For Google, the ruling is a major triumph in the smartphone patent wars. Though there are still many ongoing skirmishes – and Google on Thursday night filed claims with the European Commission, the US Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission complaining about Microsoft and Nokia's deployment of patents – it means that Oracle's claims, first filed in 2010, have been picked apart piece by piece.Android now powers more than 300m smartphones and tablet computers. Those devices are the chief competitors to Apple's iPhones and iPads.Google has driven the adoption of Android by giving the software away to manufacturers of phones and tablets. That would have been more difficult for Google to keep doing had the court found that Google needed to pay Oracle millions of dollars to license Java technology.The jury in the case had been asked to rule on the infringement and fair use questions on the assumption that the APIs were copyrightable. Alsup deferred a ruling on the broader copyright question until after the trial, which ended on 23 May.Alsup ruled on Thursday that Google didn't use Oracle's exact programming code in Android, but rather wrote its own code to produce the same functions. Although Google used some of the same phrases in the code, Alsup said it had to do so to maintain interoperability. Names, titles and short phrases aren't covered by copyright, and Google's use of those phrases amounted to that, he said."In sum, Google and the public were and remain free to write their own implementations to carry out exactly the same functions of all methods in question, using exactly the same method specifications and names," Alsup said.In a statement, Google said: "The court's decision upholds the principle that open and interoperable computer languages form an essential basis for software development. It's a good day for collaboration and innovation."Oracle countered that Alsup's ruling would make it far more difficult to defend intellectual property rights against companies anywhere in the world that simply takes them as their own.Alsup's ruling does not affect the jury's determination that Android infringed on nine lines of Java coding, but the penalty for that violation is confined to statutory damages no higher than $150,000. Oracle had been seeking hundreds of millions of dollars from Google on the API questions.The jury has also cleared Google of infringing two Oracle patents. Before the case began, Google had driven reexamination of a number of Sun patents that Oracle asserted against it and had them either withdrawn or invalidated.(Corrected name of paper from San Francisco Mercury News.)
Friday! Are you making any game purchases this weekend?
Having run the Parachute Regiment, Major Sam McGrath knows a thing or two about fitness. He's the star ofPara Fitness, a collaboration between Osprey Publishing and Aimer Media. Here, they pitch its wares:What does your app do?The Para Fitness app gives you your own military fitness trainer; Major Sam McGrath. Sam, who was  in charge of the exhausting selection process for the legendary Parachute Regiment, drives you to get fighting fit.Helping you decide your target level of fitness, and giving easy to follow instructions for a programme of exercises tailored to your ability, he provides you with the structure needed to achieve your goals.The newly added Emperor Programme adds weight exercises to your regimen, pushing your mission to get fit even further.What platform(s) is it on, and what plans do you have for any others?The app works across the Apple range; on the iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch. We are looking at supporting other devices but have to make sure we can properly support them.What's the business model and why did you choose it?It is a paid app with an in-app purchase. One of the great features of the original 'core' app was that it could be performed simply with running shoes, so for £1.99 users could have a comprehensive work out without the need for further equipment.We felt the in-app purchase format then gave users the freedom to progress their programme into a gym with the equipment based exercise of the Emperor Programme, whilst still offering excellent value by providing them with the cheapest (and best qualified) personal trainer around.Why is the app innovative - what are the key features that you think set it apart?The military focus of the app is key – despite the elite arms of the armed forces being renowned for their superhuman levels of fitness, few exercise programmes harness this knowledge for the benefit of 'civilians'.Our app not only employs the exercises of military fitness, it also employs its ethos; the app is clear, straight to the point and makes no unrealistic promises. Instead, it helps users understand and embrace the mental challenges of getting fit as much as the physical; sustained motivation and realistic objectives tailored to your ability.The app's platform makes this a reality; from an inspirational video from the author at the start, to the running count of exercises completed (so there's no kidding yourself about how much work you've done) this app pushes you forward and helps you achieve your goals, in the best tradition of the military elite.What's the competition like - what else is out there in this area?While there are plently of generic fitness apps available in the app store, there are none that offer the combination of military expertise, interactivitiy, high customer ratings and value.What are your future plans for the app?There are no specific development plans at this stage but that we'll be reviewing customer feedback and suggestions with a view to future development.Tell me about yourselves and your companiesBrighton-based Aimer Media has been making apps since 2010.  With a core team of five, plus project-based specialists, Aimer has been involved in producing and supporting many  top-ranking apps, across a variety of markets including: Fragile Earth, Tate Guide to Modern Art Terms and UNESCO World Heritage.Osprey Publishing from its offices in Oxford, Nottingham and New York, has been providing books for military enthusiasts since 1968. Since then it has continually grown, evolved and taken on new challenges; branching into the digital market with our eBooks and apps, as well as traditional 'physical' books.
Google is changing its search service in China so that it will warn users when they are using terms likely to trigger interference from the authorities and suggest ways around the censorship.The move is likely to further strain already tense relations between the internet giant and Beijing."Over the past couple years, we've had a lot of feedback that Google search from mainland China can be inconsistent and unreliable. It depends on the search query and browser, but users are regularly getting error messages like 'this webpage is not available' or 'the connection was reset'. And when that happens, people typically cannot use Google again for a minute or more," Google said in ablogpostThursday.The company said it had assessed its systems and failed to find any internal problems. The issues were "correlated with searches for a particular subset of queries," said Google.For example Google found searches for the character Jiāng, a common surname that also means "river", causes a problem on its own and as part of searches that contain the character. Google users in China experience difficulty searching for Jiang Zemin, China's former president and Lijiang, for example, a city in Yunnan province. Yunnan province has recently been thesite of clashes between police and local farmers, reportedly angered over illegal land seizures.Similar searches on local Chinese sites such as Baidu, the market leader, do not generate the same problems.Chinese authorities have long censored the internet and monitored its use in order to suppress critics and monitor dissent – a strategy known as the Great Firewall of China. Searches for information on the recent protests and immolations in Tibet, for example, are likely to draw a blank on any search engine.Now when users type characters that are likely to trigger a blockage, Google will warn the users and suggest they use other terms."We've said before that we want as many people in the world as possible to have access to our services. Our hope is that these written notifications will help improve the search experience in mainland China," Google said in its blogpost.Relations between Google and the Chinese authorities appear to have improved in recent months. Beijing recently cleared the search firm's takeover of Motorola. But last yearGoogle accused Chinaof orchestrating a massive attempt to hack "the personal Gmail accounts of hundreds of users including, among others, senior US government officials, Chinese political activists, officials in several Asian countries (predominantly South Korea), military personnel and journalists".The accusations were angrily denied by the Chinese authorities. Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency, called them "chimerical complaints" that had become "obstacles for enhancing global trust between stakeholders in cyberspace."
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOnce deemed evil, Google now embraces "paid inclusion" &gt;&gt; Marketing LandHaving previously declared paid inclusion to be evil, can it really be that Google is doing it now? Yes, though Google's not been using that name, and it also really didn't become apparent until last month.Google Hotel Finder and Google Flight Search were both launched last year. On the surface, they seem like Google's other "vertical" or topic-focused search engines, such as Google Images, Google News or Google Shopping, which allow you to search for certain specific types of information.Unlike Google's other vertical search engines, however, payment seems to have a role in being included in Google Hotel Finder and Google Flight Search. Maybe Google will find your hotel or your flight and list it for "free." But it seems more likely you'll appear if you have a paid relationship.There are "sponsored" blobs, but not explanations of in what way results are "sponsored".Windows 8 - Who moved my desktop? &gt;&gt; getwired.comWes Miller, research VP at Directions on Microsoft (a Microsoft-watching consultancy):When I look at Windows 8 today, I see an operating system that is trying so hard to be a tablet operating system that, in some ways, it has compromised it's integrity as a desktop operating system (whereas Windows 7 was a very good desktop operating system that offered very limited value for tablet-based computing).I worry that in the melee of transforming Windows to be so tablet-centric OS, Microsoft may in fact convince people that an iPad is all that they need to get their job done.Did Microsoft just give up on Windows 8 for businesses? &gt;&gt; WinsupersitePaul Thurrott is worried:Virtually all of the major new features in Windows 8 -- the new Windows Runtime, the Metro environment with its full-screen apps, and the all-new developer APIs that drive it all -- are derived solely from the mobile world and Microsoft's experiences building Windows Phone for smartphones. Microsoft expects a significant percentage of Windows 8 users to touch their PCs and, now, devices, and not interact with them using traditional keyboards and mice.Will any of them be business users?Tim Cook at the D Conference: Between the Lines &gt;&gt; Dan FrommerWhen an ABC News journalist asked Cook about Ping, Apple's music-related social network-of-sorts, he said "I don't think we have to own a social network." He continued: "But does Apple need to be social? Yes." Then he gave the examples of Apple integrating Twitter into iOS and OS X, its iMessage and Game Center services, etc. "We tried Ping, and I think the customer voted and said 'This isn't something that I want to put a lot of energy into.'"Then, when Kara Swisher joked that Cook should sell Ping to Google+, Cook laughed very hard.Infographic: sweet Jesus, the patent war has gotten crazy &gt;&gt; Fastco.DesignThe sheer visual mass of this image will likely give you pause--which I think is entirely the point--but let me help you decode it. The companies are arranged in a circle. A simple arrow points from each company to the company they're suing. And in many cases, these arrows are firing back and forth at one another in what reminds me of a worst case scenario Cold War map in which half the earth is obliterated into space dust.An earlier version appeared about 18 months ago in the Guardian. Since then it's gotten worse.A Facebook phone might be a great Idea - right now &gt;&gt; ForbesUsing a cheap and fast Chinese or Taiwanese subcontractor to crank out a smooth smartphone that retails for 300 reals in Brazil can be done. It is up to Facebook to ensure that the software is far superior to what Amazon was able to manage with Kindle Fire...There is now a gaping hole in the low-end smartphone market to be exploited. Nokia, RIMM and LG are stumbling simultaneously and HTC has not been effective in targeting budget buyers.Mary Meeker's 2012 Internet Trends presentation &gt;&gt; Kleiner Parker Caufield &amp; ByersIf you haven't heard of Mary Meeker: she's formerly an analyst, presently a venture capitalist at KPCB, and her annual internet survey is obligatory reading.Oh hey, Motorola and RIM Called: they want to go back to 2004 and try again &gt;&gt; The AtlanticBut whatever: The 1.3 million Blackberry subscribers of 2004 were power players. They were ballers. They answered emails with simple replies: "Fire the missiles!" or "Sell! Sell! Sell!" or "Coffee's for closers." They were not mere mortals tethered to desktop computers and lame keyboards. They could send emails from steakhouses. My, how the might have fallen.US customs approves HTC shipments &gt;&gt; FT.comFor HTC, the damage from the delays to its new One X and EVO 4G LTE models could have been significant, said analysts, as the current second quarter is key to its efforts to win back market share lost to Samsung and Apple. Had the delay been longer, the handsets could have been pitched more directly in competition with Apple's new iPhone 5 and Samsung's new Galaxy S3, both expected in the US later this year.However, the delay of just two weeks is unlikely to hurt sales significantly or cause a supply shortage in the US, said Roxy Wong, an analyst with Mirae Asset Securities.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Last week, Danny Bilson, executive vice president of THQ, flew over to London to present a showcase of the company's current games. He was his usual affable, confident self; he gave a selection of interviews and then tweeted about what a good time he'd had. A week later,he left the company.THQ has certainly had a challenging year. In May, the publisher reported a net loss over the last fiscal year of nearly $240m (£155m), despite strong sales for some of its titles – notably Saints Row: The Third. The bad news is becoming something of trend for THQ though – it has also announced that The Devil's Third, Valhalla's third-person fighter, has been dropped, while the forthcoming South Park RPG has been delayed until next year.In spite of this, the company has remained upbeat and declared it has a new focus for the rest of the year. We sat down with Bilson, in what was surely one of his last interviews at the company, to hear about THQ's strategy moving forward. Here's what he had to say.What happened to The Devil's Third?It's on hold. It's a real shame because it's a really great game made by one of my favourite teams and some of my favourite people over at Valhalla in Tokyo. Having to put that on hold and look for investment is part of our business.It came down to having to reduce our spend. It's very important to me to make it clear that the issue with The Devil's Third wasn't anything to do with the quality of the game. The game is very high quality. I think it's phenomenal. I want to find a way – hopefully a partner – to help us finish it. It being on hold is absolutely a result of where it sits and how its sits in our portfolio in a business sense.Again, I still have the same passion for that game as I did when we started it. I have even more respect for the team now than I did when they came in with their amazing track record in gaming. I still want to work with them, so this has been a really painful experience for me – and probably more so for Valhalla – and it's something we're working through right now.What would you say are the main lessons THQ have learned over the last year?The most important lesson is to do less things and do them better. It's a lesson we learned after Saints Row, which has been tremendously successful for us – both the packaged goods and the digital content. I think in the past we were trying to do too much without the resources and attention to every single detail. Everything needs to be done unbelievably well.I think now that we've right-sized ourselves to deliver the kind of quality you're seeing [in new titles such as Darksiders 2, Metro: Last Light and Company Of Heroes 2]. Not that this quality just came about in the last six months. It's been around for years. Transition became a little more accelerated and violent in the last few months, but where we wound up, is a place we wanted and needed to be: less products, better products and clearer focus.Your digital products sales have gone up. Is there a new focus on that?Absolutely.  But it's more of a focus on… we're making what I call live games now. I personally build everything out from the game itself into what would be great for the gamer. I often say that's who I work for – the gamer. You can throw revenue targets at me and I won't know what to do with them. But if you want to talk about games, and what more we could do with it that would be cool – then I can engage.The shipped game in the box is an entry point. It has to have your full value for [the retail price] and not feel like anything was shaved off to exploit the gamer. If the game itself is good enough and if gamers love it they're going to want to engage with it more in ways that are customisable to their taste.Every game to me, now, is a live game. The first shipment is just the introduction – a complete introduction – but we want to keep it alive beyond that point for as long as possible. The only way we're going to do that is by selling more quality entertainment to people who love it. So looking from the game outward, I think we can do some really cool things.Does your strategy moving forward mean you're going to be developing less games for casual core gamers? And will you be making less licensed IPs?Absolutely. For years, this has been a long-range plan. I was brought in to develop original IPs when I first came to THQ. You see it today – Company Of Heroes is THQ-owned, Darksiders is THQ-owned. There's a Metro book and series of IP in Russia, but it's not a large license payment for THQ. The license is actually controlled by the studio that makes it.If you make something with a license it has to be something as special as what we're doing with South Park. We'll be talking more about that at a later date.Does this focus on current THQ-owned franchises mean that you won't be developing a lot of new IPs in the near future?No there's a lot more coming. You haven't seen inSANE, the Guillermo Del Toro game. There's one game that's fully playable right now that the guys at Turtle Rocks Studios – the guys who built Left 4 Dead – have made for us that we haven't even announced yet. That's a brand new IP right there. There's… (laughs) the answers is, yes, there's more new IP. I'd love to tell you more, but then I'd probably get into some serious trouble.THQ's share price is currently sitting at 64c a share and if it doesn't go up to $1 by June, it'll be delisted on the Nasdaq. Are you prepared for this? What are you doing to get it back up? And would it be calamitous if THQ was de-listed?First of all, I think that the share price will go back up before that happens. I think that [THQ chief executive] Brian [Farrell] has addressed this publicly. There are a lot of ways to avoid the delisting. I'm sure the board will recommend the best course with that.I don't se us being delisted and I don't see a calamity in our future at all. What I see instead, is a very stable year this year and the stuff we have for next year is pretty awesome!I'm working on 2014 and 2015 at the moment. There's stuff to sort out – such as which games are getting sequels and which aren't – but overall the portfolio bears no relationship to the current stock price. It doesn't make much sense based on the games we're making and selling. Stock price has a lot of factors involved… a lot of issues. Most of which I can't speak about!
Thursday – and the weekend is creeping up, once more. Any mid-week gaming action for you last night, then?
Gruelling workloads, humiliating punishments and battery-farm living conditions remain routine for workers assembling Apple's luxury electronics, according to one of the most detailed reports yet on life inside China's Foxconn factories.The researchers claim that intimidation, exhaustion and labour rights violations "remain the norm" for the hundreds of thousands of Chinese iPhone workers, despite Apple redoubling its efforts to improve conditions.Interviews with 170 workers and supervisors at Foxconn factories in the cities of Shenzhen and Zhengzhou from March to May this year found that punishments remain a key management tool.The report, by the Hong Kong workers' rights group Students and Scholars Against Corporate Misbehaviour (Sacom), says workers at the world's 10th largest employer have been told to clean toilets, sweep lawns and write "confession letters", which are then pinned up on noticeboards or read out to colleagues.Living conditions in Foxconn campus dormitories remain cramped, with 20 or 30 workers sharing three-bedroom flats, sleeping eight to a room in bunkbeds.They are forbidden to use power-hungry electrical items such as kettles or laptops on pain of confiscation, says Sacom, which published the study to coincide with Foxconn's annual general meeting in Hong Kong on Thursday.Where most assembly staff were previously forced to stand, stools have now been introduced for some workers. However, they are under instructions to sit on only a third of the seat, so that they remain "nimble" enough to do the work.Staff reported their mistrust of a counselling hotline introduced after a spate of Foxconn suicides. One Guanlan factory worker who rang after conflict with his supervisor was advised to resign if he was unhappy. Another, who has since left Foxconn, rang to complain about unpaid overtime and the hotline diverted the complaint back to his irate supervisor.There were 728 industrial injuries at Foxconn factories in Shenzhen in the year to May 2012, according the Shenzhen regional public register. This is a small portion of a workforce estimated at 500,000 in the city, but Sacom believes injuries are under-reported: "The management simply negotiate with the injured workers for a settlement. According to the respondents, cases of industrial injuries have an impact on the annual bonus received by middle management. Therefore, the middle management are very reluctant to report all the cases."Foxconn did not respond to requests for comment.Apple says it has made improving conditions at its factories a priority. An independent audit by the not-for-profit Fair Labor Association at the end of March, which set out a roadmap for improving conditions, insisted on a ceiling of 60 hours a month for overtime. Foxconn has gone a step further by promising a ceiling of 36 hours by next summer, in accordance with Chinese labour law.Interviewed this week, Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, said the company was addressing the long hours culture. "We want everyone to know what we are doing, and we hope that people copy. We've put a ton of effort into taking overtime down."Apple said in April that its suppliers achieved 95% compliance with the 60-hour working week specified in its code, up from 91% for March. But Sacom's findings fly in the face of Apple's figures. Foxconn employees interviewed in April were still working up to 80 hours of overtime a month at Longhua. A payslip from the plant showed overtime at 78.5 hours for April.In the runup to the release of the new iPad on 16 March this year, monthly overtime work for Apple production-line workers in Longhua was 80 hours a month, it was claimed.Line managers work unpaid overtime daily, often up to four or five hours a day. About 10% of interviewees were supervisors or assistant supervisors. They claimed their administrative work was unpaid, and that shifts were usually followed by unpaid work meetings, at which frontline managers would be scolded by their superiors, causing them to "unconsciously vent their anger on the production workers".The mistreatment is not confined to Apple workers, but affects those making products for other western companies including Amazon, Hewlett-Packard, Dell and Nokia, according to Sacom.Chen Meifang, who like all interviewees used a pseudonym to protect her against retaliation by her employer, is a "tiny" female worker on the Kindle production line at the Longhua campus. She was denied a request to take leave on a Saturday. When she took the day off anyway, she claims her supervisor asked her to move 3,000 boxes a day for 10 days as punishment. On the first day, she suffered from backache and was unable to sleep.An Apple spokeswoman declined to comment other than referring to an earlier statement: "We care about every worker in our worldwide supply chain. We insist that our suppliers provide safe working conditions, treat workers with dignity and respect, and use environmentally responsible manufacturing processes wherever Apple products are made. Our suppliers must live up to these requirements if they want to keep doing business with Apple."Sacom, founded five years ago to campaign for better conditions in factories making toys for Disney, is demanding the formation of genuine trade unions within Foxconn; a living wage for Chinese workers, whom it says are paid half the salary of workers in Foxconn's Brazilian factory, and receive five as opposed to 30 days' annual leave; and compensation for victims of labour rights abuses."The findings demonstrate that Apple and Foxconn have not turned over a new leaf," said a Sacom officer, Debby Chan Sze Wan.A worker's taleLiu Jingjing, 20, (not her real name) started at Foxconn's Zhengzhou factory six months ago. The work on an iPhone production line is demanding: at first Liu found her fingers and forearms ached every day. After deductions for accommodation and food, she earns just £90 some months. Late last year, as Christmas sales of the latest Apple phone were booming, she says overtime rose, with employees asked to work up to 100 hours a month – despite Apple's 60-hour limit.She is one of those fortunate enough to be able to sit down on a shopfloor where staff usually stand. However, she says employees are only allowed to perch on a third of the seat – to keep them "nimble". Liu broke the rules. But because she did not sit in a standardised way she was punished by being asked to write a "confession letter". Recently, when she complained about a cut in overtime pay, her boss told her: "If you do not want to work here, you can get out."
After using its online prowess to build its own social network, it looks like Google is once again putting its own spin on already-successful online ventures. Google+ Local, an online review feature that made its debut Wednesday, appears to be the search giant's in-house version of popular online review sites.Like online review website Yelp,for which Google put up a reported $550m in an unsuccessful bid in 2009, Google+ Local users post reviews and photos which are made available to everyone on the web.Unlike Yelp, Google+ Local uses old-guard expertise to augment its searches. Currently, about 35,000 place reviews feature a brief paragraph by the review and ratings service Zagat, featured prominently just before user comments.Google bought Zagat in September for $125m, and its integration means that all of its subscription-only information is now available to everyone registered for Google+ Local.In a September statement regarding the acquisition of Zagat, Google said: "Their surveys may be one of the earliest forms of UGC [user-generated content] – gathering restaurant recommendations from friends, computing and distributing ratings before the internet as we know it today even existed."Zagat has been around since 1979 and collects community reviews, which it coalesces into a concise summary. "We're the first people to do user-generated content, and we have a consistent reputation for doing quality content," Zagat co-founder and publisher Tim Zagat told the Guardian.A typical google search with Google+ LocalShortly after Google acquired Zagat, it appeared before the Senate judiciary subcommittee on antitrust, competition policy and consumer rights to address whether it was using its search strength to unfairly promote its own entities like YouTube, Google Books and Google Travel.In his testimony, Google Chairman Eric Schmidt said he was "not aware of any unnecessary or strange boosts or biases" in search results.Google continues to be criticized by groups like Consumer Watchdog, which believe its search dominance thwarts competition. "Google has been expanding its empire in every direction possible and often while using unfair practices," Consumer Watchdog's privacy project director John M Simpson told the Guardian.Avni Shah, director of product management at Google, denied the claims. "Our goal is still to help people find the best resources on the web. We do point to other sites and to other places on the web," told the Guardian.Now, when running a basic Google search for something like a restaurant, users receive the typical Google search results next to a window filled with the Google+ Local information. This information includes a map, Zagat rating and links to other review sites, including opentable.com, citysearch.com and yahoo.com.Throughout Wednesday, Google users can expect to see more integrations of the Google+ Local features on the site.
Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has fallen out of the billionaire big league fewer than two weeks after taking the social network public.The 28-year-old has seen over $4bn wiped off the value of his fortune since the company went public in an initial public offering (IPO), dropping him off the list of the top 40 billionaires measured by Bloomberg Billionaires Index, a daily ranking of the world's wealthiest.Zuckerberg's fortune stood at $18.95bn before the IPO when Facebook's shares were priced at $38. The company's shares hit new lows Wednesday, coming close to $28, $10 below the IPO price and valuing Zuckerberg at close to $14.75bn.At that level Zuckerberg lags the 40th placed billionaire on Bloomberg's list, Colombian tycoon Luis Carlos Sarmiento, by $800m. On the day of the IPO Facebook's shares soared briefly and Zuckerberg was worth more than Amazon founder Jeff Bezos or either of his arch rivals at Google, co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin.The company's disastrous IPO has left Facebook and its chief architect with a raft of legal worries. US authorities are now investigating and shareholders have launched class action lawsuits.Analysts including PrivCo have predicted that Facebook's shares could fall further as investors worry about the amount of money the company can generate from its huge user base and the shift to mobile, an area where  Facebook has warned it is finding it difficult to make cash.The company's shares took a turn for the worse Tuesday, dipping below $30 for the first time, as traders began making bets on the direction of its share price, also for the first time. Brokers said the most popular of these "option contracts" were those betting on further falls.Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank, said the share price, and Zuckerberg's fortunes, were likely to come under more pressure in the short term until the company had found a home with investors with a longer term investment view."This is a company with huge potential but it's hard to know as yet exactly what it is worth. There is a lack of confidence following the original offering. Ultimately the stock will go to long-term investors and then it should stabilise," he said.
Here's what I think: RIM is heading for the breakers' yard, as surely as a ship that has reached the end of its life. Within the next 18 months or so, the company is going to be broken up for its useful parts - BlackBerry Messaging, the BlackBerry Enterprise Server, its customers. The gravity that is sucking it downwards is now inescapable; to switch metaphors, it's a spaceship trying to get out of a black hole, but it hasn't got Scotty aboard.The irony is that that black hole is made of two things: years of complacency about its position in the market (out of which grew a failure to invest in what's really going to happen), and PlayBooks. Those sodding PlayBooks. They're the tablet that destroyed an entire company by distracting it from the future.The other irony is that many carriers like and want RIM to survive; industry sources say they make better margins from selling its handsets than they do from Apple's iPhone or top-end Android handsets. The problem is that the customers aren't listening.(Let me say that it didn't have to be like this, and I wish it didn't. In the past I've been full of praise for the BlackBerry; in mid-2003 I thought the 7230 was pretty much perfect. But reality bites, and hard.)Consider a few facts:• based on figures given on Tuesday, I calculate that on average, for every 10 handsets RIM ships, just 1 reaches a new customer. The picture is complicated by churn (people leaving while others join), but people don't abandon successful platforms.• it's being crunched in the market• the PlayBook isstillnot selling, a year after being introduced• the company is shrinking even while the smartphone market - which it helped define - is growing by 50% annually• it doesn't have any rabbits. It barely has a hat.The bad news, or the bad news?Let's start with what Thorsten Heins, the man with the unenviable job of chief executive (after co-founders Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis were finally winkled out of the joint tenure),said on Tuesday night. Bankers are being called in to check that his plans are the right one; also, RIM is going to make an operating loss in this quarter.That's going to be two quarterly losses in a row for RIM, and Heins didn't have much in the way of uplifting news to follow. "The on-going competitive environment is impacting our business in the form of lower volumes and highly competitive pricing dynamics in the marketplace," he said. Translation: we aren't selling as many handsets as we hoped, and we're selling them for less.He did emphasise that the company will increase its "cash position in Q1 [the current quarter] from the approximately $2.1bn we had" at the end of the previous quarter in February.Analysts sharpened their keyboards and rapidly downrated everything. Mark Sue of RBC Capital, who was already among the Wall Street pessimists, downgraded his revenue forecast for the quarter from $3.2bn (against the consensus $3.7bn) to below $3bn. Heins's warning "shows its business is deteriorating faster than expected," Sue noted on Wednesday morning. He thinks its handset shipments fell below 8m, a level it hasn't seen since 2009, and that could mean it's below 5% of the smartphone market: "In our view, below 5% share is the realm of subscale operations, razor thin profits, and decreasing odds of a turnaround," Sue wrote.That in turn means, he says, that BlackBerry 10 "now faces an even greater battle" because the challenge of getting and retaining customers - and businesses and carriers and, let's not forget, developers - becomes ever harder. "We see RIM losing its most lucrative users (those in the US), which may be difficult to re-gain even with BlackBerry 10. New international subscribers are price sensitive and may be difficult to retain over time." (That's a good point about the price sensitivity.)He thinks a broader strategic rethink is needed - that perhaps RIM should retrench, pull back from some low-margin foreign operations, focus on BB10, see if it can build alliances with PC makers who don't have a mobile strategy (Sue doesn't actually mention Dell and HP, but they're the obvious ones he'd be thinking of; both have stunk up the place with their efforts in mobile.)Nice ideas, but they won't buy enough time, and BB10 isn't a magic bullet. In fact it's barely even a bullet. I haven't heard anyone say that BB10 is going to abruptly make BlackBerrys more attractive to buyers. They won't be cheaper, and they won't do anything that every other smartphone is doing. The business is getting commoditised, and only those who can either stand out from the commodity fray (Apple) or know how to win in a commodity battle (Nokia) are going to be able to withstand Android competing at the low, middle and high ends.(If you're wondering why I'm reckoning Nokia has a chance here, there are two reasons: Stephen Elop saw the problem 18 months ago and moved to fix it; and Nokia has an existing platform, Symbian, that is still doing some service and allowing Windows Phone - with all Microsoft's marketing money behind it - to gain some momentum. RIM doesn't have either of those. Even so, industry sources still aren't seeing much consumer interest in the Nokia Lumias, and gloomily wonder if it's going to be Apple and Android.)Growth in RIM's subscribers (slightly different from BBM users, who are fewer) has almost stopped dead. In a quarter or two, it probably will.Here's the graph:RIM BlackBerry worldwide subscriber growth, Mar 2002-May 2012. Source: RIMHeins pre-announced that it has just hit 78m RIM subscribers (who are different from BBM users). They are an important revenue source. Here's how RIM described it to me recently: "The BlackBerry subscriber account base is the total of all subscriber accounts that have an active status at the end of a reporting period… RIM generates service revenues from billings to its BlackBerry subscriber account base primarily from a monthly infrastructure access fee charged to a carrier or reseller, which the carrier or reseller in turn bills the BlackBerry subscriber."If that stops growing, so do a good chunk of RIM's service revenues. Basically, RIM's business has become one where about in effect 90% of handsets go to people who already have one. Nobody's coming through the door.Just compare the numbers:•Android: 370m devices activated. Even allowing for a certain amount of replacement, there are likely over 300m in operation.•Apple: about 175m iPhones sold. More have been sold in the past two years than in the first two years, and the figure is growing, so you can easily reckon there are more than 100m - perhaps 125m - in operation.•RIM: 78m subscribers, and the number is hitting a plateau. After a plateau, what? Answer: decline.There's no obvious way to change this. If RIM reduces its prices, it cuts its own throat (even though the carriers will love it for giving back the profits lost to the iPhone). If it raises them, it loses customers too.I asked Thomas Husson of Forrester Research what he thinks. "I think mobile years are like dog years. It took too long for RIM to integrate the QNX platform and to launch new products based on the BB10 platform. In the meantime, the Blackberry brand has suffered a lot and lost a lot of ground in the US, where RIM used to dominate the smartphone market. Growth is indeed coming from India and other emerging markets but here competition is fierce with low-cost OEMs and with Nokia." (That's mainly Nokia's Symbian there, rather than Windows Phone - so far.)He questions developers' willingness to develop for yet another OS; "the only potential I see is a clear interoperability between Android and the new OS as well as the potential to tap into the existing global installed base of Blackberry users worldwide. [But] both are unlikely, and reach will be limited at the end of the day."So basically not much for the existing business model. Any other hope? Any ship on the horizon? " New entrants in the mobile space, especially those interested in acquiring patents and in developing a platform play – could be interested in licensing and/or acquiring some of the RIM assets."Oh. That's not a ship, that's the smokestack of the breaker's yard.Opportunity costWhy has it come to this? Because RIM made two errors. First it got complacent. When the iPhone was launched, Lazaridis (a fantastically clever inventor who managed to get primitive paging systems to work for encrypting email) dismissed it; the keyboard was all people wanted, he thought. And then when the smartphone business did take off, and RIM was carried along on its updraft - with its business peaking 18 months ago with a $5.5bn quarter with $1.2bn profit - it didn't innovate. Nobody asked what the next interaction was going to be, because everything had worked out OK, even though the iPhone and then touch had become the dominant form of smartphone interaction.Even though touch interfaces are here, there's going to be something better coming, and you can be sure that Google is already working on it (intriguingly, it has let the project details leak out) and that Apple is considering much the same. (Considering what? Wearable computing.Google Glassand all that.)Instead RIM got distracted by the tablet format when Apple produced the iPad, and thought it would be the way forward. A colossal, if understadable, mistake. It missed the iPhone, so it jumped on this new Apple bandwagon as fast as it could. But it didn't own the idea, which meant it came to market late (the iPad was went on sale in April 2010, the PlayBook in April 2011). It was smaller, had fewer features (couldn't do email unless you owned a BlackBerry) and had awoeful Soviet-style app market.Not by the PlaybookWhat a flop the PlayBook has been. RIM seems to have ordered multiple millions of them. And they haven't sold, because the truth about the tablet market is that if you're not Apple, with a gigantic marketing machine (and gigantic iPhone installed base in the US, meaning lots of MobileMe/iCloud users), then the tablet market is effectively closed. (There's a Chinese tablet market, but RIM never had a hope there.)The PlayBook was a distraction from building something really special, and it has swallowed huge amounts of RIM's cash - $495m in writeoffs so far, and expect some more after this quarter.And a word about that cash, and that "$2.1bn". To be precise, at the end of the last quarter, RIM had $1.7bn in "cash and short-term equivalents" - that is, stuff it can lay its hands on quickly when it needs to pay someone. (The missing $400m of is in "long-term investments" - such as bonds, or perhaps parked abroad - and much harder to get at.)But even that was down from a year before, when it had had $2.1bn in cash and short-term equivalents, and $580m in long-term investments. All the directions are down.Meanwhile its intangible assets (basically, patents and intellectual property such as how BES works) were valued at $3.3bn - dramatically up from the year before, when they were just $1.8bn. As of Wednesday evening, RIM's stock price was hovering below $10.40, valuing it at $5.42bn. In other words, exactly the value of its intangible assets and all its cash, short-term and long-term holdings.The endHeins can talk about RIM's cash pile growing - of course it will, because he's likely put an end to the cash drain if PlayBook manufacturing. But that's not the same as growing the customer pile. Frankly, I can't see how he can do that. Remember Horace Dediu's point:once you lose money in the mobile phone game, you never recover.Now the question is: who's going to want RIM's pieces?
Tim Cook, the Apple CEO who made headlines last week foropting out of a $75m dividendhe was set to earn on 1m shares of company stock, sat down at a tech conference in Silicon Valley on Tuesday to answer questions about Apple's past and future.Cook was named CEO of the tech giant in August 2011, taking over the post's duties less than two months before Steve Jobs succumbed to pancreatic cancer. Cook gave a glimpse into a post-Jobs era at theD: All Things Dconference, and revealed that the most shocking thing about taking over for Jobs was the daily deluge of e-mails he receives from customers."They talk to you as if you are sitting in their living room," Cook said.Here are some other noteworthy hints Cook gave about the company:OnPing, Apple's social network for music:I was carefully avoiding that. We tried Ping, and I think the customer voted and said, 'This isn't something that I want to put a lot of energy into.'On making television a social product (Cook noted that2.7m Apple TVshave sold in the early months of this year):This is an area of intense interest for us.On monitoring overtime for the 700,000 factory workers the company tracks in China:Some people want to work a lot. They want to move and work for a year or two, and then move back to their village and bring back as much money as they can.Commentary:Mashable'sPeter Pachal: Deeper Facebook connections on the horizon?If Apple does strengthen its relationship with Facebook, it would be further reason for the company to finally do away with Ping, Apple's ill-fated attempt at a social network. Cook said he had thought about killing Ping when a member of the audience asked him about it, but he also noted that some customers really love it.Mathew Ingram from GigaOm was not enlightened:I've read so many dozens of posts about Tim Cook from D10 and I have learned exactly nothing about either him or Apple.&mdash; Mathew Ingram (@mathewi)May 30, 2012Video: More highlights
SquareEnix has just released the latest teaser for forthcoming assassinate-'em-up, Hitman: Absolution. It's a pretty distrurbing little mini-drama with bald hitman Agent 47 facing off against a gang of female killers dressed in habits.Bit of a grindhouse pulp cinema fantasy, then, but the animation and character design are rather astonishing.As ever, have a look (as long as you're over 18!) and let us know what you think...
SwiftKeyis one of the big British successes in the apps world, winning a global audience for its SwiftKey X Keyboard app, which replaces the native Android keyboard and uses natural language technology to predict what users will type next.There is no shortage of competition in terms of Android keyboard-replacement apps, but the company believes its technology is what separates it from rivals."What we focused on is next-word contextual prediction, and that's what differentiates us from the other keyboards that you see out on Android," says chief executive Jon Reynolds. "There's 20-25 out there, but they tend to be using the default Android prediction, and just changing the colour or doing various themes."SwiftKey now supports around 45 languages, having released the original SwiftKey software in 2010, then the SwiftKey X update in 2011.The company has a third iteration, SwiftKey 3, in public beta release, and a fervent community of 50,000 Android users providing feedback and suggestions for future features."When we started looking at the problem of text input on smartphones, we saw it not as a problem about keyboards, but as a problem about language," says co-founder and chief techology officer Ben Medlock."Can you capture the way people express themselves and help them to put their thoughts out of their head and onto their phone? That's what's really different about SwiftKey, and it's why people have got behind it in the way that they have."It's also why SwiftKey is one of the big paid-app success stories on Android, and inspiration for developers looking to prove that people with Google-powered handsets aren't just looking for free apps."We're one of the rare paid apps which is making money out of Android, and we've really appreciated the distribution we can get from the App Store," says Reynolds.He's not wrong. According to the Google Play Store stats, the paid version of SwiftKey X Keyboard has been installed between 1m and 5m times, while the tablet version has notched up between 50k and 100k installs.Selling apps to people on Google Play is just part of SwiftKey's business strategy though. The company is angling for preload deals with Android handset makers, adapting its software to whatever services they're providing on their phones."The barrier to entry for this kind of software is very high," says Medlock. "We had to build this credibility story before we could hit some of the major manufacturers. But now we support around 45 languages, and in the last 5-6 months we've reached a critical mass in terms of momentum, to the point where people are really starting to take us seriously."Right now, SwiftKey is an Android business. That's mainly because Reynolds and Medlock saw an opportunity in the early days of the company, when Android was still small, but had handset makers lining up to support it."We definitely made the most of it as an opportunity, with Google demonstrating how open the Android ecosystem is," says Reynolds.Are they looking beyond Android? The problem is that as things stand, SwiftKey – which replaces the default keyboard on a device – can't work on other big smartphone platforms. "iPhone is a big challenge for us with Apple's decision to lock down the core experience," says Reynolds."In fact, Windows Phone and iPhone have both taken a more locked down approach, yet if you look at something like Damn You AutoCorrect on iOS, there is clearly demand from users for an improved keyboard experience. If we were able to launch on iOS, it would be successful."Instead, expansion for SwiftKey is more likely to come from other kinds of devices, and new markets like enterprise applications – Reynolds mentions the healthcare and legal professions as particularly suitable."If you're a healthcare professional spending 10 minutes writing patient notes on a tablet, and SwiftKey helps you cut that to five minutes, you have more time in front of patients rather than typing notes up," he says.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLiving on mobile money &gt;&gt; BBC Technology blogRory Cellan-Jones:A couple of weeks ago I wrote about my frustrating efforts to use various new mobile money applications on my phone. I promised then to have another go, to give up cash and try to pay by phone alone. So, how did it go? Not very well, I'm afraid.We're not yet as good as the folks in Africa at using mobile money.Revealed: The jobs that will be wiped out by cloud computing &gt;&gt; TechRepublicEMC chief operating officer:"If you are a server, storage or network admin, there may be fewer of those dedicated - what I call siloed component - skillsets needed."While these roles disappear, new jobs will spring up in their place both technical - focused on marshalling different services and technologies, and business orientated - analysing huge data stores for valuable insights and matching technologies to the needs of business and customers.What's not said: cloud computing might demand fewer jobs overall in IT.World IPv6 Launch &gt;&gt; Internet SocietyMajor internet service providers (ISPs), home networking equipment manufacturers, and web companies around the world are coming together to permanently enable IPv6 for their products and services by 6 June 2012.Do you know whereyourIPv6 address is?Research In Motion CEO provides business update &gt;&gt;Research In MotionThorsten Heins:In terms of challenges, as I mentioned on the March financial results conference call, RIM is going through a significant transformation as we move towards the BlackBerry 10 launch, and our financial performance will continue to be challenging for the next few quarters. The on-going competitive environment is impacting our business in the form of lower volumes and highly competitive pricing dynamics in the marketplace, and we expect our Q1 results to reflect this, and likely result in an operating loss for the quarter.Your submissions please for who is going to buy which bits of RIM, and by when.Download: Group Policy Settings Reference for Windows and Windows Server - Microsoft Download Center - Download DetailsGroup Policy Settings Reference for Windows Server "8" Beta and Windows "8" Consumer Preview: This spreadsheet lists the policy settings for computer and user configurations included in the Administrative template files (admx/adml) delivered with Windows Server® "8" Beta.Happy now?Malware: The number is no longer in service &gt;&gt; The EconomistON JULY 9th users of hundreds of thousands of computers worldwide will be mystified. They will no longer be able to access websites, e-mail servers and other resources despite an active internet connection. The indirect culprit is the DNS Changer Trojan horse, a piece of malware which tweaks operating-system settings on computers and residential internet routers so as to redirect traffic to certain sites and rack up advertising fees. But it is America's Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) that is the proximate cause of the disruption.A Tale of Two Pwnies (Part 1) &gt;&gt; Google Chromium BlogJust over two months ago, Chrome sponsored thePwniumbrowser hacking competition. We hadtwo fantastic submissions, and successfully blocked both exploits within 24 hours of their unveiling. Today, we'd like to offer an inside look into the exploit submitted byPinkie Pie.Four bugs chained together to achieve root. There's an upcoming post about the other hack, which involved 10 chained bugs. The chaining makes it more like an accumulator at racing - much harder to achieve anything, even though you cracked the bug.Nokia Maps - 3D WebGL (beta)This isfantasticfun. Zoom in on somewhere (London, anywhere you know). Zoom right in. Now press the top rocker of the right-hand button of the middle group. Press it again. And again. Now that is cool.Samsung Galaxy S3's S Voice vs Siri on iPhone 4S &gt;&gt; CNET UKYou haven't even clicked the link, yet you've already made up your mind about it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Hurray, it's Wednesday. This time next week, we'll be half the way through E3!
Russian jeweller Peter Carl Fabergé - best known for creating the famous Fabergé eggs - has had the 166th anniversary of his birth celebrated with a Google doodle.The search engine has turned its homepage emblem into a set of six gold eggs decorated in diamonds, precious metals and gemstones in tribute to the designer.Fabergé was born in Saint Petersburg, Russia on May 30, 1846 to the Baltic German jeweller Gustav Fabergé and his Danish wife Charlotte Jungstedt.His father was an established jeweller, dealing in fine decorative objects, which his son continued after inheriting the family business in 1870.Fabergé quickly developed a reputation for producing exquisite jewelled objects including the Easter egg designs which made him world famous.In 1882 at the Pan-Russian Exhibition in Moscow, Fabergé won the gold medal. He was appointed as the court jeweller of the Romanov dynasty in 1885.He died on September 24, 1920 at the age of 74.
Facebook's shares dipped below $30 Tuesday as the company's shares hit new lows and continued to struggle in the wake of its massive initial public offering (IPO).Even as US stock markets bounced back from falls last week, Facebook's shares slumped 9.62% to end the day at $28.84 – almost $10 below the $38 price set at their IPO earlier this month. Stock markets in the US, which had been closed on Monday for Memorial Day, ended up for the day.The share slide means Facebook is now valued at $61.98bn, a sharp fall from the $104bn it was valued at when the company went public on 18 May.The IPO has proved a disaster for Facebook and its bankers. US authorities are investigating allegations that the company gave critical information to some investors and not others. Shareholders have launchedclass action lawsuitsagainst founder Mark Zuckerberg, the company and its bankers, including lead bank Morgan Stanley.Walter Zimmermann, senior technical analyst at United-ICAP, said there was plenty of evidence that the stock could fall further. He said the share sale had represented "a mania of historic proportions"."This was an IPO that was going to save California and uplift the western world. It was so overhyped and overvalued that it could only fall," he said.Some traders pointed to technical reasons for the stock's continuing woes. Trading in Facebook options – contracts that allow investors to make bets on the direction of a company's shares – started Tuesday. Traders can now also "short" Facebook shares, betting that the price will fall.Sam Hamadeh, founder of analyst PrivCo, said most of the options were "bearish" meaning traders were betting on price falls and that popular contracts were putting Facebook's share price in the mid $20s for June and July. PrivCo estimated Facebook's shares were worth $25 ahead of the IPO."The shares would have probably fallen anyway but this probably sped the process up a little bit," he said.Zimmerman said discussions of technical issues missed a wider point. He said Facebook had sold so many shares –  96m – that there was little appetite from investors who had not bought shares. "Who is left to buy?" he said.News that the company is considering buildingits own mobile device, an area where it has struggled to make money, seems to have been shrugged off by investors.Last week law firm Robbins Geller launched a class action lawsuit on behalf of Facebook investors against the company and its bankers. Massachusetts' secretary of commonwealth William Galvin has sent a subpoena to Morgan Stanley demanding more details of what the bank and Facebook executives told select investors ahead of the IPO.
BlackBerry-maker RIM faces having to make a third huge writedown on unsold stocks of smartphones and PlayBook tablets when its financial quarter ends on Saturday, analysts say. It would be the third large writeoff in three quarters.Analysts also expect to see falling revenues and profits as the group struggles against Apple's iPhone at the high end and Android devices in the rest of the market, as well as a resurgent Nokia, which has begun to attack the western smartphone market in earnest.RIM said on Tuesday night it had engaged JP Morgan Securities and RBC Capital Markets to help with a review of the business, confirming reports earlier in the week that there would be "significant" job cuts.Canada's Globe and Mail had reported at least 2,000 posts would go while Reuters cited a source saying cuts could hit up to 6,000. The company said financial performance would "continue to be challenging" for the next few quarters.RIM took a $485m (£310m) writedown against unsold stock of the PlayBook for its third fiscal quarter, ending in November 2011. For the fourth quarter, ending in February 2012, it wrote off $267m on unsold BlackBerry 7 handsets which it had launched the previous summer.Wall Street consensus forecasts are for the company to have shipped 10.5m handsets, down 20% from 13.2m a year ago – at the same time as the smartphone market has grown by 50%. Revenues are forecast at $3.7bn, a 24% fall compared with a year ago. That would be in line with the 24% fall in the previous quarter, but smaller than at any time since summer 2009.Mark Sue of RBC Capital Markets was even gloomier, suggesting that the company will only have shipped 9m handsets – a 30% fall year-on-year as its share erodes in the US – with revenues of $3.2bn, lower than at any time.RIM's chief executive officer Thorsten Heins said: "These advisers [JP Morgan Securities and RBC Capital Markets] have been tasked to help us with the strategic review we referenced on our year-end financial results conference call and to evaluate the relative merits and feasibility of various financial strategies."RIM is going through a significant transformation as we move towards the BlackBerry 10 launch, and our financial performance will continue to be challenging for the next few quarters."Neeraj Monga, an analyst at Veritas Investment Research in Toronto, said the writedowns were inevitable in the face of consumer and business indifference, notably to the PlayBook tablet."Clearly this stuff isn't selling," hetold Bloomberg. "Despite all the writedowns they're taking on the inventory, these inventory levels are not dropping."Monga maintains a buy recommendation on RIM's stock – currently at an eight-year low – in anticipation of the company being sold.RBC's Sue said the promise later in the year of the new BB10 software was not obviously a "silver bullet" for the business to return to growth, and that it might even have to withdraw from some markets as cheap Android phones undercut margins.Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners LP in New York, told Bloomberg that it was hard for customers to show interest in older phones when there was the promise – but only that – of the new one: "Until you have a new product, there's nothing to transition to," said Gillis, who advises selling RIM's stock. "It's still very much in the early stages."Though RIM did not specify whether its previous writedowns have been to zero value or to expected sale value, at the start of the current quarter in March 2012 it still had $1bn in inventory, which is stock in its own warehouses and not shipped to suppliers. That compared with just $618m at the same period a year ago, in February 2011.• RIM is losing another senior executive. Its chief legal officer is retiring after 12 years, joining an exit roster that includes the global head of sales Patrick Spence earlier this week, and the former co-CEOs and co-chairmen Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie who departed in February.
Two Cambridge experts have discovered a "back door" in a computer chip used in military systems and aircraft such as the Boeing 787 that could allow the chip to be taken over via the internet.The discovery will heighten concerns about the risks of cyber-attacks on sensitive installations, coming on the heels of the discovery this week of the'Flamer' virus which has been attacking computer systemsin Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia.In a paper that has been published in draft form online and seen by the Guardian, researchers Sergei Skorobogatov of Cambridge University and Chris Woods of Quo Vadis Labs say that they have discovered a method that a hacker can use to connect to the internals of a chip made by Actel, a US manufacturer."An attacker can disable all the security on the chip, reprogram cryptographic and access keys … or permanently damage the device," they noted.Woods told the Guardian that they have offered all the necessary information about how the hack can be done to government agencies – but that their response is classified."The real issue is the level of security that can be compromised through any back door, and how easy they are to find and exploit," Woods said.The back door may have been inserted by Actel itself, whoseProASIC3 chipis used in medical, automotive, communications and consumer products, as well as military use.Woods said that "a back door is an additional undocumented featured deliberately inserted into a device for extra functionality" – in effect, a secret way to get into the chip and control it.Crucially, in this case it exists as part of the design of the silicon chip – meaning that it cannot be removed because it is inherent in how the chip reacts to certain inputs. He suggested that it may have been put there by design by Actel, because there are some traces of the existence of such a back door in the system files of Actel development software.But, he said, that creates serious risks: "The great danger comes from the fact that such a back door undermines the high level of security in the chip making it exposed to various attacks. Although Actel makes a big claim that their devices are extremely secure because there is no physical path for the configuration data to be read to the outside world, a back door was added with a special key to circumnavigate all the security set by themselves or one of their users."Connecting to the chips would be comparatively easy over the internet if the chip is wired to an internet-enabled controller, he said. Normally a special cryptographic key would be needed, but the back door does not need an encrypted channel.Among applications where the ProASIC3 are used are remote surveillance systems, drones, and forflight-critical applications on the new Boeing 787 Dreamliner.Actel did not respond to requests for comment by the time of publication.Rik Ferguson, director of security research at the online security company Trend Micro, said: "This kind of flaw that gives somebody access right into the device has inherent flaws. The fact that it's in the hardware will certainly make it harder – if not impossible – to eradicate. We're already seeing a steady flow of devices such as digital picture frames coming out of factories with malware already on them – but that's software which can be fixed. If you have this sort of flaw, then you need to replace the hardware, which means the chips."But suggestions that it is part of a cyber-attack by China, where the chip is made, have been discounted."It was very likely done at the design stage," said Woods. "However, the traces left in the Actel development software suggest that this feature was well thought through from the very beginning." He doubts it is part of a Chinese state-sponsored sabotage attempt.Skorobogatov and Woods will present a paper on their findings at a conference in Belgium in September.
He may be worth $19bn and widely considered the crown prince of the internet era, but Mark Zuckerberg has been branded a scrooge in Rome when it comes to tipping.Lunching out with his new wife, Priscilla Chan, on their honeymoon, the Facebook co-founder Zuckerberg ran up a not-so-massive bill of €32 (£25) at the restaurant Nonna Betta this week, neglecting to add any tip at all, according to reports.The story was broken by Italian daily Corriere della Sera, which ran the headline "Zuckerberg in Rome – a €32 bill and no tip", adding that Chan had been nicknamed 'Chansaccodesoldi' on the internet, which roughly translates as "She's got a sack of cash".The couple stuck to antipasti of deep-fried artichoke and just one dish of seabass, artichoke and tomato ravioli, washed down with water and a pot of tea.The restaurant's owner, Umberto Pavoncello, defended Zuckerberg from the barbs, claiming the billionaire was "in a hurry"."They were really in love, eating from the same plate of ravioli," he said. After recognising him, Pavoncello went up to Zuckerberg and "I said, in English, 'But are you ... ?' and he replied, 'Yes.'""I am seriously considering renaming thefiori di zucca– deep-fried courgette flowers – on the menu asfiori di Zuckerberg."
Why did no one TELL me there was no Chatterbox up?!
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiand Guardian Technology editorCharles Arthurwe look at the possible loss of 6,000 jobsat the beleaguered handset manufacturer Research in Motion, maker of BlackBerry phones.Also we discuss the introduction of newEU rules around the use of cookiesby websites and why the UK could find itself out of step with the new regulations.And the Korean technology giantSamsungmove closer to an Apple-like strategy of offering music services with its hardware. Samsung recently announced its purchase of the M-Spot online music service and Charles talks toTJ Kang from SamsungandDarren Tsui from M-Spotabout their plans to offer an alternative to iTunes.Finally, Charles and Aleks discuss the topsy-turvy world of theFacebook IPOand why contrary to much of the negative reporting the best may be yet to come for Mark Zuckerberg's company.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Suggestions that Facebook is looking to acquire mobile technology firm Opera Software propelled the Norwegian group's share price 26% higher on Tuesday morning.Opera makes one of the world's most widely used mobile phone internet browsers, and Mark Zuckerberg's social network is reportedly interested in the company as part of aplan to create a Facebook smartphone.After surging by a quarter on the Oslo stock exchange, Opera shares fell back by midday but remained 17% higher than Friday's closing price at 40.1 Norwegian krone (NOK), valuing the firm at 4.8bn NOK (£510m).The company declined to comment, while founder Jon von Tetzchner, who is the largest shareholder with 10.9%, said he was not aware of talks, according to Reuters.Facebook has 350m mobile users a month, but has struggled to sell advertising on smartphone screens and is looking to extend its control over the mobile experience.It is weeks away from launching its own phone apps store, which will promote and review services such as Pinterest and Spotify that incorporate Facebook links. Zuckerberg is understood to have recruited half a dozen iPhone engineers from Apple, and is said to be working with Taiwanese manufacturer HTC on a new handset."In our view, a bid for Opera makes strategic sense for Facebook, and we have previously discussed the possibilities for co-operation between the two companies," an analyst at Norwegian bank DNB said. "We expect that any successful bid would have to pay at least double the closing price from Friday. We have a buy recommendation on Opera with a price target of 60 NOK per share."Doubling Friday's closing price would put an £860m price tag on the firm.Opera creates browsers that allow desktop computers and phones to access the internet, and its software works with Apple and Microsoft machines. Although Opera's presence on desktop computers – where browsers from Apple, Microsoft, Google and Mozilla tend to dominate – is limited, it has been successful on cheap mobile phones.The Opera Mini browser, which works on even simple handsets with small screens and limited memory, has been widely adopted in emerging markets and means 250 million people use an Opera product each month.
By now, the rubric for Lego games feels as expected as it is comfortingly familiar. Traveller's Tales takes a high-quality IP, wraps it in Lego bricks, places its largely unchanged template for gameplay at the centre of it – building blocks, collecting studs, breaking enemies and scenery – and then expands from the inside out.It's a formula that's proved as popular with gamers as it has profitable for the developer and the myriad publishers it works with. So it comes as scant surprise, then, that Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes follows the same pattern in its core essentials – adorable veneer, simple mechanics, easy gameplay.However, to say that Lego Batman 2 is the same as any other Lego title before it would be doing it a massive disservice. While Lego game fans will be right at home with the controls, Lego Batman 2 is a notable change from the rest of the series in its structure, its character list and its gargantuan size.And then there's the fact that this is the first Lego game with dialogue in it.This may sound like a rather small change, but it's a big step for Traveller's Tales. In the past, the developer made a lot of comedic mileage out of cute Lego characters mugging for the camera.It's fortunate, then, that the script for Batman 2 is sharp as a tack and funnier than a car filled with candyfloss.In our first look preview, Batman and Superman swan into the Lex Corp reception and demand to see the Man Of Steel's arch-nemesis. A grim-looking secretary looks up from behind the desk."Names?" she asks.Batman and Superman look at each other and then back at the secretary."You're kidding, right?" says Batman incredulously."Names?" the secretary repeats in a bored monotone."Well, umm … I'm Batman," says Batman, "and he's Superman."The secretary doesn't miss a beat."Are both of your surnames 'man'?" she asks."Err, it's kind of the same thing. It's our first and last names. Kind of like Madonna," Batman explains sheepishly.The secretary sniffs and types something into a computer."Wow," Superman whispers to Batman, "even Lex's secretary is evil!"As if on cue, the secretary shudders. Then her head and body explode off her to reveal a robot with glowing green eyes beneath. The legend EVIL SECRETARY: BOSS BATTLE appears on the screen and the demo kicks into full swing.Anyone who played the first Lego Batman will remember that the caped crusader had access to a collection of suits which bestowed different abilities upon him, such as gliding and hurl bombs at targets. In the demo we're shown, we're introduced the new Power Suit that gives Batman super strength and allows him to fire rockets at silver Lego blocks, smashing them to bits.For his part, Superman can fly, use his heat-vision to blast gold bricks to pieces and use his freeze breath to encase targets in a block of ice. He can also use his x-ray vision to see through walls and solve puzzles.In the demo level he uses it to switch around a selection of levers behind a wall to activate the elevator up to Lex's labs after he and Bats manage to defeat the evil secretary.We're told that Superman is also completely invulnerable to any attack, except those that are kryptonite-based. This is a handy caveat that Traveller's Tales uses to make sure that the player controlling Superman can't just waltz through all the levels, obliterating everything in his path.As Batman and Superman enter the labs, the pair find that a lot of the way ahead is doused in green kryptonite rays, the source of which Batman needs to find and disable. This leads into a host of puzzle solving, which the Lego games are renowned for .The solution to each puzzle isn't immediately obvious, but they are not so difficult that the player will become frustrated. Most of them also involve having to use Batman's suits – including the Power Suit, the Electricity Suit (which absorbs and redirects electricity) and the Sensor Suit (which grants Batman X-Ray vision and turns him invisible.Apart from Superman and Batman (and obviously Robin), players have a huge list of characters – both villains and heroes – that they can tackle the game in Free-Play mode in any level they've completed.Each new character offers new abilities to the player and increases the game's replay value significantly. Wonder Woman, for example, uses a lasso and her tiara to knock out foes, and she can besides. Green Lantern is also able to fly, but he's also the only character in the game who can solve the puzzles that revolve around glowing green blocks.Traveller's Tales says every effort has been made to include a villain for every hero that appears in the game. The Joker, Penguin and Two-Face are there, but then so are Lex Luthor and Sinestro.As players progress through the game's 15-story levels, they also open up areas in the game's huge hub map – a vast, suitably dark Lego version of Gotham City. The map is brimming with collectibles, suits, studs, puzzles and villains to smash to pieces.As Batman and Robin, players have a choice of 15 flying vehicles, 15 boats and 25 cars they can use to travel around the map. Vehicles are tied to level completion and they're stored in the game's Batcave hub.They can also opt for a character who can fly – Superman, Supergirl, Green Lantern and Hawkman among them – or zoom through the streets collecting studs with the Flash.A bird's-eye view of Lego Gotham is quite a spectacle to behold. Landmarks such as Arkham Asylum, Ace Chemicals and the tower housing Wayne Enterprises jut out of the landscape.Angry clouds cover the sky and violent thunderstorms lash the city, which, punctuated by Danny Elfman's iconic movie score, lends the city a gothic menace and grandeur.Much of Lego Batman 2 will be familiar to players, but the developers at Traveller's Tales look like they've really pushed the boat out in terms of content and replayability. Batman 2 might not reinvent the wheel in terms of gameplay, but in terms of size and depth, it looks an absolute marvel.• Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes will be released for PC, PS3, DS, Wii and Xbox 360 on 27 June
Twonky? It sounds more like an obscure dubstep sub-genre than a cutting-edge app. But technology industry veteran PacketVideo is doing some interesting things with its range ofTwonky appsfor Android and iOS.It's best described as media-sharing software, for squirting music, photos and videos between computers, mobile devices, hi-fis and TVs around the home.They started with Twonky Mobile, a smartphone app for finding media on your home network and then beaming it to a TV or DLNA / AirPlay-compatible TV. It's since been joined by Twonky Video, which aggregates web videos to beam to a bigger screen, and Twonky Beam, which works with audio and photos as well as videos."The big feature we've added to Twonky Beam is our DLNA-certified media server, which is very popular," says Rick Schwartz, director of connected home software at PacketVideo."A lot of people are running the app on their smartphones, and then they'll go to a friend's house, and if they have a PlayStation 3 console, a Samsung smart TV or an Apple TV, for example, they can access all the content on their device in a very seamless way."He summarises Twonky's intended appeal thus: smartphones are very good for discovering content, but they're not always the best device to actually watch or listen to it – especially if there's a TV in the room that's connected to the home wireless network."It's great to discover video on mobile devices, but there's not been an easy way to beam that content to your big screen. We're trying to insert ourself into that spot," he says.But PacketVideo is thinking beyond the living room with Twonky. "We're doing a lot of work in the connected car, which I think is really on the horizon now," says Schwartz."We're going to see the car become a media server, and also see it sync with your home network. You'll buy a new album and it will automatically sync with your car. Plus the car is going to become a mobile hotspot pretty soon…"PacketVideo is also busily doing deals with telcos and consumer electronics companies to use the technology behind Twonky, with 30 having signed up so far. The Twonky apps show off the tech and prove there's a demand, and then the money comes from the hardware deals."That's what's paying the bills as our ecosystem continues to grow," says Schwartz. "We could do some subtle advertising on the MyTwonky portal, but that's more a future thing for us. Right now, we don't need to do it: we want to get the biggest audience possible."
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMobile devices now make up about 20% of US web traffic &gt;&gt; AllThingsDThe analysis, from online advertising network Chitika, finds that those stodgy old PCs still produce just under 80 percent of Web traffic, with smartphones accounting for 14.6% and tablets making up 5.6%.Other findings of note: Windows Phone now accounts for a third as much traffic as BlackBerry devices. Undoubtedly its market share is far less than that, but its more powerful browser and larger screen likely make it more conducive to Web surfing.Take a note of that Windows Phone stat in particular. Generally, for mobile to be that large a percentage in a country where most computer access is fixed is surprising. (Statcounter gives a lower figure. Previous caveats given in comments here - that web traffic != internet traffic - apply.)What do people do with tablets, and where? &gt;&gt;Total ResearchFrom March, but always good to have data from a large survey:People who own tablet computers spend more time and money on the internet than anyone else in Britain. This is according to research commissioned by Total Media into how tablet technology has, and will, affect the population in terms of media consumption and behaviour. The quantitative study of more than 1,000 nationally representative respondents identified that 79% of tablet owners mostly use the device at home, with a further 33% saying that the tablet has affected their behaviour in the home.How an MP3 Player inspired Google's Knowledge Graph launch &gt;&gt; The Next WebEmily Moxley, Google product manager:"what actually really got me into technology was a gift I received on my 16th birthday. I got the Diamond Rio MP3 player, one of the first on the market. It had 32MB of storage and was tiny. I started looking into how a CD was encoded into an MP3, I learned about signal compression. I went into engineering at Princeton and did a PHD at Santa Barbra in computer vision."If only it were so easy to inspire all children.Engelbart's Violin &gt;&gt; Loper OSFascinating as the chorded keyboard is, its confinement to the ghetto of "crackpot technology" is but a symptom of the underlying disease:the total victory of the technological business model which caters primarily to the unskilled.Looking at the intriguing question of why the chorded keyboard never took off as an input mechanism.Android gains advantage as business mobile spend explodes &gt;&gt; Strategy Analytics• Globally, nearly all smartphones and tablets are corporate-liable devices, including most BYOD smartphones. Their purchase price or monthly voice/data services fees of $42 per user on average are paid for, in part or in full, by employers.• Organisations report plans to buy more Android than iOS corporate tablets in the next 12 months, a warning shot over the bow of iPad current business tablet dominance.• Microsoft Windows mobile devices barely show on the radar for corporate support and purchase plans. Microsoft and its partners must start addressing businesses and mobile worker needs.• The average replacement cycle for business smartphones has shortened considerably to 1.1 years. RIM, whose smartphones still enjoy solid corporate support, must battle to retain customers who revisit smartphone decisions every year.From a survey of 1,750 organisations in the US, UK, France, Germany, China, India and Brazil representing more than ten industries.See ya later, Cius: Cisco changes tablet strategy &gt;&gt; Computer Reseller NewsAcknowledging that its attempts to market a business-class Android tablet are over, Cisco Systems executives Thursday said the company is halting investments in the fledgling Cius product line."[We] will no longer invest in the Cisco Cius tablet," said Marthin DeBeer, senior vice president and general manager of Cisco's Video and Collaboration Group. "Instead, we're going to continue leveraging other people's tablets and move to deploy Jabber, as well as our other software on top of that," DeBeer told CRN.More value to be gained from their own software, such as WebEx, they think.Why Google almost certainly didn't steal your sex secrets &gt;&gt; PC Pro blogThe arrival of our mini-heatwave appears to have tricked some of our national newspapers into thinking "silly season" has arrived. Both The Sunday Times and The Daily Mail have led with front-page splashes about Google's Street View data harvesting - both based on a report by the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) that we and many others reported on when it was published over a month ago.It's not the newspapers' late arrival to the story that has me pounding my keyboard in frustration, however. It's the sensationalist exaggeration of the Street View data collection that has triggered a sudden spike in my blood pressure.Actually, it's those newspapers' late arrival whichisinteresting. Why did they only just choose to write these stories?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Mark Zuckerberg is working on putting a Facebook phone into the hands of the 350 million users who access the social network via their mobiles each month.Days after its $16bn (£10.2bn) roller-coaster share sale, Facebook is preparing to take on Google and Apple by creating its own handset and the software to operate it, according to a string of reports from Silicon Valley to Taiwan.The social network has hired former Apple software and hardware engineers, and one who worked on the iPad, theNew York Timesreported. Employees and engineers approached by recruiters say the company hopes to release its own smartphone next year.Facebook chief technology officer Bret Taylor is said to be leading the project, and the new recruits will expand a group working with Taiwanese phone manufacturer HTC on a project codenamed Buffy – a reference to the vampire slayer TV series.News of the Buffy phone first emerged in November.  It is expected, like Amazon's Kindle reader, to run on a customised version of Android, according toDigitimes.Facebook could be looking to stake Google, which dominates the budget end of the smartphone market with its Android software. Google last week won approval for a $12.5bn takeover of Motorola Mobility, which could see the software company designing its own handsets.Zuckerberg is worried that if he does not create a mobile phone soon Facebook will simply become an app on other mobile platforms, a Facebook employee said.Facebook has been assembling the elements needed to create a phone. Besides its alliance with HTC, it is to launch its own app store, where phone versions of Pinterest, Spotify and other websites with links to Facebook will be spotlighted, rated and available for download.Facebook already has a camera app and is about to own another, once its $1bn purchase of the 18-month-old photo sharing site Instagram is complete. It also has an instant messaging service, like Apple's iMessage and BlackBerry's BBM. The company was reported on Friday to be in talks to acquire a web browser. Gadget sitePocket-lintsaid Facebook had set its sights on the Norwegian firm Opera Software, which has developed internet browsers for mobile phones and desktop computers."They are not doing a phone to enter the devices market," said Carolina Milanesi at research firm Gartner. "If they do a phone they will have to embed Facebook and Instagram at the core of the device, learning from every click the users does."Motorola and HTC have already made phones with a Facebook button. The HTC ChaCha, a BlackBerry style handset, lets users share music, photos and updates by pressing the keyboard's F button.A phone would allow Zuckerberg more control over customers and make for less dependence on Google and Apple.While Microsoft has integrated Facebook features, Apple has been less welcoming. A Facebook spokeswoman referred to a statement on the company's mobile strategy: "We're working across the entire mobile industry; with operators, hardware manufacturers, OS providers, and application developers."
