Apple and Google tend to announce a smattering of stats to show their respective app stores&apos; growth whenever they have a big press launch for iOS or Android.How to fill the gap between those events? Mobile analytics companies likeFlurry,DistimoandApp Anniehave become key sources for app developers and journalists alike, crunching big apps data and regularly publishing the results.Both Distimo and App Annie have released their latest research this week:here&apos;s Distimo&apos;s reportandhere&apos;s App Annie&apos;s. Read on for some of the findings that stood out:1. Google Play narrowing revenues gap to App StoreApple still has the most lucrative app store, with Distimo estimating that on a typical day in November 2013, global revenues for the 200 top grossing iOS apps were more than $18m. That compares to $12m for Android&apos;s Google Play store, although the report notes that a year ago, the respective figures were $15m and $3.5m. The gap is narrowing.Distimo's chart comparing revenues on Apple's App Store and Google Play.2. It&apos;s a freemium world out thereAt the start of this year, the percentage of app store revenues from &quot;freemium&quot; apps – downloaded for free but using in-app purchases – was 77% on iOS&apos; App Store and 89% on Google Play, according to Distimo. By November, that had increased to 92% and 98% respectively.This varies by app category though: for the App Store specifically, 90% of games revenues come from freemium apps, but that falls to 88% for social networking, 68% for entertainment, 65% for music and 77% for books. Other categories are still mainly about paid apps: 70% of productivity iOS app revenues and 55% of navigation iOS app revenues came from paid apps in November according to the report.Distimo's chart of app categories' revenue breakdown on iOS.3. Asia rising fast for app revenuesIf you just focus on the App Store and Google Play, the US remains the most lucrative apps market in the world, ahead of Japan, then a big drop to South Korea, the UK and China, as well as other Western countries. If you look at growth over this year, though, the chart is topped by the Asian markets: 759% growth in South Korea, 280% in China and 245% in Japan.Apps market growth over the course of 2013, according to Distimo.4. Games still the most popular app categoryAccording to Distimo, 63% of iOS app revenues come from games – which if 90% of those are from freemium titles, suggests that 56.7% of all money being spent in Apple&apos;s App Store is going on virtual items and currency for games.Apple&apos;s own announcementsindicate that it paid out $3bn to iOS developers between June and October this year, which when you add the company&apos;s 30% cut back in, indicates just under $1.1bn of monthly spending on iOS apps – and thus around $608m a month within freemium games alone if Distimo&apos;s estimates are correct.That&apos;s reflected in the charts: the entire top 10 grossing iOS apps globally in 2013 were games, and nine of the top 10 grossing Google Play games, according to the report. It claims Clash of Clans edged out Candy Crush Saga as the most lucrative iOS game globally this year, but that King&apos;s sweet-swapping phenomenon beat Japanese game Puzzle &amp; Dragons to top the Google Play chart.Clash of Clans made the most money on iOS this year.5. Dating and cartoon-creation apps riding high on iOSApp Annie&apos;s latest report focuses on November specifically, rather than 2013 as a whole, so it&apos;s a good snapshot of current trends. It&apos;s also useful because it separates out games and non-game apps, making it possible to pinpoint some trends in the latter.For example? Dating apps are doing well: four of the top 10 grossing iOS non-game apps in November were dating apps: Zoosk, Badoo, Grindr and AdoptAGuy. Also cartoon-creation apps: App Annie reckons that MomentCam and Bitstrips were the first and second most-downloaded non-game apps on iOS in November, ahead of YouTube, Facebook, WhatsApp and other big names.Bitstrips has shot to fame on the back of Facebook-sharing.6. Children&apos;s apps: more popular than you thinkApp Annie&apos;s games report has a few surprises on the children&apos;s apps front. It claims the top publisher for global Google Play games downloads in November was Chinese firm Tiny Piece – maker of kid-apps like Baby Pet Vet Doctor, Pets Nail Salon and Halloween Spa – ahead of Gameloft, EA, King, Rovio, Disney and others.App Annie ranks Tiny Piece fifth in the comparable chart (global games downloads in November) for iOS, and Irish children&apos;s apps publisher Bluebear sixth thanks to apps like Crazy Shave, Nose Doctor and Shave Santa. These aren&apos;t the kind of apps that Apple shows off in keynotes or TV ads – those are more likely to be made by companies like Toca Boca – but it may be Tiny Piece and Bluebear&apos;s apps that are played by most children this Christmas.Also note App Annie&apos;s claim that talking-pet app My Talking Tom was the second most-downloaded iOS game in the world in November, behind only Candy Crush Saga. Despicable Me: Minion Rush was fifth in that chart too, having just passed 150m total downloads in the year.Nose Doctor: who knew kids would be attracted by bogey-related apps?7. Pandora is profiting from mobile musicIn the UK, we don&apos;t think much about personal radio service Pandora, as it&apos;s not been available here since 2007 due to a lack of licensing deals. But it&apos;s really interesting to note how well it&apos;s doing in App Annie&apos;s revenue charts. They claim that Pandora Radio was the top non-game iOS app in the world for revenues in November, and fifth in the corresponding Google Play chart.There are some official figures for this, as Pandora is a public company. In the third quarter of this year, it made $37.2m in subscription revenues from 3.18m people paying for its Pandora One service, which removes ads. The option to pay for this via in-app purchases is what&apos;s helping it chart so highly in the top-grossing lists – despite only being available in the US, Australia and New Zealand.The implications of this may be felt more in 2014, when Pandora will face global competition from rivals like Apple&apos;s iTunes Radio, as well as free personal-radio features in apps like Spotify and Deezer. Games may be the big story in freemium apps, but it seems music can benefit from the in-app purchases model too.Pandora Radio is making money from subscriptions as well as ads.•Minecraft and Candy Crush Saga top Apple&apos;s 2013 app charts
A 28-year-old Swedish manhas been orderedto pay £403,000 in damages for uploading a single pre-release film to a BitTorrent site.The movie, Beck – Buried Alive, was shared on of Sweden’s oldest piracy BitTorrent sites, Swebits, which shut down a week after the man was arrested in 2011.&quot;The high damages shows what damage creators and rights holders suffer through illegal file sharing of a movie. Going forward, we have a number of processes which we can use to seek compensation for piracy of one or more films,&quot; said Henrik Pontén, a lawyer for anti-piracy firm Legal Alliance.Sweden’s “worst ever” individual movie pirateThe 28-year-old, described by rightsholders as Sweden’s “worst ever” individual movie pirate, was a moderator and uploader for the Swebits BitTorrent tracker site from 2008 to its closure.An investigation carried out by Rights Alliance with Nordisk Film discovered the 28-year-old Swede had distributed 517 other movies and TV shows on the site, for which he was handed a suspended jail sentence and ordered to complete 160 hours of community service.The Swedish District Court handed down the record 4.5m Swedish Krona restitution, which far exceeds the $150,000 statutory damages permitted per pirated title in the US. The damages in included the cost of licensing the movie from the rightsholders for distribution. The video quality of the pirated film – described as being poor enough to have damaged the its reputation – was also taken into consideration.26th Martin Beck movieThe movie, originally released in 2009 in Germany before landing in Sweden in 2010, is the 26th movie in the Swedish language series featuring the fictional police detective Martin Beck, who has featured in films, books and a radio series produced by the BBC.&quot;To receive such a harsh penalty for doing something that millions of other Swedes displays how outdated current legislation is. The only way forward is a radical reform of copyright law that allows the sharing of culture,&quot; said Gustav Nipe chairman of the Pirate Party’s Young Pirate youth organisation.• In December, notorious BitTorrent site the Pirate Bayswitched web addresses for the sixth time this yearto avoid court-ordered blocking
The price of bitcoin has plummeted following an announcement from China&apos;s largest bitcoin exchange that it would no longer be accepting new yuan deposits.BTC China said that due to action by a third-party payment provider, YeePay, it could no longer accept deposits in the Chinese currency, although it would still be able to process withdrawals. BTC&apos;s chief executive, Bobby Lee, said that YeePay gave notice on Wednesday morning Shanghai time that it would no longer provide services.Lee blamed government regulation for the decision. China&apos;s central bankwarned in early Decemberthat bitcoin was not legally protected and had no &quot;real meaning&quot;, and barred financial institutions from using the currency.On Tuesday, the central bank extended that ban to payment companies like YeePay, and gave them until Chinese New Year, which begins on 31 January, to comply.At publication time, the value of one bitcoin on BTC China stands at ¥2,630 (£266.02), down from a high of ¥7,395 (£741.70) in late November. Bitcoin has dropped against other currencies in the same period, falling from £750 to £300 in the UK and from $1242 to $480 in the US.On 18 November, BTC China raised $5m in a funding round from institutional investors Lightspeed. Until then, it had been self-funded by its three co-founders, who opened the site in June 2011.Bitcoin remains legal to use in China, and the central bank is standing by an announcement that individuals are free to trade it at their own risk. But without third party payment providers, new purchases of the currency are virtually impossible.That raises doubts about the future of bitcoin. The large boom in value that the currency has seen this autumn iswidely thoughtto be a result of Chinese users adopting it. As Chinese support has since waned, so too has the price.Bitcoin&apos;s supporters have consistently argued that the currency is impossible to fully ban, since it exists as a decentralised network of transactions. But if it can be rendered useless to merchants and customers, an actual ban may be unnecessary.•When thousands of bitcoins were stolen from an illegal marketplace, the users set out to track the culprit. But what started as the Maltese Falcon soon turned out to be more like Pink Panther.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe problem with Uber's surge pricing isn't the money. It's an increasing lack of trust &gt;&gt; PandoDailyUber is the supply-and-demand-in-an-Ayn-Randian-world cab company which hikes prices if there's a "surge" of demand. But Sarah Lacy's not happy:In San Francisco, I usually walk to and from work, but lately I've been grabbing an UberX home. It's a way for me to avoid pricey San Francisco parking in the mid-Market area and was always $7 including tip.In the last few weeks, however, I've been charged surge pricing almost every time I've left work. There's no storm. No rain. It's merely rush hour. Sometimes that $7 ride has ballooned to more than $30. I was OK with it once. Twice even. But it's become a pattern. I have no insight into what's driving it, and if it's going to continue to happen almost everyday with no explanation. Suddenly Uber isn't a reliable bargain over taking my car.Someone's being taken for a ride, certainly.Microsoft board of directors update on CEO search &gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft BlogWe identified over 100 possible candidates, talked with several dozen, and then focused our energy intensely on a group of about 20 individuals, all extremely impressive in their own right. As you would expect, as this group has narrowed, we've done deeper research and investigation, including with the full Board. We're moving ahead well, and I expect we'll complete our work in the early part of 2014.Shortened odds on Elop?Google and HP recall HP Chromebook 11 chargers due to fire and burn hazards; charger can overheat and melt &gt;&gt; CPSC.govThe CPSC is the Consumer Product Safety Commission:This recall involves chargers that were sold with the HP Chromebook 11. The charger is black with outlet pins, measures 1¾ inches by ¾ inches, and has a 6-foot long cord with a micro-USB connector on the end. The model number of the charger is MU15-N1052-A00S, which is stamped on the face of the battery charger that has the outlet pins.Incidents/InjuriesGoogle has received nine reports of chargers overheating and melting during use. There is one report of a small burn to a consumer and one report of minor property damage to a pillow from an overheating charger.Moonshot &gt;&gt; asymcoThere are other white elephant stories such as IBM's investment in speech recognition to replace word processing, the Japanese government spending on "Fifth Generation Computing" and almost all research into machine translation and learning from the 1960s to the present.But today we hear about initiatives such as package delivery drones and driverless cars and robots and Hyperloops and are hopeful. Perhaps under the guiding vision of the wisest, most benevolent business wizards, breakthrough technologies and new infrastructures can finally be realized and we can gain the growth and wealth that we deserve but are so sorely lacking.However... (And didn't the UK spend a bucketload on "fifth-generation computing" too?)this, is boomerang &gt;&gt; Githubboomerang is a piece of javascript that you add to your web pages, where it measures the performance of your website from your end user's point of view. It has the ability to send this data back to your server for further analysis. With boomerang, you find out exactly how fast your users think your site is.From Yahoo. One for the bookmarks.Deployment of 10,000 BlackBerry 10 Smartphones and migration to BES10 at PSA Peugeot Citroën &gt;&gt; BlackBerryBlackBerry announced today that PSA Peugeot Citroën will deploy 10,000 BlackBerry Z10 smartphones for its operations in France and Spain, and is migrating to BlackBerry's award-winning Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) solution – BlackBerry® Enterprise Service 10 (BES10).…To date, customers have installed nearly 30,000 BES10 commercial and test servers around the world. In France, more than 60 percent of the CAC 40 companies (the 40 companies with the most significant values among the 100 highest market caps on the Paris Bourse) have ordered, downloaded or installed BES10.BlackBerry announces its quarterly results on Friday 20th.Has Microsoft gone nuts? &gt;&gt; Mobile OpportunityMichael Mace on the rumours floating out of Redmond about free Windows Phone licences and others:I think most PC users will stick with the traditional Windows interface, most Windows developers will follow them, and most people who want tablets will get iPad or Android or Kindle.So the challenge for Microsoft's new CEO is the same one Steve Ballmer has tried and failed to answer for years: Demand for Windows is declining because the platform hasn't done anything new for a decade, while Microsoft doesn't control the fast-growing segments in tablets and smartphones. Microsoft tried to use Windows 8 to take over tablets. That failed. What do you do now?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Miley Cyrus did it, Lily Allen refused to do it, one London gym started offering lessons in it. And on Tuesday twerking – the frenetic, buttock-wiggling dance – also topped Google's list of the trends that Britons were trying to discover the meaning of online this year.Essentially, a lot of people had no idea what it was and at some point during the year decided they had better find out – firing 'what is twerking?' to the top of one of Google's annualZeitgeist lists.The UK list of searches also revealed that the country was trying to find out about the fitness craze Zumba, and asking what "YOLO" means.Paul Walker, the Fast and Furious actor who died in a car crash in late November, was top of the UK's general search list, above iPhone 5S and royal baby.The report into the country's most searched-for terms for 2013, as well as the most commonly asked questions, also included "how to lose weight", "how to get a flat stomach" and "how to dip&nbsp;dye&nbsp;hair".There was, as ever, huge interest in celebrities, with socialite and reality TV star Kim Kardashian leading the celebrity list this year, closely followed by One Direction, Miley Cyrus, Justin Bieber and Kate Middleton – but in seventh place, just after Taylor Swift, was a perhaps more surprising appearance from journalist Martin Lewis, whose Money Saving Expert site dispenses financial advice.Gareth Bale was named the most Googled footballer.Google's search tool is used by an estimated 89% of the UK's web users. Information from every query is stored by the company, building up a vast bank of data detailing the interests, preoccupations and trends of the online population.The company has been releasing its annual analysis of the most popular search terms since 2001, when Nokia topped the list of consumer brands and tennis star Anna Kournikova was the most searched-for sports personality. Since then, it's charted the rise and fall of Myspace and the rise and rise of the iPhone.But much of list remains predictable. "It really does appear that the search patterns don't deviate," says Andy Przybylski, a researcher at the Oxford Internet Institute."The names of the famous male athletes may change, or the celebrities that people follow, but there's nothing here that says that the way that humans are interacting with their technology is changing."Those massive shifts from desktop to mobile aren't making people seek out different information. It just means that instead of it being Superstorm Sandy, this year it's Typhoon Haiyan."The most searched-for films in 2013 were superhero movies, with Man of Steel and Iron Man 3 jostling for the top spot. The most searched-for children's film in the top 10 was Despicable Me 2, in fourth place, while The Hangover Part III scrapes in as the highest-ranking comedy in 10th.The popularity of these films in searches reflects marketing momentum as much as likely award winners, said Przybylski.A fascination with death is evident throughout, dominating the general search list in particular. As well as Paul Walker in the top spot, there was Cory Monteith, the Glee star who overdosed in July, at number four; Nelson Mandela at number six; and Margaret Thatcher at number nine."Celebrities always get a lot of interest and the passing of well-known figures makes people want to learn more about them," said Google UK's Claudine Beaumont. "Despite that, some of the more traditional aspects of British life, from the Grand National to the royal birth, have generated many Google searches and will be remembered as events that have characterised the year."But the official Zeitgeist lists present a slightly cleaner view of our collective conscious than the actual reality, with porn-related searches cut out and predictive search pushing people towards the most popular results."If you look at raw search results you see a much wider range of the human experience," said Przybylski. "There's no darker side of human nature stuff here."There's definitely an aggregation step in terms of how people spell, how people search, and the fullness of language in the&nbsp;search."And for anyone still not sure about twerking, it refers to "a type of dancing in which the dancer, usually a woman, shakes her hips in an up-and-down bouncing motion, causing the dancer's buttocks to shake, 'wobble' and 'jiggle'".Zumba is defined as "an aerobic fitness programme featuring movements inspired by various styles of Latin American dance", and YOLO is an acronym for "you only live&nbsp;once".Top trending "What is?" searches1.	What is twerking2.	What is my IP3.	What is YOLO4.	What is a prime number5.	What is illuminati6.	What is my car worth7.	What is spooning8.	What is global warming9.	What is zumba10. What is the meaning of lifeTop trending general searches in the UK1.	Paul Walker2.	iPhone 5S3.	Royal baby4.	Cory Monteith5.	Oscar Pistorius6.	Nelson Mandela7.	Grand National8.	Universal Jobmatch9.	Margaret Thatcher10. 	Xbox OneTop trending general searches globally1	Nelson Mandela2	Paul Walker3	iPhone 5s4	Cory Monteith5	Harlem Shake6	Boston Marathon7	Royal Baby8	Samsung Galaxy S49	PlayStation 410	North Korea
Troubled smartphone firm BlackBerry is losing three more executives, including its head of global sales, days before quarterly figures are expected to show further steep losses.Following the departure of former chief executive Thorsten Heins in November, replaced by John Chen, the company is losing Rick Costanzo, executive vice-president of global sales, Chris Wormald, vice-president of strategic alliances, and Mark Cameron, director of global public policy.They add to an executive clear-out, driven by Chen, that has also seen chief operating officer Kristian Tear and chief marketing officer Frank Boulben depart.The company is scheduled to announce on Friday its results for the quarter to the end of November. Analysts forecast that revenues will be just $1.6bn (£1bn), a 42% drop compared with $2.73bn for the same period a year ago, and that losses could be as much as $235m, equivalent to 44 cents per share – and also that the company may have burnt through $800m this quarter.The company has made an operating loss for the past seven quarters, including a $1.4bn operating loss in the three months to 31 August; its net profits were helped by an income tax refund of $473m but still fell to a $965m loss.The executive departures come amid plunging consumer sales of BlackBerry handsets according to research company Kantar ComTech, which said earlier this month that sales of the company's handsets in the US, China, Spain and Japan hadeffectively fallen to zeroin the three months to the end of October.Chen, who is credited with reviving the fortunes of the software company Sybase, is expected to map out his vision for the company's future in the earnings call on Friday.So far he has given little indication of how he intends to bolster the company's fortunes, which have plummeted dramatically after its BB10 software and handsets flopped following their launch in January: in September the company took a $934m charge against unsold inventory of its Z10 handsets.Chen's only public statement has come in anopen letter to customerssaying that "we remain committed to delivering high quality products and services to the millions of people who rely on us globally" and that "BlackBerry has significant financial strength for the long haul".He is expected to focus on corporate accounts, which are reckoned to make up to about 30m of BlackBerry's users worldwide. Those, however, are under siege from rival companies aiming to sell mobile device management (MDM) software to manage other smartphone makes, particularly from Apple and Samsung.BlackBerry shares dropped on 9 December to a 10-year low of $5.75, though they have recovered to $6.11, valuing the company at just $3.15bn.That comes despite a cash infusion of $1bn in the form of convertible debentures led by Fairfax Holdings, which has a 10% stake in the company, ahead of Chen's hiring, and its holdings at the end of the last quarter of $2.3bn in cash.The company announced on Tuesday that it had won acontract to supply 10,000 BB10 handsets to French carmaker Peugeot Citroen.
Microsoft&apos;s next chief executive will not be announced before 2014, the company&apos;s board has said, lowering speculation that they have already picked a successor to Steve Ballmer.John Thompson, a member of the board who has been leading the search – and who was key in suggesting to Ballmer that he should move on –says on the Official Microsoft blogthat the company has filtered its list of candidates from 100 to 20 to a smaller, though unspecified, number.&quot;As this group has narrowed, we&apos;ve done deeper research and investigation, including with the full board,&quot; Thompson writes. &quot;We&apos;re moving ahead well, and I expect we&apos;ll complete our work in the early part of 2014.&quot;The delay in the announcement could shorten the odds on Stephen Elop, the chief executive of Finnish handset maker Nokia from September 2010, and previously head of Microsoft&apos;s Office division, being picked as the candidate, on the basis that he has experience both inside and outside the company as it tries to shift to a &quot;devices and services&quot; business model.But there are reckoned to be other internal candidates besides Elop, who has rejoined from Nokia – from which Microsoft is buying the handset business – in a deal expected to be complete early in 2014.Ballmer, who has led the company from January 2000,announced in Augustthat he would leave within the next 12 months. His departure was forced by the board, driven in turn by activist investors who felt that the company had made too little impact in the fast-growing mobile market, despite its success in the desktop and large &quot;enterprise&quot; business software markets.Ballmer began the shift to a &quot;devices and services&quot; business model, along with a broad-ranging reorganisation of the company&apos;s business units into a flatter structure which resembles Apple&apos;s corporate structure.Thompson noted: &quot;This is a complex role to fill, involving a complex business model and the ability to lead a highly technical organisation and work with top technical talent.&quot; Microsoft has only had two chief executives in its 38 years: co-founder Bill Gates and Ballmer, who had been in the company almost from its beginning.
Google has just completed the purchase of Boston Dynamics, a private spin-off company from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, best known for supplying the US military with terrifyingrobotic animals. BigDog is an all-terrain quadruped that doesn't complain when asked to carry heavy loads; Cheetah can run at 29mph, though its loud engine purr means you wouldn't bet on it surprising a wildebeest. Or the Taliban.Google has so far refused to  reveal how much it has paid for Boston Dynamics or what its plans for the robots are. But the search giant might need to rethink its "don't be evil" motto if it plans on reinventing itself as a futuristic arms dealer. What other sinister applications could it have in mind for this robot pooch and kitty?For starters, there's the lucrative online gambling market. BigDog would offer Google the perfect introduction. Just imagine the thrills of the three-mile  al-Qaida Handicap chase, in which a field of 28 robotic hounds battle against each other to be first to cross a track littered with hidden IEDs. The agony of seeing your mutt well in the lead with only a furlong to run, only to be blown several metres into the air. No one will ever bother to watch a greyhound race again.It's unlikely that Angela Merkel will allow the Americans to tap her phone in future, but Google could help out its old mates at the NSA and GCHQ by getting their robots to do their dirty work. All that's required is a robot dog with lovely soft fur and huge Disney eyes. Not even the Iron Chancellor could resist snuggling up to one of those on the sofa. And when she nips out to make  herself a cup of coffee, SpyDog could hack into her laptop and scan all her personal emails. George Osborne might also want to givehis new doggy, Lola,the once over. If she barks with an American accent, she's a plant.Google might also want to talk to Iain Duncan Smith about another new product, RoboRat. It could easily pass undetected through deprived areas and would thus be ideally poised to sniff out benefit cheats, unused bedrooms and illegal immigrants and report back. Its marketing slogan writes itself. RoboRat: The Rat that Loves to Rat. Don't say you haven't been warned.
The UK was grappling with twerking, yolo and Zumba this year, according to Google&apos;s analysis of the country&apos;s top trending and most-searched-for terms for 2013.Celebrities inevitably score highly, with Kim Kardashian in pole position, closely followed by One Direction, Miley Cyrus, Justin Bieber and Kate Middleton – but in seventh place, just after Taylor Swift, is a surprise appearance from journalist Martin Lewis, whose Money Saving Expert site dispenses financial advice to all.Beyoncé sits at eighth place in the celebrity list, which was compiled before her latest album was released on 13 December.The most-searched-for movies tell their own story: 2013 was the year of superheroes, with Man of Steel and Iron Man 3 jostling for the top spot. The most searched for kids&apos; film was Despicable Me 2 in fourth place, while The Hangover Part III scrapes in as the highest ranking comedy in 10th.A more accurate picture of 2013 can be drawn up by looking at the trending searches – those that had the largest difference in traffic between this year and the last. As well as the aforementioned questions, all in the top 10 queries beginning with &quot;what is…&quot;, the company has revealed the top 10 trending searches overall.A fascination with death is evident throughout. Paul Walker, the Fast and Furious actor who died in a car crash in late November, took the top spot; Cory Monteith, the Glee star who overdosed in July, was number four; Nelson Mandela was number six; and Margaret Thatcher was number nine.&quot;Celebrities always get a lot of interest and the passing of well-known figures makes people want to learn more about them,&quot; said Google UK&apos;s Claudine Beaumont. &quot;Despite that, some of the more traditional aspects of British life, from the Grand National to the royal birth, have generated many Google searches and will be remembered as events that have characterised the year.&quot;Google also revealed the top trending apps, and social takes the lead: Facebook, Snapchat, BBM and Vine are all in the top 10, as are Bitstrips, Tinder and Match.com. When we aren&apos;t trying to find love – or just our friends – we are watching sport.BT Sport was the top trending app of 2013, which will be some comfort to the company in its battle with Sky. Rounding out the top 10 are Candy Crush Saga and Google Drive; the former is2013&apos;s most lucrative mobile game, while the latter was only launched in April last year, meaning there was guaranteed to be a major increase on the year before.For anyone still not sure abouttwerking, it refers to &quot;a type of dancing in which the dancer, usually a woman, shakes her hips in an up-and-down bouncing motion, causing the dancer&apos;s buttocks to shake, &apos;wobble&apos; and &apos;jiggle&apos;&quot;.Zumba is&quot;an aerobic fitness programme featuring movements inspired by various styles of Latin American dance&quot;, and yolo is an acronym for &quot;you only live once&quot;.•Google&apos;s latest purchase is robot firm Boston Dynamics. Are we one step closer to Skynet?
Google’srecent acquisitionof Boston Dynamics marks its eighth robotics purchase in the past six months, showing Google’s “moonshot” robotics vision is more than just a pet project.Boston Dynamics is the most high-profile acquisition, however, instantly adding world-leading robotics capability, including robots that can walk all on their own, to Google’s arsenal – as well as significant links to the US military – conjuring images of Skynet and the artificial intelligence-led robot uprising straight out of the 1984 filmThe Terminator.What is it?Boston Dynamics is an engineering and robotics design company that works across a wide range of computer intelligence and simulation systems, as well as large, advanced robotic platforms.The company was created as a technology spin-off from Massachusetts Institute of Technology by Prof Marc Raibert in 1992, then the founder and lead researcher of the Leg Lab – a research group focussed on systems that move dynamically, including legged robots.What does it do?Raibert describes the Boston Dynamics team as “simply engineers that build robots”, but in reality Boston Dynamics is much more than that.Its robotics work is at the forefront of the technology creating the self-proclaimed “most advanced robots on Earth” particularly focused around self-balancing humanoid or bestial robots.Funding for the majority of the most advanced Boston Dynamics robots comes from military sources, including the US Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa) and the US army, navy and marine corps. The terms of contracts currently held by Boston Dynamics with military bodies are unknown, although Google has committed to honouring existing contracts, including recent $10.8m funding from Darpa.BigDogBigDog is a autonomous packhorseFunded by Darpa and the US army, BigDog is Boston Dynamics’ most famous robot, a large mule-like quadruped that walks around like a dog, self balancing and navigating a range of terrain.Standing about 76cm tall, 91cm long and weighing 109kg, BigDog is an autonomous system powered by an engine and controlled by on-board computer system processing a series of sensors that monitor joint position, joint force, ground contact, ground load, a gyroscope, LIDAR and a stereo vision system.BigDog is capable of running at 4mph, climbing 35 degree slopes and carrying 155kg loads. Its derivative, the Legged Squad Support Systems, increases BigDog&apos;s carrying capacity to 181kg with a 20-mile range.The Legged Squad Support System is the next step in the evolution of the BigDog platformCheetahBoston Dynamics Cheetah is capable of running faster than any human.The world’s fastest robot, Cheetah, runs like a big cat at over 29mph – faster than 100m world champion sprinter Usain Bolt. Like a real cheetah, the robot has an articulated back that flexes back and forth with each step, increasing its stride length and running speed.Funded by Darpa&apos;s Maximum Mobility and Manipulation program, in its current implementation Cheetah runs tethered on a treadmill, powered by a separate hydraulic pump.The next generation of the Cheetah platform designed to operate untethered, the WildCat, recently entered initial testing.The WildCat robot is the next evolution in the Cheetah platform capable of running untethered.AtlasOne of Boston Dynamics' most recent robot project, Atlas is a Darpa-funded humanoid robot.One of Boston Dynamics’ latest robots funded by Darpa, Atlas is a humanoid robot designed to negotiate outdoor, rough terrain in a bipedal manner, while being able to climb using hands and feet as a human would.Atlas is will be equipped with articulated hands with sensors enabling the robot to use tools designed for humans, as well as an articulated sensor head including stereo cameras and a laser range finder. The robot currently is powered by a tethered electric power supply, and controlled remotely.Other robots in the Boston Dynamics stable include Petman, a robot that tests humanoid chemical protective clothing; the wheeled SandFlea robot that can leap small buildings; a small six-legged robot capable of traversing rough terrain called RHex; and the RiSE robot capable of climbing vertical walls, trees and fences using feet with micro-claws.What else has Google got?Boston Dynamics is not the only robotics company Google has bought in recent years. Putunder the leadership of Andy Rubin, previously Google&apos;s head of Android, the search company has quietly acquired seven different technology companies to foster a self-described “moonshot” robotics vision.The acquired companies included Schaft, a small Japanese humanoid robotics company; Meka and Redwood Robotics, San Francisco-based creators of humanoid robots and robot arms; Bot &amp; Dolly who created the robotic camera systems recently used in the movie Gravity; Autofuss an advertising and design company; Holomni, high-tech wheel designer, and Industrial Perception, a startup developing computer vision systems for manufacturing and delivery processes.Sourcestold the New York Timesthat Google’s initial plans are not consumer-focused, instead aimed at manufacturing and industry automation, although products are expected within the next three to five years.Rubin, before making Android into a mobile powerhouse, started life as a robotics engineer at Zeiss. He has now convinced Google founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page to fund a commercial robotics venture, something Rubin has been mulling for some 10 years.Robotic carsGoogle is no stranger to robots. Its robotic car project, which kicked off in 2009, is one of the leaders in the field. It currently has a fleet of at least 10 converted Toyota Priuses, which have covered more than 300,000 miles on Californian roads without incident.The robotic cars have roof-mounted cameras and sensors that monitor the road ahead and its surroundings, building a 3D model of the route and navigating obstacles.In 2012, a blind man names Steve Mahan was allowed behind the wheel of a Google self-driving car in Morgan Hill, California.• In September, Google introduced itsbiggest algorithm change in three yearsto better understand longer, more complex and spoken queries in its pursuit of more intelligent interaction
It's that time of year again, when all sense deserts us and we try to distil 12 months of gaming into one list of 25 spectacular titles. And what a year it has been – two console launches, a booming indie scene and several vintage franchises reaching wonderful fruition. In their autumn days, the PS3 and Xbox 360 have seen some of their very greatest releases, while the financially under-performing Wii U has punched above its sales figures with some astonishingly well-crafted games. We've been spoiled for choice.Which is our way of warning you that your favourites may not be on this list. And we say it every year, but this is very much our own highly subjective collection of gaming treats, chosen and savagely fought over by the Guardian's cabal of reviewers. It is not a dispassionate attempt to scientifically select the greatest games based on some sort of Metacritic algorithm. These are the games we played to death and then played some more. Sometimes they weren't even the best games, they were the games we loved – and love is a weird and important thing.So anyway, let's get cracking with the first ten. Feel free to debate, criticise and question, but remember, Santa doesn't bring presents to trolls. They are too naughty.25. Metal Gear Rising (Konami, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Developed by Platinum Games, Rising has all of the masculine exaggeration of the studio's other work – the braggadocio, the wink-over-the-shoulder quips to camera and the gape-inducing violence. But here, amongst the familiar architecture and style of Hideo Kojima's Metal Gear mythology, the impact of the irreverence is trebled. Nowhere else in this often somber universe are you able to leap from incoming missile to incoming missile before, in a streaking somersault, slicing and dicing an attacking helicopter into a thousand pieces with your blade. Certainly no other Metal Gear game concludes in a fistfight with the American president. Both sublimeandridiculous, which is Platinum Games embodied.• Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance review24. Pikmin 3 (Wii U, Nintendo)There are better strategy video games, with more rounded edges, a more precise focus and, usually, a balanced competitive mode. But no other strategy game has quite the character and urgency of Shigeru Miyamoto's Pikmin 3, a study of life at ankle level, where you must guide obedient herds of bright alien ant-like creatures to help you flee a planet. It's a game that gives us both the juvenile thrill of seeing the childlike Pikmins' usefulness to grown-ups, and the parental burden of protecting these dependents in the role of the three spacemen and women who guide them. Within its colourful foliage then, ancient instincts can be found in us and drawn back to the surface, much like the buried treasures the Pikmin salvage from the dirt.• Pikmin 3 review23. Saint's Row IV (Dee Silver, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Once little more than a Grand Theft Auto wannabe, with this fourth release Saint's Row makes clear it's playing an altogether different game to Rockstar's billion-dollar series. The frat-boy humour is present and, at times, politically incorrect (although there's more subtlety here than you might expect) but, more often than not, the satire is aimed at video games themselves, rather than any particular surrounding culture. The designers have enormous fun subverting their rivals and influences, quickly granting the player outrageous abilities with which to traverse and disrupt the world, distorting all the usual logic systems of gaming. This is a game without pretensions, a bloated, boisterous and inappropriate joyride.• Saints Row IV review22. Wolf Among Us (Telltale Games, PC, Xbox 360)To those who saw Walking Dead as a Telltale's fluke masterpiece, this masterful rendition of the Fables comic book universe must have come as quite a shock. Steeped in folkloric mystery, brimming with hard-boiled violence and stuffed with the sorts of complex moral decisions that characterised the studio's previous series, it is bravado stuff and we have only seen the opening episode. There have been some truly excellent adventure titles this year – Kentucky Route Zero among them – but Telltale is now positioning itself as this generation's LucasArts or Sierra: its games are becoming essential signifiers of a genre.21. Gunpoint (Suspicious Developments, PC)A puzzle game dressed in a noir overcoat and staged in the sleeting rain, Gunpoint matches its powerful ambiance with thrilling, memorable play. Conway, a private investigator who can scale building with startling agility but who crumples to the floor when struck by a bullet, is the owner of the year's most useful video game tool: the crosslink. The device allows you to rewire buildings by drawing links between light switches, lifts, security cameras and doors in order to shut down security or produce other effects. It's an ingenious idea, built from elegant, easily understood logic but blossomed out to allow for endless strategies as you attempt to break into ever more secure buildings. It's an endlessly stylish game but, more importantly, one that allows its players to express their own ingenuity and flair.20. Fire Emblem: Awakening (Nintendo, 3DS)The latest in Intelligent Systems' long-running series of strategy role-playing games is one of this great developer's finest moments. Combining deep tactical play with rounded characters and an engrossing story, Awakening grips you almost immediately and then retains your interest and emotional attachment for many, many hours. And although the basic recipe is familiar, the developer has dared to add new systems and features, providing genuine surprises for long-term fans. If you haven't touched a handheld strategy adventure since Advance Wars, this is the time to re-awaken your addiction.19. State of Decay (Undead Labs, PC, Xbox 360)The voice acting is laughable, the visuals glitchy and unrefined, but State of Decay manages to pack more tension and atmosphere into its open-world zombie adventure than many more expensive and polished undead offerings. The emphasis is very much on survival rather than combat, and the complex, often bewildering RPG mechanics force you to consider every raid, every character, every action in forensic detail. Amid the suspense, there is much comic relief as zombies are splattered across car bonnets and characters struggle with basic tasks, but the sheer panic that sets in as a horde suddenly appears is real. Terror and death are constant companions, reviving a peculiar sense of vulnerability that we haven't really felt since the first Resident Evil titles.18. Tomb Raider (Square Enix, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Sure, Lara's transition from scared teen to action hero was poorly handled and the obsession with trinket collection became wearisome to many, but Crystal Dynamics' reinvention of the Tomb Raider concept was a pleasing revelation. The story is robust and sympathetic, the combat mechanics greatly improved, and although the actual tomb sections are rather marginalised, there are still some excellent puzzles to get stuck into. Croft will perhaps never again be the icon she once was, but there is clearly life in the old archeologist yet.• Tomb Raider – review17. Battlefield 4 (EA, PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox OneThe combination of Frostbite 3's graphical might and a powerful physics system have brought us some astonishing experiences in this latest iteration of the EA DICE FPS staple. Parachuting from a collapsing building straight into the midst of an enemy held Conquest point is the stuff of Commando comics, but away from the bombast, the large maps and re-worked load-out systems allow a strategic and measured approach that never bores. The campaign mode is still a waste of disc space and the teething troubles at launch were utterly frustrating (my PS4 version crashes regularly even now) – these factors have somewhat taken the shine of the series' next-gen console debut. But Battlefield clearly has much left to offer.• Battlefield 4 – review16. Battleblock Theatre (The Behemoth Xbox 360)The first time we encountered the latest adventure from the makers of Alien Hominid and Castle Crashers, we were at the Tokyo Game Show a couple of years ago. The Bohemoth had a tiny stand just behind the enormous edifice Capcom had constructed for Dragon's Dogma – and yet the game's surreal charm shone through. This is a platform puzzler in which your friends have been kidnapped by evil cats who are forcing you to perform deadly acts of bravery in an old theatre. It sounds silly. Itissilly. But for several hours of laughter and challenge, you are its prisoner. It is a lovely jailor.• Top 25 games of 2012: 5-1 (plus the ones that didn't quite make it)
It's Tuesday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBotnet enlists Firefox users to hack websites &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBrian Krebs:An unusual botnet that has ensnared more than 12,500 systems disguises itself as a legitimate add-on for Mozilla Firefox and forces infected PCs to scour Web sites for security vulnerabilities, an investigation by KrebsOnSecurity has discovered.The botnet, dubbed "Advanced Power" by its operators, appears to have been quietly working since at least May 2013. It's not clear yet how the initial infection is being spread, but the malware enslaves PCs in a botnet that conducts SQL injection attacks on virtually any Web sites visited by the victim.Not so much "enlists" as "press-gangs".Apple releases OS X 10.9.1 with Mail fixes, more &gt;&gt; TUAWApple hasreleased OS X 10.9.1. The update is the first major update for OS X 10.9 Mavericks since it shipped in October. It includes a number of fixes for mail issues in Mavericks, including improved support for Gmail in OS X's Mail app, Smart Mailbox improvements, a improvements to group contacts in Mail.So, basically, it's fixed Mail. Probably safe to download it now.Nokia abandons Peter Skillman led Android adaptation plans, refocuses on wearables, smart glasses for 2015 &gt;&gt; Unwired ViewAccording to CTech sources, the decision to shelve work on Android devices was made without direct Microsoft intervention. Android development was done under the Nokia CTO office, which stays with Nokia and is not part of Microsoft deal. So those Normandy phones will not be moving to Redmond anytime soon.However, in my opinion, now that Nokia shareholders overwhelmingly approved the sale of Nokia mobile division to Microsoft, as did most of world's regulatory agencies – the decision to abandon the project is the logical outcome. According to the terms of the contract, Nokia is not allowed to sell phones, smartphones or tablets under its name for the next 2 years. They could theoretically create a mobile Android device under a new brand, but given the level of competition in the market, competency, manufacturing, logistical and distribution base that is transferring to Microsoft, it makes little sense.In the words of the dinosaur in Toy Story 2, "Oh well, we tried."Where I Save Windows Phone &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBrian S Hall:I have spent the past 4 years using iPhones as my go-to device. I have spent the past several weeks using the Lumia 1520 almost exclusively. In nearly every case, I've found an app equivalent for Windows Phone to match my iPhone. Unfortunately, nearly everyone is awful. Limited functionality, poor to no integration with web services (or iPhone apps), bad design. Indeed, the vast majority of apps in the Windows Phone store appear to me as little more than high school projects. End this anti-user behavior. Ensure that any app offered from your store is absolutely awesome and in no way a pale, brittle facsimile of what's long been available for iOS and Android. Reject far more apps than you accept.Fifty thousand great apps is better than 150,000 awful ones.I also recommend you pledge every single of the many billions of dollars you receive from Android patent scofflaws to fund app projects with the very best app development houses. Bonus: offer huge cash windfalls for successful tie-ins with your very best mobile offerings (Skydrive, Bing, Office, Skype).It's good advice - especially what he then suggests about advertising.Subsidization and Saturation | stratēchery by Ben ThompsonBen Thompson:Broadly speaking, there are three ways to grow: increase prices, lower costs, or gain new customers. The iPhone was such a coup for AT&amp;T because it accomplished two of those: the Average Price Per Unit (ARPU) of an iPhone user was significantly higher than a feature phone user (increased prices), and AT&amp;T stole Apple-loyal customers from the other carriers, particularly Verizon (gain new customers). Over time, more smartphones came into the market, and the iPhone spread to other carriers, but all those smartphones had the same higher ARPU. AT&amp;T and all the other carriers could achieve earnings growth simply by selling feature phone customers smartphones and the associated higher monthly fees that accompanied them.That gravy train isnearly overthough, and once it becomes more difficult to raise prices (because there are no more feature phone customers to upgrade to smartphones), the remaining option for growth is gaining new users. And, given the fact that nearly everyone in America will soon have a smartphone, that means stealing customers from other carriers.But how do you do that?Court says Apple did not violate Samsung patents &gt;&gt; ABC NewsA Seoul court denied Samsung's claim that Apple violated three of its patent related to short message services.A judge at Seoul Central District Court said Thursday that two of Samsung patents lacked "progressivity" and can be easily developed by others. He said one patent was not used in the iPad.Samsung Electronics Co. sued Apple in March 2012 accusing the iPhone maker of illegally using its three patented technologies. It sought compensation and a ban on sales of six iPhone and iPad models, which include models still available in the market, such as the model with Retina display known as the fourth-generation iPad.Superficially, Samsung's legal strategy resembles Apple's, but the outcome seems to be different.Mobile Trends Infographic: what SMBs connect &gt;&gt; IntermediaIntermedia provides "Office in the cloud" with a secure login system, and it activates smartphones. From January to October it activated nearly a quarter of a million devices; 76% from Apple, 12% from Samsung, 5% Motorola, 2% HTC, 3% "other Android", and 1% Windows Phone. (And 1% BlackBerry.)There's more too (though be warned - it's an infographic, so might not work well on mobile).Xiaomi's plan for expansion is to invade the two most saturated smartphone markets in the world &gt;&gt; QuartzSo how does Xiaomi possibly think that it can gain a foothold in Singapore, Malaysia, and eventually the rest of the world?First, the company has shown itself to be a deft practitioner of sophisticated marketing. That includes social media "flash sales" and the cultivation of a devoted base of users, who contribute ideas about how to improve Xiaomi's Miui operating system (a  modified version of Android).Second, its phones, which offer high-end specs commonly found in trophy handsets like the iPhone and Samsung Galaxy, are significantly cheaper, even without telecom operator subsidies. Since subsidized phones are more common in Singapore and Malaysia, Xiaomi could potentially offer its desirable handsets for free in those countries with the price of a carrier contract.Even if that's enough to crack the world's toughest smartphone markets, it may not directly lead to profits for Xiaomi. Its profit margin on handsets is tiny, so its business model relies on selling apps, games, and other content to users. That means it will have to develop customized offerings that appeal to customers in each new market.Could be an effective new business model.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Minecraft – Pocket Edition was released for iOS in November 2011. Two and a bit years later, it&apos;s sitting proudly at the top ofApple&apos;s chart of the top paid iPhone and iPad apps of 2013in both the UK and US.An impressive achievement, as is the fact that the game has been one of the few paid – as opposed to freemium – titles to appear regularly in Apple&apos;s top-grossing charts during the year. With 16.5m mobile copies sold so far (including somewhere between 1m and 5m on Android according to Google&apos;s stats), Minecraft is a huge, long-lasting mobile game hit.What&apos;s more, over time the Pocket Edition has been getting closer to its desktop parent. Updates in 2013 included baby animals, armour, fire, twinklier skies, and most recently the addition of minecarts and rails, as well as a &quot;massively increased&quot; view distance.&quot;The end goal is to make it as much like the PC version as possible. The next major milestone will be to get the endless worlds of the PC version, where it just continues to generate terrain all the time,&quot; Daniel Kaplan, business developer for Minecraft developerMojang, told The Guardian in an interview.Minecraft has also not-so-quietly become one of the most popular games in the world for children, who are using it at home, on their mobile devices and even in the classroom. That&apos;s one reason for its long period of popularity on the app stores, even if that wasn&apos;t developer Markus &apos;Notch&apos; Persson&apos;s original intention.&quot;This wasn&apos;t planned to be a kids game from the beginning, and it&apos;s still not planned to be a kids game! It&apos;s a happy accident. When Notch started developing the game, he developed it for himself – he was thirtysomething – and there weren&apos;t any thoughts about how to make it child-friendly,&quot; said Kaplan.&quot;The vision is still not to try to make it child-friendly: when we design the game, we&apos;re not thinking &apos;how do children react to this?&apos;. But maybe their big brother or sister plays it, and they want to be a part of that too. There wasn&apos;t really a specific plan for this to happen though.&quot;Minecraft&apos;s Pocket Edition has stuck to its £4.99 since its launch: a decision that has paid off for Mojang, since those 16.5m mobile sales mean roughly £57.6m of revenues for the company from iOS and Android alone so far, after Apple and Google&apos;s cuts.Did Mojang ever feel pressure to adopt the freemium business model that has become so lucrative for mobile gaming? Or at least add in-app purchases on top of the initial download fee? The Xbox 360 version sells customised &quot;skin packs&quot; as in-game purchases, but they&apos;ve yet to transfer to mobile.&quot;I can&apos;t really say what will happen with Minecraft in the future. We definitely think that having one purchase, where you buy it once, is a good form – including good for parents,&quot; said Kaplan. &quot;We don&apos;t intend to put in any features where if you buy them it will alter the game. We do some visual stuff in Minecraft on Xbox, but it&apos;s just visual.&quot;For now, Mojang is continuing to add more features to Minecraft&apos;s Pocket Edition, while also preparing for the game&apos;s release on Sony&apos;s PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3 and PS Vita. It&apos;s now a gaming brand spanning desktop computers, consoles and mobile devices, with Kaplan saying it&apos;s nearing 10m sales on Xbox and 13m on desktop.&quot;The difference is when the games are released: the PC version came first, but by the time the other versions were released two years after, the community was so much bigger, so that&apos;s why they are catching up,&quot; he said.&quot;Approaching 10m sales on Xbox is crazy numbers, we definitely didn&apos;t think in terms of those kind of numbers when we released on Xbox in the beginning. But Android is doing good too, we are super-happy about that. A lot of people say you can&apos;t sell premium games on Android, but Minecraft maybe shows you don&apos;t need to make a free-to-play game to have a large community.&quot;Is there a secret to Minecraft&apos;s mobile success? Make something wonderful, then listen to your players. The burgeoning Minecraft community is one reason why the game has remained so fresh, including for the people making it.&quot;Every week I see something new and weird being done in Minecraft: the community keeps on surprising us every week, and we are super-proud of them,&quot; said Kaplan. &quot;We are out there, listening as much as we can and trying to facilitate the feedback into what we think is best. It&apos;s definitely a blessing to have this kind of big community.&quot;•Minecraft and Candy Crush Saga top Apple&apos;s app charts of 2013
What mobile game made the most money in 2013? On Apple&apos;s App Store it wasCandy Crush Saga, the sweetie-themed match-three puzzle game that has stuck to the upper reaches of the top-grossing chart since its release in November 2012.&quot;We were aiming to have a Top 10 game: that was the ambition,&quot; Sebastian Knutsson, co-founder and chief creative officer of the game&apos;s publisher King told The Guardian as Candy Crush Saga was namedtop grossing app of 2013 on iPhone and iPad.&quot;We exceeded our ambitions by quite a margin! The truth in the industry at that stage was that casual games could never be the top game: you could have a nice hit, but you could never be number one. We disproved that by making a game that hit the top and kept growing.&quot;Exceeded? Just a bit. Candy Crush Saga has now been downloaded more than 500m times on mobile devices, and played 150bn times across web, Facebook and mobile. Meanwhile, King now attracts 282m monthly unique players across all its games. Candy Crush Saga has grown too: it now has 485 levels, plus a recently-launched &quot;Dreamworld&quot; mode that enables people to play through them again in a different form.&quot;We&apos;re trying to do a new release every two weeks or so. We have millions of users, and some are stuck on early levels that they find really hard, while others are at the end asking for the next episode,&quot; said Knutsson.&quot;Dreamworld was giving something back to the fans that would appeal to everyone: a nice Christmas gift where they can replace the levels they&apos;ve always hated and play it in a new form with a gameplay twist.&quot;Candy Crush Saga&apos;s rise to the top of the app store charts came as part of a wider trend of free-to-play games that made their money from in-app purchases.It&apos;s controversial in some quarters: tens of millions of people are happily playing Candy Crush Saga, with a significant chunk paying, yet there are some vociferous critics in the traditional gaming community who hate the game and the business model it represents.&quot;Most new mobile developers have embraced free-to-play pretty quickly, and for us coming from Facebook to mobile, part of the experience was always free-to-play. But the classic console industry has always looked down on it,&quot; said Knutsson.&quot;We&apos;ve had it in Sweden with the classic gaming press: people who cover PlayStation and Xbox. They find free-to-play as a negative. But my guess is you&apos;re going to see some really big free-to-play games go up on Xbox Live and PlayStation Network. It&apos;s a level playing field where the best games win out, and users select those winners. It&apos;s a natural evolution for consoles to try to support that.&quot;King has already extended Candy Crush Saga in one unorthodox direction in 2013: onto people&apos;s feet with a range of branded socks. While speculation about an IPO for the company has cooled for now, it appears to have more plans in store for its flagship game in 2014.&quot;Candy Crush is now a franchise. At least, that&apos;s the way we like to think of it, and that means we can look at extending the game, considering whether we should do additional games within the same universe,&quot; said Knutsson.King already has a pipeline of other &quot;Saga&quot; games coming to mobile, with Pet Rescue Saga and Papa Pear Saga already available, and Farm Heroes Saga on its way. But Knutsson&apos;s comment hints at something different: more Candy Crush games.&quot;There&apos;s more stuff to do around Candy,&quot; he confirms. &quot;But we&apos;re investing most of the teams in King in other IPs and other games. It&apos;s not our plan to be just the Candy Crush company: we want to build a network with multiple titles.&quot;•Minecraft and Candy Crush Saga top Apple&apos;s 2013 app charts
Apple has published its end-of-yearBest of 2013 chartsfor iPhone and iPad apps, revealing Minecraft - Pocket Edition as the top seller on its UK App Store, and Candy Crush Saga as the top grossing app.Minecraft&apos;s success stood out in a year dominated by &quot;free-to-play&quot; games making their money from in-app purchases on Apple&apos;s store. Mojang&apos;s creative sandbox was released for iOS in November 2011, and in 2013 was the 18th top grossing app on both iPhone and iPad in the UK – the only paid game in the top 20 of those charts.The game&apos;s long-burning mobile success is partly due to the large number of children who have enthusiastically adopted it, even if that wasn&apos;t the company&apos;s original target audience for Minecraft.&quot;This wasn&apos;t planned to be a kids game from the beginning, and it&apos;s still not planned to be a kids game! It&apos;s a happy accident,&quot; said Mojang&apos;s business developer Daniel Kaplan in an interview with The Guardian.&quot;When we design the game, we&apos;re not thinking &apos;how do children react to this?&apos;. But maybe their big brother or sister plays it, and they want to be a part of that too. There wasn&apos;t really a specific plan for this to happen though.&quot;Meanwhile, Candy Crush developer King&apos;s co-founder and chief creative officerSebastian Knutsson told The Guardianthat its free-to-play puzzle game, which was released in November 2012, has also exceeded initial expectations by some distance.&quot;We were aiming to have a Top 10 game: that was the ambition,&quot; he said. &quot;We exceeded our ambitions by quite a margin! The truth in the industry at that stage was that casual games could never be the top game: you could have a nice hit, but you could never be number one. We disproved that by making a game that hit the top and kept growing.&quot;Both charts were heavy on games.iPhone&apos;s top 10 paid appsalso included Angry Birds Star Wars and its sequel, Temple Run: Oz, The Chase, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Plague Inc, along with health apps Sleep Cycle Alarm Clock and 7 Minute Workout Challenge and photo-editing app Facetune.All 10top paid apps for iPadwere games, with Wreck-it Ralph, Angry Birds Star Wars HD, The Chase, Temple Run: Oz, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, Angry Birds Star Wars II, Peppa Pig&apos;s Holiday, Plants vs Zombies HD and Scrabble sitting behind Minecraft in the end-of-year rankings.In Apple&apos;stop-grossing iPhone apps chart, nine of the top 10 were games: Candy Crush Saga beat Clash of Clans, The Simpsons: Tapped Out, Top Eleven, Hay Day, The Hobbit, Kingdoms of Camelot, Megapolis and Marvel: War of Heroes, with only dating service Match.com breaking up the gaming.iPad&apos;s top-grossing chartsaw Candy Crush Saga, Clash of Clans and Hay Day take the top three spots, with The Simpsons: Tapped Out, The Hobbit, Modern War, Kingdoms of Camelot and The Sims FreePlay also in the top 10. The Times &amp; The Sunday Times charted in fifth place, with The Guardian and Observer app in seventh.Apple also published a chart of the most popular free apps, ranked by downloads.On iPhone, Candy Crush Saga beat Snapchat, Temple Run 2, 4 Pics 1 Word, YouTube, Google Maps, Facebook, Instagram, Despicable Me: Minion Rush and Skype.For iPad, Candy Crush Saga led YouTube, Skype, Temple Run 2, BBC iPlayer, ITV Player, eBay for iPad, Despicable Me: Minion Rush, 4 Pics 1 Word and Calculator for iPad Free.As part of the Best of 2013 feature, Apple has also picked its favourite apps of the year, with language-learning app Duolingo winning App of the Year and Ridiculous Fishing Game of the Year for iPhone, and Disney Animated and Badland taking the respective honours on iPad.Apple&apos;s Best of 2013 charts vary by country, although Minecraft was still the top paid iPhone and iPad app in the US, with Candy Crush Saga topping the free and top-grossing lists for the year there.Google does not publish similar charts for Android smartphones and tablets, although this year the company invited customers of its Google Play app store tovote for their favourite apps and gamesin a range of categories. Winners included Knights &amp; Dragons, Bejeweled Blitz, The Hobbit, Ingress and Samurai Siege for games, and Duolingo, Movies by Flixster, YouTube, NewsHog and SwiftKey Keyboard for apps.•King talks Candy Crush Saga, 2013&apos;s most lucrative mobile game•As Minecraft tops Apple&apos;s 2013 paid chart, Mojang talks Pocket Edition
Guarantees about minimum internet speeds to be delivered under Australia’s national broadband network have “lost currency”, the head of NBN Co told a Senate committee on Tuesday.The NBN Co executive chairman, Ziggy Switkowski, said he would work to bring down the projected cost of delivering the Abbott government’s version of the NBN. Peak funding for the Coalition plan has been estimated at $41bn, up from the $29.5bn cost the pre-election policy document suggested.The Labor frontbencher Stephen Conroy, who was communications minister for most of the Rudd-Gillard government, pursued NBN Co bosses over the pre-election pledge from Tony Abbott and Malcolm Turnbull to provide broadband with a download data rate of at least 25 megabits per second by 2016.Astrategic review, released last week, suggested the multi-technology mix favoured by the new government would ensure that 40% to 45% of the fixed line footprint would have at least 25Mbps provided by NBN Co in 2016 and 90% of the fixed-line footprint would have at least 50Mbps in 2019. By the end of 2020, 98% to 100% would have at least 25Mbps. Conroy asked whether these figures were “minimum speeds, guaranteed” to customers, rather than simply the wholesale offering to retailers.Appearing before a hearing of the Senate select committee on the National Broadband Network in Sydney, NBN Co’s head of strategy and transformation, JB Rousselot, said the network would “make available to retailers a network capable of delivering on that promise”. He said it was a “value chain which has many links”.Conroy said: “So you will not guarantee that Australians will receive a guaranteed minimum 25 meg as promised by the prime minister of Australia and the minister for communications, Mr Turnbull?”Switkowski said the strategic review’s task was not to look at comments made outside NBN Co but to look at the business plan and deliver against the terms of reference.“References to what other people may or may not have promised is outside [the review] … that is not a question you can reasonably put to us,” Switkowski said. “This is a strategic review. One of the problems I have found in reviewing the past is there’s been a too-quick take-up of words like ‘guarantee’.“This is a strategic review. This outlines what a particular scenario may deliver and we’re doing it with high confidence. If we were doing it perfectly mathematically we’d say that within a certain probability and once the standard deviation [is considered] we can do the following. We haven’t done that because we needed to make this thing understandable. So I do not buy questions that demand us to guarantee anything. It’s clear that after four years of NBN, guarantees have lost currency.”Switkowski later said that for most households a download speed of 50Mbps was “significantly in advance of their appetite”.Labor’s NBN was based on delivering high-speed fibre directly to the premises, whereas the Coalition favours a different mix of technologies including fibre to the node. Fibre would be extended to cabinets within a few hundred metres of homes and the existing copper technology would be used to connect to those nodes.The Coalition’spre-election policy documentsaid: “Our goal is for every household and business to have access to broadband with a download data rate of between 25 and 100 megabits per second by late 2016. Downloads average less than five megabits per second at present.”At a media conference on Tuesday, Abbott said the government wanted to honour its broadband commitments but added: “It will be much harder to honour our commitments now we know the scale of Labor’s NBN disaster.”The strategic review suggested the peak funding required for Labor’s NBN would have increased to nearly $73bn in 2024. Turnbullsaid last weekthe review found the NBN was in a “fundamentally worse position” than Labor had disclosed and would have taken years longer to complete.At the Senate hearing on Tuesday, Switkowski came under scrutiny over the speed of the rollout likely under the Coalition. Switkowski criticised Conroy for taking “a bunch of numbers” and challenging NBN Co’s ability to make forecasts without having access to all the data.“What we will not do is come up with numbers that are excessively optimistic, which I assert has characterised previous forecasts,” Switkowski said.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) has criticised Google for removing code from the newest version of Android that gave users detailed control of privacy settings in apps.Separately, the security company FireEye warned that it had discovered &quot;widespread&quot; problems in South Korea where Android users had downloaded an app which surreptitiously stole their text messages and sent them to cybercriminals in China - while posing as a settings app.Android version 4.4.2 removes whatPeter Eckersley, the technology projects director for the EFF, calls a &quot;vital&quot; privacy feature which lets users install apps while also preventing them from accessing their location or address book. The feature was accessible in version 4.3 of Android, but was removed in a tussle played out in the code&apos;s development between Google programmers.The privacy feature was accessed using a free app called App Ops, which was able to access system-level privacy settings for any app.&apos;Alarming news&apos;The EFF called the removal &quot;alarming news for Android users&quot;, adding: &quot;The fact that they cannot turn off app permissions is a Stygian hole in the Android security model, and a billion people&apos;s data is being sucked through. Embarrassingly, it is also one that Apple managed to fix in iOS years ago.&quot;The security and privacy problems around Android&apos;s permissions model were highlighted recently by the US Federal Trade Commission, which fined the maker of a torch app called Brightest Flashlight Free that had more than 50m downloads whilesecretly passing device data and location information back to advertisers.Google told the EFF that the exposure of the privacy settings in Android 4.3, released in mid-November, was &quot;experimental&quot;. Sources familiar with Google&apos;s thinking say the feature was unsupported and untested, and that average users wouldn&apos;t have understood the need for third-party software to activate it, or known how to find it. Apps denied permissions by user settings might also have stopped working if they needed those settings, sources suggested.But the trail of changes in the source code of Android suggests that the exposure of the privacy settings was not accidental. On 1 August Dianne Hackborn, an Android program manager at Googlemade a code change in Androidto &quot;completely remove app ops activity&quot; - which was thenreversedthe next day by another programmer, Dave Burke, whomoved to Google from the UKin 2012.Android code change removing 'App Ops' access: the green text comments out the functional elements. Photograph: /Public domainThe changes made by Hackborn and Burke show that the functionality for App Ops controls already exists in Android.&apos;Not ready for prime time&apos;Commenting on the move, Koushik Dutta of CyanogenMod, which provides acustom installable version of Android, told the Guardian: &quot;Almost every OEM [device maker] has their own implementation of this privacy enabling feature, and obviously Google wants this functionality in AOSP proper. Judging by the code commit messages on the feature, it was apparent that App Ops was not deemed ready for prime time, and Google is generally wary of introducing anything that would break third party applications.&quot;Dutta added: &quot;prior to 4.4.2, there was no way to access App Ops directly. A third party application would need to launch the hidden system menu. This was an unintentional hole, so that was addressed in the Android update. During our conversations with the Android team they hinted it would be back in some form or another, as the permission model in Android is a little dated and lacking.&quot;The CynagenMod team built their own version of App Ops called &quot;Privacy Guard&quot; earlier this year, and have rebuilt it on top of the existing permissions infrastructure. &quot;The Privacy Guard feature is still enabled and available within CyanogenMod,&quot; said Koush.Steve Kondik, also on the CyanogenMod team, told the Guardian: &quot;I think the bigger implications lie with the companies whose bottom line might be affected because of this - the ones that might depend on snarfing up your data for whatever nefarious reasons.&quot;The EFF&apos;s Eckersley hadpreviously called the privacy tools in 4.3 &quot;awesome&quot;, saying that the existing model had faults - &quot;installing an app was an all-or-nothing proposition, and there were few practical ways to protect yourself against the apps you&apos;d installed, or even really see what they were up to.&quot;It noted that even though the permissions are specified, it&apos;s hard for average users to know quite what they mean: &quot;how are users supposed to know what &apos;read phone state and identity&apos; means? Why isn&apos;t it split into multiple permissions, one of which is &apos;let the app track me&apos;?&quot;But its blogpost noting the effective downgrade was published just a day later. &quot;A moment ago, it looked as though Google cared about this massive privacy problem. Now we have our doubts,&quot; wrote Eckersley. &quot;The only way to dispel them, frankly, is for Google to urgently reenable the App Ops interface, as well as adding some polish and completing the fundamental pieces that it is missing.&quot;Privacy criticismBoth Apple and Google have previously been criticised for not blocking apps from pulling data such as address book contents and location data from the phone operating system. But Apple introduced a &quot;privacy&quot; setting system in iOS 6, released in September 2012. That lets users determine on a per-app basis whether to allow them access to those details, and what information apps can present on the lock screen and elsewhere.By contrast Android apps present the user with a list of system functions that it will access - but do not give reasons why they will be accessed, nor any way to deny them without rejecting the app completely.FireEye said that themalware it had discovered, dubbed MisoSMS, which poses as &quot;Google Vx&quot; - including a Google-style letter logo - pretends that it will only seek to &quot;control how and when the screen locks&quot;. But once the user gives it &quot;administrator&quot; permission, the app shows a dialog suggesting that it is faulty and has to be removed. Once the user presses a confirmation dialog, the app instead makes itself invisible and begins sending emails with the contents of any text messages received by the owner.The app is itself being spread via text message with embedded URLs which encourage the recipient to download the app on various pretexts, such as security or fashionability. If the victim allows it to be installed, it will start to steal information from the phone.&quot;This discovery, coupled with the other discoveries from FireEye, highlights the importance of mobile security and the quickly changing threat landscape,&quot; noted Vinay Pidathala, an analyst at FireEye.•A substantial number of apps have been hacked, new research shows
Beyoncé&apos;s eponymous fifth album has sold 828,773 copies on Apple&apos;s iTunes Store since its surprise release on Friday morning, according to the company.Apple bagged the exclusive on the 14-track album, and says that in the three days since its release, it has topped the iTunes charts in 104 countries. Those three-day sales include68,000 copies in the UKand 617,213 copies in the US.Beyoncé released the album without warningon the iTunes Store on the morning of Friday 13 December, surprising fans and journalists alike. Its 14 tracks were accompanied by 17 videos, billed as a &quot;visual album&quot; by the singer and her label.&quot;I didn&apos;t want to release my music the way I&apos;ve done it,&quot; Beyoncé said in a statement released alongside the album. &quot;I am bored with that. I feel like I am able to speak directly to my fans. There&apos;s so much that gets between the music, the artist and the fans. I felt like I didn&apos;t want anybody to give the message when my record is coming out. I just want this to come out when it&apos;s ready and from me to my fans.&quot;Music industry publication Billboard providedmore details on the secrecy around the albumin the weeks leading up to its release. &quot;Lots of code names, for starters, and a shifting deadline that wasn’t finalised until a week ago,&quot; it explained in an article published on the day the album was released.&quot;Beyonce was still working on the vocals and production until the week of Thanksgiving, before producers started being notified of their final cuts.Then late last week, final meetings were held with Columbia, Parkwood (Beyonce’s management company) and iTunes to finalize plans for the album, which was code-named “Lily” to avoid leaks. Another final meeting announcing the album to employees and producers was held at Columbia yesterday, Dec. 12. Only the most senior executives at iTunes, the album’s exclusive distributor until a planned physical release on Dec. 21, were clued in on the plans.&quot;Beyoncé&apos;s album followsDavid Bowie&apos;s surprise release of a new single on iTunesin January, followed by an album later in the year.My Bloody Valentine also sprang a new album – m b v – on fansin February, selling it from their own website.Streaming music services like Spotify are expected to get Beyoncé&apos;s new album sometime this week or next, as the CD version goes on sale.•Beyoncé: Beyoncé – review
Users who bought a festive cartoon from Amazon found themselves unable to watch it in the runup to Christmas after the company removed access to digital copies from their account.Disney&apos;s Prep &amp; Landing, a Christmas special first aired in 2009, has been available for customers to rent and buy on Amazon&apos;s Instant Video service since Christmas 2011, when its sequel was aired and also uploaded.For $2.99, customers could purchase the video, which Amazon&apos;s site says lets them: &quot;watch and re-watch it as often as you like… You may stream a purchased video while connected to the internet and access the video from Your Video Library on any other compatible device. You may also download the video.&quot;This week, though, the company temporarily removed access to both episodes of Prep &amp; Landing, preventing new customers buying or renting the show. At the same time, customers who had already paid – under the promise that they could &quot;re-watch it as often&quot; as they like – found themselves locked out as well.Amazon blamed the removal on &quot;a temporary issue with some of our catalog data&quot; which it says has been fixed, adding that &quot;customers should never lose access to their Amazon Instant Video purchases.&quot; It says the database error was unrelated to Disney&apos;s request.One customertold the blog Boing Boingthat the company gave him a different reason: &quot;Amazon has explained to me that Disney can pull their content at any time and &apos;at this time they&apos;ve pulled that show for exclusivity on their own channel.&apos;&quot;It worries some that the company has the power to prevent users from accessing media they have bought and paid for. Boing Boing writer Cory Doctorow, a digital rights campaigner and Guardian columnist, says that &quot;Amazon stuck the gun on the mantelpiece in Act One, and they don&apos;t get to act all surprised now that it went off in Act Three. Anyone who didn&apos;t see this coming failed to do so because it was their job not to see it coming.&quot;Peter Bradwell of the UK-based Open Rights Group says that &quot;online service providers or rights holders often can remove access to products like this - it will be in their terms and conditions.&quot;&quot;It&apos;s one way that online digital products are being built to be less useful than physical copies. Nobody would come to your house and take your DVDs just because they later decide they want those films playing exclusively on their TV channel.&quot;In 2009, Amazon surprised Kindle owners bydeleting copies of George Orwell&apos;s 1984 without prior notice. The company refunded users, but told them that the book was &quot;no longer available&quot;.However, Orwell&apos;s dystopian classic was only on sale in the first place due to an oversight on Amazon&apos;s part, after a publisher which did not have the rights to the books began selling digital copies without permission. The removal of Prep &amp; Landing appears to be the first time Amazon has removed access to content which users legitimately purchased.Disney was contacted for comment, hadn&apos;t responded at time of publication.•Microsoft had to drop restrictive copy-protection after a gamer outcry. Will Amazon be forced to follow suit?•This article was amended on 16 December 2013 to include Amazon&apos;s statement that the removal of the animation was because of a database error. It was further amended on 17 December 2013 to add that Amazon says the error was unrelated to Disney&apos;s request.
Vanity URLHas your loved one got themselves a blog or site? If not, buy them a domain name and set them up a free blog. Hosting services like Blogger allow you to use a custom URL for free making www.yournamehere.com an affordable reality.From &pound;5.Photograph: David J. Green/AlamyNetflixWith a large library of on-demand movies and TV shows from Britain and America, all streaming in high-quality 5.1 surround sound and up to full HD video, there&rsquo;s always something to watch on Netflix. Monthly subscriptionsfrom &pound;5.99.Photograph: Graham Whitby Boot/Allstar/Sportsphoto Ltd.Spotify PremiumSpotify might nowbe free on mobile phones and tablets, but Spotify Premium allows your loved-one to listen to any track of their choosing from the 20m-plus library. You can take your music offline, remove ads and enable crystal-clear higher quality audio. Monthly subscriptionsfrom &pound;9.99&nbsp;Photograph: REX/Andrew TestaGift an albumIf you&rsquo;re not feeling quite as generous as to give a month or a year&rsquo;s music for that matter, how about a single album? iTunes allows you to instantly buy an album for someone else. David Bowie&rsquo;s latest Next Day is apparently quite good, and it&rsquo;s&pound;7.99&nbsp;Photograph: REX/Action PressGift a movieIf you want to give an Apple user a film rather than a gift card, then its as simple as finding it in iTunes and hitting the gift button. Prices depend on the movie, but for example, The Internship showing what life&rsquo;s like as a Google intern can be had in HD&pound;9.99Gift an appInspired enough to gift an app for the iPhone or iPad? May we suggest Minecraft? Not only is it one of the best games available, it&rsquo;s practically an educational tool as well. Fun and mind expanding for&pound;4.99iTunes gift cardWhen you don&rsquo;t know precisely what you want, or you&rsquo;re extremely lazy, a gift card will let your slightly less loved one buy apps, games, music and movies from the iTunes store.From &pound;15&nbsp;Photograph: FocusMedia/AlamyUberIf you have an acquaintance (note: not for friends) who hasn't used the Uber taxi service yet, you can give them a promo code under the "share" section within the app. It will give them &pound;10 off their first ride, and when they use it, you also get &pound;10 in credit. Bargain.Free&nbsp;Photograph: Matt Mawson/CorbisComicsDigital comics are the new ebook, except with way more pictures. Comixology allows you to buy eGift cards delivered by email on a specific date. Comics cost upwards of 99c with apps for Windows, Android and iOS.From $10&nbsp;Photograph: AlamyGift a gameValve&rsquo;s Steam lets you gift any game available in its rather large library, with games compatible with Windows, OS X and even Linux available. Our choice would be the Stanley Parable, because it&rsquo;s fantastic. In a nutshell, Stanley turns up at the office one day to find himself in a surreal vortex of possibility. To say much more would be to ruin the possibility, but the game is a sort of battle of the wills between the player and the narrator. Brilliant and only&pound;9.99LomographyEnsure the analogue photographer in your life never runs out of film with a subscription service fromlomography.com. Choose from slides, colour negatives, and black and whites, from&pound;34.40 a month.Photograph: AlamyShaken CocktailsPretending to be a (robot) bartender is great fun, but unless you've got a liquor cabinet the size of Wales, you won't have the right ingredients to copy the best. Shaken Cocktails deconstructs a particular cocktail each month, and sends you enough of the ingredients to make four servings. That doesn't just mean premium spirits &ndash; it&rsquo;ll also ship you citric-acid infused&nbsp;maraschino cherries for your manhattans, or smoked olives for your dirty martinis, because sometimes gadgets just aren&rsquo;t enough.&pound;29 a month&nbsp;Photograph: Fabrizio Bensch/Reuters
A tablet computer originally made for an educational scheme run by the Indian government has launched in the UK for only £30.Starting at £29.99 the self-proclaimed “world’s cheapest tablet” theUbiSlate 7Cisignificantly undercuts the competition on price including the£119 Tesco Hudl,£80 Aldi Lifetaband the £200 Google Nexus 7, but does not compare favourably on specifications.The UbiSlate features a low-resolution 7in touchscreen, 1GHz processor, 4GB of storage with a microSD card slot, and runs a modified version of Android 4.0.3 “Ice Cream Sandwich”. It comes bundled with a series of apps for education, entertainment, gaming and productivity, aiming to bring computer and internet access to everyone.&quot;With recent ONS figures showing that in the UK, 29% of the poorest households have no computer and 36% no internet, we’re working to bring affordable technology to the hundreds of thousands of households excluded from the digital revolution”, said Datawind’s chief executive Suneet Singh Tuli.Aakash mark twoThe UbiSlate 7Ci is the cheapest in a new line of Datawind tablets, which include the £50 3G data-enabled UbiSlate 7C+ and the £129 UbiSlate 3G7 – a slightly faster tablet with a higher resolution screen and 3G mobile data.The UbiSlate tablet was originally produced by London-based Datawindfor the Indian government as the Aakash(or “sky” in Hindi) series of tablets as part of India’s effort to put ultra-low cost tablets in universities and colleges.The Aakash was initially announced as a development by Indian scientists for a tablet computer thatcould be manufactured for just $35in 2010. Datawind laterwon the tender to build the tabletsfrom the Indian government in 2011, beforeshipping them to Indian students in 2012and following up with the Aakash 2 tablet on which the UbiSlate 7Ci is based.“The development of the tablet stemmed from the realisation that lack of internet adoption in many parts of the world was primarily due to lack of affordability,” said Singh Tuli. “We’re bridging the gap by offering cost-effective, high-specification devices and internet access that offers excellent value to all.”‘Tablets under £100 have excellent gifting potential’According to data provided by research firm IDC, tablet computers are set to overtake PC sales this year, growing to 229.3m units worldwide fuelled by lower cost devices.&quot;Tablets under £100 have excellent gifting potential this Christmas,&quot; says Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones and tablets analyst with the research firm IDC. &quot;Parents looking to give gifts to children and teenagers are unlikely to spend £400-500 on a tablet, so tablets sub-£100 are less of an investment and more of an attractive disposable gift.&quot;In 2012, 8.3m tablets were sold in the UK, according research firm CCS Insight with over half of those sales coming in the last three months of the year. Retailer Argos sold 1m tablets in 2012.In the first half of 2013 alone, almost 6m tablets were sold in the UK and demand is expected to accelerate into Christmas.UK retail giants Tesco, Argos and Aldi recently launched tablets of their own available for £119 and under competing with sub-£200 Android tablets from Google and Amazon. The Datawind UbiSlate undercuts the competition by at least £50.&quot;When it comes to tablets, the intensity of competition between UK retailers is staggering,&quot; said Ben Wood, mobile analyst with CCS Insight.Since launch at the end of September, Tesco has sold over 300,000 of its Hudl tablets, and has struggled to keep store shelves stocked.• 2013 has been the year of the tablet,watch us breakdown the best and the worst
On a brief return to Britain, Sony Computer Entertainment’s president and chief executive Andrew House is full of bonhomie and bullishness. We meet at Sony&apos;s Soho HQ, on the verge of the UK launch. Any nervousness there may have been has apparently vanished thanks to the success of the machine’s US arrival on 15 November: 1m sold in a weekend.“I’m more excited about this console launch than any of the ones we’ve done previously,&quot; he says. &quot;The decision to slightly stagger the launches has played out extremely well for us, and I’m really pleased with our ability to deliver a good supply of consoles into the markets at launch. It’s shaping up, particular on the back of the US success, to be the biggest console launch in our history, and that has to make you feel very good.”His confidence has since proved well-founded: 2.1m PS4s have sold in its first two weeks on the market (which is “record-setting”, according to House), and 250,000 units were shifted in 48 hours in the UK alone.But a console launch is a fraught business, and post-launch, PS4s are hard to obtain for those who didn’t pre-order (as illustrated by the inflated prices for which they are changing hands on sites such as eBay). So, will Sony be able to restock the shops quickly?House intimates that Sony is doing what it can: “The goal was to have a very good number for the initial launch – that was true of the US, and it’s also going to be true in Europe. The goal then will be to follow that up as quickly as possible, with another tranche of supply prior to Christmas. Then the plan is to keep our production at a sufficient state to at least, by and large, meet demand, if not fully address it.&quot;So I’d characterise it as being somewhat supply-challenged for the remainder of the calendar year, but hopefully we’ll be able to satisfy that pent-up demand as we get out to January and February. The comparative for me is that we sold 3.5m units of the PlayStation 3 in our first fiscal year – the launch through to the end of March – and the goal for the PlayStation 4 is to sell at least 5m units in that period.”Hundreds of people queue outside the Sony store to purchase the Playstation 4 in Paris, France, 29 November 2013. EPA/IAN LANGSDON Photograph: IAN LANGSDON/EPABeyond launch gamesBut is House happy with the launch games line-up? The general consensus states that Microsoft outdid Sony on that score at least. He’s fairly candid: “Yes, a launch line-up is to a certain degree a statement of intent. But we’ve got two games right here which are great. Killzone: Shadow Fall has seen very significant sales during the first part of the US launch, which is very encouraging.&quot;I’m a big personal fan of Knack, because it’s my kind of game – so I stress that there is personal bias in there, and there’s the fact that I’m good friends with the guy who was responsible for creating it. I think it was a great statement of intent to have something in the launch line-up that was not only exclusive but also addresses a family audience, and is maybe easier to pick up and play.”“Looking further out, we have Driveclub coming and Infamous. We took the decision with Driveclub to push its launch date out, because we want it to be a really great experience that carries the PlayStation 4 banner, and I’m confident that the guys are hard at work making sure that it does that. Within roughly the same period, I think you’ll see a really fantastic experience with Watch Dogs as well.”The end of third-party exclusives?With the exception of Watch Dogs, it’s clear that, at least during this stage of the PS4’s existence, Sony is relying heavily on its internal studios to provide the games we crave. So, have we seen the end of games published by third parties but exclusive to one console?After all, the Xbox One, strikingly, has Capcom’s Dead Rising 3 exclusively. House says: “I wouldn’t write off the possibility of full exclusives. But what is equally resonant is the presence of some form of exclusive content within a multi-platform franchise.&quot;What’s more important is not to try and craft something that is just exclusive for the sake of it, but that takes full advantage of the PlayStation 4’s capabilities, in a way that perhaps isn’t possible for the competition. That’s something we’ll develop over time.”The PlayStation 4’s cloud-gaming service, based on technology that Sony acquired when it bought Gaikai, could play a part in that. So when will that be fully up and running?“We’re still on track for a 2014 launch of the commercial service. It’s a brand new proposition: we’re pioneering a different way to experience games, ie server-delivered from the cloud. And we’re taking a very gradual, step-by-step approach because, first and foremost, we want to ensure that it’s a good experience for consumers.”And is the plan still to deliver backwards-compatibility via the cloud with Gaikai’s technology? “I’m not sure I look at it as backwards-compatibility; I look at it as a different way to offer PlayStation 3 gaming experiences – eventually to a much broader range of devices.&quot;So it starts with PlayStation 4, then it’s possible on PlayStation Vita, but eventually it will move out to things like smart TVs and other connected boxes.”Sony Playstation 4 Photograph: Sony Computer Entertainment IncDifferentiation from the Xbox OneDesign-wise, the PlayStation 4 makes much more sense than the PlayStation 3, which had developer-unfriendly proprietary architecture and a custom-designed, very expensive processor called Cell, as House acknowledges: “It was a strategic decision to have an architecture that was easier to develop for, that was easier to manufacture and which placed less of a financial risk and a financial burden on the company than was true of the PlayStation 3.”But the downside of that decision was that under the bonnet, there’s very little to choose between it and the Xbox One. So, for those dithering about which console to buy, how would House differentiate the PlayStation 4 from the Xbox One?“I’d point to price – which, as we’re still in straitened economic times, is going to be a key consideration for a lot of people. We’re very confident that our architecture, particularly around graphics performance, is really going to make our games sing on PlayStation 4 – even those that are multi-platform. And I think we’ve done a really nice job with the interface, and facilitating the social aspects around gaming, in a way that is seamless and very intuitive for people.&quot;So you can broadcast your own in-game experiences via Twitch, and I think we’re the only platform that has Facebook integration. That’s going to be a key differentiator.”House also touches on philosophical differences between the companies, claiming that Sony’s remit with the PlayStation 4 reaches beyond hardcore gamers, and especially the online gamers who delight in flaming and trolling: “One of the things that [PS4 designer] Mark Cerny and I talked about a lot is how we could change the overall dynamic of what “connected via play” means. I appreciate that sounds rather vague and high-falutin.&quot;But does it have to be just around anonymous IDs, highly combative and based on trash-talking? Those are great experiences, and I’m not denying them, but wouldn’t it be great if we could have people connect in different ways, and allow us to broaden the audience as a result? So, having a network that’s based on your real name is really critical.&quot;I was talking about this with the folks at Facebook the other day: it just makes people behave in a different way online, and possibly makes the whole community a bit more welcoming. It makes it easier to find friends and like-minded players. That’s another core example of how we like to differentiate the platform.”Finally, In his slightly roundabout, non-confrontational way, House acknowledges Sony’s message about the PlayStation 4 that has resonated most with gamers: that it’s a games console first and foremost, rather than some sort of media hub that also happens to run games: “Partly why we’re seeing such good momentum for PlayStation 4 is because people are recognising that it’s a best-in-class games platform.&quot;But at the same time, unlike PlayStation 3, it now comes fully baked with a suite of non-games entertainment services. That functions as the secondary reason for purchase. We’ve seen that being very powerful in the past, particularly regarding adoption by families – with PlayStation 2, you got a DVD player, and with PlayStation 3 it was a Blu-ray player.&quot;The primary purchaser will buy it for playing games. But it’s a great convincing mechanic, maybe, for other people in the family. And it gives you an opportunity for multi-usage within the same household.”• PlayStation 4 review: a games machine to play together• PS4: the 10 key launch titles• PlayStation 4 hands-on review and Xbox One comparison - video
There was precious little entertainment to be had for Tottenham Hotspur fans during Sunday&apos;s5-0 drubbing at the hands of Liverpool– which led to managerAndre Villas-Boas being sacked– but the club has launched a new app to get them playing along with live matches.Spurs Connect, which is currently available for Apple&apos;s iPhone and iPad devices, is the result of a partnership between Spurs and mobile developerOneUp Games.Released this month, it&apos;s a cross between Bingo and Connect 4, with fans competing with their Facebook friends to correctly predict events during matches, and get four in a row on the in-game board. The game is based on live statistics from Spurs&apos; Premier League matches.&quot;Spurs Connect takes the best elements of watching the match with your friends and enhances it with direct head-to-head competition,&quot; claims the App Store listing for the free app, which makes its money from in-app purchases of virtual tokens, which are used to buy power-ups to boost people&apos;s chances or impede other players.The game represents Spurs&apos; first step into the &quot;free-to-play&quot; games market that has become increasingly dominant on smartphones and tablets. At the time of writing, 46 of the 50 top grossing iPhone games in the UK are free-to-play.US company OneUp Games already has a number of similar partnerships in its homeland, with Connect-branded games available for basketball, American football, baseball and ice hockey via licensing deals with their respective sporting bodies NBA, NFL, MLB and NHL.The company also makes the official (non-gaming) apps for US sports teams the Los Angeles Clippers, Los Angeles Lakers and Tampa Bay Rowdies among others, although Spurs Connect is its first partnership with an English football club.The app is part of Tottenham&apos;s wider digital expansion. The club has anofficial news app, as well as aseparate app for its club shopselling merchandise to fans. Earlier in 2013, it launched a web and mobile virtual world for 7-10 year-old children calledTottenham Turfiestoo.Liverpool&apos;s five-in-a-row thrashing on Sunday put paid to Villas-Boas&apos; time at the club, but it remains to be seen if a four-in-a-row mobile game can cheer up fans as Spurs look to fire up their campaign for a top-four finish this season.
Oops, I forgot to set this up on Sunday night – too busy writing Christmas cards!
Many people often turn to the virtual world of social media when a momentous occasion occurs in the real world. They share their grief and their sorrow – and they also celebrate their achievements.The death of arguablyone of the greatest statesman of our time, on 5 December, triggered a similar reaction and this is clear from data collected by a social data research company. 5W Consulting found that seven million tweets were sent about Nelson Mandela between 3 and 8 December and they analysed them to find out what people were saying.Here&apos;s the data:The revelation is quite stunning: amongst a great number of commemorative tweets about his death, at least 8% of all tweets (560,000) involved users ridiculing others for confusing his picture with that of famous actors.This came after a number of users confused Nelson Mandela and Morgan Freeman, likely due to Freeman&apos;s appearance inInvictus, a film that focussed on how Mandela united a post-apartheid South Africa behind the Springboks&apos; triumphant run at the 1995 Rugby World Cup.But the majority of tweets – over 50% – paid respect to Mandela in one form or another, whether it was through sharing an inspiring story or quote, talking aboutthe lessons the world should learnor even a brief &quot;RIP&quot; tweet.The headline of this story was corrected on 16/12/2013 to reflect the fact that 8% of tweets discussed misinformation rather than producing it• Guardian readersshare their memories and tributes to Nelson Mandela.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWelcome to the internet of thingies: 61.5% of web traffic is not human &gt;&gt; The AtlanticAlexis Madrigal:The point is: It's so easy to build bots that do various things that they are overrunning the human traffic on the web.Now, to understand the human web, we have to reckon with the logic of the non-human web. It is, in part, shady traffic that allows ad networks and exchanges to flourish. And these automated ad buying platforms — while they do a lot of good, no doubt about it — also put pressure on other publishers to sell ads more cheaply. When they do that, there's less money for content, and the content quality suffers.The ease of building bots, in other words, hurts what you read each and every day on the Internet. And it's all happening deep beneath the shiny web we know and (sometimes) love.A visual history of The Next Big Thing &gt;&gt; MediumPeter Sweeney:If the history of The Next Big Thing teaches us anything, it's that new media invariably dominates old media, regardless of how hard the incumbents try to keep new media down.Equally clear, the essence of The Next Big thing won't be technological.You begin by thinking it's trivial, but it isn't.Goldman Sachs has entered the iPhone ae &gt;&gt; Daily Intelligencerin 2010, JPMorgan Chase and UBS, two of Goldman's competitors, began testing pilot BYOD [Bring Your Own Device] programs. (BlackBerrys are a "magnet for mockery and derision," said the New York Times last year, but they are also just bad phones.)Goldman Sachs will not be mocked, nor will it suffer the indignity of second-class smartphones. And so, according to several people close to the bank, Goldman began allowing employees to use iPhones as their official work phones this week.Goldman is among the slowest major institutions to let its employees use iPhones at work.Because of security concerns; staff have to download a specific app to access corporate email and other info. But it's another loss for BlackBerry.PayPal president David Marcus: Bitcoin is good, NFC is bad &gt;&gt; Internet &amp; Media - CNET NewsMarcus is paying close attention to payment changes as part of his effort to re-energize an eBay service that grew sluggish and complacent after the early dot-com years. He's trying to foster innovation at the company and cater to developers, particularly those at start-ups.Although he has some concerns about bitcoin, he's unequivocal about near-field communications (NFC), the very short-range radio communication that can let people tap a credit card or mobile phone to a payment terminal."It's technology for the sake of technology or for the sake of pushing the agenda of the companies supporting it, versus solving real people's problems," Marcus said of NFC."Instead swiping or using a PIN pad, they're tapping. How is that really better? How is that changing your life? People don't want that," he said…"Why do you need to be at a place in a store to make a payment? [NFC is] too little too late."China 4G licenses to impact smartphone display market &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch Blog[China Mobile's 3G system] TD-SCDMA's top speed was slower than the other two 3G standards, and more importantly, there was limited supply of TD-SCDMA devices. Due to this, China Mobile started to lose its customer base in the 3G market, especially for high ARPU (average revenue per user) subscribers…On the contrary, both China Unicom and China Telecom had little interest in LTE TDD. They reaped the benefit of their 3G investments, especially by gaining high ARPU users. They preferred LTE FDD to LTE TDD, because they have multiple options in LTE-FDD network equipment and devices.As the 4G licenses the China government officially granted are for LTE TDD, China Mobile now has an advantage. In Q3'13, China Mobile released 207,000 LTE TDD base station orders through bidding and expected to release another 300,000 to 400,000 base station orders in 2014.China is the largest smartphone market in the world, with 30% of global smartphone shipments, according to the Smartphone Quarterly. While 3G is still the mainstream for commercial business, telecom carriers, especially China Mobile, will start offering 4G contracts and encourage consumers to upgrade to 4G LTE-TDD smartphones. Bigger screens, higher resolution, better display performance and lower power consumption will all be critical for 4G upgrades.Huge, huge numbers. It's hard enough to understand mobile, but figures like this emphasise how gigantic China is.Shazam predicts future pop stars by analyzing listener data &gt;&gt; CITEworldIn 2013, the service predicted Haim and French Montana would hit it big this year. Haim had a number of hits and recently played on "Saturday Night Live." Montana, a Moroccan-born rapper, had his first album debut at number four on the charts and worked extensively with established American rappers.In 2012, Shazam predicted A$AP Rocky and Lana Del Rey would be breakout artists, and both were resounding successes. Rocky reached number one on the U.S. charts, and Del Rey went to number one in the US and 10 other countries.How does Shazam do it? It combines the number of people that have used the app to identify a song to along with positive music critic reviews to see who are generating the most interest.Seems obvious enough, but first you have to get the app to be widely used - then you can do this.Hits, no errors: the secret of mobile success &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsSteve Wildstrom on error messages on desktop and tablets:This is not to say that apps and even the OS in tablets never crash. But they do it quietly and gracefully, without generating an error message or requiring any action. When an iOS or Android app crashes, it usually just quietly shuts down and restarts itself, generally without loss of data and without affecting any other running apps. Even a system crash, rare in my experience, causes a reboot in which the tablet mostly or completely restores its pre-crash state.App updates are another place where tablets shine. Both Android and iOS automatically install app updates in the background. By contrast, as I was working on my Mac today, a Window popped up informing me that skyDrive needed to be updated. I gave permission for the update, which then proceeded to open at least six more windows–I lost count–each of which required some action on my part. If the software needs updating, just go ahead an update it (the auto-update feature can be disabled on both Android and iOS, but I doubt that many users do.)I think the geekiest among us underestimate how important this well-mannered behaviour is to a lot of users.Google's European antitrust fight: still battling &gt;&gt; The EconomistThe core of the case against Google is the claim that it uses its dominance of search to skew internet users towards its own specialised services (for shopping, hotels, flights and so forth) and away from those of rivals. Part of the company's proposed answer to this has been to insert links to other shopping sites below Google's own.Two American professors retained by FairSearch Europe—David Franklyn of the University of San Francisco and David Hyman of the University of Illinois—have tested how these links might work in practice. In a trial using 2,500 British subjects asked to look for specific items (eg, iPods or Nikon cameras) they found that Google Shopping scooped 36.7% of the clicks. The three rival links attracted just 5% between them. (Other clicks went to other parts of the page.) In the mobile version of Google's proposed solution, Google shopping got 43.3% against just 0.25% for the single link marked "other sites".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
There is something quite remarkable in how Mario,who is over 30 years old, has maintained his position as gaming's No&nbsp;1 superstar. Yet titles as wonderful as3D Worldshould be an object lesson to his rivals.The latest Mario platformer is beautiful, with stunning HD visuals and glorious music that matches the franchise's best. All of which is, of course, but garnish to the main course –3D World's gameplay is as finely tuned and bonkers as you'd expect. Each level is different from the last, skipping from carnivals to race tracks. And each world is crammed with more ideas, secrets and power-ups than most other games have in their entirety. The highlight (in power-up terms at least) is the cat suit, which allows Mario to scamper up walls and obstacles with ease, adding a new dimension to the traditional challenges.Equally, while3D Worldis a beautiful single-player experience, it's also built for four players, with wide-open levels and multiple routes, so that Mario, Peach, Luigi and Toad can team up. A chaotic experience and a real treat for families.The headlines this Christmas may be about PS4 and Xbox One, but this season's real creative masterpiece is only on Wii U.
Far from offering a swansong for the PS3, as its next-gen cousin hogs the headlines,Gran Turismo 6might rather be seen as a triumphant chorus in celebration of the machine's continued relevance, performed to the glorious thundering of no fewer than 1,200 distinct engines.As with previous iterations,Gran Turismo 6remains a somewhat stern, encyclopedic tribute to all things automotive. The emphasis is still on simulation, and as such it can feel rather sterile at times. But here, Polyphony Digital's latest effort also has a spring in its step that was somewhat lacking in its infamously cold predecessors.Much feels familiar, but outside the hundreds of races that form the title's core, for example, there are playful side-challenges. Its greatest strength, aside from graphical muscle, lies in its variety. The game's huge number of cars cover a range of vehicle types, and put in players' hands machines that handle in a myriad different ways; there's ample diversity in the racing itself, too.While the game is still likely to appeal strictly to genre-devotees, it also proves that a seven-year-old console, with plenty under the bonnet, can still deliver sublime experiences.
The stats around mobile apps remain startling. There are now more than 1m apps apiece in both Apple's App Store and Android's Google Play, with tech research firmGartner estimating that&nbsp;2013 saw 102bn app downloadsacross the various stores. It's big business too: the company reckoned that developers would make £15.8bn from their apps this year.2013 was also a year of strong growth for Android, with Google-powered smartphones flying off the shelves, and tablets starting to challenge Apple's iPad too. That was reflected in the larger number of apps available for both iOS and Android, with Microsoft'sWindows Phonesnagging more of the most popular apps for its own store too – albeit often those that had been out for a year or more on rival platforms.The biggest app trend of 2013 was the domination of "free-to-play" games: those that are free to download and play, but which make their money from in-app purchases of virtual items or currency. The biggest of the lot wasCandy Crush Saga, although its 2012 launch means it's not included in this roundup. It helped to make mobile gaming more mainstream than it has ever been, as a glance at the touchscreens on any commuter train or bus showed this year.Children's apps were another big trend, with a growing community of developers aiming to educate and entertain children as young as two years old on the tablets owned by their parents. Communications regulator Ofcom estimated that 42% of 5-15-year-olds and 28% of 3-4-year-olds now use a tablet at home –&nbsp;and that's before an expected flood of new devices unwrapped this Christmas.Parents were spoilt for choice when it came to engaging apps for their kids, although free-to-play games proved more controversial in this market, with several high-profile cases of children blowing their parents' iTunes budgets on virtual items, and aninvestigation by the Office of Fair Tradingwarning dodgy developers to mend their ways. On the plus side, crafting gameMinecraft– which is huge among kids – was one of the biggest-selling apps of the year without an in-app purchase in sight.Also big in 2013: fitness-tracking apps, as part of a trend known as"quantification of the self". Tracking your steps, calories, workouts and even your sleeping patterns became increasingly common, with a flurry of existing apps tied to external monitors, and some new ones (likeMovesin this roundup) which simply used your smartphone's sensors.What lies ahead in 2014? Apps will spread on to new kinds of devices, from smart watches to cars. Tablets will be popping up in schools with increasing regularity; 4G mobile networks may spur a new boom in streaming music and video to smartphones and tablets; and the apps world will wait&nbsp;to see what the next bigCandy Crush-sized mainstream success is.Lifestyle and entertainmentGLOWiPhone, freeUsing what the developers describe as a combination of "magic and science", this fertility prediction app is for couples who are trying to conceive. It includes charts, health-tracking features and, crucially, daily reminders of when you should hit the sack.MOVESiPhone/ Android, £1.99Activity-tracking apps were big in 2013, but often they needed a pedometer-like gadget. Not Moves: this app uses your smartphone's sensors to track your walking, running and cycling, while also showing you where you went during your day.HELPOUTSAndroid, prices varyThis app comes from Google: a way to connect to experts in a host of categories for one-to-one help on… well, whatever you want. From computers to cooking, fashion to fitness, the twist is that you talk to the experts via live video chat.BBC SPORTiPhone/ Android, freeThe BBC split its sports coverage off into a standalone app this year, drawing on its online, TV and radio coverage. The app offers news stories, stats and tables for a range of sports as well as the ability to watch and listen to events live.EXPLORE SHAKESPEAREiPad, freeThis iPad app came from Cambridge University Press: comprehensive versions of Shakespeare's most famous plays including the text, performance photos, audio versions and interactive features to understand them. Individual plays cost £4.99 via in-app purchase.THE ELEMENTS IN ACTIONiPhone/ iPad, £2.49The original The Elements was a huge hit on iPad. In 2013, it got a quirky but brilliant follow-up: 79 videos for elements in the periodic table, showing the (often explosive) results when they're used in real-world experiments. It's got all the right chemistry.BOB DYLAN: THE  BOOTLEG SERIESiPhone/ iPad, freeBob Dylan's latest album is a collection of rare bootleg tracks from his past, and it was accompanied by this accomplished app. Timelines, biographies of&nbsp;musicians, photo galleries and video interviews give the stories behind the songs.DISNEY ANIMATEDiPad, £6.99If you've ever loved a Disney movie and own an iPad, this is an essential purchase, exploring the history of the animations with artwork, a timeline of every movie and even the chance to animate a character yourself fromWreck-It Ralph.IPLAYER RADIOiPhone/ Android, freeThis year, the BBC created a standalone  app for listening live to its radio stations, which also streams on-demand shows and podcasts and helps you add songs to playlists in other services including&nbsp;SpotifyandYouTube.BEETHOVEN'S 9TH SYMPHONYiPhone/ iPad, freeA real treat for classical music fans, whatever their level of knowledge. This app offers four famous recordings of Beethoven's Ninth and lets you switch between them while viewing the score, and hear experts talking about the work and its composer.BLOOM.FMiPhone/ Android, freeOne of the most stylish streaming music apps available on smartphones,Bloom.fmstreams you radio-style stations based on genres and artists. If you want to store tracks on your phone, you can pay £1, £5 or £10 a month for 20, 200 or as many as you like.GOOGLE PLAY MUSICiPhone/ Android, free/£9.99Google's music service has many hats. It'll stream you "custom" radio stations based on songs, artists and albums, as well as your own music collection if you've stored it on Google's servers. And if you pay £9.99 a month, it's a full, unlimited Spotify rival.SOUNDWAVE MUSIC DISCOVERYiPhone/ Android, freeThis app is perfect if you want to discover new music, rather than just listen to the music you know. It tracks the songs you play on streaming services Spotify orRdioand&nbsp;shows you what your friends are playing – all in a slick, mobile-friendly interface.TRAKTOR DJiPhone/ iPad, £2.99/ £13.99There are quite a few DJing apps for smartphones and tablets, and most ape the turntables used by real-world DJs. This is different: it turns songs into waveforms to be mixed, scratched and warped at home or at a house party…XBOX ONE SMARTGLASSiPhone/ iPad/ Android/ Windows Phone, freeYou'll need an Xbox One games console to use this app, but it's an essential companion if you do. You can use it to control the  or browse the web on TV – and a growing number of games will use it as a second screen too.TWITTER #MUSICiPhone, freeTwitter's music discovery app&nbsp;hasn't been hugely popular, but it's still a very good way for music fans to keep tabs on up-and-coming artists and songs, filtered through what people are tweeting about most.GamesANGRY BIRDS STAR WARS IIiPhone/ iPad/ Android/ Windows Phone, up to 79pYou can tell from both theAngry Birds Star Warsgames that the developers at Rovio have a genuine love for theStar Warsfilms. This is another round of slinging birds at (evil Empire) pigs, with famous characters aplenty – and even some tie-in toys.CALL OF DUTY STRIKE TEAMiPhone/ iPad/ Android, up to £4.99Call of Dutygames are big business on consoles, but this year saw a brand new title just for smartphones and tablets. It's part first-person shooter and part tactical strategy game, as you switch between shooting and controlling your squaddies.CLASH OF CLANSiPhone / iPad / Android, freeClash of Clanswas one of&nbsp;the most popular mobile games in the world in 2013: a&nbsp;characterful strategy game&nbsp;that saw you methodically building&nbsp;up a town and training&nbsp;an entire army to wreak havoc on other players.CLUMSY NINJAiPhone/ iPad, freeAnother huge success on the App Store, this is a virtual pet game, except with a wonderfully animated ninja instead of a dog or cat. Your job is to train him up to be&nbsp;less clumsy, including tossing him through basketball hoops like a rag doll.CUT THE ROPE: TIME TRAVELiPhone/ iPad/ Android, up to £1.99A proper sequel to the puzzle gameCut the Ropewas due right at the end of 2013, but this intermediate game helped fans while away the year. It sees cute monster Om Nom snipping more ropes in order to feed candy to relatives from down the years, to brain-testing effect.DESPICABLE ME: MINION RUSHiPhone/ iPad/ Android/ Windows Phone, free150 million people downloaded the official mobile game for theDespicable Me 2film in 2013, with its appeal stretching way beyond children. It's a colourful affair featuring the characters and scenery from the film, with&nbsp;similarly riotous humour.DOTS: A GAME ABOUT CONNECTING iPhone/ iPad/ Android, freeFew mobile games consumed more person-hours thanDotsin 2013. An ostensibly simple puzzle game – trace lines and boxes of dots of the same colour on a grid – turned out to have ferociously addictive properties.FLICK KICK FOOTBALL LEGENDS iPhone / iPad / Android, freeThis sequel toFlick Kick Footballadded more depth, putting you in charge of a marvellously retro football team, passing, tackling and shooting your way to success. A system of Panini-style cards to upgrade your squad added to the fun.FOOTBALL MANAGER HANDHELD 2014iPhone / iPad / AndroidMore football, but this time you're the manager, in the annual update to the mobile version of popular PC simFootball Manager. New features this year included a revamped design, more detailed media interaction and the option to create your own club.FROZEN SYNAPSEiPad/ Android, £1.99/ £2.00Tablet-owning gamers looking for a strategy game to really get their teeth into won't have been disappointed byFrozen Synapse. Ditching historical military themes for aTron-style futuristic look, its 55 solo missions and multiplayer mode had lots of depth.INFINITY BLADE IIIiPhone/ iPad, £4.99TheInfinity Bladegames have always been a showcase for Apple, and this third incarnation was no different, with graphics tuned to the latest iPhones and iPads. The gameplay was familiarly epic: big monsters, big loot and simple swipe controls.NIMBLE QUEST iPhone/ iPad/ Android, freeSomething for nostalgic gamers here: a colourful new take on classic mobile titleSnake, except with RPG-style heroes rather than wiggly wildlife. Your "conga line" winds its way round a series of&nbsp;levels attacking monsters, levelling up as they go. Quirkily good fun.REAL RACING 3iPhone/ iPad/ Android, freeDriving gameReal Racing 3was controversial for its adoption of in-app purchases, but the game itself is very impressive. It looks like a console game, packed with real-world vehicles and tracks to zip around. Regular updates kept players occupied too.RYMDKAPSELiPhone / iPad / Android, up to £3.29Another strategy game with lashings of neon,Rymdkapselwas quietly great. Your&nbsp;job is to build a space base for your minions to scoot around collecting resources and fending off alien attacks. It's hypnotic, challenging and a gaming treat.STAR WARS: TINY DEATH STAR iPhone / iPad / Android / Windows Phone, freeStar Warshad a good year for mobile games. This second was based on mobile hitTiny Tower, with the twist that you're now building a Ttiny Death Star, complete with businesses, accommodation and plenty of familiar characters moving in.YEAR WALKiPhone/ iPad, £2.49The most bewitching mobile game of 2013 wasYear Walk, a supernatural adventure based on Swedish mythology and full  of strange creatures, brain-bending puzzles and beautiful production values. It has a companion app&nbsp;to explain all the myths.SocialBBMiPhone/ Android, freeSmartphone maker BlackBerry had a bad year for selling handsets, but its messaging app BBM had a better one, launching for iPhone and Android and attracting 20 million users in its first week. It faces stiff competition fromWhatsAppandFacebook Messengerbut remains quick and slick.TINDERiPhone/ Android, freeMobile dating appTindercame from nowhere in 2013 to become a UK craze – and not just for single people. The app's focus on quickly swiping to accept or reject potential matches nearby became a spectator sport, with friends eager to chip in with their views.LIFTiPhone/ Android, freeLiftsounds a bit new-agey with its promises of "daily motivation", but if you're trying to achieve a goal – from taking more exercise to eating less chocolate – it's a&nbsp;very useful smartphone&nbsp;tool to track your progress and keep you&nbsp;on the right track.IFTTTiPhone, freeIFTTT is hard to explain, but really useful once you've grasped it. It connects different websites and apps – for example automatically saving your Instagram photos to your Dropbox, or emailing you when a favourite eBay seller has a new item.KidsBBC CBEEBIES PLAYTIMEiPhone/ iPad/ Android/ Windows Phone, freeThe preschool audience for CBeebies are taking to tablets in their thousands, and they won't be disappointed with the&nbsp;channel's first app: fun mini-games forOctonauts,Tree Fu Tom,Something Specialand other shows.THE SNOWMAN AND THE SNOWDOG GAMEiPhone/ iPad/ Android, freeAnother app from a broadcaster, this time Channel 4, which has turnedThe Snowman and the Snowdoginto aTemple Run-style endless runner game. Kids fly and collect snowflakes. It does have optional in-app purchases, but with an upper cap of £20.JUSTIN'S WORLD: GOLDILOCKS AND THE THREE BEARSiPhone/ iPad, £1.99Justin Fletcher is one of CBeebies's biggest stars, and this is his own app: a retelling of the  Goldilocks fairytale with Justin dressing up as the main characters. Plenty of silliness, but also a serious focus on reading and accessibility for kids.LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD BY NOSY CROW iPhone/ iPad, £3.99Another fairytale, beautifully realised by British publisherNosy Crow, which has done similar tricks forCinderellaandThe Three Little Pigs. The twist here is that children decide what items the heroine picks up en&nbsp;route to grandma's to help&nbsp;her defeat the wolf.MR SHINGU'S PAPER ZOOiPhone / iPad / Android, £1.99Origami and children's gaming, together at last! This gets kids to fold together a menagerie of colourful animals, then keep them fed and entertained. Virtual coins are used to buy treats, but they're earned entirely by playing, not&nbsp;by in-app purchases.TOCA MINIiPhone / iPad, £1.99Swedish developerToca Bocahasn't yet made a bad app, and Toca Mini is one of its most creative yet. Children make a mini-figure: eyes, nose, mouth and clothing, with scope to make anything from superheroes and monsters to real celebrities.NIGHT ZOOKEEPER TELEPORTING TORCHiPad, £1.99This creative kids' app delivers daily drawing activities in the form of missions, asking children to draw specific magical animals or scenes. Parents can take part too, sending their children on missions and checking on their progress.TOCA BUILDERSiPhone and iPad/ Android, 99p/ £1.99Another creativeToca Bocaapp, this time inspired by the popular building gameMinecraft.Six robots construct, destroy or paint solid blocks, which can be built into anything the child fancies.ProductivityMAILBOXiPhone/ iPad, freeFor anyone with an overcrowded email inbox in 2013 (ie most people with an email inbox) Mailbox was a gem: an app that helped you swipe through your backlog with merry abandon, even delaying non-urgent emails until a later time or date.EMBERiPhone/ iPad, freeSubtitled "Capture, Organise and Share", this is a simple but very elegant app for pulling together images around specific topics from a variety of sources, including your iOS device's camera. It's like your own personal version ofPinterest.CALiPhone/ Android, freeBoth Apple and Google have their own calendar apps for their smartphones, but Cal made a good pitch this year for replacing both. Pitched as a "smart" calendar, it's easy to create appointments and events, and ties in neatly&nbsp;with the developer's separateAny.doto-do lists app.DUCKDUCKGO SEARCH &amp; STORIESiPhone/ Android, freeIn a year of big stories about online surveillance, anonymous search engine DuckDuckGo emerged as a&nbsp;private alternative to Google. Its smartphone app&nbsp;took the idea mobile, with an additional focus on news stories with "no depressing news or graphic content".QUIPiPhone/ iPad/ Android, freeLaunched by Facebook's former tech boss, Quip is a word-processing app designed to help people collaborate on documents with colleagues, family members and friends: synchronising everything across iOS and Android devices to keep it up to date.BBC WEATHERiPhone/ iPad/ Android, freeWeather apps are built in to Android and iPhone smartphones, but the BBC's&nbsp;official weather app outdoes both with its simple,&nbsp;swipe-centric design, clear layout and comprehensive forecasts. One of the best apps to have handy on your homescreen.
This is a tale of two cities – Washington and London – and of the governments that rule from them. What links the pair is the puzzling failure of said governments to manage two vital IT projects. In both cases, the projects are critically important for the political credibility of their respective administrations. And yet they are both in trouble for reasons that most engineering and computer science undergraduates could have spotted.So here's the puzzle: how is it that governments stuffed with able and conscientious civil servants screw up so spectacularly whenever IT is involved?Let us start with Obamacare, the US president's landmark reform of his country's dysfunctional healthcare system. If Barack Obama is going to have a place in history other than as the first black American to reach the Oval Office, then his Affordable Care Act will be the achievement that does it. The legislation had an agonisingly tortuous passage through a rancorous and partisan Congress, but eventually it made it onto the statute book.Implementation of Obamacare depends on a website that enables American citizens to shop online for health insurance. Introducing it on 1&nbsp;October,the President said "Just visit healthcare.gov, and there you can compare insurance plans, side by side, the same way you'd shop for a plane ticket on Kayak or a TV on Amazon. You enter some basic information, you'll be presented with a list of quality, affordable plans that are available in your area, with clear descriptions of what each plan covers, and what it will cost. You'll find more choices, more competition, and in many cases, lower prices – most uninsured Americans will find that they can get covered for $100 or less. And you don't have to take my word for it. Go on the website, healthcare.gov, check it out for yourself."You can guess what happened: thousands of people tried to do just that and found that the site didn't work. For the first few weeks only a fraction of those who wanted to sign up for an affordable healthcare plan succeeded. It was, in a word, a fiasco.In the rolling inquests that followed, institutional factors were the first things to be singled out. It was claimed, for example, that the companies contracted to do the site weremore expert at negotiating the 1,800-page federalprocurement manual than at designing web services. And it also turned out that Obama's advisers were so paranoid about Republican attacks that they refused to allow the beta testing essential to debug any high-traffic site.But actually the real reason why the site was unworkable was architectural: it required applicants to open an account and let the site verify their identity, residence, and incomebeforethey could browse for insurance. That meant the site would have to interface – in real-time – with databases maintained by the Internal Revenue Service and other agencies. Since those databases all run on their own timescales, and some are pretty slow, that meant that healthcare.gov could only be as fast as its slowest link. It would have been much smarter to allow anyone to browse without needing to verify their identity, and only require authenticationwhen they were signing up to a healthcare plan.The strange thing about this is that you wouldn't need to have been a geek to spot the problem with healthcare.gov. You just had to think architecturally about it. Yet apparently nobody in the administration did. The same applies to the post-9/11 decision to link all the previously separate US security databases into one giant file to which at least 250,000 people had access, one of whom happened to be Bradley (now Chelsea) Manning.Meanwhile, over on this side of the pond, we have our own IT mess – the computer system underpinning universal credit, the government's flagship reform of the benefits system. Like Obamacare, it's a politically critical project butthe Public Accounts Committee has taken it apart. The committee's report lambasts the project's "extensive delay", not to mention "the waste of a yet to be determined amount of public money". The PAC thinks that much of the £425m already spent "will now have to be written off". The management of the programme has been "alarmingly weak". And so on.The message here is the same as with the Obamacare site. This is not about computer science or technology, but about common sense and management. The good news is that we could therefore do something about these fiascos. The puzzle is why we are taking so long to get that message.
The timing is nice. They&nbsp;took awaymy high-spec Range Rover Sport with "ebony and&nbsp;ivory" interior and heated leather seats. Ten minutes later, this little fella turns up: a baby blue 50cc Slovenian scooter called Tomos.Do they not know who I am? I'm a distinguished motoring correspondent, at a quality international news organisation. Yes,thatSam Wollaston. So! WTF?It's obviously ridiculous to compare a Range Rover with a Tomos. But because the latter has replaced the former, it's hard not to. At 55kg he weighs 2.6% as much as the Range Rover. Cost, also expressed as a percentage: 1.6. Cost compared with the cost of the audio system on the other: 27.9%. That's right: this whole vehicle costs a little over a quarter the price of the Range Rover'sradio! Perhaps now you can understand my slight shock?Tomos mopeds and scooters have been made in Koper, Slovenia, since 1954, originally under licence for Puch. You haven't been able to buy one here for 30 years. Now they're back. Though you can get cheaper Chinese mopeds and scooters, a&nbsp;Tomos costs less than anything from Japan or Italy.To be honest, it's not hard to see why. I don't believe much has changed in the past 30 years, if not since 1954. This is motorised two-wheeled transport at its most basic. There's no battery, no ignition, nothing that isn't necessary. There are pedals. It has that livid mosquito noise of a little two-stroke engine – less common here than it used to be, but it brings back memories of childhood holidays in warmer places. Plus the smell of burning oil: if you're parking in a garage, switch off before going in, or you may never come out. And if you're parking outside, make sure you've got a good lock, because its weight – if not its desirability – makes it extremely nickable.The arrival of this one coincides not just with the departure of my king-of-the-road eff-off four-by-four, but also with the arrival of winter proper. The commute to work with Tomos isn't any quicker than on my bicycle, but it's certainly colder; I'm pedalling on this, too, not because I&nbsp;need to, but to prevent frostbite.I can't pretend I'm not thinking about those heated leather seats, that I'm not missing the roof and the sides, the room for company, the five-grand stereo, the lofty position, the feeling that I'm not going to die any minute. On the plus side, other people seem to like me – and Tomos – a lot better. And I like myself a lot better, too. However basic, whiny and smelly Tomos is, he is also charming. Chic, even, in a retro, Slovenian kind of way. Plus&nbsp;I'm around 83 grand better off. Cold?&nbsp;What cold?Tomos Classic XL 45Price£1,395Top speed28mphAcceleration0-60mph in… hahahahaFuel consumption100-110mpgCO2emissionsN/A but it's a two-stroke, so no prizes for greennessGreen rating3/10Cool rating10/10
Wii Fit U promises to enhance wellbeing by gamefying your exercise regime and giving you metered feedback on every aspect of it, from your weight and centre of gravity, to the number of steps you take each day. The result is a program that actually manages to turn keeping fit into a game, even if hardened gym regulars might question how robust it is. For gymphobes, the sudden realisation that your lifestyle is sedentary enough to be a threat to your very existence make it a gateway drug to full fitness.
Battlefield 4's developer, DICE has ceased work on future projects includingMirror's Edge 2, sequel to the critically lauded, commercially moribund first-person free-running game, and potentially the much rumouredStar Wars: Battlefront– a title many people on the internet would smilingly sell their own grandmothers to play – to concentrate on getting Battlefield 4's all-important multiplayer mode working properly. Since the launch of the recent China Rising downloadable content, Battlefield 4 has been increasingly unstable. Games out this week includeThe Raven: Legacy Of A Master Thief(PC, PS3, Xbox 360), a clumsy-to-control and ineffably tedious Agatha Christie-inspired detective procedural, andLords Of Football(PC), which is a shallow, repetitious football management game that blends elements of The Sims and Football Manager to less than scintillating effect.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIt's hard to know what Peggle 2, a game that screams "portable device-friendly", is doing as a timed exclusive on Xbox One, unavailable on other platforms for a period paid for by Microsoft, except that it's a sign of how desperate things are getting in the search for a point of difference with PlayStation 4. In fairness, it's a brilliant game, built to PopCap's usual exacting standards, and offers the same mix of ludicrous humour and convoluted rounds of digital bagatelle.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewPikmin is Nintendo's charming take on real-time strategy, in which you control three brave space farers who command legions of tiny plant creatures to smash obstacles, kill enemies and steal treasures. This downloadable expansion supplies new challenge levels, in three logically named and self-explanatory game modes: Collect Treasure, Battle Enemies and Defeat Bosses. It's subtle, interesting and easy to to fall into the trap of having just one more go.
Google&apos;s $12.4bn purchase of Motorola Mobility was widely seen as a way for Google to acquire patents to defend its Android operating system from intellectual property lawsuits.Yet Motorola hasn&apos;t given up on making phones.In August, it started selling the Moto X, the first smartphone assembled in the US. By manufacturing the phone closer to its customers, Motorola can offer unprecedented customization.Last month, the Moto G came out, targeted at budget-conscious Americans and people in emerging markets. The phone, which has a high-resolution screen and other features found in leading smartphones, starts at $179 in the US, compared with the $600-plus price tag on the typical high-end smartphone.Even with its new phone lineup, Motorola remains in transition. The company enjoyed strong sales after introducing the Razr flip phone in 2004. But it struggled to develop another hit. Under Google, it has lost nearly $2bn and trimmed its workforce from 20,000 to about 3,800.Motorola CEO Dennis Woodside, a Google veteran who took the helm in May 2012 with the Internet company&apos;s takeover, sat down with The Associated Press to talk about Motorola, its products and its vision for making the Internet affordable and accessible to everyone. (Questions and answers have been edited for length.)Q: A lot of people know Motorola for early cellphones and the Razr line. Today, how would you describe Motorola?A:Our product is not necessarily the hardware, but the mobile web. Our mission is to provide access to hundreds of millions of people, if not billions over time, to mobile services.With Moto G, you&apos;re starting to see the strategy. You have a product that spec for spec does stand up to an iPhone at one-fourth the price.Q. Why couldn&apos;t Motorola as a stand-alone company move in that direction?A:Google gives Motorola a couple things. One is that willingness to have a long-term vision that&apos;s bold, and really encouraging us to have that vision, and giving us the capital to make the transition.You also have to (believe in) the long-run value of having everybody connected on high-quality devices that can access all the services that we&apos;re used to. Only Google has that long-term mindset.Q: Where does Google end and Motorola begin?A:Although Google is our shareholder, Motorola is going to operate independently.Our (technology) systems are separate. That actually imposes costs on us. We&apos;d love to be able to leverage Google&apos;s data centers and internal tools. But because Android is a platform available to all (phone makers), if we had any IT access, that independence could be breached. We get the code for the next-version Android at the same time as everybody else.Sometimes it&apos;s frustrating, because you actually want to do more.Q: What&apos;s been the biggest headache in incorporating the two companies?A:The expectations are really high. You have people at Motorola who expect, now that Google owns us, we&apos;re going to do everything together. You have outsiders who expect a completely different software or hardware strategy because the companies are now together.Another challenge is more internal. Managing the cultural shift from a company that had been very engineering-led and driven, but not as consumer-led and driven as we want to become.Q: Even though you can&apos;t get the Android software early from Google, are there things you can get from it?A:Our approach to communication with consumers is a good example. In our industry, the people who build the products tend not to use social networks. Our product managers are doing that.The product managers of Google, typically they&apos;re very active in ... direct dialogue with consumers to understand the market and understand people. We&apos;ve done several of these international excursions where we take fairly junior product managers (and) have them literally live with normal people and understand how our consumers using their devices.Q: What early signs (are you) seeing in what people are going to be wanting from their smartphones?A:Phones break. They&apos;re glass. That&apos;s likely to change in the next 24 months, as plastic becomes more present and producible.You&apos;ll be speaking to (the) phone, asking it to do things, and it will be responding and actually doing what you intend, as opposed to you reading a command line.Wearables are obviously an area that&apos;s of interest. No one has really come up with the killer-use case that defines what that means and how that works.Q: Who would you consider your closest competitor?A:Apple, Samsung. They&apos;ve shown, especially Samsung, that marketing can really create a product and a phenomenon. We&apos;re never going to have the money that they have to market our products.So, we have to have products that do something a little bit differently, which is what you&apos;re starting to see with Moto G.You also have a number of Chinese manufacturers that can manufacture at very low cost.Q: What are some of the impossible dreams that you insist on the people who you manage?A:If you think of your mission as expanding the market to the billion people who are next to move into the smartphone world, you start looking at the problem very differently. You start thinking about all the issues that that consumer faces.A simple example is a lot of people don&apos;t know that they could benefit from a smartphone. How do we explain the benefits of a smartphone from someone who doesn&apos;t have one and whose friends don&apos;t have one? How do you get that first person to think about a smartphone experience? It&apos;s not an easy problem to solve.Q: What are your favorite apps?A:I use Twitter a lot, mostly to listen to what people are saying. I&apos;m constantly searching for Moto G and Moto X, or if a competitor launches a product, I&apos;ll be scanning for that. I use Google Plus to share photos, mostly, with my family. I use an app called TrainingPeaks, because I&apos;m a triathlete.
As winter takes hold it gets cold in the night and sometimes a duvet isn’t enough. Bedjet is like air conditioning for your bed, keeping you warm in the winter and cool in the summer.Designed by Mark Aramli, an ex-Nasa spacesuit engineer, Bedjet is a small fan that attaches to your bed via a shaped duct to fire hot or cold air underneath your covers, all controlled with a remote and a timer.Bedjet is seeking $38,000to fund final production of the third generation of the design and take it from prototype to real product, with pledges of $249 currently winning a Bedjet within the US, or $329 plus shipping to buy one from the UK.The Bedjet blasts hot or cold air between the sheets to air condition your slumberAn air cushionIt&apos;s claimed the Bedjet will pre-heat your bed in just three minutes, making even the coldest of nights toasty. But when the hot summer nights roll in, the Bedjet would do the opposite, and blast cool air, dispersing built-up body heat and stopping damp nights in their tracks.The system works by generating a small cushion of air between the duvet and the bed sheet. The force of the air blowing in causes a tenting effect allowing the air to permeate across the bed and equalise the temperature, whether hot or cold.Why it might not workAt its heart Bedjet is just a fan blowing air up a tube, and that means it’s going to make noise no matter how quiet it claims to be. It is also another device to clutter up the bedroom, especially if you can’t fit the fan underneath your bed.Then there’s the price. It is $249 in the US or $329 outside America, which is quite a lot of money for a fan for your bed. It wouldn&apos;t run all the time - the inventors say its consumption is about the same as using an electric blanket for an hour.Why it might take offGetting hot at night or cold in the winter can be a big issue. Your temperature level while in bed has a significant impact on your sleep.If your body gets too hot or too cold you partially awake to fix the problem by moving, which in turn disrupts your sleep.The remote lets disturbed sleepers fix the issue quickly and effectively with the application of cold or hot air, and then get back to effective slumber.Bedjet also claims that the fan pays for itself within a year, on the basis that you can turn down the heating by a couple of degrees at night, relying instead on the local heating effect of the Bedjet rather than heating your entire home.Verdict: the bed, upgradedWith the possibility of smartphone app control, automatic timers and efficient heating or cooling of your bed in just three minutes, the Bedjet promises to drag the humble bed out of the stone age and into an air-conditioned future.The biggest stumbling block is the high price, but It is more efficient and faster than an electrical blanket, will do its thing for you in both winter and summer and supposedly saves you money in the long run by reducing your heating bills.Star rating: 4/5• In November, the Raspberry Pi-poweredPetBotfailed to beat its funding goal on Kickstarter
I'm looking for a new laptop, but I can't stand Microsoft Windows. I've recently come across Novatech, who sell operating system-free computers, so I could easily install Debian. But I don't really know whether the difference in price due to the cost of the Windows is noticeable, or whether I'd actually be short-changing myself.I'm a physicist, and I need the machine principally for demonstrating the simulations I'm developing to potential collaborators. Specific requirements are a 15in screen supporting 720p or higher and at least 6GB of RAM. Everything else can be as cheap and slow as they come.Sam ThompsonIt's generally more expensive to make Linux laptops than to make Windows laptops, and if you're not fussy about brand or the precise specification, you can always find cheap Windows machines at good discounts on Amazon and sites likeLaptopsdirectandSaveOnLaptops.Laptop manufacturing is a high-volume business driven by economies of scale, and apart from Apple Macintoshes, Windows has almost all of it. The big manufacturers can buy parts and manufacture machines cheaper than the small ones, and the cost of Windows licences is ameliorated by other factors. These include payments for including pups (potentially unwanted programs, or "crapware"), rebates on advertising, and participation in various promotions sponsored by Intel and Microsoft.All of the mass market OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) are in the business of making Windows machines. They don't create laptops and then decide which operating system to install. You can see this process working when, for example, hundreds of PC manufacturers start to produce Ultrabooks (to an Intel specification) or switch toUEFIinstead of BIOS chips (as specified by Microsoft for Windows 8).If an OEM wants to ship laptops running Linux then it has to find all the drivers and test all the parts for one or more distros. This costs money. Linux laptops also add an extra burden in terms of stock keeping, tracking, accounting, advertising, end-user support etc. These overheads are relatively expensive because of the small number of machines involved. Finally, there's the problem of which Linux distro to ship. There are more than a hundred, but the choice usually boils down to either Ubuntu or Red Hat. This prompts complaints from people who would prefer Mint or SuSE or, like you, Debian.So, my general advice is to buy a Windows laptop -- because you will usually get a better quality product for less money -- and then dual-boot your distro of choice. While you might not like Windows, that's beside the point. Windows runs millions of useful programs (including the vast majority of open source programs) and games, and it supports most printers and other peripherals. Some day you may need Windows, so why not keep it around?Novatech or not?Novatech is a small British supplier, and it offers various laptops with Windows 7 or 8 or with no operating system at all. Its price for Windows 8 is £79.99, which is more than it costs on Amazon.co.uk (£74.77). It's also more than the Taiwanese OEMs are reportedly paying for Windows 8 and Microsoft Office combined.Novatech's base laptop is thenSpire N1556with a 15.6in screen, 2.3GHz Intel Pentium 3550M processor, 4GB of memory and 500GB hard drive. This costs £384.98 with no operating system or £464.97 with Windows 8. Upgrading the memory to 8GB adds £66, raising the price to £450.98 with no OS or £530.97 with Windows 8. This isn't cheap but the 3550M, while only branded Pentium, is a reasonably quick processor.The more professionalnPro N1512with a 2.6GHz Intel Core i5-3230 costs £513.60 with no OS or £593.59 with Windows 8, and might be worth a look.I've not tested a Novatech laptop, and I can't see any reviews of the nSpire N1556. However,there are a fewof the Novatech nFinity 2367 Plus, a cheap Ultrabook. I assume Novatech loaned out a few to get some publicity, though not with particularly good results. It was criticised for its "very poor screen" (PC Pro) and for being plasticy:ComputerActivesaid the "build quality was eccentric at best".Expert Reviewsconcluded: "Looks great value, but it's a false economy; big-brand names are better for the money."Other Novatech laptops may be better, but these reviews don't fill me with confidence about buying one sight unseen.A name-brand alternative that also avoids Windows is umiPC's 15.6inAcer Ubuntu E1-204with a 2.5GHz Core i5-3210M, 4GB of memory, 500GB hard drive and 64-bit Ubuntu 12.04 LTS for £562.04 at Amazon (reduced from £699.99).The E stands for Essentials: this is Acer's "value" line, which has the standard Windows screen resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels. This is enough for your 720p requirement, though more upmarket laptops often have higher resolution screens.Windows alternativesThe Acer Ubuntu E1 gives us the chance to compare prices with the Acer Aspire E1 laptops that ship with Windows. For example, for slightly less money, you could get anAcer Aspire E1-571with a 2.6GHz Core i5- 3230M, 8GB of memory, 750GB hard drive and Windows 8 for £539. That's a newer version with a slightly faster processor, twice the RAM and a bigger hard drive for £17.33 less (including delivery), despite the extra cost of Windows 8.If you want something cheaper, there's theAcer Aspire E1-572with a 1.6GHz fourth-generation (Haswell) Core i5-4200U, 6GB of memory, 750GB hard drive and Windows 8 for £399.99. If you don't mind a slow processor, you can get this machine with an Intel Celeron 2955U for £279.99 (E1-532), a Pentium 2117U for £299.99 (E1-530), or a Core i3-3217U for £349.99 (E1-570).Note that the E1-572's Core i5-4200U is fast but not quite as fast as the Core i5-3230M. The 4200U is a 15W processor designed to run at lower temperatures and to provide long battery life, while the 3230M is a 35W chip designed for mainstream laptops rather than ultraportables. However, the Core i5-4200U is a lot faster than the Pentium 2117U, which is faster than the Celeron 2955U.At the time of writing, the Acer Ubuntu E1-204 was in 61,733rd place on Amazon's best-seller list for Computers &amp; Accessories with no user reviews, while the Acer Aspire E1-572 was 173rd with 13 reviews and a rating of 4.4 out of 5 stars. Indeed, the Acer E-1 had three of the top five places in the Laptops list, with the E1-570 second, the E1-572 third and the E1-530 fifth.Think ThinkPad?Other things being equal, I generally recommend Linux users to go for a ThinkPad, as historically these have usually had the best Linux support. IBM ThinkPads were the corporate standard for a couple of decades, and tend to be expensive, but Lenovo (the Chinese company that bought IBM's PC division) has an affordable ThinkPad Edge range.You could, for example, get a 15.6inLenovo ThinkPad Edge E530Cwith a 2.5GHz Intel Core i3-3120M, 4GB of memory, 500GB hard drive and a 64-bit Windows 7 Pro/Windows 8 Pro DVD for £398.83. This would enable you to wipe the hard drive and install Debian while retaining the option to load either Windows 7 Pro (which includes an XP mode) or Windows 8 Pro if you need them. The drawback is its 4GB of memory, but it does have two memory slots and isvery easy to upgrade. (You can also change the hard drive and the battery.)There's also the new Haswell-basedThinkPad E540range which is replacing the E530.Technically you might be happy with a Novatech, but the ThinkPad brand still carries a lot of cachet, and if you are marketing yourself to other people -- which, essentially, you are -- then I think it's worth having. Or you could buy an Acer for less, thanks to the economies of scale generated by Microsoft Windows.
HTC has avoided a sales ban in the UK for its HTC One and other phones after halting an injunction brought by Nokia over patent infringement.But if the patent at issue is held to be valid by the court of appeal, HTC could end up paying Nokia damages for handsets which it has sold that are held to have infringed it.The injunction was stayed by the court of appeals on Thursday and means that HTC will not be cut off from its largest market in Europe, at a time when its revenues and profits are under growing pressure.A decision on a ban will now have to wait for a full hearing next year - but HTC also has to fight court battles over 50 Nokia-owned patents in the US, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and the Netherlands. The same patent will come up in a trial between Nokia and HTC in Dusseldorf in January 2014. Nokia is also seeking a sales ban on HTC in the US through a similar lawsuit with the International Trade Commission (ITC), which controls imports to the US.HTC says it is trying to design around the Nokia patent so that its devices do not infringe it.Crucial battleWinning such court battles over patents will become increasingly important forNokia after the sale of its handset division to Microsoftis completed in 2014. The Finnish company is retaining its patent portfolio, which it will use to generate revenues.For HTC, keeping handset sales going is key. The court was told that the UK is its biggest European market, generating £221m in revenues between January and September - about 6% of its world revenues - through the sale of 715,000 smartphones.Nokia hadwon a preliminary injunction on 3 Decemberwhen it won a case in the high court over a claim that HTC&apos;s flagship One phone and others infringed its European patent EP 0 998 024, a non-standard one which covers &quot;a modular structure for a transmitter and a mobile station&quot;. Nokia has previously sued Apple over the same patent, leading to anout-of-court settlementin which Apple made a one-off payment for past use and a continuing royalty payment. BlackBerry also settled over the same patent.&quot;HTC is delighted that the court of appeals has granted a stay on the injunction against our products,&quot; the company said in a statement. &quot;We will immediately resume shipment of all of our devices into the UK, including the entire HTC One family. Similarly, our customers should feel confident in their ability to promote and sell all HTC devices. Even though we plan to aggressively appeal the validity decision of Nokia’s patent, we will continue to work with our chip suppliers on alternative solutions to ensure minimal disruption to our business in the future&quot;.Nokia said in a statement that &quot;It is unfortunate that the stay means that HTC can continue to benefit from its unauthorised and uncompensated use of Nokia innovations. We look forward to the Court of Appeal confirming that the patent is valid and infringed, lifting the stay on the injunction and awarding Nokia financial compensation for HTC&apos;s infringement.&quot;Nokia began its actions against HTC in 2012, and has won rulings in the UK, US and Germany.•Samsung has been ordered to pay Apple $290m more in its US patent infringement case
Peer-to-peer network Pirate Bay has been forced to change its domain name for the sixth time this year after being shut down by the authorities in multiple countries.The file-sharing service actively campaigns against copyright law and provides links to illegally copied films, music and games, making it the subject of determined lawsuits for copyright infringement.An injunction in April 2012 forced UK ISPs to block access to the site, and other countries have followed suit. It was barred from operating at a .sx domain hosted in the Caribbean island of Sint Maarten, as well as domains from Sweden, Iceland and Greenland. It is now being hosted under the peruvian domain piratebay.pe.The Pirate Bay team is developing a browser that will enable users to store and share files without requiring a central hosting, eliminating the need for a domain name.One source toldtold TorrentFreakthat while it was &quot;irritating&quot; for users that their domain is constantly changing , the problem will be resolved once the site&apos;s new browser is launched. PirateBrowser will not only make domains &quot;irrelevant&quot; but will protect itself from future legal persecution.A source said: &quot;They should wait for our new PirateBrowser, then domains will be irrelevant.“Once that is available then all links and sites will be accessible through a perfectly legal piece of browser software and the rest of it will be P2P, with no central point to attack via the legal system.”&quot;By their actions they finally brought on the next generation of decentralized services.&quot;It is understood that the PirateBrowser will use theTor networkas a way of allowing their users to access websites that are currently censored. It will appear as a standalone browser but users will also be able install plugins in Firefox and Chrome.The new BitTorrent-powered browser will also remove the requirement of a public-facing website and sites will instead take on a decentralised form.The Pirate Bay has found itself under multiple legal battles in the past, with their hardware also having been confiscated but last November they announced that theymoved all of their data to the cloud.The co-founder of Pirate Bay, Peter Sunde, also plans onreleasing an encypted messaging appfor Android and Apple devices.• Not entirely clued up on the Tor network?Here&apos;s our handy guide
The Nokia Lumia 2520 is the Finnish mobile phone manufacturer’s first 10.1in Windows RT 8.1 tablet, aiming to take on Apple&apos;s iPad Air.A competitor toMicrosoft’s own Surface 2 tablet, Nokia has tried to take Windows RT in a much more consumer-focussed direction with a bold, colourful exterior and Nokia music and camera apps.Designed like a smartphoneNokia Lumia 2520 review &ndash; the curved back of the tablet fits nicely in the handContinuing Nokia’s legendary quality plastic build, the Lumia 2520 takes a leaf directly out of the Lumia smartphone playbook.There’s little to no flex within the body, while the tablet feels sturdy in the hand. At 615g it is 9% lighter than Microsoft’s 676g Surface 2, but 146g (23%) heavier than Apple’s 469g iPad Air. The 16:9 form factor makes it easy to hold one-handed on the long side of tablet in portrait mode.Unlike more drab rivals, the 2520 is available in bold glossy red, as well as black in the UK, with blue and white variants available in other markets. There&apos;s no Surface-style kickstand in the back, but at 8.9mm thick (iPad Air: 7.5mm; Surface 2: 8.9mm), it is relatively thin for a full-size 10.1in tablet (compared with any Android tablet apart from Sony&apos;s Xperia range), so it will easily slip into a bag or a briefcase.The 1,920 x 1,200 screen is bright, colourful, crisp and officially full high-definition. It uses the same ClearBlack display technology as Nokia’s smartphones that makes it easy to view even in direct sunlight outdoors.While on paper the Lumia&apos;s screen is beaten by the iPad Air’s 9.7in 2,048 x 1,536 resolution “retina” display, photos look just as colourful and detailed as on the iPad. Text is pin-sharp and easily legible on websites and ebooks enhanced by Microsoft&apos;s ClearType technology.The screen viewing angles are wide, making sharing video with others and reading at an angle easy, while decent blacks and good colour range make video and pictures sparkle.The bezel around the screen is thumb-width - relatively wide compared to the little-finger-width bezel around the iPad Air&apos;s display – that hides a front-facing camera and stereo front-facing speakers, which are particularly good for tablet speakers and remain clear even at the highest volume.SpecificationsScreen:10.1in full HD 1080p IPS LCDProcessor:2.2GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800RAM:2GBStorage:32SSD plus microSDXC slotOperating system:Windows RT 8.1Connectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, NFC, micro USB 3.0, micro HDMICameras:1.2MP front-facing and 6.7MP rear-facing cameraDimensions:267 x 168 x 8.9mmWeight:615gBattery for lifeNokia Lumia 2520 &ndash; an accessory port on the bottom of the tablet will plug into a yet to be released keyboard and power packThe 2520 uses the latest top-of-the-line ARM processor, the Qualcomm Snapdragon 800, which provides plenty of power for multitasking. Web browsing, Office, listening to music, watching video and browsing pictures are all fluid and lag-free, even with multiple tabs and apps open simultaneously.Like any ARM-based tablet, the Lumia 2520 instantly wakes from sleep. It boots from completely turned off in about 10 seconds.Unlike most other tablets, however, the Lumia 2520 comes with a USB 3.0 port. But it is micro-USB, which means you can’t simply plug any standard USB accessory - not even a memory stick - into the port as you can on the Microsoft Surface 2. USB to micro-USB adapters can be used, of course, but that’s yet another cable to carry (and lose or forget).The 2520 also has micro-HDMI out for connecting to TVs or external monitors to display movies or make it second screen for work, but you’ll need an uncommon micro-HDMI to HDMI cable to do it. You might think that Nokia is using small ports to keep the 2520 thinner - but the Surface 2 is the same thickness, and uses full-size ports. It&apos;s a puzzle.Nokia has, thankfully, found its form on battery life again after the woes of the Lumia 800. It rates the Lumia tablet at 25 days of standby. In my testing I found it easily lasted a full working day, and would probably last two days or more of normal usage - picking up email, browsing the web and watching two movies and five TV shows.The Lumia 2520 significantly outlasted the Surface 2 and ranks highly against most of the competition, including the iPad Air.Unfortunately the 2520 requires a bespoke small-pin charger, which recharges the battery quickly (0 to 80% in one hour, to 100% in three hours) but means it can&apos;t be topped up with a micro-USB power cable like almost every other smartphone or tablet.In contrast to the Surface 2, Nokia has added LTE wireless broadband support to the Lumia 2520, which means you can access the internet out and about without having to rely on Wi-Fi using the mobile phone network for data.The tablet also has NFC, which makes pairing with many Bluetooth accessories easier.Software: are you experienced?Nokia Lumia 2520 review &ndash; Nokia's own apps like Here Maps generally add to the Windows RT experienceLike the Surface 2, the Lumia 2520 runs Microsoft’s latest version of Windows RT 8.1, which is where things start to fall apart.Windows RT 8.1 includes all the features and additions that Microsoft recently shipped inWindows 8.1, and looks and behaves exactly the same as Microsoft’s full desktop operating system.For a rundown of the modifications and enhancements Microsoft&apos;s made to Windows 8.1, read ourfull Windows 8.1 review.The biggest disadvantage of Windows RT - and it&apos;s a doozy - is that it cannot run full Windows applications. That means no Adobe Photoshop, no web browser other than Internet Explorer, no music software like iTunes, no syncing cloud-storage services such as Dropbox.Windows RT instead relies on applications downloaded from the Windows Store. Some well-known apps, like Dropbox, have feature-limited versions available, but they often pale in comparison to their full Windows desktop experiences.Windows RT also includes a full version of Microsoft&apos;s Office suite, which looks and behaves exactly like the latest version of Office on desktop Windows. Windows RT 8.1 even includes a full version of Outlook for accessing your work email, address book, calendar and contacts.Nokia has also bundled its own apps designed specifically for the 2520 on the tablet. These include the MixRadio app, which provides free streaming music complementing Microsoft’s free Xbox Music service by offering personalised radio stations based on artists, genres or moods.There&apos;s its camera application, which mirrors the easy-to-use yet powerful interface of the Windows Phone variant of the app, as well as its Storyteller app that lets you browse through photos by location.Nokia&apos;s Here Maps app is also available as an alternative to the standard Windows Maps app, which uses similar data and map tiles, but provides a sliding explorative interface reminiscent of the Google Maps app on Android and iOS.For the most part when Windows RT works, it does so well. Its touch-driven interface suits a 10in tablet screen, with big, bold tappable icons.Most tasks are completed by swiping gestures that feel natural on a tablet, with hidden bars for things like browser tabs and the address bar accessible with a swipe up from the bottom. Likewise the options menus with settings and search are accessible with a swipe from the right-hand side of the screen.Windows RT also allows real multitasking on a tablet: you can open up to three resizable Windows side-by-side. So you could use Internet Explorer while keeping your Twitter feed accessible at a glance on one side of the screen.Some windows come with pre-defined optimum widths when launched, but they’re all resizable by dragging the vertical bars separating each app on the screen. It&apos;s a solid, effortless experience.The problem comes when Windows RT doesn’t behave. During my testing I suffered crashes and lockups, some happening while the tablet was in standby. This drained the battery flat in record time without my realising it; I returned to a dead tablet.Infuriatingly, the keyboard would occasionally not pop up when invoked, which is especially annoying on the lockscreen. The only options left then are to plug in a physical keyboard (you&apos;ll need to have your micro-USB to USB cable and a keyboard handy) or restart the machine (via an onscreen button) - and lose all your unsaved work.Software glitches like that might be solved with updates, and while I’ve had the tablet there have been over 15 updates to Windows RT. So Microsoft is at least willing toupdate its less-than-lovedhalfway house tablet operating system.CameraNokia Lumia 2520 review &ndash; bold colours are a theme for Nokia, but only the glossy red and black are currently available in the UKNokia’s brought its imaging prowess and partnership with Zeiss to the Lumia tablet. The rear 6.7-megapixel camera shoots decent photos, with better detail and saturation than most other tablet cameras, but the question is still why anyone would want to shoot photos with a full-sized tablet.The front-facing 1.2-megapixel camera handles challenging light conditions like overhead lighting well. The result is that Skype video chats look great in the kind of average lighting conditions you get indoors.PriceFor £399, you can choose between a red or black model with 32GB of built-in storage and 3G/4G mobile broadband. The tablet also has a microSD card slot that will accept cards up to 64GB for additional storage. At present it&apos;s only available in the UK from John Lewis, though this may change.VerdictThe Lumia 2520 is Nokia’s first stab at a tablet, and the hardware it isn’t bad at all. The device feels nice in the hand, and its plastic shell makes it much more tactile than the Surface 2 or the iPad Air.It’s also powerful, with great battery life, and the screen is really good, crisp and bright. LTE support is also a great addition for a tablet you might take out into the field.But all the great hardware can&apos;t overcome the limitations of the software.The 2520’s biggest weakness is Windows RT. It works OK for the most part, but despite the Windows Store having over 100,000 apps, many are poor imitations of their full desktop Windows counterparts. It does have a full version of Microsoft Office bundled with the tablet for free, which is not to be sniffed at.Without a physical keyboard, Windows RT feels half-baked. I can’t help but wonder how good the tablet would be if it ran Android.Overall, the Lumia 2520 is a solid Windows tablet and is a decent option for those that spend most of their time interacting with Office or a web browser (although a keyboard would probably be recommended for Office duties).Unfortunately, a couple of small annoyances like the micro-USB socket, lack of an integrated kickstand and software instabilities make it the second-best Windows RT tablet available to Microsoft’s Surface 2.Star rating:3/5Pros:Microsoft Office included, solidly built, vibrant screen, great battery life.Cons:Windows RT, lack of apps, heavy, keyboard doesn’t come as standard, no kickstand, micro-USB socket only.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases.There&apos;s a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day. There&apos;s also a recently-introduced format change, separating out games and non-game apps. For now, read on for this week&apos;s iOS selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).APPSStephen Hawking&apos;s Snapshots of the Universe (£2.99)Published by Random House, this aims to put an accessible, interactive spin on the thinking of Stephen Hawking. In other words, if you gave up on A Brief History of Time, this may be more on your level. It&apos;s fun: solar experiments including black holes, spinning planets and Einstein feeling &quot;some G-force in outer space&quot;, with text and video providing deeper context to the fun.iPadToca Lab (£1.99)More science here, but this time for children in what might be kid-app developer Toca Boca&apos;s best release yet. It introduces the 118 elements from the periodic table to children as cute characters, with the option of subjecting them to drag&apos;n&apos;drop experiments including heating, cooling, voltage-changing and spinning in a centrifuge. The aim: for children to have fun, but maybe spark an interest in science for later on in their education too.iPhone / iPadCodecademy: Hour of Code (Free)This app came out as part of the global Hour of Code initiative to encourage people to spend 60 minutes learning the basics of programming. Based on the courses available at Codecademy&apos;s website, it gives a simple, accessible introduction to coding through exercises designed to be completed in spare moments on the iPhone.iPhone12 Days of Gifts (Free)It&apos;s that time of year again when Apple starts dishing out digital freebies to its iTunes customers. This year&apos;s 12 Days of Gifts app came out this week, ahead of the launch of the promotion on Boxing Day. Once it kicks off, there&apos;ll be a new gift every day until 6 January: songs, apps, books and films.iPhone / iPadFitStar: Tony Gonzalez (Free)Already available for iPad, this polished fitness-training app is now available on the iPhone too – arguably more accessible when in the gym. It aims to make your device a personal trainer in your pocket, with the help of real-world trainer Gonzalez and a series of video tutorials. You can pay for a variety of programs via in-app purchases, with social features and connectivity to Fitbit and Jawbone tracker gadgets also included.iPhoneCoursera (Free)This might just be education week on the App Store, given some of the apps above. Coursera is one of the companies at the forefront of the massive open online courses (MOOC) trend, and now there&apos;s an app for that too. It promises more than 500 courses in everything from cooking to medicine, with video lectures available to stream or download to watch while offline.iPhoneCoub (Free)Now something fun: Coub started life in Russia as a way for people to create looping videos using whatever soundtrack they liked, all on a website. Now it has an official app for its 28m monthly users to use, adding videos and music from their iTunes library then sharing them with others. Copyright lawyers may be perking up at the thought, especially if Coub catches on in the Western world too.iPhoneMindMeld - Voice Assistant (£2.49)This is new and in its early days, but MindMeld has powerful potential as a working tool. The idea: it runs on your iPad listening to your conversation, then tries to serve up relevant news, websites, videos and photos in response. &quot;The intelligent meeting assistant that makes your conference calls smarter and more productive,&quot; as the App Store listing puts it.iPadJulian Lennon - Through The Picture Window (£7.99)Musician Julian Lennon is returning with his latest album, and a slick app to go with it. For your £7.99 you get the album – complete with a video for every track – as well as a feature-length documentary on Lennon, acoustic versions of the songs, bonus content and an interview with Bono Out Of The U2s.iPhone / iPadSago Mini Ocean Swimmer (£1.99)Sago Sago is the toddler-focused sister studio of Toca Boca, and just as accomplished at turning out imaginative, well-crafted apps for kids. The latest focuses on a fish named Fins, who swims around his underwater world guided by your child&apos;s touchscreen gestures, triggering an animation whenever he encounters one of the yellow hotspots. Humour and charm galore.iPhone / iPadSpell with Pip: An Oxford Spelling Game (£2.99)One more app for kids: this time from Oxford University Press, and focused on spelling for children aged between four and eight. It&apos;s a simple, fun arcade game of collecting letters to form words, but the words are the ones children often struggle with according to OUP&apos;s research. A fun front-end for what could be fairly dry exercises, in other words, with more than 3,000 words and a choice of US and UK English.iPadGrand Theft Auto: San Andreas for iOS.GAMESGrand Theft Auto: San Andreas (£4.99)The latest GTA game to be re-released for smartphones and tablets is San Andreas, which has been carefully ported to iOS. Developer Rockstar promises 70 hours of gameplay – if my memory&apos;s correct from the original console version, that&apos;s about right – with the usual gangster high-jinks in store. Good news if you have an Apple-approved controller too: the game works with those for physical-button fun.iPhone / iPadThe Room Two (£2.99)The original The Room was a huge hit on iPad, selling more than 1m copies by the start of this year – hugely impressive for a paid game given current App Store trends. This follow-up already has me tearing my hair out: more physics-based puzzles in a wonderfully-realised 3D environment, with a heavy emphasis on cryptic clues. Hence the hair-tearing.iPadAngry Birds Go! (Free)The latest Angry Birds game is controversial for its enthusiastic adoption of pretty much every free-to-play gaming mechanic going, from timers that make you wait to play once you&apos;ve had a few races through to coins, sponsored power-ups and a kart costing £34.99. However, underneath that is a genuinely impressive karting game with smooth handling, well-crafted tracks and a sense of fun.iPhone / iPadSki Safari: Adventure Time (£0.69)In theory, Adventure Time is a children&apos;s cartoon. In practice, there are a lot of parents enjoying it too, so this game could cross over to both age groups. It sees the stars of the Cartoon Network show sliding down hills on their bottoms to evade avalanches, pulling stunts as they go. It looks to have captured the quirky charms of the show perfectly.iPhone / iPadLEGO Star Wars: The Complete Saga (Free)As the apps world gears up for Christmas, the big guns are rolling out onto the App Store. Lego Star Wars would in most weeks be the biggest new game on iOS, for example. It sees you exploring the Star Wars universe in blocky form, with the first episode available in the free download, but others then paid for by in-app purchases, as are characters.iPhone / iPadSonic the Hedgehog 2 (£1.99)Sega&apos;s Sonic the Hedgehog has suffered a few gaming indignities in recent years, but this latest iOS port of one of his classic games isn&apos;t one of them. It&apos;s a lovingly-remastered version of Sonic the Hedgehog 2 – the one with Tails the fox – complete with the famous Hidden Palace Zone that was left out of the original Mega Drive game.iPhone / iPadStar Trek Trexels (£1.99)The recent Star Wars: Tiny Death Star was a revamped version of pixelly social game Tiny Tower, and very good it was too. Now Star Trek is getting a similar treatment: a game where you build a ship, recruit a crew then explore the Star Trek universe – complete with narration from actor George Takei. Although it&apos;s a paid download, in-app purchases are also used in the gameplay.iPhone / iPadThe Walk - Fitness Tracker and GameDeveloper Six to Start made the innovative Zombies, Run! fitness game, which got people jogging while pretending to be chased by zombies. This follow-up takes similar basic principles, but it&apos;s less athletic: using your walking steps as part of the gameplay rather than requiring you to run. That may also make it more mainstream, which the NHS – a partner – will be hoping for. The storyline involves walking the length of the UK with a package that &quot;could save the world&quot;.iPhone / iPadPuzzler World (Free)Finally, something distinctly non-hardcore: traditional puzzles. Released by publisher Puzzler Media, this offers crosswords, wordsearches, sudoku, spot the difference pics and a host of other brain-testers, starting with 40 for free, then selling more in packs via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPad
If you've already bought all the video games you need for Christmas stockings this year, but still need a few last-minute ideas for gaming friends and relatives, here are some suggestions – all at £25 or under.If you can think of anything better (I'm sure you can), please add your suggestions in the comments section!Minecraft: The Official Beginner's Handbook (£7.99, most book stores)If you have a gamer friend who's only just discovering the wonders of Mojang's vast creative masterpiece, this well-presented guide is a good place to start. It covers all the basics of building a shelter and crafting new objects, and provides a few good ideas even for intermediate players. My sons are both veterans of the game but they've enjoyed studying all the info and suggestions – and the companion volume The Official Redstone Handbook, is good for more advanced players looking to start creating their own Minecraft contraptions. These are also pretty good books for introducing confused parents to the game. Elsewhere, most toy stores now stock Minecraft action figures and these coolpaper craft sets.Black Flag: Hidden Blade Gauntlet (£25, comic stores, including Forbidden Planet)Do you have a wannabe pirate assassin in your life? This ridiculously well-detailed accessory may just be the thing for them. Featuring a leather-look gauntlet and retractable plastic blade, it'll allow all Assassins Creed IV fanatics to live out their weird Edward Kenway fantasies this Christmas. Just don't try to carve the turkey with it. (Alternatively, if you don't want to risk giving your favourite Assassin's Creed fan a concealed weapon, there's also a range of novels by Oliver Bowden, which expand on the series' backstory, while Titan has somenice graphic novels.)Meccano Gears of War Island Bunker Assault (£15, toy and game stockists)I'm not really a fan of the Mega Blox video game tie-ins; they're too plasticky for adult collectors but the brands they've gone for – Halo and Call of Duty – aren't really that suitable for kids either. I do have a nostalgic weak spot for Meccano, though, and its decent range of Gears of War playsets is suitably chunky and metallic. This is the Island Bunker Assault set, one of the newer additions to the range. It features the bunker itself as well as a Damon Baird figure with a lancer and a Locust Grenadier with a Gnasher shotgun. The Armadillo and Centaur Tank vehicles are also rather nice.Republican Space Rangers T-shirt (£18,Rockstar Warehouse)Rockstar has a whole range of GTA V merchandise on its Warehouse site, but fans of the series will probably enjoy this Republican Space Rangers T-shirt, based around the satirical cartoon introduced in GTA IV. Also on offer, a cuddly plush version of Franklin's dog, Chop, a GTA V beach towel and various posters showing Michael, Trevor and Franklin wielding a variety of weapons and staring menacingly. No living room wall is complete without one.The Art of The Last of Us (£20-30, Amazon and other book shops)No Triple A video game release is complete these days without a sumptuous art book tie-in, but this one from Dark Horse is a really lovely example. Jammed with concept art, character designs and landscape drawings it's a fascinating guide to the making of Naughty Dog's apocalyptic zombie thriller. It's intriguing to see how the look of Joel and Ellie evolved and some of the environmental paintings are gorgeous. Creative director, Neil Druckmann, and game director, Bruce Straley, provide an introduction, too. It's also worth checking out your local comic shop or a publisher likeTitan Booksfor alternative video game art books.Whack a Space Invader keychain (£6, Amazon and others)Okay, this is really silly, but I've bought one for my sons, so you're going to have to suffer as well. It's essentially a mini "whack a mole" game, in which you hit the buttons as quickly as possible as they light up. The 'cool' bit is that the game is officially licensed by Taito and contains sound effects from the original 1978 arcade classic. That's why I bought it anyway. Oh and there are apparently three difficulty settings, so you know, there's a difficulty curve there. Look, it makes Space Invader sounds, okay?!Mascarade board game (£17, game and toy stockists)A growing number of video game players are discovering the joys of board gaming, many through titles like Carcassonne and Settlers of Catan which share some conventions with simulation sites like Civilization. Those are more expensive though, so for an intriguing and slightly cheaper introduction to modern board games, Masacarade is a really good option. It's essentially a bluffing game in which players attending a renaissance masked ball must work out the identities of their opponents. You can play with up to 13 people so it's a good one for Christmas get-togethers.Luchador Mexican wrestling dice (£15, board game specialists –Board Game Geek has a list)And here's another non-video game, which this time should appeal to anyone who loves fighting or wrestling sims. Luchador is a fast rolling dice game based around Mexican pro-wrestling, with each player attempting to pin their opponent or go for a knockout, while the other blocks or counters. It's chaotic and fun, especially with four players grouped into two tag teams; it's also easy to learn, although amid all the table slapping and trash talking, there is plenty of strategy involved.BeeWi mini USB robot (£25, toy and gadget retailers like Amazon, Maplin and Toys R Us)Enliven those interminable sales meetings with theBeeWi mini robot, fully controllable from your smartphone. If two or more get together they can play mini robot football and even mini robot sumo wrestling. The new way to solve boardroom disputes. On the subject of cute remote control things, an acceptable alternative may well be the range ofR/C Pokemon from Tomy, which stand up right, but then scamper along sort of on all fours when you move them. Here isa video of Pikachu fighting Oshawottjust in case you need to be further convinced.Tamagotchi Friends (£25, all toy stockists)They're back! Yes, Bandai has revived its classic electronic pets for a new generation – only now they're calledTamagotchi Friends. There's a variety of characters to choose from, and each will require care and attention via a series of mini-games. This time, though, the emphasis is on interaction with out Tamagotchi pals. Owners will be able to send messages between their toys, and bump them together to earn points which can then be used to buy new in-game items. They can even go on 'play dates'. They not supposed to be released until Boxing Day, but there are a few online retailers offering them from 16 December, so you'll have to be quick if you want them for Christmas.Bonus item: Gameboy Advance SP (£10-20, eBay)Video game technology stamps ever onwards, but if Candy Crush Saga has taught us anything it's that amazing visuals and incredible innovation are not necessarily required for compelling gaming – especially not on mobile platforms. So, if you're really stuck for a present this year, get on eBay and buy your loved one a Gameboy Advance SP, one the greatest handheld consoles ever made. You'll be able to pick one up for a tenner, often with a couple of games, and all you really need are  Legend Of Zelda: A Link To The Past and Advance Wars for days of fun. Alternatively, go totally retro with a GameBoy Color (you may need to replace the battery in well-used carts, however, as they can stop working after years of game saves) or make a leftfield turn for the unexpected and pick up a Neo Geo Pocket, with Sonic the Hedgehog and SNK vs Capcom: Card Fighters Clash.• Thanks to Will Freeman and the staff atToy News Bizfor helping assemble this list.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later today.There&apos;s a new structure based on feedback from readers of previous posts. The non-game apps are listed first, followed by the games. Read on for this week&apos;s Android selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).APPSHakitzu Elite: Robot Hackers (Free)There&apos;s a lot of talk at the moment about encouraging children to learn programming skills, and a growing number of apps aiming to help. Hakitzu Elite is one of the most intriguing ones: it teaches kids JavaScript by getting them to build and battle giant (virtual) robots against their friends. The game uses a virtual credits system: they can be earned and/or bought, then used to customise the bots.Cover (Free)Cover is billing itself as a &quot;smart lockscreen&quot; for Android smartphones, replacing Google&apos;s own lockscreen to provide speedy access to your most useful apps, flick quickly between them, and a &quot;peek&quot; feature to glance at what&apos;s new before opening an app fully. Its use of context is the main appeal: the app aims to understand where you are and what you&apos;re doing, then display the apps most likely to be needed.Android Device Manager (Free)This is an official app from Google: its standalone Device Manager app for Android devices that fulfils the same function as Apple&apos;s Find my iPhone / iPad feature. That means it&apos;ll keep tabs on your device&apos;s location, and if it gets lost or stolen, can remotely enable you to reset the screen-lock PIN or wipe all its data. The kind of tool you don&apos;t regret not having until it&apos;s too late.Shutterstock (Free)This is the official app from stock photography service Shutterstock, providing a simple way to search its library from your Android smartphone either by browsing categories and curated collections, or searching for specific keywords. The app can then be used to cue up image downloads from a computer, if you&apos;re a Shutterstock customer.TouchDevelop (Free)More coding, this time from Microsoft – an app based on its &quot;touch-friendly editor&quot; for creating apps. This is the Android version, although it would be more accurate to call it a companion for the web version of the service, which has more features. The app requires you to have Google&apos;s Chrome browser installed.Google Santa Tracker (Free)Something else from Google now: its annual Santa-tracking website has an Android app this year, for children (and, in truth, parents getting over-excited about the festive season). On Christmas Eve it&apos;ll track Santa&apos;s supposed progress around the world, but until then it functions as an interactive advent calendar, with something new to play with every day. Chromecast support is a neat extra.Keepy (Free)If your fridge door is as overloaded with children&apos;s artwork as mine, you may see the appeal in Keepy. It&apos;s an app for storing photos of your kids&apos; pictures, homework and plasticine monsters, and sharing them with family and friends. Everything is tagged for later reference, and can be synchronised to Dropbox if you&apos;re worried that Keepy will (as so many appy startups are) get acquired and shut down in the future.CircleMe (Free)CircleMe&apos;s Google Play listing is a bit buzzwordy – &quot;an innovative social way to collect all the things you love and discover new ones through smart serendipity&quot; – but it&apos;s an interesting idea nonetheless. You tell it your interests and hobbies, see who else shares them, and join in conversations, while checking out &quot;plants&quot; of useful events and locations related to that activity on a map.MyDressing - Fashion closet (Free)Finally, a potentially useful took for anyone with a wardrobe stuffed with clothes, and the desire to boast about them to friends. The idea: you take photos of your clobber, cut them out and then group them together in whatever outfits you like. Sharing to Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest is supported.Angry Birds Go! for Android.GAMESAngry Birds Go! (Free)The latest Angry Birds game is controversial for its enthusiastic adoption of pretty much every free-to-play gaming mechanic going, from timers that make you wait to play once you&apos;ve had a few races through to coins, sponsored power-ups and a kart costing £34.99. However, underneath that is a genuinely impressive karting game with smooth handling, well-crafted tracks and a sense of fun.The Walk: Fitness Tracker Game (£2.59)Developer Six to Start made the innovative Zombies, Run! fitness game, which got people jogging while pretending to be chased by zombies. This follow-up takes similar basic principles, but it&apos;s less athletic: using your walking steps as part of the gameplay rather than requiring you to run. That may also make it more mainstream, which the NHS – a partner – will be hoping for. The storyline involves walking the length of the UK with a package that &quot;could save the world&quot;.Small World 2 (£6.11)Fantasy gaming fans will love Small World 2: based on a popular board game, it&apos;s a colourful and engrossing strategy game that sees you taking on AI opponents or real people over the network with your band of fantasy creatures. Funded through Kickstarter, its strongest appeal will be to fans of the board game, but the mobile version is good enough to hopefully win new fans too.Ski Safari: Adventure Time (£0.61)In theory, Adventure Time is a children&apos;s cartoon. In practice, there are a lot of parents enjoying it too, so this game could cross over to both age groups. It sees the stars of the Cartoon Network show sliding down hills on their bottoms to evade avalanches, pulling stunts as they go. It looks to have captured the quirky charms of the show perfectly.Tekken Arena (Free)This brand new Tekken game popped up quietly in the Google Play store, although it&apos;s a different take on the venerable beat &apos;em up franchise, to say the least. Pitched as &quot;the first social strategy RPG featuring Tekken&quot;, it sees you training up a character and battling rivals from around the world, with gameplay influenced as much by Mafia Wars and other free-to-play games.Sensei Wars (Free)Another big console publisher is jumping into the free-to-play waters here: this time 2K Games. Sensei Rules is a fighting/strategy game that sees you building a Dojo, attacking enemy bases and training up an army to defend yourself. If that reminds you of Clash of Clans... Well, yes. Although the selling point here is that the battles are in more console-like 3D.Knightmare Tower (Free)Knightmare Tower made its debut as a game for the Android-powered Ouya microconsole earlier in the year, but now it&apos;s available for a much wider range of Android devices. It was one of the highlights on Ouya: a knight bouncing his way up a tower laying about him to kill monsters, while picking up power-ups. It&apos;s very moreish.Legacy of a Thousand Suns (Free)Another game designed for more hardcore gamers to get their teeth into, this is a science-fiction themed massively multiplayer RPG with a healthy dash of Star Wars in its DNA. Expect lots of questing, fighting and levelling up as you try to save the PrincessLeiaIllaria character from her alien enemies.Sonic The Hedgehog 2 (£2.18)Sega&apos;s Sonic the Hedgehog has suffered a few gaming indignities in recent years, but this latest Android port of one of his classic games isn&apos;t one of them. It&apos;s a lovingly-remastered version of Sonic the Hedgehog 2 – the one with Tails the fox – complete with the famous Hidden Palace Zone that was left out of the original Mega Drive game.Nightmare: Malaria (Free)A game to make you think as well as play, this: developer Psyop is working with charity the Against Malaria Foundation to raise awareness and funding for its work. The game itself sees you wooshing through the bloodstream of a girl with malaria, avoiding creepy mosquitos while saving &quot;stranded teddy bears&quot; (no, I don&apos;t remember those from Biology GCSE either) over 21 levels.Heroes of Steel RPG (Free)Finally a good, old-fashioned roleplaying game in the party-of-four-heroes vein, taking turns to explore, battle and loot in the time of &quot;humanity&apos;s last settlements&quot;. If you grew up on this kind of game, you&apos;ll love it, with bags of depth in character development and customisation.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe 'Bitcoin Consumer Price Index' shows massive deflation &gt;&gt; BusinessweekAccording to the official US Bureau of Labor Statistics measure, prices measured in dollars are up 1.3% since January. That's mild inflation. Prices measured in Bitcoins aredown98.5% over the same period.This is a great development if you own a lot of Bitcoins. But it would be a disaster if it were the official currency of the United States--the coin of the realm, so to speak.Deflation is all about the buying power of a currency. It's not just prices of things people buy that fall in a generalized deflation. Wages and salaries also fall. So cheaper goods aren't really any cheaper in terms of your buying power.Two bad things happen in a deflation. First, people tend to postpone purchases as they wait for prices to get lower. That slows the economy to a crawl. Second, debts get more and more burdensome because they don't shrink the way everything else does. If you owed 1,000 Bitcoins before the deflation, you still owe 1,000 Bitcoins after it, only now your paycheck has shrunk by 98.5%. The only solution is to default. That's what happened on a massive scale in the Great Depression.Gmail blows up e-mail marketing by caching all images on Google servers &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaRon Amadeo:This move will allow Google to automatically display images, killing the "display all images" button in Gmail. Google servers should also be faster than the usual third-party image host. Hosting all images sent to all Gmail users sounds like a huge bandwidth and storage undertaking, but if anyone can do it, it's Google. The new image handling will rollout to desktop users today, and it should hit mobile apps sometime in early 2014.There's also a bonus side effect for Google: e-mail marketing is advertising. Google exists because of advertising dollars, but they don't do e-mail marketing. They've just made a competitive form of advertising much less appealing and informative to advertisers. No doubt Google hopes this move pushes marketers to spend less on e-mail and more on Adsense.Those new Google Play Edition devices lack a photo gallery app, you have to use Google+ &gt;&gt; Android BeatStefan Constantinescu:Ever since Google launched its Facebook clone, Google+, it's slowly been integrating it into all their services. YouTube, Android, Google Drive - nothing can escape the Google+ reign of terror. The social network's latest victim is Android's photo gallery application. If you pick up either of the two new Google Play Edition devices thatwere announced yesterday, you'll notice that the only way to view the photos you've taken is to open the Google+ Photos application.Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to ecosystem lock-in.His conclusion: "this is why you should use Dropbox."Penn GSE study shows MOOCs have relatively few active users, with only a few persisting to course end &gt;&gt; Penn GSE Press RoomEmerging findings:o Course completion rates are very low, averaging 4% across all courses and ranging from 2% to 14% depending on the course and measurement of completion.o Across the 16 courses, completion rates are somewhat higher, on average, for courses with lower workloads for students and fewer homework assignments (about 6% versus 2.5%).o Variations in completion rates based on other course characteristics (e.g., course length, availability of live chat) were not statistically significant.Sample size: one million users. All the courses were free.More labor abuse in Samsung phone factory &gt;&gt; China Labor WatchBased on an in-depth undercover investigation, China Labor Watch (CLW) has published a report on the labor conditions at a Samsung cell phone supplier, revealing labor rights violations that include $84,000 of monthly unpaid overtime wages, up to 148 hours of overtime per month, intense rates of work that have workers assembling one cell phone case every four seconds, regular verbal abuse by management, forcing workers to work barefoot, fines imposed on workers, and insufficient safety training and safety measures.In September 2013, CLW sent an investigator into Samkwang Science and Technology in Dongguan, China to work on the production line for two weeks. Producing cell phone covers, phone screens, and other parts for Samsung, the Samkwang factory employs over 5,000 workers. This investigation uncovered at least 23 ethical and legal violations, each of which is listed in the beginning of the investigative report linked below.Why do kids spend all day on social media? Because they're not allowed out of the house &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewFascinating interview with Danah Boyd, a social researcher:You and your colleague Alice Marwick interviewed 166 teenagers for this book. But you've studied social media for a long time. What surprised you?It was shocking how heavily constrained their mobility was. I had known it had gotten worse since I was a teenager, but I didn't get it--the total lack of freedom to just go out and wander. Young people weren't even trying to sneak out [of the house at night]. They were trying to get online, because that's the place where they hung out with their friends.And I had assumed based on the narratives in the media that bullying was on the rise. I was shocked that data showed otherwise.And plenty more besides.Quinn Emanuel fights sanctions bid In Apple-Samsung war &gt;&gt; Law360Quin Emanuel is Samsung's law firm in California, and admits that unredacted details about the per-patent payment deals between Nokia and Apple prepared by an expert witness were wrongly accessible from its servers by a number of Samsung staff:Apple and Nokia have urged the judge to sanction Samsung $25,000 per day for not complying with court orders related to the leak. Both want Samsung's conduct mentioned in jury instructions in future trials with Apple, and Nokia demanded an injunction barring Samsung from suing it for 10 years, court documents show.But Quinn told Judge Grewal Monday that neither Apple nor Nokia has provided proof that the license information was leaked deliberately or that they had been harmed by the disclosure.Several of Samsung's experts had received the improperly redacted report, but hadn't opened it, Quinn argued. "There's not a single document [from Apple or Nokia] that says they saw the report and said, 'Oh, my goodness, look at Paragraph 295 -- look what we've got.' There's nothing that calls attention to it," he said.Apple alleges that Samsung executive Seung-Ho Ahn not only saw the license details, but claimed he knew them during a negotiating session. But Quinn pointed to Ahn's own testimony, in which he said, "I wanted them to believe that I knew," and argued that Ahn's figures didn't match those in the leaked licensing information.One wonders how much of this the judge will weigh under what could be called the "Mandy Rice-Davies principle". (Subscription required for full access.)Brand vendors to back down from releasing touchscreen conventional notebooks in 2014 &gt;&gt; DigitimesSome first-tier notebook brand vendors have recently adjusted their notebook roadmaps for 2014 and will delay the releases of touchscreen conventional notebooks to focus on non-touchscreen models, which have a pricing advantage, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.The new strategy is expected to prompt other notebook brand vendors to follow suit and further delay Microsoft and Intel's schedules for popularizing touchscreen notebooks, the sources noted.The sources believe notebook vendors are unlikely to increase their ultrabook shipment proportions for 2014 due to weak demand, keeping the penetration rate of touchscreen notebooks at around 10%.Reasons: touchscreen notebooks are pricier, and consumers aren't interested.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
