Calling net rescueYou are stuck behind a keyboard, thousands of miles from the disaster area and you want to give more than just money to help with the relief effort. There is one way you might be able to lend a hand. The Katrina Refugee Data Entry Project Database - established just hours after the hurricane had blown itself out - is looking to add to its army of internet volunteers. Your task is to help process the load of missing person data streaming out of the disaster area.Here's the problem: with millions of people displaced by the flood, many separate missing persons lists have appeared online, but a lack of coordinated effort means that those searching for missing friends and relatives need to scour dozens of separate databases and message boards. What is needed is a clear and reliable, comprehensive database of missing persons, covering all three stricken states. And, as that didn't exist when the storm broke, a project is looking to people like you to help build it.There's already evidence that there is enough momentum to make the project worthwhile. At the time of going to press, the People Finder had reached 50,000 entries and had recruited 21,000 active participants. Naturally, there is a lot still to do, so here's how to get started: go to the link below, claim a set of records, and enter those records into a central database. As the site says, "fancy tech skills are not necessary. If you can copy data into a form, you're valuable here."http://peoplefinder.neworleansnetwork.orgwww.omidyar.net/group/katrinarefugee/news/0Writers blogWeb watch has long been an admirer of Phil Gyford's blog of the diary of Samuel Pepys. Since it launched in January 2003, the award-winning site has inspired dozens of bookish bloggers to publish more online diaries with classic literary themes. Recently we also mentioned Dracula's blog, Bram Stoker's novel being similarly re-published, but diaries of famous writers including Franz Kafka and Henry David Thoreau have been spotted and you can even read James Joyce's Ulysses, at the gentle pace of one page a day.www.pepysdiary.comhttp://infocult.typepad.com/draculawww.metameat.net/kafka/archives/1910.php?en#000039http://blogthoreau.blogspot.comhttp://botheration.org/ulyssesRe-fried onionsThe satirical online newspaper The Onion underwent a major redesign last week, remodelling itself on the clean layout of the New York Times. The site, which is accessed by 3 million readers a week, has now made its archive available (previously subscription-only) and although its early years are still missing, you can now search for both standalone stories and whole issues right back to August 1996.www.theonion.comhttp://avclub.comComic turnGrafik Dynamo is a net art work by Kate Armstrong and Michael Tippett. Using a feed from Live Journal, it's a kind of randomised, interactive comic that loads live images from blogs and fills them with speech bubbles taken from equally random quotes from news sources. Bizarre, baffling and occasionally sublime.http://turbulence.org/Works/dynamowww.livejournal.comCyclotouristeOn Tuesday, the influential Haddock community blog cynically labelled it "How The Internet Went Wrong in one single thread", but it began, perhaps, innocently enough. He describes himself as "fifty-three, healthy, six feet, 180 pounds, good looking ... blond receding hair, green eyes, university grad, writer, teacher," he says he is looking for "a female, healthy cyclist, with a sense of bold adventure, and the willingness to be compatible on an extended world tour". His choice of location - the Thorn Tree, the Lonely Planet's popular message board - was, with hindsight, perhaps an inappropriate place to place a thinly disguised lonely hearts advertisement and the regular posters told him so. Maybe he should have just shrugged off such criticism. But what followed descended so quickly into a spat so laden with colourful invective that it would cause even the French knights in Monty Python and the Holy Grail to blush. It ends with the angry Cyclotouriste threatening the moderator with physical violence. Priceless.http://heh.pl/&amp;1WSwww.haddock.orgSix of the best - sites we loveFax your MPwww.faxyourmp.comThey work for youwww.theyworkforyou.comSkyscannerwww.skyscanner.netMetafilterwww.metafilter.comThey Rulewww.theyrule.netThe Oracle of Kevin Baconwww.cs.virginia.edu/oracle/star_links.html&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Nothing newThe launch of Sony's PSP was covered extensively in the press, with product placement turning up in many unexpected places: every page in the recent issue of Online featured PSP products and commentary. It is not a ground breaking device - the functionality it offers is available in many other places. What it does have is a giant multimedia company willing to throw a large amount of support behind it.The questions that you should be asking all start with "why?": why does the PSP use a disc format that drains battery power? Why was the original firmware so limited? Why have so many PSP units been returned with dead pixels in the screen?Peter HindleAppealing honestyThree cheers for Dave Birch. His column (Second sight, September 1) touched on an area that he doesn't know much about - the social and cultural implications of segregation - and he is honest enough to admit it, rather than adopt the usual columnist's attitude of pretending to have absolute knowledge about everything.Mark PackLondonFlashy kitNobody ever mentions the Flashtrax XT 40GB or 80GB by Scandisk when talking about handheld multimedia centres. The higher capacity model costs around &pound;340 but functions as a video recorder/player (NTSC/PAL with 3.6in screen), MP3 player, voice recorder, FM radio (with recorder) and photo viewer. It doesn't look sexy, but there again, neither do I, so who cares?Colin HallDundeeExercise cautionThe vulnerability of a system to a virus attack is more a factor of the user than the operating system. Microsoft is the target for most virus writers because it is the most widely used and is very well known. Few virus attacks are made on Macs or Linux because they have a lower user base, and Microsoft is seen as a hate object by many of those writing malicious code.As reported in these pages recently, the much vaunted Mozilla Firefox browser had more security vulnerabilities than its reviled Microsoft counterpart. Any system can have a virus written for it, and it is either down to the antivirus software to stop it or the user to exercise caution in his dealings with the internet.I have friends who use Windows 2000 and XP with no antivirus software and never get a virus because they are very strict in the way they handle their internet activity. The fact that a university only just upgraded to an already outdated operating system (Feedback, September 1) is somewhat indicative of its approach to IT. How out of date was the antivirus and firewall protection?Roy WoodBrightonWeather beatenDuring heavy rain and high winds both my Sky satellite and my DAB radio regularly go completely dead, with "no signal available". This is a frequent occurrence during foul weather and would caution against switching off analogue as the digital transmissions seem too fragile to rely on during any future climate-related emergencies.Frank CooksonShared mailBoth your article by Peter Judge (Small talk, September 1) and the letter by Paul May (Feedback, Septmeber 1) seem to find a major failing in Google Talk to be the difficulty in getting a Gmail account. In fact, it is very easy, as there are many sites that give out Gmail invites free, relying on others to donate them to the shared pool. One example iswww.highwayman.org/gmail/.Daniel BrewerLondonBlogbackI use PSPWare, a piece of shareware from Nullriver, for managing my PlayStation Portable -www.nullriver.com/index/products/pspware. It's available for Windows and Mac OS X, and does a fantastic job managing the device. Not only does it convert movies, it also manages game backups, photos, music and bookmarks (assuming you have version 2.0 of the PSP firmware installed).Chris CarlineI have a Japanese PSP, which I got about three months ago. Wipeout, Ridge Racer and Lumines are great, but there are no games I am looking forward to on the horizon. I mainly use it for video (PSPWare recommended) and web browsing.I'm disappointed I can't use the UK Your PSP site to download content (it asks for your UK serial number to register). Maybe it's my fault for getting a Japanese PSP but they did make us wait for ages. The US site allows anyone to register so it looks like I'll be using that one. By the way, the DS is a lot more fun to play.Adam&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so
Next week the Guardian will be relaunching in a new format, and Online will be changing along with it. This will be the fourth substantial shift since the paper first published a separate hi-tech section - Futures Micro Guardian - almost exactly 25 years ago.In those days, a lot of us thought technology couldn't get much better than the BBC computer that featured in our launch edition. It came in two versions - the 16K A and the 32K B - and the dilemma was whether would we ever need 32 kilobytes of memory if we bought the more expensive version?These days, downloads of even the most minor software upgrades are counted by the megabyte (1,024 kilobytes or MB), and email services such as Google's Gmail offer more than 2 gigabytes (2,000 MB) of storage space for free.Online started in May 1994 as a tabloid section. On page 4 was an article about the internet. In the ninth paragraph was a reference to the "world wide web", which was adding services daily to other ones available on the internet. A much longer analysis had appeared in the Guardian's computer section the previous November, but clearly no one really had any incisive premonition of the explosive potential that the web was about to reveal.When I became editor of Online in April 1999, the British dotcom boom was starting to take off, but Google wasn't on our radar screens (though it had been given a favourable mention in Netwatch in January of that year).Many of the dotcom start-ups we reported on in those frothy days have either been absorbed or bitten the dust, including Boo.com and Clickmango. Both attracted nationwide publicity, but sales barely surpassed those of a corner shop. Others such as Lastminute.com and Freeserve have been taken over by larger companies. Confetti.com, whose owner I first met on the stairs of the short-lived First Tuesday gatherings of entrepreneurs, is still going, as is Moreover, the corporate search engine.Since then we have tried to chronicle the amazing consumer technology revolution of mobile phones, digital cameras, broadband internet access, personal digital assistants, internet telephony, Wi-Fi, digital television, Bluetooth wireless transmission and iPod-style music players, not to mention the new crazes of blogging and podcasting. Seldom, if ever, has there been such a ferocious pace of innovation, which is showing no signs of slowing.The only prudent thing to say about the future is that key parts are unpredictable. It is easy to extrapolate from what is happening now to predict that cameras, phones, computers and music players will shrink in weight and gain in power, and that the ability to make telephone calls for almost nothing through the net will become all-pervasive.But there are bound to be more destructive technologies emerging - as is happening with peer-to-peer file exchanges - that will change the world as we now know it yet are very difficult to forecast. All a journal can do is report them as they happen, and hope we spot the winners as they take off.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Who's that? Not another cousin of a certain former dictator currently lodging within the US penitentiary system and treated in full accordance with the Geneva convention?No, it's a virus.Wretched things. And antibiotics are useless, you know.Especially in this case. It's a computer virus.Argh, even more wretched things. What does this one do? Wipe your hard drive? Decimate your databases? Infect your machine with the kind of images that will bar you from polite society?Quite the opposite. It searches for words of an unwholesome nature in a website address. When it finds them, it replaces the site with extracts from the Qur'an.Right. So what words exactly?Sex, teen, XXX and penis . . .Obviously. Any more?Phallus, Priapus, phallic.Bit hard on any classics scholars out there, but then they do say it's the quiet ones you've got to watch.And exhibitionism and jegger.Jegger?No, I don't know either.Look it up. Trust me. So what happens to your PC if Yusufali appoints itself your moral cyberguardian?The offending screen is automatically minimised and the Qur'an quotation pops up. An example: "Know, therefore, that there is no god but Allah, and ask forgiveness for thy fault and for the men and women who believe: for Allah knows how ye move about and how ye dwell in your homes."Blimey, it's a cut above "Big Brother is watching you", isn't it?Orwell must indeed be kicking himself. And if you don't close the site, a box appears saying "For exit click here".Don't tell me. You try to follow the instruction and your computer blows up.Not quite. Your mouse locks and you have to log out of Windows using the keyboard.So, quite a benign virus, all things considered?Almost touchingly so.Not to be confused with:Avian flu, Yusuf Islam, Cat Stevens.
HP topsGartner reckons Hewlett-Packard has extended its lead in the $3.9bn European server market, shipping systems worth $1.3bn for a 32.3% market share. IBM was second with sales worth $1.1bn, followed by Sun ($513m) and Dell ($300m). In terms of units shipped, HP dominates with 193,849 servers, well ahead of IBM (96,165) and Dell (93,400). Sun shipped only 30,536 units, but is planning to attack the low-end server market with a new range of Galaxy servers, based on dual-core AMD Opteron chips. These will be launched in New York on September 12. Gartner's figures are for Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) in this year's second quarter.New NotesIBM has launched version 7 of Lotus Notes and Domino, with the claim that 120 new features will enable users to work more efficiently. Features include "new visual indicators" to help users manage their inboxes by highlighting high priority messages. The software can also automatically save and return to open documents and applications during a shut down and restart. Notes 7 is available for Windows 2000 and XP with support for Mac OS planned for a future release. Prices for Lotus Domino server software starts at $1,431 per processor, and Lotus Notes software starts at $101 per client.www.lotus.comBigger MicrodriveHitachi has announced a new version of its 1-inch Microdrive that will store up to 8 gigabytes, compared with a previous maximum capacity of 6GB. The drive is also slightly smaller and is said to use 40% less power. It also now has drop-sensor technology to protect data if the drive is dropped. Mass production is expected to start in October. The Microdrive, originally developed by IBM, is small enough to fit inside a CompactFlash memory card. It is used mainly in portable devices such as MP3 players, PDAs and phones.Projection projectEpson has developed a prototype computer projector about the size of a paperback book. The mini-projector uses an LED (light emitting diode) as the light source, and this enables the unit to run cooler and occupy less space. The projector is designed as an add-on for laptops and will allow business travellers to show presentations to large groups of customers. The unit weighs 0.5kg, and the LED bulb should last longer and use less power than current projector lamps. Epson showed its mini-projector at the IFA 2005 exhibition in Berlin this week.www.epson.co.jpUnified governmentDisparate government web sites are being united by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (ODPM) to improve communications between the government and the public. The nine government sites and the Regional Co-ordination Unit's web site are linked by an entry portal, with the whole system being co-ordinated using Morello, Mediasurface's content management suite. The change has already trebled the content available by allowing the current base of 30 content authors to be expanded. The combined sites are also benefiting from a unified look and feel and the ability to link information from one site to another.www.mediasurface.com/product/morello/Care waresLeeds City Council is providing its 2,000 care workers with digital pens to allow them to fill in forms in the field but have the data transferred immediately to its servers through GPRS phones. The Destiny digital pen and paper system uses paper forms with an underlying pattern of dots. The worker uses the digital pen, which contains a ballpoint pen, to fill in the form and a camera in the pen records all movements. This information is time stamped and linked to the user's ID. It is transmitted via Bluetooth to a mobile phone linked to the council's server.www.destinywireless.co.uk/pentech.aspxFlow controlAdobe is updating its LiveCycle Document Services suite to allow intricate document workflows to be created more easily. The server-based products allow companies to control document circulation by using intellectual property rights management controls. These can limit access to information to whole or specific parts of a document for specific people, or even limit the time period for access. The update adds a visual design toolkit to allow workflows and applications to be sketched out and then implemented automatically. The system is based on a Java server and design tools that Adobe acquired last year when it bought Q-Link.www.adobe.com/products/server/workflowserver/main.html
Over the past few months, the average speed of the nation's broadband internet connections has moved from 512kbps to 1Mbps. Yet in a few months, speeds of up to 2Mbps will seem snail-like compared to what some internet service providers (ISPs) are offering.Last week, the UK authorities gave the green light to a new technology called ADSL 2+, which in theory can deliver speeds of up to 24Mbps. Already a newcomer to the UK market, Be Unlimited is claiming one of its subscribers has achieved speeds of 18Mbps on his connection.While the numbers sound impressive, the key for the ISPs is explaining to consumers what the faster speeds can actually offer. NTL recently demonstrated to journalists how a person with ADSL 2+ could stream video, listen to internet radio, make Voice over IP phone calls and download huge video files all at the same time with bandwidth to spare.The application that is most exciting ISPs, though, is the possibility of offering HDTV over the internet via broadband. In theory, users could begin to download or stream High Definition (which requires speeds of between 6-8Mbps as a minimum) programmes or movies from the online equivalent of Blockbuster.The main problem for Be and its fellow ADSL companies is that the speed of the connection is determined by how close a person is to their local BT exchange. "If a person is up to 1km away we can offer 20 Mbps, at 2km it is likely to be 13Mbps and so on," explains Be's managing director Dana Pressman. The ADSL 2+ services are also likely to be available only in large cities, with Be hoping to have rolled out its service across London by the end of next year.The geographical problem isn't an issue for the cable companies. "Through our existing cable we will be in a position to offer 20Mbps services to 95% of our customers," explains Bill Goodland, director of internet for NTL. Fellow cable company Telewest is championing another new technology called DOCSYS 3.0 which, according to Eric Tveter, its chief operating officer, will offer speeds of 50-100Mbps when it arrives next year. Both NTL and Telewest plan to offer 10Mbps within months, with faster services following a year or so later.Other companies are playing down the drive for speed. Emma Sanderson, director of BT Retail, argues that "concentrating on faster speeds is fooling the customer. While there are those who crave speed, other factors such as uptime, reliability and access to specialist services will be more important."LinksBe Unlimitedwww.bethere.co.ukNTLwww.ntl.comTelewestwww.telewest.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The Obscene Publications Act makes it illegal to publish material that tends to deprave and corrupt those viewing it. When passed in 1959, and even when equivalent Scottish legislation was passed in 1982, it was difficult for publishers to distribute such material from abroad.With the internet, such publication is very easy. In 1988, laws passed in both England and Scotland also criminalised possession - which includes viewing images online - of indecent images of children.But this is not the case for extreme adult pornography: images of serious sexual violence, necrophilia and bestiality. Last week, the Home Office and Scottish Executive proposed changing this, making possession punishable by up to three years in prison.In a foreword to the public consultation, which is open until December 2, Home Office minister Paul Goggins and Scottish Executive justice minister Cathy Jamieson say that these offences "will mirror the arrangements already in place in respect of child pornography. The intention is to reduce the demand for such material and to send a clear message that it has no place in our society".But would such legislation achieve much beyond sending a message? The consultation notes: "We are not aware of any western jurisdiction which prohibits simple possession of extreme material."By contrast, possession of indecent images of children is illegal in numerous countries, enabling international co-operation. The UK's largest investigation of online paedophile activity, Operation Ore, relied on the US Federal Bureau of Investigations collecting around 250,000 credit cards numbers used to pay for access to a US child pornography web-site, and passing on more than 7,000 from the UK.Formal structures are being created for such cooperation, such as the Virtual Global Taskforce, which includes the UK's National Crime Squad, police agencies in Australia, Canada and the US and Interpol. In December 2003 the taskforce launched Operation PIN, setting up fake child abuse web-sites. These captured the details of a number of individuals when they attempted to download an image, then told them that they had committed an offence and their data would be passed to the relevant national authority. It is usually possible to trace web users through data recorded by a web server.A National Crime Squad spokesperson says that no prosecutions followed this data collection, but adds that the priority was crime reduction. The taskforce is also planning a 24-hour-a-day online policing presence, with officers from the four member countries involved in online patrols such as overt visits to chatrooms. This will be discussed at a meeting between the member agencies in Canberra next week.In June, the G8 club of rich countries agreed to help Interpol to establish a &pound;2 million system linking countries' databases of such images, and later this month the UK will hand an implementation study on this to Interpol. The UK's national database, Childbase, contains 800,000 images, allowing swifter identification of victims using facial recognition.Such international cooperation would help in investigating extreme pornography, as all the publishers appear to be outside the UK. The Internet Watch Foundation says that 60% of the 140 adult pornographic sites it checked in the first six months of this year which appeared to contravene the Obscene Publications Act appeared to be US-based, with 14% in China and 4% in Russia. None was British.In an emailed response, an FBI spokesperson says cooperation similar to Operation Ore would be possible for extreme pornography, adding: "It is not an easy answer though. In the US we have obscenity laws that make it a violation to post lewd material online. How that is defined and enforced is reviewed on a case-by-case basis," by enforcement agencies and government prosecutors."Policing this, from a single country point of view, is going to be a nightmare," predicts Tony Dearsley, senior computer investigations manager at UK computer forensics firm Vogon International. "How do you get to these people? Like most cross-border issues, unless you have got an agreement or an identical offence, it will be very unlikely to get a warrant to get information or shut &#91;a site&#93; down." He adds that extreme pornography is often free to access, without requiring the credit card payments which enabled Operation Ore.Dearsley says that Vogon has seen such material on computers belonging to suspects in rape and murder cases: hard drives often retain traces of all files they have stored, despite attempts to erase and overwrite them.This could represent an alternative way to investigate the proposed crime. A Home Office spokesperson says that data on a suspect's computer often gives clues to others, adding that employers, internet service providers, credit card providers and the public would also be likely to provide leads.But David Wilson, professor of criminology at the University of Central England, says that technological change is likely to make policing possession of extreme pornography very difficult. His research with paedophiles found that, after Operation Ore, they switched to peer-to-peer networks and net-enabled mobile telephones. "Usually, the law's a step behind," says Professor Wilson. "You have to look at why society produces these people in the first place."LinksHome Office announcement and consultationwww.homeoffice.gov.uk/n_story.asp?item_id=1354Guardian report on Operation Orewww.guardian.co.uk/uk_news/story/0,3604,1192073,00.htmlVirtual Global Taskforcewww.virtualglobaltaskforce.com/Internet Watch Foundation responsewww.iwf.org.uk/media/news.135.htmOpinion column by Prof David Wilsonwww.guardian.co.uk/online/comment/story/0,12449,1559597,00.html
It has been a long time since we thought of the web as a collection of static hypertext pages. Early experiments with web applications helped fuel the dot.com boom, and the familiar world of web forms and e-commerce. Now we are in the middle of a second generation of web applications - and there is a new generation of tools to help developers create them."Ajaxing" - using asynchronous JavaScript and XML - is growing in popularity, thanks to Google, and it is used by applications such as Yahoo's Flickr and Google Maps (Inside IT, July 21). However, there is also a growing ecosystem of applications that don't even need a browser. For example, Google's deskbar searches the web from a Windows desktop, while eBay provides applications to help sellers create and manage their auctions.Probably the best-known platform for developing these internet applications is Macromedia's Flash, which has come a long way since it began life as a vehicle for creating simple animations. Macromedia recently announced version 8 of Flash, with a new player and a new development package, and Ian Turner, Macromedia's managing director for northern Europe, sees the platform becoming a tool for delivering cross-platform user interfaces for service-oriented applications.Instead of writing code for different platforms, developers can write for the Macromedia "universal client" and expect the user interface to be consistent, however it is accessed. With SAP just one of the companies embracing this approach, it is clear that Flash has gone beyond the development of pointless "Skip Intro" pages for glossy websites.With Flash no longer confined to the browser, thanks to Central (the desktop interface) and Flash Lite (for mobiles), it is a contender for delivering a new generation of smarter clients, and IBM is championing the Open Laszlo Flash/Ajax user interface technology. Macromedia is also working on a project code-named Zorn, which will give developers an Eclipse-based development platform for server-driven Flash applications.Meanwhile, Microsoft's Smart Client approach uses Windows development tools to produce lightweight web-connected applications. The Microsoft.net platform means these small applications can communicate with remote web services, and technologies like the Windows Communication Foundation (formerly code-named Indigo) will help manage secure connections as well as controlling transactions. They are as easy to deploy and keep up to date as web applications using Click Once methods rather than traditional installer software, and this approach makes life easier for system administrators as well as developers.But unlike web applications, these smart clients work both online and offline, caching information and requests when the network connection is not available.Microsoft's Smart Client vision goes further than standalone windows applications. It is developing Visual Studio Tools for Office, which will link Microsoft Office applications into next-generation web applications. At the recent Microsoft TechEd developer conference in Amsterdam, for example, Microsoft demonstrated an internet application for estate agents that linked the familiar Word task pane to a web application. Selecting options in the task pane automatically created all the letters needed to process the sale, taking details like interest rates and survey costs from a web server.The VSTO smart client approach is important because it makes Office documents part of business processes, and because it enables standard applications to be given a custom interface designed for your business. For example, clicking Save in Microsoft Word could be used to deliver an XML document to a web service, rather than saving a file on a local hard disk. Also, the XML features in Microsoft Office mean that an XML schema can be used to control the contents of a document, making it easier to validate the information used by the rest of the application.Nasa's World Wind and Google Earth are also examples of rich internet applications at work. Both tools allow you to explore satellite data, without storing massive amounts of data on your PC. As you fly over and zoom into a virtual globe, progressively more detailed images are downloaded from remote servers. Google and Nasa can distribute relatively small applications over the internet, without having to include gigabytes of data. Users only download the information they need, when they need it.This approach also ensures the most up-to-date information is used. For example, by Nasa updating its servers, World Wind was able to provide images and information about the Indian Ocean tsunami disaster just a few days after it happened.Apple has made Dashboard widgets an important part of Tiger, its latest release of the OS X operating system. Built using HTML, JavaScript and CSS, widgets can be developed by anyone who has built web applications - and can be tested in a web browser before being deployed.However, Dashboard widgets are designed to run in a separate Dashboard view that replaces the standard OS X desktop. If you want to use a widget, you will want to use a function key to switch away from your desktop to the Dashboard (you can fix widgets to your desktop, but it is not recommended, and you have to reload them every time you restart your computer). This makes Apple's widgets more inconvenient than everyday applications, and less likely to be used for business applications.Apple's Dashboard owes much to an earlier application, Konfabulator, which was recently purchased by Yahoo. Konfabulator widgets are built using XML and JavaScript, and can run on both Windows PCs and Macs. Yahoo is planning to use widgets to extend its existing web tools on to users' desktops. Konfabulator comes with a default set of widgets (and you can download over a thousand more from the web), including a weather tool that connects to Yahoo's weather service, and a photoframe that can display images from its photo-hosting service Flickr.Google's new Desktop Sidebar for Windows also picks up weather information, news services, and can display photos from a wide range of services using "web feeds", delivered using RSS (Really Simple Syndication) and Atom, and Microsoft is building support for RSS and Atom into Windows Vista, formerly code-named Longhorn.Web services and technologies like RSS mean information from web applications can turn up anywhere - even in the middle of familiar applications. Adobe's latest Creative Suite includes a new gallery and file sharing tool, Adobe Bridge, which includes RSS information feeds from Adobe, while Microsoft's next generation programming tools will connect directly to its developer web sites for the latest tips, tricks and sample code.Applications aren't islands of functionality any more; they are bridges for information.LinksFlash Platform white paperwww.macromedia.com/platform/whitepapers/platform_overview.pdfSmart Client Developer Centerhttp://msdn.microsoft.com/smartclient/
When did you switch to a Mac for design work?I took the plunge in 1994, because I was designing a lot of CD covers, and my competitors were using Macs. I read the Photoshop manual from cover to cover. Everything else I picked up along the way. My first job was a cover for Michael Nyman's The Piano soundtrack. I finished the images in RGB (Red-Green-Blue), and turned them into CMYK (the color model used in offset printing for full-color documents) for printing, and they proved unprintable. I learned all the difficult lessons on that job.Have you used a PC?All the animation and model building was done in Maya (www.alias.com/eng/) on PCs. I'm happier on a Mac, so the 2D files and editing and compositing were done on them.Did you use any special software/hardware for the film?No. The PCs running Maya and Houdini (www.sidefx.com) created the 3D world and animation, Photoshop the texture maps, with After Effects and Final Cut running on Macs for the compositing and editing. The render farm and the networking and storage needed for dealing with a feature film's huge amount of data were the only two areas outside the norm. These effects, animation techniques and image manipulation techniques have been de-mystified over the past few years. Anyone can do this, it just takes ideas and time.Any technical hitches during filming?Nothing worked smoothly. We constantly battled glitches and breakdowns. Next time I'd rethink the entire workflow. But there was a playfulness that came with ignorance - we just barrelled on regardless.Does digital now mean you can be more ambitious on a modest budget?Not just more ambitious, but you can try different kinds of stories, told in radically different ways. MirrorMask (www.sonypictures.com/movies/mirrormask/is a traditional story. Next time I'd like to work with much more unusual material, and excavate the new language of film that digital suggests, There is a world of untapped possibilities once you start to realise what the 3D environment can do.Where do you imagine 3D graphics software going?Anything that can bridge the gap between intuitive tools and maths will help. Some programs allow you to "sculpt" polygons in a manner similar to clay modelling. There are more and more ways of getting motion into a computer and so many ready-made solutions to physical problems such as gravity, inertia and fluid effects.Can you instantly tell if you're watching computer generated images in a movie?Yes, although the integration is sometimes so clever it is hard to be sure. I think some images that are unashamed to look fabricated can be fascinating in their own right, especially as many make use of what computers can do very well, creating complexity, adding complex systems to manmade simple basic building blocks.Visit:www.mckean-art.co.ukDave McKean's bookmarkswww.neilgaiman.comwww.jonathancarroll.comwww.superhappyfun.comwww.andyfoulds.co.uk/amusement/bushv2.htmwww.amplifier.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
'Plug &amp; play" was a slogan Microsoft used in 1995 to describe peripherals that just worked when you plugged them in. Who knew that, 10 years later, the most serious problem facing business computer users could be "plug &amp; pay"?With skyrocketing energy costs, the price and availability of electricity is becoming a serious problem for some IT users. And the larger the computing infrastructure, the greater the problem. Google's huge network of computers causes constant power headaches, says Google fellow Urs H&ouml;lzle. "If you look at what you spend on turning on this hardware and leaving it on for its three-year lifetime, you will see that depending on your infrastructure, you pay half as much to the electricity company as you pay for your hardware."Cost isn't the only issue, says Brent Kirby, product marketing manager for Opteron processors at chip-maker AMD. Data centres - the dust free rooms where companies house their central computers - suck up large amounts of electricity not only to power the installed computers, but also on the air conditioning to keep them cool. Because companies can only feed so much electricity into a finite space, capacity is becoming a big issue. "Data centres are having problems increasing computer capability in the confines of their power and cooling capabilities. People say they have more empty aisles than they do processing power," warns Kirby.By producing dual core chips (two processors on a single piece of silicon), chip vendors can boost computing power without increasing power consumption. AMD has produced relatively low voltage versions of its Opteron chip, designed for workstations and servers. It now offers 95, 55 and 30-watt versions, says Kirby.After tackling power issues for mobile computers with its Centrino chipset two years ago, Intel also plans to produce lower-power desktop and server processors next year, says the company's chief executive officer, Paul Otellini. And Intel's tiny rival Transmeta has been producing low-power processors for years.But processor power consumption isn't the only inefficiency in computing, warns Dave Thornley, service support manager at Sheffield Hallam University. Power-hungry servers often sit relatively idle because each server only runs a few applications that do not need all the processor power all the time. Thornley's servers historically only ran at between 5% and 15% of the processor capacity.Software vendor VMware helped him to virtualise his computers. Virtualisation software can make a single computer look like multiple computers, enabling different operating systems and applications to run on a single machine. Taylor consolidated 35 servers on to one server running at up to 60% of its computing capacity. This enabled him to freeze his data centre's power consumption, which was getting close to capacity.But making the data centre more power efficient is only part of the challenge. Many companies have thousands of desktop computers sucking up power, often when employees are at lunch, attending meetings or at home overnight.Modern PCs include an Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI), which defines different automatic "sleep modes" for computers to help reduce power consumption. However, in a report on energy efficiency for domestic ICT equipment, research firm Intertek argued that, in many companies, IT supervisors disable ACPI.London-based 1E sells Nightwatchman, a power management tool that enables administrators to shut down and restart PCs from a central control point, if users forget to turn them off. The software uses built-in scripts to automatically save open files, protecting data before shutting down the PC. Turning PCs on 15 minutes before clocking-on time means they have booted by the time people arrive, says chief executive Sumir Karayi.Karayi is angry at what he sees as government apathy over power management. The Carbon Trust, a government-funded non-profit organisation that promotes energy saving measures for business, manages a list of technologies called the efficient technology list (ETL). Businesses purchasing energy-efficient products within categories included on the ETL can benefit from an Enhanced Capital Allowance scheme.Instead of collecting the tax allowances on capital expenditures for ETL-listed products over a number of years, companies receive the whole allowance in the first year. Sadly, IT items such as PCs and peripherals are not on the four-year-old list. Moreover, Andrew Watson, director of the Association for the Conservation of Energy, complains that the UK has failed to join a voluntary European initiative called the Group for Energy Efficient Appliances. This promotes office equipment that meets strict energy-saving criteria, including PCs.But the Carbon Trust, which reviews the ETL annually, has rejected Karayi's request to include computer power management on the list."It does not make sense that the Carbon Trust actively recommends PCs be turned off at night, yet has refused to take steps to assist companies in achieving this goal," Karayi says. "Either it does not understand the complexity of the situation or it is interested in self-promotion rather than practical steps to reduce office-based emissions." Carbon Trust representatives refused to comment.Either way, it seems it is up to UK business to shoulder the cost of reducing IT power consumption by installing specialist software, providing computer usage guidelines for employees, and using the built-in power settings - and that's one charge that will be particularly unwelcome.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Ever since computer programmers began collaborating online to build software applications, the "open source" movement has been developing into a serious rival to the multinational software companies. Since the term was coined in the late 90s, open source has rapidly matured from an egalitarian approach to software design into a movement whose practices underpin the internet. More recently, it has begun to represent the seed of an ideology, whose approach to openness and sharing is spilling over into the wider world.The term open source is used to describe software that is "open" for modification. It does this by making the "source" code - the stuff programmers need to read before a computer program is converted into binary - available for other programmers to develop. This form of software development was the norm until the late 60s. Conversely, the proprietary software produced by big corporations rarely does this. Its owners prefer to ship "closed" binary-only versions, which are much more difficult for programmers to read, redevelop and redistribute without the permission of the owners.Even if you are unaware of Linux, the groundbreaking open source operating system, it is likely you daily use open source software. Most email is now routed through Sendmail, while most websites are hosted on Apache servers, both open source projects. So open source has led to a revolution in the way we think about the production of software - who owns and controls the mortar that binds the modern world - and now its ideas are spreading beyond the confines of computer programming.Open source ideas are breaching the boundary between software and electronics. At IBM, the next generation of computer chips is being designed using the same open methods that have revolutionised software. Claims are even being made that anything from marketing techniques to drugs, beer to washing-up liquid, can in some ways be described as open source.The main problem with transposing open source ideas on to the physical world is that it involves more than a simple matter of replication. As Richard Stallman - the Martin Luther of the open source movement - once pointed out, "you can't download hardware through the net, and we don't have automatic copiers for hardware". Even so, while hardware or machinery might be relatively expensive to reproduce, designs for them are not. Blueprints for computer chips or formulae for life-saving drugs can be reproduced just as cheaply - and distributed just as easily - as computer code.So many non-software open source ideas abound that earlier this year, the thinktank Demos warned that overuse of the term threatened to muddy the waters. The authors of Wide Open, a provocative pamphlet emphasising how open source ideas were spilling over into the wider world, warned that "in a strict sense nothing except computer code can ever be open source".It is clear that the ideas underpinning open source are spreading far wider than the pioneers foresaw. The most prominent area - outside electronics - where such principles are beginning to prosper is in the pharmaceutical industry.According to the Demos pamphlet, a number of "virtual pharmaceutical companies" already operate in ways analogous to those of the open source community. These companies are rethinking the traditional method of guarding in-house discoveries and sharing the development of their products with rivals in order to get drugs to market in super-quick time. Such openness would have been unthinkable just a few years ago.In the old textile town of Huddersfield, the wider application of open source is taking root. At the town's media centre, a small team of designers is developing TileToy, an interactive, electronically powered toy building brick. The team regularly publishes details of the product's development (through a blog) and invites others to help with and share ideas. According to Tom Holley, the centre's creative director, the way in which the inventors are "opening" the development to a wider community represents an extension of the open source ethic. "The principle is to create a model of product development that changes the relationship between manufacturer and user," he says. "It allows smaller teams to function that wouldn't normally be able to afford a full commercial development cycle."The question is: can these ideas be used to create something more profound than an educational toy? Or, as Holley suggests: "Can we create an open source dialysis machine or designs for a water desalination plant?" Or, as the authors of Wide Open suggest, could such a sharing of knowledge lead to cheaper crops or result in more affordable cures for disease? Holley thinks so, and that by adopting open source thinking, it could challenge the "current dominance of multinational corporations".This may have already happened. In 2002, Ecover, a manufacturer of environmentally aware cleaning products, commissioned a series of poster advertisements that displayed the chemical formula of its leading washing-up liquid. It message seemed to shout: for the sake of the environment, please, please copy us. Cynics might argue that this gesture was no more than open source marketing (and one unlikely to be adopted by the makers of Fairy Liquid), but in exposing commercially sensitive information in this way, the company demonstrated how it could continue to profit while its secret recipe was laid bare.Of course, there are drawbacks to openness. Give away your secrets and you might starve yourself of investment capital or forego the advantages of moving to market first. And inventors - although able to recoup costs through implementation and maintenance of their ideas - potentially lose out on the financial windfall a successful invention brings. Some have argued that this makes open source software, or otherwise, inherently anti-commercial.But there are commercial advantages, too. As development is shared by a wide community, the cost can be dramatically reduced as firms that participate in "open" methods no longer have to each reinvent the wheel. In this sense, open source is about making your knowledge more freely available for a greater common good.As the writer Charles Leadbeater recently observed, nobody owns the patent on the mountain bike, and yet most bicycle manufacturers benefited from its developments: they have sold a lot more bikes.
I've traversed the wilder areas of our fair capital and now I'm sitting back at home gawping over the fact that England managed toloseto Northern Ireland Nil. But enough of that... the ride back gave me a little time to think more about thelauncheswe sawfromAppletonight, and what they mean in the long term.While at the event I had a brief chat with Danika Cleary, the iPod product manager, who was in town for a bit of gladhanding. Danika's the kind of enthusiastic Apple employee who is very convinced of what she does, but she was adamant that the company has stolen a march on the opposition with iPod nano. And she's right, at least in part. It was clear from the reaction of the crowd (and the reaction I've had from friends) that nano is a seriously cool piece of kit. When the iPod mini - now the most successful iPod there is - came out, it was a small, fashion-conscious way of getting the brand out into the wild. The nano takes this much further. It replaces the mini completely, and then some.Beyond the ins-and-outs of the product itself, it certainly sends a message out to Creative, Sony, iRiver and others that Apple's not going to stop turning the screws on the digital player market. And, crucially, it fits into the iPod ecology as well. While other players may carry better features, have more battery life etc, they don't have the smoothness, the panache and - perhaps most importantly - the software. This is Apple telling the rest that they're playing catch-up again.On the subject of software, there was a very clear sense that Rokr is a baby step for iTunes. Are they thinking of breaking it into the wider market? I don't know. Of course, it makes sense for Apple to try and get some kind of foothold in the mobile space: it's massive compared to the digital music space, and is only going to get bigger.But the message is obvious, as far as I can see: Rokr is very much a Motorola product. There's no Apple branding on it whatsoever, and the design is Moto all the way. The problem is that it doesn't stretch the market in the same way that we're used to: it's another player in the game, not a trend-setter. But that doesn't mean I don't expect it to sell like hot cakes.So I think what we saw tonight was really as much a statement of intent as anything else: a marking of territory, though thankfully Steve Jobs didn't find a lamp-post to call his own. Imagine Apple was from London, not California... it would be saying "this is our gaff, now bog off".
Apologies for taking so long to get a picture: the network connection here is *extremely* slow.Anyway: the nano - it's a sleek wee beasty, that's for sure.The unique selling point of the iPod nano has to be how small it is. The unit is tiny - the size of a credit card, and hardly much thicker - and it comes with a colour screen. Now I'm out of the bullpen auditorium where we were being broadcast Steve Jobs's speech, I'm able to get some more details: it comes in two sizes, 2GB and 4GB, for 139 and 179 respectively. That's approximately twice the price of an iPod shuffle.And that's where the design comes from: it's clearly learnt the lessons of shuffle (it feels stronger, more robust and has a shiny metal back), and has brought the tiny player a little bit of pazzazz from its bigger brothers and sisters (the touch-sensitive click wheel, for example).The unit is light - perhaps too light (I fear I'd lose or break it) and the screen is small, but clear. It comes with a traditional iPod USB 30-pin connector, meaning that it *should* be compatible with many existing accessories, and they're claiming up to 14 hours battery life. Everything else is standard iPod fare, so if you've already seen one or own one, you should know what to expect.The phone, on the other hand, is not very exciting. A push button with a little iTunes sign on launches the iPod-style interface that lets you listen to the 512MB of music you've transferred over from your computer. To be honest, it's not worth writing that much about, because it's probably everything you expected.
When Jobs was announcing the iPod Nano, he took the chance of a few swipes at Apple's rivals. He pretended not to have a clue about companies like Creative (shome mishtake shurely?). And the iPod, he said, has shifted 6m units across the world in the last quarter, whereas Sony's PSP has only sold 2m.That's rather disingenuous for a couple of reasons: the PSP was only released in Europe (one of the most important markets) last week, and the iPod has a much wider range of price points (it's got at least three distinct ranges). But it's as fair a comparison as can be made under the circumstances, I suppose.But forget the talk: the Nano - which comes in white or black - does look like a sleek piece of kit. I'll try and get some pictures for you as soon as I can... there's nothing on the Apple website yet, but I'm on the case. Now we're going to have a hands-on demo.Update:I've got a picture,here, and there's more now atApple's website.
Dude, that was a bit of a curveball. Here I was, tapping away on my laptop when suddenly Jobs whipped a tiny little thing out of his trousers. Stop sniggering at the back, you lot... it was an iPod. The "iPod nano", to be precise.Not much time to tell you what we're being shown right now, but here are the vital stats as I get them:- iPod Nano - 4GB or 2GB models - price not yet confirmed for UK (remember, this is coming live from the US) - credit card shape and size - it looks a lot like the iPod Shuffle with a colour screen - weighs 42g - "it's impossibly small," says JobsThey've just brought Kanye West on for a bit of celeb power... and I'm sure he just said some rather naughty words about things he might want to do to the police. I doubt that fits with Apple's somewhat clean-cut, evangelical image.
Sitting here in a north London auditorium, I've just seen the new Apple/Motorola iTunes compatible phone. And it's exactly what we expected. All of my tip offs today have been pretty much on the ball:Disappointing? I'd say so. It doesn't seem to offer much more than the W800i from Sony Ericsson, which has similar memory, battery life and performance: it just has iTunes as well.But woah: here's Jobs talking about a replacement for the iPod Mini... the iPod Nano.
"Sony will begin selling from October a network base-station that can stream live television and other video content through a home network or across the Internet to remote PCs," reportsIDG News Service.The Location Free Base Station is an extension of the company's Location Free TV system, which until now has required the use of dedicated portable displays. The new system will work with normal PCs.The LF-PK1 unit can stream video to PCs both inside and outside of the home, or wherever it is located. Local clients connect via either a wired link or wirelessly through the unit's built-in wireless LAN access point. From outside the home, access is possible as long as the device is connected to a broadband Internet link.As the article points out later, this isn't a completely new idea:Closest to Sony's new system is theSlingbox, from Sling Media. This $250 device works in a similar way and can stream TV to Windows PCs running dedicated software. Another company,Orb Networks, offers an all-software system that runs on a PC at home and can be remotely accessed from a PC, PDA, or smart phone.Comment:Sony's system works with PCs running Microsoft Windows 2000 SP4 or XP -- what the story above calls "normal PCs". Both Slingox and Orb require PCs running Windows XP.
So, if all the rumours are true, Steve Jobs will tonight announce the long-awaited iTunes-compatible phone which Apple has been making in conjunction with Motorola. Later on today I'll be going to a north London satellite link-up with San Francisco, where we'll hear more details: and I'll (hopefully) be blogging live from the scene.But forget the hype: has it been too long?After all, it's been more than a year since we knew this was on the cards. And a host of other music phones have hit the market in the meantime: many of them are quite good, and they're improving all the time.In my opinion, Apple's really going to have to pull something special out of the bag. While it might look good (and Motorola's regained its status as a highly fashionable handset manufacturer, so I expect it to), the crucial aspect is going to be who actually wants it, and the restrictions placed on the music on the phone itself.And here's the rub, for me at least: mobile networks already place highly restrictive digital rights mechanisms on downloaded music. Apple's likely to be enforcing its iTMS DRM on the phone, at a time when there's little inter-compatibility between songs I've downloaded on my phone and songs I've got on my larger music collections. Add to this the fact that there's also little inter-compatibility between different manufacturers. And if I switch phones (which happens regularly), I lose all the music - and all the money I've spent. If I'm going to be persuaded to buy an iPhone, I want all of these issues resolved.Ease-of-use will be paramount, and it has to be said that iTunes is one of the easiest ways to buy music... but will that draw in enough new business? After all, if Apple's merely going to succeed in getting people *already* using the iPod/iTunes combo to switch from, say, their underperforming iPod shuffle, then I don't think it will have been worth the effort. We want something special... but can Apple deliver?
There's been a glut of games-related charitable activity in support of relief for the victims of the recent hurricane in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. For purely selfish reasons, I'm warmed by this response, as I grew up in New Orleans and my Dad and stepmother have been weathering the storm in their home in Baton Rouge by housing NOLA friends who've not yet learned the fate of their houses and neighbours. It's been quite distracting, so apologies on this end for not giving games my full attention over the past week.If you're moved to help out while wiling away the hours in digital distraction, may I suggest a donation of your cash when playing through any of the titles listed below or looking at any of the following game-related websites. Thanks to all who have donated thus far, to the people who've put these efforts together and to those who have sent well-wishes.Bungie (creators of the Halo series) have released a limited-edition T-shirt ("Fight the Flood" - I'm not so sure about that) which is available to purchasehere. All proceeds go to theAmerican Red Cross.If you're in the online gameEverQuest II, you can type /donate in the command prompt (much like you canorder pizzafrom Pizza Hut) to send money to theAmerican Red Cross.As anticipated, theever-charitableresidents ofSecond Lifehave been holding events and memorial services for the victims of the hurricane where players can gather to remember, discuss and donate real-world and Linden$.According togamepolitics,Sony is matching all employee donations. EA is matching employee donations at a 2:1 ratioFurthermore, games weblog Kotakusoldall of its swag (the eBay auction ended yesterday) for the ARC and web comicPennyArcadeisauctioningoff original artwork (ends in 2 days).
Plans to revive democracy by replacing ballot boxes with online e-elections were abandoned by the government yesterday.The constitutional affairs minister, Harriet Harman, used a written parliamentary answer to announce the change of heart, after trials of e-voting in local council elections showed systems were expensive, unreliable and open to abuse.Although welcomed by some voters, the technology did little to encourage more people to take part."The government has decided not to invite applications from local authorities to conduct electronic voting pilots in the May 2006 local elections," Ms Harman said.A spokesman for her department said: "We are not ruling out piloting e-voting in the future and any future plans will be taken forward at the appropriate time."The Conservatives said the plans had been reduced to a "shambles" and collapsed because of vulnerability to fraud.
In an innovation likely to baffle most of the regulars in the Rover's Return, ITV is to launch a mobile phone service that will allow fans to watch self-contained episodes of popular shows such as Coronation Street on the move.The broadcaster will today unveil ITV Mobile, a service which will work with most modern phones and offers users news, sport and weather.It also plans highlights and special episodes of its top-rating programmes including This Morning, I'm a Celebrity and Coronation Street. These could include parallel storylines that link television episodes of the show.From next year, the broadcaster will also start to commission programmes specifically to be viewed on mobile devices. While mobile operators have dabbled with creating television-style content in the past, ITV's entrance into the market is likely to stimulate more interest among independent producers in coming up with programme ideas suitable for the small screen.The ITV Mobile portal will work with most phones now in circulation. It has been developed by the recently launched ITV Consumer Division, a unit charged with finding new ways to boost revenues outside television advertising and expand into new media and publishing.It will charge up to &pound;5 for programmes and services, although some will be free. As part of an attempt to compensate for falling ratings on its main ITV1 channel, ITV is belatedly following the lead of the BBC and Sky in launching its biggest programmes on to phones and computers.In the month when it celebrates its 50th birthday, it will also today announce plans to launch trials of a new broadband internet service. Available through a high speed internet connection, ITV Local will offer a highly targeted local channel including news and weather and ITV entertainment content. If the trial, initially concentrating on the Brighton and Hastings area, is a success it will expand the service to other regions.The BBC has already announced plans to test "ultra-local" news services on broadband internet and digital satellite television.
PartyGaming plunged in value by a third - or &pound;2bn - yesterday after the operator of the Party Poker website warned that the online game's phenomenal rate of growth had virtually ground to a halt in recent weeks.The revelation came only 10 weeks after the company's four founders pocketed &pound;1bn in cash by selling 21% of the business in London's biggest and most controversial flotation for years.PartyGaming accounts for half the world's online poker and it confessed the latest quarterly period, starting in July, has seen growth in the industry slow to just 4%.The figure makes earlier forecasts that online poker could double in size this year and then grow at an average 45% for the next five years, appear hopelessly optimistic.The warning caused chaos within the wider online gambling sector. Shares in Sportingbet, which owns Paradise Poker, a direct rival to PartyGaming's Party Poker site, fell 16% despite the group's frantic attempts to halt the rout by saying its trading is "in line with management expectations".Empire Online, for which Sportingbet is considering a bid, fell 11%. Online casino 888.com now also faces a struggle to attract investors for its planned &pound;800m flotation.PartyGaming's 33% drop from 157p to 105p took its share price below its flotation level of 116p, though the group is still worth &pound;4bn and still destined to be elevated to the FTSE 100 index.But City sceptics will say the company is joining the blue chip index with fresh questions over its credibility as a serious home for investment by pension funds.Its flotation prospectus contained 30 pages of "risk factors", mostly related to the legality of online gambling in the US, where the group makes 86% of its revenues.None of PartyGaming's multi-millionaire foursome, who collectively still have majority control of the company, spoke out to defend the timing of the flotation yesterday.It was left to Richard Segal, the chief executive who joined after a career at leisure group Rank, to argue that the slowdown could not have been foreseen in June."We never said it was going to continue to grow at a spectacular growth rate ad infinitum," he said. "We could not have been more explicit about our belief that rates of growth would moderate over time."All we have done today is indicate that we think rates of growth may have moderated faster than we would have expected."We are definitely not saying this is the top. What we are looking at is six weeks of data that has only just been announced. We don't know to what extent it is part of a long-term trend."He said the fact that PartyGaming had alerted the market so promptly demonstrated "the transparency you would expect of a company listed on the London Stock Exchange".At face value, yesterday's interim results met expectations. Operating profits rose 76% to $258m (&pound;140m), before counting $22m of flotation expenses and the $40m cost of handing free share options to staff. Mr Segal said he was "comfortable" with current market forecasts for 2005.However, it is clear the weak poker market will be felt dramatically in 2006's numbers. Analysts at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, the bank that sponsored the float, cut their forecast for PartyGaming's earnings growth next year from 35% to just 20%.Mr Segal also admitted that much of PartyGaming's huge advertising splurge has been a waste of money. He said the group would now adopt "a rifle, not a shotgun" approach to marketing.It wants to concentrate on retaining customers, studying their behaviour "to maximise lifetime player values".Yesterday's numbers showed a drop in the yield per player per day of 7% to $17.80 (&pound;9.65). Mr Segal said the site had suffered from offers of cash bonuses to poker players from rival operators.Was a chiropractor a factor?It's too soon to dispatch online poker to the land of spacehoppers and citizens' band radio - fads that went as quickly as they came - but the rate of the slowdown is extraordinary. How has it happened?Richard Segal, PartyGaming's chief executive, hopes it has something to do with the delay in US television coverage of the World Series of Poker. Transmissions started on August 23 this year rather than the usual early July slot.US television has fed the poker frenzy. The explosion on the internet coincided with the moment the perfectly-named Chris Moneymaker won the 2003 World Series main event. He had qualified via a $40 online tournament and walked away with $2.5m.When Greg Raymer, also via the internet, won in 2004, it reinforced online players' dreams. Both were also American males, PartyGaming's core audience.Unfortunately for Mr Segal, the 2005 tournament, which finished in July, did not produce another marketing gift. First prize of $7.5m was won by Joe Hachem, a professional poker player whose life-story has little "wow" factor for American TV. He is a retired Australian chiropractor.
Friends Reunited, the contact website that has been responsible for a host of weddings and babies and even brought criminals to justice, has been approached by several media and internet companies looking to buy it.Chief executive Michael Murphy said the company has appointed corporate finance specialist LongAcre to advise on a number of unsolicited approaches but stressed that talks were still in an embryonic stage."We can confirm that the company has received a number of credible approaches from large media groups and internet players," he said.The site, which was used by police in Wiltshire three years ago to catch a paedophile teacher, is a hot property. Unlike many dotcom creations it actually makes money.Speculation has put a price tag of more than &pound;100m on the business and any sale will make instant multimillionaires of the three people who set it up. Friends Reunited's high profile name and status as one of the largest online properties in the UK in terms of registered users, makes the website an attractive proposition.Recent speculation has suggested that News Corp, which spent &pound;315m on the owner of US portal MySpace.com in July, is interested. Other possible buyers include Yahoo!Set up five years ago in a suburban semi in Barnet, north London, by Julie Pankhurst with husband Steve and friend Jason Porter, Friends Reunited now has 12 million registered users, half the entire UK online population.Following a management buy-in two years ago, which saw two former Financial Times executives join the company, Friends Reunited has expanded overseas, buying operations in Australia and New Zealand and setting up in South Africa, Singapore and Malaysia. Its Australian website has more than 1.3 million users.The company has also moved to take advantage of a growing appetite for family trees, starting up Genes Reunited, which already has 3.3 million users. It has also opened a dating website which has registered about 350,000 members a month.These new businesses, and the fact that 1.1 million of its UK users are paying &pound;7.50 a year to contact old school and college chums, make Friends Reunited remarkably profitable.With just 50 employees it made profits last year of &pound;5.2m and is predicted to make &pound;6.5m this year and &pound;8m next.The site, which has been funded by management and a few private investors, received approaches two years ago but decided to go it alone and allowed a new management team, including Mr Murphy, to buy their way in. Management and staff own more than 30% with the rest in the hands of the founders and a couple of unnamed private investors.A spokeswoman for the firm stressed that Friends Reunited does not need cash but is looking at the growth potential offered by the possible bidders.
A new Trojan monitors access to porn sites and then displays a quote from the Koran chastising the surfer for his or her sins, a security vendor said Tuesday," reports Gregg Keizer ofTechWeb News.Once it's installed, Yusufali.a -- called "Cager.a" by Trend Micro -- watches which sites Windows users visit by examining the browser's title bar. If the Trojan sees a word in its list -- such as "teen," "xx," "sex," or "penis" -- it minimizes the window and displays a quote from the Koran."Yusufali: Know, therefore, that there is no god but Allah, and ask forgiveness for they fault, and for the men and women who believe: for Allah knows how ye move about and how ye dwell in your homes."
'Turn left here," says Martin Gregory, my driving instructor, seated comfortably in the passenger seat. Which would have been fine, except there was no road to the left - just clear blue sky and the odd wispy treetop. Closer inspection showed that there was indeed a road, only it descended so sharply it was invisible even from the rarefied heights of my Range Rover Sport Diesel's driving seat. Actually, road is too kind a word for what lay ahead, or rather below: a deeply rutted mudpath twisting down to a ravine. "This is nothing," says Martin. "Wait till you get to Gearbox Hill."We're at Land Rover HQ near Cheltenham, thundering about on its 5,000-acre off-road proving ground, where the company's engineers and test drivers subject its vehicles to every sort of horror they can think of, short of dropping iron girders on them. It's a sort of Room 101 for big, bad motors. Purchasers of Land Rovers and Range Rovers are invited to spend a day here with an instructor prior to driving off, in much the same way that airmen get briefed before bombing missions. It's a way of making them feel part of the club, I suppose, and of telling them what that orgy of buttons, dials, knobs, lights and levers on the dashboard does, the most thrilling of which is the one marked Terrain Response. It has five settings. The one for driving on sand is illustrated with a neat little cactus icon. The underlying message is clear: this is no ordinary SUV.Feeling like a kid with an Xbox, I clicked Mud Ruts and Hill Descent and went over the top. The Range Rover Sport lapped it up, carefully nudging its way down the incline with precious little input from me, save a feathery touch on the gas. A screen on the dash flashed up the exact position of each wheel, which was awfully good of it, but I really felt that the correct response to the situation was to keep both eyes glued to the road. It was at this point that I began to realise that the Range Rover Sport was going to be the dominant partner in our relationship. Taking it down such nasty terrain is both exciting and strangely uninvolving: you participate in the experience in the same the way that you participate in getting a haircut. Oh just sit back and leave it all to me, it seems to be saying - doubtless the best course of action.Of course, in the modern world, it might seem crazy to be taking an off-road vehicle off-road. I mean, why would anyone do that? Range Rovers might be built for jungle warriors but in the main they're bought by what we might call armchair off-roaders. It would probably be more useful to have a little icon on Terrain Response marked Buying Doormat From Homebase. And as for the term Sport, Range Rover might have shrunk the car a bit and given it some muscular curves, but it seems mad to talk about a sporty version of a vehicle that weighs more than two tonnes, is 5m long and takes around 12 seconds to reach 60mph. You might as well talk about a sporty version of an aircraft carrier.That said, nudge the gearstick into sport mode while on-road and, surprisingly for diesel, you do get a noticeably vroomier ride, high above the traffic in one of the Range Rover Sport's three height settings. It's a bit like cutting about on a souped-up stairlift. And it's true, too, that the brand does have a certain off-road pedigree, unlike a good many other tinfoil SUV struggle buggies. When the going gets tough, the tough get into their Land Rovers. (There's that great story about the bloke who got his stuck in a ditch, so he tied the front-mounted winch-wire to a tree branch and switched it on. Unaware that the winch winds very slowly, he thought it wasn't working so went off to get help, only to return later and find his car dangling from the tree.)"This is Gearbox Hill," says Martin finally, indicating a ridiculously steep and lengthy gnarled track. "Ready?" The Sport thumped down it with all the grace of a runaway wheelie bin but emerged at the bottom victorious, intact and still the right way up, although perhaps a little out of breath. I suspect that Gearbox Hill would have shaken Range Rover's big rivals the Porsche Cayenne or the BMW X5 to smithereens. And it would have been interesting to see if they breezed through 70cm of muddy water with the same raffish disdain as the Sport.The model we tested came with a cute little fridge between the front seats but, heartbreakingly, did not come with the giant clip-on tent. Yes, for an extra &pound;460, you can turn your already fabulously roomy Range Rover Sport into the sort of space that rock bands play in the summer. Click cactus and you could even take it out into the desert.The lowdownRange Rover Sport, Diesel TDV6 HSEPrice:&#163;35,000Top speed:120mphAcceleration:0-62mph in 12.7 secsConsumption:27mpg (combined)At the wheel:Colleen McLoughlinOn the stereo:The Wild RoverEn route for:The jungle/Homebase&#183;Giles Smith returns next Wednesday in the new Wheels section.
...but quite how much, I can't say.Paul Daniels, it seems, has a blog on AOL's journal space.Magic.
Accordingto Gamesindustry.biz, PSP shifted around 185,000 units in its first three days on sale in the UK, giving it the country's most successful console launch weekend. Furthermore, PSP titles dominate this week'sELSPA all-format games chartholding 11 of the top 20 places. Predictably, Ridge Racer took the top spot with Wipeout Pure, Virtua Tennis and Metal Gear Ac!d coming in after the PS2/Xbox title Brian Lara Cricket, which has grimly held on in there like one of England's late-order batsmen.It's all good news for Sony in what has been adifficult yearfor the electronics giant. Interesting news for Nintendo, too - it is now facing its first serious rival in the global handheld gaming market...
Friends Reunited, one of the successes of the dotcom era, said today it had been approached by more than five companies regarding a possible takeover bid.Steve and Julie Pankhurst, the husband and wife team who set up the website with business partner Jason Porter, will be among the main beneficiaries of any sale as they still own 30% of the business.But Friends Reunited said the takeover interest was in its very early stages and no actual talks had yet taken place."We will look at all the options and it will depend on what's on offer," said spokeswoman Carolynne Bull-Edwards. "It's not just about the money, but about synergies and how Friends Reunited will grow."The Friends management team has hired corporate finance company LongAcre to explore the proposals in more detail.The company has received takeover approaches in the past but in March 2003 opted to remain independent and fund expansion through a management buy-in that led to the appointment of Michael Murphy, a former Financial Times executive.The company expects to make profits of &#163;6.5m this year and more than &#163;8m in 2006, compared with &#163;4.6m in 2004.The company has expanded rapidly since it was started five years ago in Mrs Pankhurst's back bedroom in Barnet, north London. Set up to help Mrs Pankhurst brush up her IT skills before returning to work from maternity leave, Friends Reunited has since expanded rapidly.It is now one of Britain's most successful new media companies with more than 12 million registered members, equating to about half of UK households with internet access.Friends Reunited has become much more than a way of contacting old school friends. Police forces across the UK routinely use it to trace criminals, particularly in difficult investigations such as those involving child abuse.Journalists also use the site to get information about people in the news. When Abigail Witchalls was stabbed in Little Bookham, Surrey, details of her Friends Reunited entry were published in some newspapers. At the height of the London terrorist attacks, journalists used the site to try to find out about the victims and the bombers.Friends Reunited now offers a jobs service, a dating service and Genes Reunited, the UK's largest family tree and ancestry website, with over 40 million people listed.The business approaches to Friends Reunited come at a time when traditional media companies have become increasingly interested in websites as advertising moves online. In July, for example, News Corporation bought Intermix Media, the owner of MySpace.com, the US chat and networking portal for $580m (&#163;315m).
The operator of the world's largest online poker site, PartyGaming, reported a 70% jump in half-year earnings today, but its shares fell sharply as it cautioned about weaker growth.For the six months to the end of June, the company made pre-tax profits of $257.7m (&#163;140m). Revenues increased by 81% to $437.4m, in line with analysts' expectations. This included an 89% rise in poker revenues to $412m - the core part of the business.PartyGaming floated for &#163;4.6bn in June in the biggest UK initial public offering for five years, and has seen its share price soar on the back of the craze for intenet gambling.But Richard Segal, the chief executive, was cautious."As expected, whilst the online gaming market and poker in particular continues to show strong year on year growth, the rate of growth is continuing to moderate," he said.In its first earning statement since its flotation in June, PartyGaming also said the amount of profit earned from each player and retention rates continued to decline as more casual punters logged on to its sites.Although PartyGaming, which owns PartyPoker, was one of the UK's most successful flotations, analysts have raised a red flag over the company.Concern has focused on the legal uncertainties surrounding internet gaming, particularly in the US, where the government is threatening a crack down. The group, whose brands also include Starluck Casino and PartyBingo, makes most of its revenues in the US.Despite such concerns, PartyGaming is now bigger than retailer Marks & Spencer or British Airways in terms of market value, and is set to join the FTSE 100 index this week.The Gibraltar-based company also announced the launch of a casino game for mobile phones that allows players to download its Starluck Casino game to their handsets in minutes.It said it was confident of growing its international revenues in the second half through a detailed programme of international advertising campaigns, and was planning to launch a multi-lingual and multi-currency option during the second half of 2006 in a bid to broaden its international appeal.There is speculation that PartyGaming will launch a counter-offer for the Empire Online poker site, which accounts for about 9% of the internet poker market. Sportingbet, the internet betting group yesterday confirmed it was considering a takeover of Empire Online, which is worth &#163;800m.In morning trade, PartyGaming was down 26% at 116p, the price at which the company first sold shares to the public.
Monstermob, the Aim-listed provider of mobile phone content such as ringtones, is looking forward to a tune-filled Christmas, predicting that downloading complete music tracks will start to take off seriously in Britain over the festive season.The company, which yesterday revealed that half-year profits quadrupled as a result of international expansion and consumer appetite for mobile content, plans to launch its own mobile jukebox in December to take advantage of the fact that many consumers will buy or be given phones that can download tracks."It will start to happen this Christmas," according to Martin Higginson, Monstermob's chief executive.Although in many parts of the world it is still in embryonic form, he believes that the market for downloading music on to mobiles has the potential to far outstrip the market for portable music players such as Apple's iPod."There are only 12m iPods but there are 1.5bn &#91;mobile&#93; handsets in the market today," he said. "Mobile music could blow iPods out of the water."Last week, for instance, Monstermob saw "thousands and thousands" of British customers download a new full-track version of the Hollywood musical classic Singing in the Rain by British dance duo Mint Royale.For mobile phone customers downloading, storing and listening to music on a phone can be fraught with difficulties with a host of competing playback technologies, audio players and copyright protection software vying for dominance of the market.Monstermob's jukebox is designed to remove all these hassles for consumers. It will work with all the main music formats and across most, if not all, current handsets. It is a response to the mess that the mobile phone world has got itself into over what experts believe could be one of the industry's big money spinners."Our jukebox is so simple your mother could use it," said Mr Higginson. "It has got to be simple. Everyone has bollocksed-up so far because they are trying to ram technology down people's necks."Monstermob's moves to make it as easy as possible for customers to download content is paying dividends. Yesterday it revealed first-half profits of &pound;3.5m up from &pound;793,000 in the previous year. Sales leapt 150% to &pound;21.7m.The company has been buying assets across the globe, including a recent foray into the Chinese market, and is still on the look-out for what Mr Higginson termed further "in-fill deals". Shares in Monstermob closed up 10p at 341p valuing the company at &pound;200m.
Yes, that's right, there are too many games industry conferences in the Europe at this time of year.As a bit of background, this August there was:Women in Games(Dundee, Scotland,) 8-10Edinburgh Interactive Entertainment Festival(Edinburgh, Scotland), 10-14Leipzig Game Convention(Leipzig, Germany), 18-21Games Market Europe(London, England), 31-1 SeptGame Developers Conference Europe(London, England), 30-1 SeptThat's more than one a week! Surely most of them can be joined under one roof??Sure, the US has its industry glut (GDC) and its consumer hysteria (E3), Tokyo has itsGame Showand others, and Australia has its own GDC, but these are cleverly spaced throughout the year in a nice, even fashion, rather than being smooshed up together in the month of August.It seems very unlikely that much new was accomplished between the back-to-back booze-ups - I mean, conference sessions - with the same people, and it seems that it would behoove the industry to alow its top brass to take time off in August away from games without being saturated in networking and negotiations, rather than attending yet another shindig with more "thought" and "innovation" being introduced at ungodly o'clock in the AM after a night in the hotel bar. This is particularly an issue when there's so much crossover between the events in terms of speakers, PowerPoint presentations and seminars.Obviously, the intent of these conferences are marginally different. The Women in Games conference's aim is clear enough, Edinburgh tried to look at the cultural and social elements of games while filling the gap that Game Stars Live left for consumers with its Screenings and Go Play Games tracks, Leipzig is Europe's E3 (made obvious by the XBox 360 pricing announcement), and GDC-E and GME cross the similar path of exporing the industry side of the equation. The last three it seems to me would be best merged, so European business can be played out in one locale.Of course there are some politics floating around this, which has resulted in industry organisations and PR companies trying to outdo one another and confusing things in the process. The immediate fallout of this was the loss of two games events earlier this year, the flagship Euro show ECTS and the consumer-friendly Game Stars Live, plus a month or so of deliberation about secret shows, unveilings and impotent event promises.Unfortunately, what this conveys to the rest of the world is a lack of a unified vision for the European games scene. As the third largest industry in the world, in terms of both production and consumption, it seems disruptive that it would be so fractious.It's particularly interesting to note that the August show that garnered the most press was in Germany, which only had one show this year, rather than in the UK, which had four.
Internet file-swapping was dealt a fresh blow yesterday after the Australian federal court ordered the world's largest file-sharing service to filter out copyrighted material from its network.Kazaa, a program estimated to be used for four out of five internet file-swaps, will have to include copyright filters in future editions of its software and the company behind the programmust put pressure on current users to upgrade to the new version.More than 317 million people have downloaded Kazaa - which allows users to swap music, film and digital information over the web - and several million are believed to be using it at any one time.The Sydney court found file-sharing copyrighted material over the network was illegal. "Both the user who makes the file available and the user who downloads a copy infringes the owner's copyright," the ruling stated.The judgment against Sharman Networks, Kazaa's Sydney-based owners, is a further blow to internet file-swapping and follows a series of adverse rulings in recent months.Although Australian courts do not have jurisdiction overseas, their rulings customarily influence the development of law in other Commonwealth countries, including Britain.Yaman Akdeniz, the director of Cyber-Rights and Cyber-Liberties, said the judgment would simply increase the exodus of users to alternative file-sharing applications."The number of users on Kazaa is already going down ever since it started to be targeted," Mr Akdeniz said. "If you put a successful copyright filter on it, there won't be anything left because most of the swapping done there is illegal."However, he said the ruling was unlikely to stop file-swapping altogether, adding: "The legal system is slow and always lagging behind the software development."In June, the US supreme court ruled that makers of peer-to-peer software could be held liable for the copyright infringement of their users. The peer-to-peer pioneer Napster was shut down in 2001 after a US court ordered it to stop users swapping copyrighted files.Napster has since been relaunched as a paid-for music file download service.The music industry blames the growth of file-sharing software for its poor performance in recent years. CD sales have fallen by 25% since file-sharing began to take off in 1999.Kazaa, which moved to headquarters in Australia and a registration in the Pacific tax haven of Vanuatu after a similar court case in the Netherlands in 2001, was developed by the Swedish internet pioneer Niklas Zennstr&ouml;m.Mr Zennstr&ouml;m has since become known for writing the software for the internet telephony service Skype.Sharman and the five other defendants will also have to pay damages and 90% of the costs incurred by the record labels - including Universal, EMI, Sony BMG, Warner and Festival Mushroom - which brought the case.
"Little is left to chance in the brave new world of parking technology: Meters are triggered by remote sensors, customers pay for street time by cell phone and solar-powered vending machines create customized parking plans for the motorist," reportsAP."If you're in Monterey, Calif., or Chicago, you're apt to be foiled by parking officials who drive minicarts outfitted with GPS-enabled cameras that scan your license plate and know how long a car has occupied the given space."
Nintendo announced on Friday that over 250,000 copies of Nintendogs were sold in the US within a week of the game's release. Apparently, many retailers have sold out completely and are now feverishly ordering in fresh shipments.So, would anyone like to hazard a guess at the reasons behind the global popularity of this ridiculously cute title? After all, the concept of the loveable pet sim is hardly new, with titles similar to Nintendogs selling well in Japan for years. What is special about this particular care-'em-up?Well, there are a few elements that make this one special, not least its appearance on a globally successful and daringly innovative device. The tactile and voice instruction elements brought in by the DS hardware, for example, may have proved irresistible to Western gamers. Being able to stroke and talk to your pet is a sensory leap forward, no doubt appealing to animal lovers who don't want to communicate via button presses only.The fact that there are three different versions of the game is another compelling factor. It appeals to collectors and means that purchasers get to bring personal preference to the experience, which more closely mimics a real pet purchase. The availability of choice also adds a social element - users are able to compare and contrast breeds and to discuss differences in how the training, grooming and competing elements are coming along. Nintendogs, like Tamagotchi all those years ago, mimics the deeply instinctive comparative and competitive behaviours of human parents. And like parenthood it is about belonging, about caring, but also, at a fundamental level, about competition. The desire to nurture the fittest, healthiest and smartest progeny is a type of rivalry that we are all hardwired to understand.Or maybe it's just brilliant open-ended game design starring cute little puppies. One thing's for sure, plenty of commentators will fall into the trap of looking at Nintendogs as a casual game, perhaps even a 'girl's game' (eurgh). Wrong. Nintendogs is a game with appeal beyond the hardcore, but the hardcore are playing too. This is the beauty of handheld gaming, it makes the oddest titles acceptable and compelling. There is something about playing outside, away from the intensity of the curtains drawn, 100%-focused console experience, that releases us from inhibition. Handheld gaming is like holidaying - a solace from self.It's like portable music. I listen to stuff on my iPod that I'd never play out loud at home on my big, serious separates system (I had REO Speedwagon playing on the way into work this morning, for heavens sake). Similarly, I probably wouldn't go near console conversions of Nintendogs, Harvest Moon, Pokemon, Touch! Kirby or Wario Ware.Whatever, the success of Nintendogs in the US is a good thing for the whole industry. Every time a title like this breaks through to become a mainstream phenomenon it confounds those who understand videogames only in terms of violence and destruction. It also opens doors for developers who want to experiment with new forms of gameplay. As long as it doesn't lead to a dozen pet sim variations complete with increasingly bizarre official endorsements I don't mind. This time next year I do NOT want to be playing PDSA Ferret Fancier 3.
Internet file-swapping was dealt a fresh blow today after an Australian court ordered the world's largest file-sharing service to filter out copyrighted material from its network.Kazaa, a programme estimated to be used for four out of five internet file-swaps, will have to include copyright filters in future editions of its software and put pressure on its current users to upgrade to the new version.More than 317 million people have downloaded Kazaa - which allows users to swap music, film and other digital information over the web - and several million are believed to be using it at any one time.The ruling, by Australia's federal court, found file-sharing copyrighted material over the network was illegal. "Both the user who makes the file available and the user who downloads a copy infringes the owner's copyright," the ruling stated.The judgment against Sharman Networks, Kazaa's Sydney-based owners, is a further blow to internet file-swapping and follows a series of adverse rulings in recent months.Although Australian courts do not have jurisdiction overseas, their rulings customarily influence the development of law in other commonwealth countries, including Britain.Yaman Akdeniz, the director of Cyber-Rights and Cyber-Liberties, said that the judgment would simply increase the exodus of users moving to alternative file-sharing applications."The number of users on Kazaa is already going down ever since it started to be targeted," he said. "If you put a successful copyright filter on it, there won't be anything left because most of the swapping done there is illegal."However, he said the ruling was unlikely to stop file-swapping altogether, adding: "The legal system is slow and always lagging behind the software development."In June, the US supreme court ruled that makers of peer-to-peer software could be held liable for the copyright infringement of their users. Peer-to-peer pioneer Napster was shut down in 2001 after a US court ordered it to stop users swapping copyrighted files.Napster has since relaunched as a paid-for music file download service.The music industry blames the growth of file-sharing software for its poor performance in recent years. CD sales have dropped 25% since file-sharing began to take off in 1999.Kazaa, which moved to headquarters in Australia and a registration in the Pacific tax haven of Vanuatu after a similar court case in the Netherlands in 2001, was developed by the Swedish internet pioneer Niklas Zennstrom.He has since become known for writing the software for the internet telephony service Skype.Sharman and the five other defendants will also have to pay damages and 90% of the costs incurred by Universal Music Australia, which brought the case.
"Internet file-swapping was dealt a fresh blow today after an Australian court ordered the world's largest file-sharing service to filter out copyrighted material from its network," reportsGuardian Unlimited.The ruling, by Australia's federal court, found file-sharing copyrighted material over the network was illegal. "Both the user who makes the file available and the user who downloads a copy infringes the owner's copyright," the ruling stated.The judgment against Sharman Networks, Kazaa's Sydney-based owners, is a further blow to internet file-swapping and follows a series of adverse rulings in recent months.Although Australian courts do not have jurisdiction overseas, their rulings customarily influence the development of law in other commonwealth countries, including Britain.
High street electronics retailer, Comet, has identified a slight north-south divide in last week's PSP launch frenzy. According to the company's press release:"36% of Comet stock was snapped up by people in the North, as gamers clamoured to be the first to own the latest and greatest piece of techno kit. People in the Midlands were also desperate to get their hands on the PSP, with 32% of Comet stock being secured by people living here. Somewhat surprisingly, Southerners only secured 22% of Comet's PSP's as they were beaten to the punch by their savvy Northern counterparts."So, are Northern consumers bigger fans of handheld devices than gamers in the rest of the country? Or are Southern gamers more likely to splash out on import consoles rather than waiting for the official UK release? Or, most likely, is this just a bit of fun to draw out the excitement of a vital pre-Xmas hardware launch?
It wasn't just the weather that hotted up last week. The debate about whether a date should be set for switching off the analogue radio signal stepped up a gear with a number of prominent pronouncements. And while the big digital TV switchover is due to start in 2008, radio still seems to be the jilted bride.The participants in the argument fall broadly into two camps: firmly in the "no date yet, thanks" corner are Ofcom's Stephen Carter, supported by the BBC's director of radio, Jenny Abramsky. On the other side of the ring, G-Cap's Ralph Bernard is pushing hard for a date to be set and was backed last week by Chris Smith, the former culture secretary.That digital radio is now starting to make headway in UK households is beyond debate. Latest figures suggest about 1.5m sets have now been sold. The Digital Radio Development Bureau, which is supported by the BBC and the commercial radio sector, predicted that figure will reach 20m by 2009. Many more are listening to digital radio through their television or the web. There has been increased investment in digital radio programmes recently, with stations such as Planet Rock recruiting well known DJs, and others such as Galaxy launching bespoke digital services rather than simulcasts of terrestrial broadcasts.However, switchover detractors point out that there are between 80 and 100m analogue radios in the country, and argue that the debate is a non-starter until a solution can be found for accommodating smaller radio stations who cannot yet afford to make the move to digital. Smith argued last week that the government should be called on to subsidise these smaller stations so that any switch-off date does not kill them off.A recent Ofcom consultation document said "respondents generally held the view that announcing a switch-off date and/or a switch off process ... will encourage take up of receivers". So when is the right time for this process to begin? Does delaying an announcement stunt the growth of digital or allow greater time for an achievable date to be set?It may be that the real force behind setting a date for turning off the analogue signal is not the regulator, the government or the radio industry but the consumer. Listeners are the ones who will decide if buying a digital radio is an attractive enough proposition.In the past 12 months, the price of digital radios has become more affordable with plenty of options in the &#163;50 price bracket, and it appears that awareness of the advantages of digital radio over analogue is strong. This Christmas should be a good one for digital radio, but of course it is the public who will be the ultimate barometer.And there lies the real test. If technology in the 21st century has already taught us one thing, it's that time and again, the consumer is setting the pace for the supplier. From the growth of texting or music downloading, to the initial flop of Wap phones, the customer has constantly stuck a bold finger up at "expert" soothsayers who predict rapid growth of particular technologies. In each case the marketplace has been savvy enough to work out how useful and desirable an application is. Of course, clever marketing, word of mouth and beauty of design all help; but, ultimately, before a date can be considered, consumers have to show that they are persuaded of the merits of buying a digital radio, or a device that has digital radio in it.The indications are that the radio industry has worked hard and the public awareness of digital radio is high. The recent launch of Sky's Gnome, allowing listening to digital radio on Sky to take place anywhere in the house, and not just where the TV set is located, would seem to support this.But physical take-up of digital radio needs to increase in pace (as it has done over the past 18 months). Alongside this, factors such as Rajar figures continuing to show ever-increasing numbers tuning into digital services, and radio providers continuing to launch services that offer something new (such as the launch announced last week of Virgin Radio Xtreme) may end up making this debate a rather pointless one.If the public force the pace in their appreciation of digital radio, then the argument will resolve itself naturally and allow a clear date to be set for switchover.&#183;Steve Ackerman is director of commercial radio and talent at Somethin' Else
When Sky launched the digital television revolution in 1998, its success hinged upon a powerful and smart new tool, the on-screen electronic programme guide. The original 140 channels were grouped into seven categories, from entertainment through children's to news.But services on the platform have mushroomed from 140 to a bewildering 500, with Ofcom licensing 156 new channels last year alone. The Sky system is clogging up, while simpler Freeview is snapping at its heels. The current set-up is also causing offence, as it is too easy for children and unsuspecting adults to bump into betting and adult porn and dating channels, in the entertainment and speciality categories. This is putting off new subscribers and families. Sky's own research shows parents are most worried about their children being exposed to violence and sex scenes across all media.So next month, BSkyB is launching the biggest-ever reorganisation of the channel line-up. It is a significant move: about 70% of channels will change numbers and 10% are shifting to different categories."Part of the motivation is a clean-up", says Jon Wildman, Discovery Europe vice president overseeing sales and distribution. "The 'entertainment' and 'specialist' categories have become too vague, too broad, and this has clearly reflected badly on the platform."In the past year BSkyB, which must run an "open access" platform, has been consulting wary broadcasters. At the end of October Sky will start switching 7.8m households, some 16 million people, to the new guide, with roll-out complete by December.The most obvious change is that the familiar system of seven content categories - entertainment, movies, sports, news and documentaries, kids, music and radio and specialist - is being doubled to 15, to reflect the fragmenting world of digital. This means the genre menu will have to be split into two pages.The changes, just confirmed to channel operators, include two new genres. The first is lifestyle and culture, which has been introduced to reflect the rise of channels such as UK Style and Sky Travel, and will become the second genre, below entertainment. This category will also accommodate Artsworld, which moves from entertainment. The second is gaming and dating, which will be placed on the second page of options, and which will accommodate the ever-increasing number of channels in this booming category.Other categories are divided, so that news and documentaries become separate genres, as do music and radio. The current specialist genre is subdivided into shopping, religion, international, specialist and adult, all on the second page. (Direct spending by viewers comprises 60% of commercial television revenue now, says Ofcom).The first category on the second menu page is radio. The radio industry has been concerned about this apparent demotion, but may be able to take comfort from being given a category of its own, separate from the music TV channels.Sky believes the new regime will make it easier to navigate the sea of channels. But viewers who go direct to their favourite channels by typing in the channel number (101 for BBC1, 103 for ITV, for example) may be confused by the number of changes. Further confusion could arise because some channels - radio stations, to begin with - will get an extra digit. This change is to pave the way for more channels, eventually rising above 1,000: More4, ITV4 and Discovery Real Time Plus all start soon, while ITV plans to launch a children's channel next year.Wildman says there are pros and cons, but overall he is happy. "It should improve the experience for consumers, and every broadcaster supported that. We did have a conversation about whether documentaries could be named factual, as a stand-alone genre, but it was perceived as a bit worthy." Ofcom also welcomes the changes.Brian Sullivan, BSkyB's director of customer products and services, says it did not encounter much opposition. "The motivation came from the fact we talk to our customers. The amount of choice on Sky is increasing amazingly. We'd not anticipated text services, poker, and gaming back in 1998."The changes are being preceded by an upgraded parental control system which extends beyond relying on movie ratings and pin numbers. "Families are a core constituency - 60% of subscribers," says Sullivan. Parents will be able to block access to an adult channel completely or remove it from the guide altogether. Sullivan says: "It puts more power in the parents' hands. Ultimately what we want is not to have any level of censorship."
Three cheers to gamesblog's own Greg and his lovely wife Annie who became the proud parents of a little girl in the wee hours of Saturday morning. Greg'll be away for the next few weeks teaching her the finer points of FIFA, but until then, well done and hip hip hooray!
Last week, Nintendo sold more than 250,000 copies ofNintendogs, its new pet simulator for the DS.The Merc'senthusiastic review was one of many:Although Nintendogs may sound simplistic, it's really quite a sophisticated game. Its virtual dogs are amazingly lifelike in both their appearance and behavior. In fact, my own dogs were jealous of the attention they heard me lavishing on my virtual puppy.What's more, Nintendogs is a breakthrough title for the DS. For the first time, the handheld's touch screen and microphone inputs have been put to full use in a way that makes perfect sense.Expect Nintendogs to be a huge seller in the coming holiday season and to drive sales of the DS system along with it. We'll be hearing more about this one when those "game of the year" lists begin to appear.
Well, that's the end of IFA for me - I'm off to catch a plane back to the UK. Lots of technology, lots of traversing the halls, and certainly lots of televisions. A few stats, for those who are all about the numbers:Number of exhibitors: 1189 Number of exhibition halls: 26 Number of visitors: 273,000 (2003) Sore feet: at least two (mine)
Adopts cheesy DJ voiceHere's one for all the audiophiles out there.Motor-Presse Stuttgart, a German media organisation, has a display showing off what it says is the most expensive audio set-up in the world: and I'm not arguing - this little number costs a whopping 1 million euros. That's 680,000 or $1.2m for those who aren't currency buffs.
I spent some time yesterday touring TWF , the part of IFA where ubergeeks and techies get to show off their new developments and slightly more out-of-the-ordinary technologies. Here are a couple of interesting spots.DMB:In South Korea they've already rolled out some services using the Digital Multimedia Broadcast standard, which is a rival to both 3G and DVB-H (a handheld equivalent to the digital transmissions we get from, say, Freeview). It's essentially a DAB radio signal with extra space for video, too.3D interface:This one was fairly ropey, but the potential was there. Sitting in a 3D booth, you were able to move and manipulate objects by simply moving your hands about in the air. The results were simple and a little jerky, but interesting nonetheless.Object tracking interactive video:A red-button style service and in which you could tag objects moving on a piece of video and link them to a data file. Their example was an ice hockey match: they had used to add an extra level of information - in this case, each player was highlighted with a coloured box: press the corresponding button on your remote control to bring up a biog and stats of that particular player. Creating a relationship between the object and the was simple: just find the first appearance of the item in question, highlight it and then the software would track its movement for the rest of the video.Surround sound digital radio:Several stations in Germany are currently testing 5.1 Dolby surround sound over digital radio (DAB). Imagine the difference when you listen to, say, the Proms, or other live music broadcasts. It's not necessarily what you want when you tune into a news programme, but in the right circumstances the difference is impressive. Rolling out similar services in the UK could be tricky, however, since we work on a much tighter radio spectrum, and digital surround sound takes up extra frequency.
Better living through technology. Photograph: Bobbie JohnsonOne of the stranger exhibits here is the one from Japanese electronics giant Sony. They've commandeered an absolutely massive hall for themselves, and filled the whole thing with sheets of black fabric that cascade down from the ceiling to the floor. You make your way around by pulling back dozens of these curtains. Walking through it is rather disconcerting; like navigating your way through invisible waterfalls.But in between the exist small islands of, well, not very much at all. Sure these stands look nice - the chill-out living room stuffed with Sony Ericsson music phones which is pictured above, for example - but they don't seem to offer too much product. As I wiggled through the hall this afternoon, I saw plenty of people all trying to find exactly where Sony's selection of gadgets, gizmos and technologies were.Points for style, but we want to see the products!
It's day two of IFA, and I'm back at the exhibition grounds of Messe Berlin to find some more interesting technologies. One thing it's hard to express here is the sheer size of this exhibition. Twenty-six individual exhibition halls - of them sizeable - cover all the main bases from consumer electronics, and on top of that there's a convention centre where all the speeches are made and the dignitaries are hanging out.This afternoon I spoke to Jens Heithecker, the director of IFA. [disclaimer: it is the executive company behind IFA, the snappily-named Gesellschaft fr Unterhaltungs und Kommunikationselektronik, which is paying for my trip]. His task is tricky: he's in charge of organising this bi-annual expo, and it's his job to persuade potential exhibitors that it is worth turning up. It can, he says, be difficult, especially when the costs for companies to attend the show are extremely high - many large manufacturers have hired halls of their own. But doesn't the pressure crank up from competing companies? "We are a neutral platform that's open for all development," says Heithecker. "But of course, you need the market leaders and the volume manufacturers."What about when it comes to competing standards?It's no secret that there are many warring groups in the technology market: all competing to control the same sectors of the market. There are plenty of mobile broadcast standards on offer, for example, and theBlu-Ray/HD-DVDbattle is well known. Surely there is a temptation for one standard to try and influence you to push the other out of these events?"Competition is good for markets," he says, adroitly. Blu-ray and HD-DVD, he says, "both provide strong improvement for customers, but they are very different technologies.""These are the same discussions that were had over VHS vs Betamax. At that time Sony wanted the better technical standard [Betamax] but VHS was cheaper and more interesting. This time it's different: international . But one solution will always end up the winner."There's subtext here, I think: I've seen a lot of Blu-ray talk here at IFA, but nothing on HD-DVD.Heithecker's mind is elsewhere, though: he's spent two years preparing for this show, and now there are are hundreds of thousands of people arriving. "The problem is that every time you think it's organised, something else turns up."
[Off Topic]"A South African inventor unveiled a new anti-rape female condom on Wednesday that hooks onto an attacker's penis and aims to cut one of the highest rates of sexual assault in the world," reportsReuters.Nothing has ever been done to help a woman so that she does not get raped and I thought it was high time," Sonette Ehlers, 57, said of the "rapex", a device worn like a tampon that has sparked controversy in a country used to daily reports of violent crime.Ehlers said the "rapex" hooks onto the rapist's skin, allowing the victim time to escape and helping to identify perpetrators."He will obviously be too pre-occupied at this stage," she told reporters in Kleinmond, a small holiday village about 100km (60 miles) east of Cape Town. "I promise you he is going to be too sore. He will go straight to hospital."Comment:This is presented as a new idea but of course it's a very old one, in the form of thevagina dentata. It appears in the writings ofSigmund Fraud, er, Freud, and in the wonderful novel Snow Crash by Neal Stephenson, which all geeks read about a decade ago.
"A team of South Korean scientists said on Friday that they had developed a new technology that could open the way to make new devices that could replace current silicon-based semiconductors," reports AFP.The team led by Kim Hyun-Tak of the Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI) said they had successfully manufactured what is known as a 'Mott insulator'.Named after Nevill Mott, a British scientist who won the 1977 Nobel Physics Prize, Mott insulators, although metal-based, do not normally conduct electrical charges. Subjected to a high-voltage shock, however, Mott insulators can conduct electricity at relatively low temperatures of 67C.
A User's Guide to DRM in Online Music, from the Electronic Frontier Foundation. It covers the Apple iTunes, Microsoft, Real and Napster 2 services.
Check back for previous stories...Sunday, August 28NOTICE! YOU HAVE BEEN SUED; Yahoo! Music Unlimited; Confounding Machines: how the future looked; At Denver Airport, the future didn't workMonday, August 29Happy holidaysTuesday, August 30Rumour mill: iPhone on its way; Wooden wisdom; Flick Off!Wednesday, August 31Happy Blogday; Google to destroy information it can't index (humour)Thursday, September 1Live on the net from New Orleans, we hope; Takahashi: putting the fun back into games; Murdoch and MySpace in jeopardy?; Toshiba may delay HD-DVD launch; Popular Mechanics suffers iMacG5 failuresFriday, September 2IFA: Blu movies, IFA: telly, telly and more telly, NOAA posts Katrina pictures, Zotob fails to make the charts, IFA: Panasonic keynote
