Most of the technologies required to monitor the population arealready in place, according to an article in the New York Times [free registration required]. "The civilian population has willingly embraced the technical prerequisites for a national surveillance system that Pentagon planners are calling Total Information Awareness."
"Supervisors voted 8-2 Monday to keep Segways off our sidewalks," says theSF Weekly. "In so doing, they fended off a potential tsunami of lard." (That is: most Americans are overweight and allowing Segway scooters on pavements would lead to some getting even less exercise.)
It doesn't look as though the categories are supposed to be taken too seriously, but if you ignore those,CNethas a generally good list of high-tech products. Fancy something? Click through to the review page, select "Read user comments" then click "Only negative" to get a better idea of some of the drawbacks. This approach not foolproof -- for example, you wouldn't get a warning of the Apple Titanium G4 Powerbook's"abysmal performance"with Wi-Fi wireless networks -- and some of the complainants are obvious nutters, but it can provide a welcome bit of balance. And if you don't think any of the reader reviews hits the button, you can always add your own....
(viaScary Duck): And now, through the majestic power of the internet, we bring youKaren's Kristmas KrackerMP3, which appears to be from a tape of festive tunes put together by a women for her (distant) colleagues. It's certainly the meme of the moment - keep listening to the end for the particularly moving rendition of Auld Lang Syne, which brought a tear to my eye. Does this women know her tape is now world-famous? Oh well.... merry Christmas to all, especially Karen.
InfoWorld/IDGhas a much fuller account of the dispute. "The complaint, which was filed on Friday, lists 13 counts against Microsoft, including fraud, negligent misrepresentation, breach of contract and civil conspiracy," it says. Comment: I have no idea what is going on in this particular case. However, my opinion is that Microsoft's strategy in smartphones is ultimately the same as in every other area (except games consoles). Microsoft is a platform company, and its modus operandi is to try to create software platforms and make them available to a wide range of hardware manufacturers. The hardware manufacturers then try to kill one another on specification and price, which makes the platform much more attractive to consumers (since they get a wide range of de facto standard hardware choices at the lowest possible prices), and that makes Microsoft's platform software more valuable. This concept is not beyond the average journalist, so I'd have thought a commercial company would be well aware of it. Footnote: why are games consoles different? Microsoft did try to develop a platform based, like the Microsoft Smartphone and Pocket PC, on Windows CE (see Sega Dreamcast), but couldn't get a range of hardware manufacturers to adopt it. The games console industry is based on sales of proprietary software subsidising sales of proprietary hardware, so there is no room for competition between hardware manufacturers as there is in the PC business. Eventually Microsoft abandoned its principles and did its own subsidised hardware, the Xbox, thus playing the game exactly the same way that Nintendo/Sony/Sega play it.
Amazonreckons the Segway scooter is selling well, though consumers won't get them until March, Reuters reports.
US District Judge J Frederick Motz has handed Sun Microsystems a huge victory by forcing Microsoftto include Sun's Java in Windowswhile the Californian company pursues its private antitrust case against Microsoft. Microsoft plans to appeal.
Inktomi, the web search business and rival to Google, yesterday provided a stark illustration of the rise and fall of the dotcom industry when it was acquired by internet group Yahoo for $1.65 a share.During the peak of the internet goldrush in March 2000, the company was valued at $37bn, or $241.50 a share. Yesterday, Yahoo paid $235m for the loss-making business.Terry Semel, Yahoo chairman and chief executive, said the integration of Inktomi would give the online portal better control of its web search function. "Inktomi will help us achieve our goal of providing users with the most comprehensive, relevant and highest quality search solutions on the web."Yahoo played a critical role in hobbling Inktomi's business when it ditched the search engine in favour of the privately held Google in June 2000. A spokeswoman said the Google contract, which was renewed in September, was unaffected by the Inktomi deal.Google has been one of the runaway successes of the internet. In May it replaced Inktomi and Overture as the search engine for America Online, which has the largest number of subscribers of any internet service provider. Bob Pittman, who ran America Online at the time, described   Google as the "reigning champ of online research". The contract was estimated to be worth about $100m.Google, founded by two Stanford University PhD students, handles 150m searches a day. Google attracts 31.8% of all web search referrals and it is closing fast on Yahoo, with 36.3%. There had been speculation before the contract was renewed that Yahoo would drop Google because it sees the company as a threat. The deal with Inktomi will reduce its reliance on the fast growing rival.Inktomi's revenues were $113m last year and it recorded losses of $41m.Unlike Google, Inktomi, which was founded in 1996, does not operate its own branded search site. Its clients include MSN, Amazon.com, WalMart.com and eBay.Last month, Inktomi sold non-core assets for $25m to focus on its chief business of providing technology to run searches on the web. In an effort to reach profitability, the company recently announced it was cutting 85 jobs, about 20% of the workforce.Yahoo has been attempting to introduce new revenue sources under Mr Semel as the market for online advertising has fallen apart. The portal has added fee-based premium services including high-speed access, job listings and personal advertising.
Television watchdogs have banned an advert for the internet giant Yahoo! after upholding complaints about its "outdated and offensive" portrayal of gay men.Dozens of people contacted the independent television commission to complain about the advert, which showed the victim of a stag night prank who had been stripped naked and tied to a tree being eyed up by a stereotypically camp man. The ad ended with the line ""You can't trust the kindness of strangers".The ITC said it had received complaints from both heterosexual and homosexual people that the  advertising used an "outdated and offensive" portrayal of gay men as "effeminate, predatory and likely to seek opportunities for sex without consent".Many were also concerned the ad trivialised the issue of male rape, victims of which they said were already likely to be ridiculed.The ITC said it had acted on advice from the gay rights pressure group, Stonewall, which was concerned that the ad could reinforce the kind of prejudices that have led to homophobic attacks in the past.The watchdog accused Yahoo! and its advertising agency, Euro RSCG Wnek Gosper, of taking "insufficient care... to avoid the use of a stereotype that could feed prejudice or perpetuate damaging misconceptions, with potentially harmful consequences".Yahoo! reedited the ad to remove the final scene when it learned of the problem. But the ITC said the ad was still causing controversy, with 15 people complaining about the new version."The ad was intended as a light-hearted insight into a stereotypical stag night prank. No offence was intended and as soon as we realised some people had taken offence, we removed the ad and reedited it," the company said in a statement."A new edited version simply showing a groom-to-be tied to a tree is being shown. Yahoo! has not been informed of any complaints about this new version."But the ITC cleared another controversial advert, for Carphone Warehouse, despite receiving over 70 complaints.Viewers said the commercial, a spoof of the RSPCA's famous "A dog is for life, not just for Christmas" plea, made light of animal cruelty by showing discarded mobile phones being 'rescued' from rubbish bins.But Carphone Warehouse said it had received permission from the animal welfare charity before running the ad.The ITC concluded it was no more than a "good natured joke" and rejected the complaints.
Sendo, a small British mobile phone company, has told Reuters that it filed suit in a US federal court against US software maker Microsoft,"alleging Microsoft tried to remove technical expertise and proprietary information". Sorry, no: I don't have a clue what that means.... Sendo had developed a smart phone using Microsoft's PocketPC-based smartphone software but abandoned the project shortly before Orange launched the similar SPV.
The past caught up with the new chief executive of Vodafone, Arun Sarin, yesterday as details emerged of litigation faced by the Indian-born American businessman from his time in the dotcom industry.A US law firm last summer began a class action suit against internet communications firm InfoSpace, which Mr Sarin ran for nine months from April 2000. The suit alleges that the company concealed its operating performance to support the share price.The case is being fought by Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman &amp; Herz - which has more than 300 class action suits pending in US courts including cases against Vodafone and Marconi - on behalf of InfoSpace investors who believe they lost out when the company's stock fell sharply during the dotcom crash.The complaint alleges that between January 2000 and January 2001 Nasdaq-listed InfoSpace "disseminated false and misleading information concerning actual full year 1999 and 2000 financial performance and ... expectations concerning InfoSpace's 2001 revenue and earnings."The lawsuit goes on to allege that public representations made by InfoSpace's directors were designed to allow the company to continue to use its shares to make acquisitions and enable the founder and former chief executive, Naveen Jain, to sell stock.InfoSpace filed a motion in July to have the case, which is before the US district court in Washington, dismissed. The judge has yet to rule.Vodafone said yesterday that a full check had been run on Mr Sarin, who is already serving as a non-executive director of the mobile phone company, before his appointment to replace Sir Christopher Gent was made public. During his time at InfoSpace had Mr Sarin sold no shares in the company.Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman &amp; Herz is one of several US law firms to have seen a dramatic increase in litigation by investors following the bursting of the internet bubble.
Not tough enough to stop Apple spending $90 million on Steve Jobs's jet, of course, but worrying enough for Mac fans. Total Mac sales for this year have come in flat at 3.1 million units, which is much better than the 32% decline Apple suffered in 2001. However, sales of the more powerful, more professional and much more profitable Power Mac desktops and servers fell by 18% (units) to only 766,000, following a 35% decline the previous year. Apple now needs to double its sales of Power Macs just to get back to where it was in 2000. Apple warns that "Continued deterioration in Power Macintosh unit sales will adversely affect the Company's future net sales and gross margin. If future unit sales of Power Macintosh systems fail to partially or fully recover, it will be difficult for the Company to improve its overall profitability." Still, sales of iBook portables grew by 14%, albeit from a low base: in unit terms, from 596,000 to 677,000. Also on the good side, Apple sold $143 million worth of iPod portable music players and $248 million worth of software -- perhaps justifying the unpopular decision to sting OS X users for the Jagwire update. (Portable sales are particularly good news for Taiwan because, as Apple says: "Currently, manufacture of many of the components used in the Company's products and final assembly of all of the Company's portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and the iPod is performed by third-party vendors in Taiwan.") As for the important US education market, Apple says: "Total net sales in this channel fell 15% in 2002 and 4% in 2001. These declines are consistent with industry data that shows the Company losing market share in the US education market in each of the last two fiscal years. The Company believes this weakness has been caused by multiple factors, including increased price competition in this price sensitive market from the Company's competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers." Fortunately, Apple was able to increase consumer sales of more expensive flat-screen iMacs by enough to compensate for the shortfall. Overall, iMac sales grew by 8% to 1.4 million units, though again, this is still far below the 2.4 million sold in 2000. All numbers and quotations are provided by Apple in its annual 10-K filing to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, which is a good indication that they are as true and accurate as possible. You can read ithere. In the Mac market, where impartial reporting is in short supply, Apple's filings are an important source of information.
Online retailers are set to lose almost &#163;100 million in business over Christmas and New Year as gangs of fraudsters cash in on the internet sales boom. While high street sales are up by about 6 per cent on this time last year, online sales are expected to reach &#163;2 billion in the next three weeks - double last year's total. More than 10 million people have chosen to avoid the crowded high streets and shop by computer, but the growth in the market has produced a corresponding rise in criminal activity.'Although significant steps have been taken to try to combat online fraud, it is increasing at around 30 per cent per year,' says fraud expert Peter Doddington of software company SAS. 'As we eliminate opportunistic fraud, we are left with a highly-skilled "professional" class of fraudster, often linked to organised crime.'In the old days, there would be groups of kids using specialist programmes which generated random credit card numbers,' added Doddington. 'Since the introduction of tighter security, the methods of obtaining numbers have also evolved. Today the criminals will set up a bogus but professional-looking website offering desirable goods at well below normal high street prices. The would-be buyers will input all their details - including their billing address and security numbers - but when they try to purchase something, the site will tell them their card cannot be processed. People running the site will have collected the information they need. They sit on it for six to eight weeks, then use it fraudulently.'This month it emerged that fraudsters had tried to steal credit card information from the American online auction house eBay.com by setting up a fake website that mimicked the firm. The scam revolved around emails aimed at previous eBay users. The recipients were told there had been a problem with billing and were asked to re-enter their card details at a site called ebayupdates.com. The site had been taken off line within hours of being discovered, but hundreds of users may have submitted their details.Dozens of chatrooms and specialist sites exist where thieves and hackers swap the personal details of card holders. The numbers are exchanged for cash or given in return for passwords allowing free access to websites that normally require payment. 'Virgin' numbers - those that have not yet been used fraudulently - are highly prized.While some fraudsters try to get the maximum amount of money from the card in the shortest time, others adopt a more sophisticated approach. Knowing a large transaction will quickly be reported as being suspicious, they use a number of cards and make small debits from each. Most bills are issued weeks after a debit is made and the criminals hope that during that time, the victim will not recall all they have bought and assume the transaction is legitimate.According to research carried out by technology company Gartner Inc, actual fraud will account for only around &#163;11m in losses, but security measures set up by the retailers mean that millions more in potential sales are lost.'Electronic retailers report fraud attacks are becoming more sophisticated, frequent, and menacing in nature,' said Avivah Litan, research director for Gartner.Triggers can alert retailers to fraudsters - purchasing high-value goods, asking for them to be delivered at an address different to the billing address and so on. At Christmas this system breaks down when many shop in that way.'The big question these companies have to address is whether to pay the cost of detecting fraudulent claims or whether to pursue the false negatives, rather than simply turning them down,' says Doddington. 'For the sake of simplicity, they often choose the latter.'The National Hi-Tech Unit, the specialist police force set up last year to fight cyber crime, is to allow businesses to report incidents anonymously, to encourage people to come forward. 'Eighty-nine per cent of UK businesses say they have been victimised by at least one incident of cyber crime,' says Detective Chief Superintendent Len Hynds. 'It is possible to solve this - if the corporate sector and law enforcement work together.'
Since the Linux "business model" -- embodied in Richard Stallman's GPL -- could have been designed specifically to destroy the commercial software industry, it's always amazed me that (a) anyone is dumb enough to start a company based on selling GNU/Linux software and that (b) any of them survived as long as they have. In the long term, Linux is bound to take us back to the 1970s, with the operating system costs bundled into the price of the hardware. Sooner or later, therefore, all the Linux suppliers will have to find alternative sources of cash. At the moment, there don't seem to be many available, though Mandrakesoft is trying the most obvious:begging.
The Meta Group reckons that Linux's appeal is"more emotional than realistic", according to analyst Kevin McIsaac. The Computerworld article says: He predicts that by 2007, Linux and Windows on Intel (Lintel and Wintel) will be the dominant platform for the application server tier, leaving RISC/Unix vendors competing with IBM mainframes in the high-end database server tier. "The success of Linux will come primarily at the expense of Unix." This is the first time I've noticed the "Lintel and Wintel" phrase, but it could catch on....
A web designer from north Wales yesterday admitted he was the creator of a trio of computer viruses that created havoc in 42 countries.Simon Vallor, whose viruses were spread via emails with intriguing messages in the subject field, was caught after an operation by the FBI and Scotland Yard.He pleaded guilty at Bow Street magistrates court in central London to three counts of writing and releasing viruses. The 22-year-old, who uses the nickname Gobo and runs a website he calls The Devil Within, could be jailed for his activities.The court was told that Vallor's three "mass mailer" viruses, known as GoKar, Redesi and Admirer, were spotted on the net last December.Audrey Hawks, prosecuting, said that victims received an email with a message in the subject field such as: "Will you meet me and we'll fly away", "The A-team vs KnightRider ... who would win", and "Just one kiss will make it better."When the computer user opened the email the virus immediately spread to every email address stored on the computer. In all, 27,000 computers were affected. In some cases, the viruses had damaged hard drives.FBI computer experts in Baltimore, Maryland, set about trying to find the creator of the virus. They discovered that someone using the name Gobo was boasting about the virus GoKar in internet chatrooms and on bulletin boards.They traced Gobo to Britain and tipped off Scotland Yard, the court heard.Vallor was pinpointed through a BT internet access account registered to his home address in Llandudno, and he was arrested in February.During yesterday's hearing Vallor spoke only to confirm his details. He was committed on bail to be sentenced at Southwark crown court at a later date.The sentencing will be watched with interest by computer companies across the globe, many of whom do not believe virus creators are dealt with harshly enough.Graham Cluley, a senior technological consultant for Sophos, an anti-virus developer, said after the case that compared with viruses such as the LoveBug, which brought the internet to a standstill two years ago by paralysing the email servers of more than 100 million computer users, Vallor's viruses were not "biggies".But he said it was possible the viruses could have caused email systems to fail, which might have cost money. It also affected a company's credibility if it passed on a virus.
Laptop-toting early adopters can already tell you all about the joys of Wifi - the high-speed wireless internet access now popping up in public spaces, coffee shops, conference halls and airports.But these public wireless hotspots, or wireless Lans, may soon be tempting consumers with other interesting applications.For, in a move that won't escape the attention of mobile phone networks, Sharp has launched a voice telephone service in Tokyo that works using wireless LAN networks.During its free trial owners of the company's Zaurus PDA will be able to add a headset and software to their device and, provided they are close to one of the city's 300 public wireless LANs owned by phone network NTT DoCoMo, make and receive voice calls.If the trial is a success Sharp hopes to roll out a fuller service, expanding access to mobile and fixed line phone users, in April.Sharp isn't the only company experimenting with voice over wireless LANs in Tokyo. Start up company Broadband Mobile Communications (BMC) intends to offer a similar service to PDAS and phone users via hotspots integrated into the city's convenience stores. It launches in April with a fixed monthly charge of around £15.Voice over wireless LAN is both cheap and efficient and both Sharp and BMC are aware their innovation places them up against traditional mobile phone networks. So could a system work in the UK?The UK currently has a small but growing number of public access wireless LANs offering fast internet access for PDA and laptop owners. BT unveiled a series of LANs at airports across the UK, while several Costa Coffee and
Starbucks coffee shops also offer the service.Upgrading the LANs to include voice calls would not be a difficult, but Graham Rivers, Director of Business Development at T-Mobile who provides the network access for the Starbucks hotspots, isn't convinced the UK will follow Japan just yet. "It's an interesting technology and we are keeping an eye on it. In the consumer sector there are however capacity issues - I am not sure how well it would operate if more than four people were working from the same base station.""I think it is a bit like the Rabbit system," he adds, referring to an ill-fated mobile network from the early 90s that relied on a consumer being near a base station to make and receive calls. "You have the same system but using different technology - and Rabbit was not a success."Rivers believes that this technology might be attractive to certain businesses who could integrate the technology into their IT systems for internal use.T-Mobile is also continuing its roll out of wireless LANs in to the capital's coffeehouses. There are now six Starbucks offering the system (which is free at the moment) and more will follow in the New Year.The company has apparently also had discussions with supermarkets about the possibility of setting up hotspots there as well."You might place your customer loyalty card into a shopping trolley with a PC connected to the LAN. It could give you the latest offers and deliver personalised information," suggest Rivers.How customers respond to interactive networked shopping trolleys could be fascinating.Another technology whose time may yet come is Digital Audio Broadcasting (DAB) or digital radio as it commonly known. Even though it is now over a decade since the BBC first demonstrated DAB sales of the receivers remain miniscule.Launched this week is a product that will certainly help raise the format's profile. Smaller than a pack of cards, the Perstel Adapt DR 101 is the first truly pocket-size digital radio receiver.It features a large LCD giving information such the station's name and occasional programming details and is powered by a pair of supplied rechargeable batteries.Perhaps its biggest flaw is that in order to listen to the station involves extending a telescopic aerial that make sit a little unwieldy to use in cramped stations - say at a football match. It is not especially intuitive
to use either - you'll have to give the manual a through read to the instruction manual before working out how to find the various stations. Also, there are no integrated speakers - so you listen via its earphones.As to which stations you can listen to - that depends whereabouts in the country you are. TheDigital Radio Now websitelets you input your postcode and then informs you which stations you can expect to hear. Definitely check before you buy. As a back up, the radio also includes an FM tuner.Give or take a few minor quibbles though this is a cracking product that delivers superb sound quality. At £169 it is rather pricey. However, its portable size makes it very simple to move around the home, enabling the user to plug it into their hi-fi systems via a jack to phono lead.  And for never having to hear BBC Radio Five Live on medium wave in its full crackling, spluttering, hissing glory it is probably worth every penny.Link:www.perstel.co.uk
FollowingSunday's itemabout new cheap Intel Celerons, I notice Evesham is using the 2.2GHz variant -- it's advertised in the printed copy of today's Guardian. The company is offering 1,000 units (the prices I quoted on Sunday were for 1,000 processors) of theEvolution 2200Cwith 512MB of memory, 80GB drive, 64MB ATI Radeon 7500 graphics card, DVD/CD-RW combo drive and Windows XP Home for £599 including VAT, but that's without a monitor. The system price is not far off what you would have paid for the Intel processor alone about 18 months ago, except that the Celeron version only has 128K of cache memory -- half as much as a full Pentium 4. A Mac G4 with a comparable specification is £2,119 but for that you get the Radeon 9000. If you want a 17in LCD display, add £430 to Evesham's price or £821 to Apple's.
Seven film studios have filed suit against 321 Studios, which sells DVD Copy Plus and DVD X Copy software, according toAP. However, Elcomsoft, the Russian softare house, has recently been foundnot guiltyof breaking the law by creating software that breaks copy protection on Adobe eBooks. Also, the Electronic Frontier Foundation and Public Knowledge, a public-interest advocacy group, want the US Copyright Office to change the rules toallow users to make backup copies of DVDs and CDs.
Microsoft's Windows XP and the WinAmp MP3player are both potentially vulnerable to a buffer overruns that could cause code to be run on a target computer, a security firm said on Thursday. Microsoft has already issued a patch. If you do not have XP set for auto-updates, gohere. Also, Real Networks reckons it has finally fixed the multiple security problems with the RealOne player, reportsInfoWorld.
Eleven workers at a nuclear power station have been sacked for sending "inappropriate material" by email, British Nuclear Fuels has said.A further 20 members of staff at Sellafield in Cumbria face disciplinary action following the discovery of the email.It follows a similar incident in February last year when nine workers were suspended over a crude email which contained an altered image of American cartoon character Bart Simpson.A spokesman for BNFL denied reports that those who have been sacked were playing a type of computer game.The spokesman said: "There has been some disciplinary action against employees for sending inappropriate material on the company email system."At present we have 11 who have been dismissed with action being taken against other employees for misuse of the system."BNFL has a very clear policy as regards the email system, we must have for security purposes, and all people employed on site are aware of the policy."We issue regular reminders to staff about the email policy but in this instance there has been inappropriate use of the system."The guidelines clearly state that the email system is for company related matters only."The spokesman added that employees were reminded about the policy in October. He refused to go into details about the contents of the email.A worker at the plant, who asked not to be named, said: "I think it is a bit tight to sack somebody over this kind of incident, although I can understand why the company feels the need to keep tabs on what is going on with the email. Security is much tighter since September 11 and emails are part of the security."But in the run-up to Christmas it is a bit harsh to actually dismiss somebody - none of them to my knowledge had breached confidentiality or accessed material of an offensive or pornographic nature."
Save itHow do I save on to floppies a database on my hard disk that is too large to fit on a single floppy?David HooleyJack Schofield replies:There are two main ways to do this. The most common is to use a copying or file compression or backup program that is capable    of "disk spanning". Such programs will split one large file across many floppies or other types of disk, usually putting an index on the last one.Disk Span 3is an example of a free disk-spanning utility. Many programs that compress files to make them smaller are also capable of disk spanning. Examples range from PK Zip (PZ204G.EXE) for DOS to WinZip 8.UltimateZipdoes splitting and spanning and is free.The alternative is to start by dividing the file into chunks, then copy each chunk on to a separate floppy. Again, there are lots of programs that will divide and recombine files, including WinSplit. Seehttp://masl.to/?L2CA12CC2for examples.HJ Splitis probably the most common, because it is popular for splitting movies into sections.However, while better than nothing, floppy disks are not the best way to back up large files. If just one floppy goes wrong then you have lost the whole archive. If your file fills 10 to 100 floppies, the chances of one going wrong are too high to have real confidence in a single backup copy. It would be better to copy the file on to a CD-R disc in standard CD-ROM or CD-ROM XA mode (ie not using "packet writing" software that treats the CD as a floppy or hard drive). If you cannot fit an internal CD-R to your PC,   you could buy one that works via a USB port, or possibly borrow one from a friend.Hide itI may seem paranoid, but I do a lot of business by email, and I want to be sure that my emails can only be read by the people who are meant to see them. Can you suggest an encryption product that won't break the bank but will give me some peace of mind?Don SmithJS:Several mail programs offer built in encryption, including Outlook Express, Netscape Communicator and Pegasus. In Outlook Express, write your email and then select Tools|Encrypt from the menu. However, this will not work unless you have already signed up for a digital ID. If you create emails or contracts separately and then send them as attachments, you can password protect the files instead. Microsoft Office XP has built-in encryption so you could protect a Word file by going to Tools|Options, then clicking the Security tab. Alternatively, you can easily protect any file by compressing it and specifying a password that must be used to expand it. You can do this with WinZip or any similar program, but your recipients will need compatible software to unzip the files. This may well make your emails less   convenient to read and could put some customers off.Switch offSince upgrading Outlook Express we have been unable to switch identities between email accounts, although we can access them by going through Manage Identities and altering the opening up identity.Geoff FeldJS:This is a known bug, introduced with the Service Pack 1 update. See Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 329084: You Cannot Switch Identities in Outlook Express After You Install Windows XP SP1 (search Google for Q329084). As you have found, the workaround is to get Outlook Express to prompt you to select an identity when you run it. This means you have to restart OE to change to another identity. Presumably the bug will be fixed when Microsoft gets around to it.Accent itHow can I type French accents in Outlook Express? The usual Word rules don't work when composing, but accents are correctly shown on incoming mail.Peter WoodJS:You should be able to enter accented characters using the ANSI character set, by holding down the Alt key and entering the appropriate numbers. It is best to do this using the numeric keypad, but Num Lock must be on. For example, to enter an e acute, hold down the Alt key, type 0233 on the numeric keypad, then release the Alt key. Fingertip Software has a useful table of ANSI codes atwww.fingertipsoft.com/3dkbd/ansitable.html, but you must remember to add a zero to the start of each code.Alternatively you could use the Windows Character Map. If this is installed, you should find it at Start|Programs|Accessories|System Tools. When you select a character on the Character Map, it will tell you the Alt code, or the special key combination used to enter a character. (For example, you can enter e acute in Outlook Express by pressing Ctrl-Alt-E.)Outlook Express and other mail programs also support 3-digit ASCII codes, so yet another way to enter e acute is to hold down Alt and type 130. Seewww.arches.uga.edu/faq/accents.htmlfor some common codes. However, bear in mind that the internet was designed to transfer 7-bit American text and what you send may not always appear correctly at the other end.Backchat&#183;Last week, Jack Hemens asked about firewalls for Macs. My reply neglected to mention that Mac OS X -   where the operating system is actually a BSD version of Unix - has a firewall built in. Andrew Benschop, Steve Haunch and Matthew Henson add that the latest OS X version 10.2 (Jaguar) includes a graphical screen under System Preferences to enable Mac users to configure it. This supersedes the information given on the websites I recommended.&#183;Partition Magic software lets you change your hard drive layout, as mentioned last week. Barry Newton and David Williams have reminded me that Partition Magic includes Magic Mover software to move applications between drives. Well, it used to, but it has disappeared from recent versions. Colin Leeds suggestsPartition Resizeras a free alternative to Partition Magic but adds: "It is essential that the instructions are followed and as always it's a good idea to read the FAQs first."
The high court of Australia (in Gutnick v Dow Jones: see Online on the web, December 11) has done us all a favour by declaring that anyone publishing information on the internet could face legal proceedings anywhere in the world. This is not because the ruling - which has triggered a tidal wave of apoplexy among seasoned net users all over the world - is the right one. It will in any case go to   appeal. The reason it is important is that it could be the start of some serious thought about a space that has become a no-go area for rational thinking.Of course, we all want the internet to be as free a place as possible - just as we would like the rest of the world to be. But the idea that the web is an ethereal space where normal laws need not be obeyed nor taxes be paid is a recipe for the worst kind of anarchy. If libertarians claim that there should be no libel laws anywhere then they are at least being consistent. But to argue that libel laws should exist everywhere except on the internet is ridiculous.Citizens of cyberspace should enjoy at least the same freedom to do as they do in the real world but also the same freedom (from extortion, robbery, libel, etc) that they do elsewhere. The fact that it is much more difficult to enforce the law through the web must not be used as an excuse for doing nothing. For heaven's sake, the web has yet to celebrate its 10th anniversary as a mass phenomenon. No one should be surprised at the slowness of progress.Dan Gillmor, of Silicon Valley's local newspaper, the Mercury News, argues that to   say that defamation occurs where something has been read rather than where it was posted is an invitation to abuse, and that in any case it is absurd to expect anyone who posts anything on the internet to understand the libel laws of 190 nations.These are fair points but the distinction between being posted and read is a very tenuous one. The web is a global book whose pages can be opened anywhere in the world. The essence of posting is that you know it could be read - and intend it to be read - by anyone, otherwise why not email your thoughts to a closed group?This is an international problem and requires an international solution which doesn't result in American law being declared international law. It will not be easy to find case law that allows people to publish critical material about human rights abuses in Zimbabwe (even though declared illegal by its government) without compromising free speech in Ohio.But it can be done, and the outcome is likely to be the lowest common denominator - so there will be an underlying bias in favour of libertarianism.International monitoring   has been slowly happening in every other activity - from world health to nuclear safety - so why shouldn't it happen on the web? We already have bodies like the World Trade Organisation fixing tariffs for trade and punishing recalcitrants plus a European and International Court of Justice. People readily accept common European tariffs, even a common European currency, so why is it such a big deal to have a common European - and eventually, global - libel code whose principles could be decided by an international court even if the cases continue to be heard in national courts?The biggest stumbling block is not the mosaic of different laws but the inability of the internet community to police itself. The nearest thing the internet has to a self-governing body is ICANN (the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers) which   controls the web's worldwide addressing system. It recently voted to relieve itself of representatives elected by internet users. Some precedent that.The optimistic way of interpreting all this is that the internet is shedding the unreal dreams of its founding architects. (Do you remember when self-policing involved spamming anyone who dared to commercialise the internet?). This is the philosophical equivalent of the dotcom explosion which brought web entrepreneurs down to earth with a bang.Growing up means accepting that the global village needs its own bobby. The question is not whether it will happen but whether net users are mature enough to take the lead in the building process. It has already started in Australia and it desperately needs sensible contributions from those who will be affected.Is it too much to hope that the equivalent of Linux - the global cooperative building a rival operating system to Microsoft - might emerge for governance of the web? Nothing ventured, nothing gained.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
When a hinge broke on my Psion Revo, a conundrum presented itself. Should I get Psion to fix it for around 80 quid, or investigate newer, cleverer alternatives? After all, Psion's software hasn't developed in several years, and nobody ever loved the capricious PC connectivity software, PsiWin. And a backlit colour screen might be nice.I ran an eye over various iPaqs, Toshiba Pocket PCs and Sharp Zauruses, and balked at paying &#163;400 for a diary with delusions of grandeur. Then I happened across the Sony Clie Peg-SJ30 on the Amazon website - 20 quid off, free delivery, &#163;180 all in. I hunted down a few reviews, all enthusiastic, and found myself tapping in credit card details.No question, this gadget is neat. It's not the thinnest PDA around, but the large touch-screen area inside a minimum of metallic-look frame is pleasingly functional and futuristic. The brightness and sharpness of the 320 x 320 screen is instantly impressive. I was always having to hold   the Revo up to the light to read the screen properly, but with the backlight on, the Clie is like being at the movies. The downside is the speed with which the light guzzles the rechargeable battery.The Clie uses the Palm operating system, and I was amazed how non-intuitive many functions felt. Software on the Psion is tightly integrated because it's all made by Psion, or Symbian, but everything here seems to have been written by somebody different. Getting data on to a removable memory stick involves fiddling about with things called Memory Stick Gate and Memory Stick Import and Export, but if you want to exchange Word or Excel documents with your PC you have to use Documents To Go instead. The Clie is growing on me, but it has also reminded me how far ahead of its time Psion was.
Wrong doseIn my opinion, Richard Grainger, the new NHS director general of IT (It may hurt a little, December 12) is barking up the wrong tree in trying to get commercial computer companies to provide the NHS with modern, reliable, effective software and computer services.Working in the NHS for nearly 20 years, I have seen a succession of unreliable, out-of-date, incompatible systems appear and suddenly disappear when it was found out by users that they weren't up to the job, were too difficult to use and the (commercial) suppliers were unable or unwilling to modify their products or keep them up to date.What Richard Grainger should do is spend that &#163;2.5bn on setting up an in-house NHS team of developers who should develop tools and systems which are used throughout the NHS, and not rely on a multitude of outside suppliers to do the job. These NHS systems should all be based on open-source soft ware using non-proprietary operating systems (eg Linux) so that future adaptation can be carried out in-house.Yoav Tzabaryoav@tzabar.orgCost cuttersRe: Is your hi-fi ready for internet radio (Online on the web, December 13): great article. Opened up a whole new spending avenue for me - plus it will fit in perfectly with my ADSL D-Link router and broadband connection and home cinema system and so on.Just one problem: I won't actually be buying anything soon. The Audiotron, which fits my desires, is on sale in the UK at &#163;350 - &euro;560 - while in the Netherlands where I currently reside it costs &euro;399 plus a &euro;51 packaging and credit card handling fee. But the real insult is that it costs $293 on Amazon. I'm sure you can do the maths.The great thing about the internet is that you can do global comparison shopping. Shame that the journalist didn't use the opportunity to pour scorn on such massive price differentials.Brian Turnerbrian@london-quays.comParty politicsIn response to Robert Tedder's letter last week (Feedback, December 12): is Microsoft responsible for the development of all third-  party software?From the opinion you give to the lay person Microsoft is responsible for the specification, design, development and the quality of all third-party software that is developed by third party software vendors for a Microsoft OS.To put it another way, when I take my car for a service and the garage fails to replace a faulty alternator and the car does not start when I am far away from home, is it the fault of the garage or the manufacturer of the car?Ollie Richesollie_riches@hotmail.comScam seizedAntony Hawkins (December 12) CAN send his bundle of 419 scams to NCIS. The NCIS automatic reply to West African Organised Crime Section (WAOCS) messages asks those who receive these scams to send them in. When I telephoned my local police force I was asked to print the emails with full headers and drop them in at the local station, marked for the dedicated WAOCS officer (there is one in every constabulary throughout the UK).Mary TiptonEmail address suppliedGame plansVictor Keegan is spot on that it's the popular classics which are kick starting mobile gaming (Second sight, December 5). But what he's   overlooking is the creativity that goes into making those games appeal to the mobile phone audience.Take a classic like Monopoly. When it was designed for the PC, extra creative features were added to suit the greater functionality of the medium. For the first time, you could manage your portfolio like a property giant rather than a slum landlord.You'll see the same creative enhancements when mobile Monopoly launches next year. Without giving too much away, look out for single and multi-player functionality - I can guarantee it is addictive.Unlike their board-based or even console and PC predecessors, games on wireless devices will be able to take advantage of specific mobile technologies like Bluetooth and Location Based Services, bringing a whole new dimension to gaming.And who's coming up with the ideas for us? A team of creatives from all over Europe, based in the north of England. Creativity is alive and well in UK gaming and wireless is simply its latest platform to flourish.Enda Carey, Marketing Manager, iFonee.carey@ifone.comBlock rockingYou mention companies possibly blocking access to information by geographic region (Online on the web, December 11). That will never work,   because you could circumvent it by using an open proxy server outside the restricted area.Let's say, for example, you were to block access to an article to readers in the US. I would be able to circumvent that by using an open http proxy server outside the US, and your servers would never know the difference. Instead of my IP address showing up, the IP of whatever proxy server I was using would show up instead. There are now an estimated 300,000 such servers in existence.Charles Newmancharlesnewman1@attbi.com
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:The government has announced plans to abolish compulsory retirement at 65 in order to cover a predicted shortfall in state pensions, but will it be enough? How will this and other changes affect your own retirement plans? Our financial expert DrMoney is here to answer your questions.LadeezMan:she was hot tho*Pashmina has entered the NewsRoom*Bronco:but hes so uglyPashmina:hi roomHost_Chris2:does anyone have a question for DrMoney?LadeezMan:how did he get her then. Hi pashBronco:he must of conned herPashmina:are we STILL talking abt Cheries stupid friend!!Bronco:no mrs assadHost_Chris2:actually we're talking about changes to the pension system with our financial expert DrMoney.Pashmina:hi DrMoney hows uLadeezMan:hot women w/ugly men - theres a lot of it aboutDrMoney:I have to go soonPashmina:hope for u yet LadeezManBronco:lolHost_Chris2:DrMoney is due in another chatroom in 20 minutes. Does nobody have a question?Bronco:I have a qestionHost_Chris2:is it about pensions, Bronco?Bronco:noPashmina:DrMoney r u going anywhere for xmasDrMoney:I've got stuff I could be doingLadeezMan:DrMoney at what age shoud a person think abt starting workHost_Chris2:I apologise DrMoneyDrMoney:interesting question. Are you currently in work, LadeezMan?Bronco:wot about my questionLadeezMan:no I was too hungover this morningPashmina:wot else is newLadeezMan:&amp; it was rainingDrMoney:so what percentage of your current income goes into an employee pension scheme, and how much do you contribute to private savings schemes annually?Bronco:yo DrMoney! My hand is up!LadeezMan:actully I'm too hungover to be here*LadeezMan has left the NewsRoom*Pashmina:oh dearDrMoney:anyone else?Bronco:DrMoney! How can a really ugly bloke with no chin get a beatiful girlfreind?Pashmina:anyone we knowDrMoney:by planning for his retirement early and taking full advantage of the higher rate of tax relief on pension contributionsHost_Chris2:well said DrMoneyBronco:but shoud he get a chest waxconnection to server has been terminated...
(This from guest bloggerAlistair Alexander): The explosion of weblogs has enabled thousands of people to publish their views, but many are unaware that they are subject to the same legal constraints as any other publisher.The Washington Postreports that many webloggers are unfamiliar with matters legal, particularly laws concerning libel, copyright violation and trade secrets. Worse, offending information can be effortlessly retrieved years after it was published, through search engines such as Google. Of particualr concern to many firms are employees airing their views on the net. "Many a career has been ruined by blasting off an angry diatribe whether in person or in cyberspace," a human resource executive warns ominously.
(This from guest bloggerAlistair Alexander): A new version of Java for mobile phones has been released by a group of developers led by Motorola,Zdnetreports today. Mobile Information Device Platform 2 (MIDP 2) will give developers more control over interface design, improve game performance and standardise data transfer, among other improvements. But MIDP 2.0 will require up to 100k of memory to run - exceeding the limits of most mobile phones currently available. Nevertheless, the new Java platform indicates that Sun's platform-independent software is consolidating its position in areas where Microsoft has failed to dominate.
There is not much contest for the sassiest mobile of the year. In a vintage year for phones the Vodafone-brandedSharp GX10clamshell multimedia phone takes compactness to a new dimension. It weighs only 107g yet includes an (easy to use) camera as well as most of the usual facilities. Although the GPRS option (always-on internet) is a little slow and the option giving your geographical position moody, these are minor criticisms of a Japanese phone that is telling Nokia that it isn't going to have it all its own way in future.It is heavily geared to using Vodafone's own services like polyphonic ring tones, and Java games that are seductively easy to download from the internet (at up to &#163;5 a throw) - but it is an   impressive phone.Cost: &#163;199 with contractWhile the Sharp GX10 was the most impressive, my personal preference is for theNokia 7650even though at 154g it is heavier than the GX10. This is partly because it has Bluetooth (though for data not voice) enabling the exchange of photos between phones in the immediate vicinity. But also because it feels more like a phone and has a slide-out keyboard with half-decent keypads. Its Symbian operating system, familiar to Psion users, is easy to navigate, with an electronic diary that is actually usable.Although, ludicrously, you can't yet send photos to rival networks, it is addictive just taking snaps as a visual diary. I've stored 60 and downloaded two games (Fifa 2003 and Space Invaders) and have plenty of memory left. Downloading Pop3 email is the easiest I have come across.Cost:&#163;99.99 to &#163;229.99Gamers will also be very impressed byOrange's SPV,   the second of this year's Asian invaders. The first phone with a Microsoft operating system, it boasts a dizzy array of services including GPRS, web, voice recording, calendar, contacts plus multimedia messaging, Windows media plus an (attachable) camera and impressive13 line colour screen able to run cut-down console games.The joystick button is difficult to navigate with and there's no provision to download Java games - but it does have a memory card that supports some games.Cost: &#163;199 with cameraNone of these phones should take the shine off theEricsson T68iwhich remains a marvel of miniaturisation despite increasing competition. It supports colour, GPRS, Bluetooth, multi-media messaging and Triband (it works in the US) yet weighs only 88g without the camera which can be slotted in to take photos. There's no Java - but no phone has all you want.Cost: varies with contractThe year's near-miss was theHP Jornada 928, a phone/PDA that did every  thing well on test - from taking big photos to great Google access. But battery life was unacceptably low - so its rival phone/PDA,O2's XDAled the way in the new world of PDA phones. (closely followed by theTreofamily).There are two awards for lemon of the year and both go to UK manufacturers.Sendo, the Birmingham-based mobile manufacturer, pulled its Sendo "smart phone" days from release after a contretemps with Microsoft, details of which are being hushed up.The other goes toPogo, based near the Guardian's Clerkenwell head office. It is stopping development on its lovely, funky, pillow-shaped phone/PDA which got good reviews but failed to sell well. Sadly, companies need a global presence to make an impact and there is no room for quirkiness. What a shame indeed.Mobile application of the year goes toShazam, the ingenious idea that enables you to dial 2580 and point your mobile at any music that is being played and then be texted back with details of the actual recording.
Three web activists have been arrested in China over their use of the internet, in the state's continuing clampdown on online dissent.It emerged today that academic and poet Liaou Yiwu, from Sichuan province, was arrested on Wednesday for internet-based political activity. Liaou, 42, had signed an open letter calling for the Chinese government to renounce its condemnation of the Tiananmen Square uprising in 1989. He had also posted poems and novels on websites based outside China after the Chinese authorities banned them from domestic publication.Three other signatories of the letter are also being held, according to China Labor Watch, a US-based group that released news on Liaou's arrest.Meanwhile, Beijing-based Li Yibin, 28, was detained in November, but the arrest has only just been made known to Human Rights in China, another US-based pressure group, through a network of contacts in China.He published a website called "Democracy and Freedom", and wrote under the name "Yangchun Baixue" or "Spring Snow", a term that can also imply political reform in Chinese.Li was arrested at about the same time as student Liu Di, was also detained. Liu, 22, used the online name "stainless steel mouse", and was arrested for expressing support for Huang Di, a web activist imprisoned in 2001. Her arrest was first reported two weeks ago.News of the arrests follow an Amnesty International report last month that claimed at least 33 people are currently detained by Chinese authorities for publishing pro-democracy websites or, in some cases, simply accessing them."Amnesty International is concerned that there is a new crackdown on internet users, precisely involving those that have dared to post protests over others that have been detained," says Ian Durkin, a spokesman for the campaign group.China's crackdown on internet-based activism is causing growing concern internationally. Amnesty's report, State Control of the Internet in China, documented 33 cases of individuals it believes are being held as political prisoners as a result of internet activity.Three of those documented have died in custody and many others have been subject to torture and ill treatment. The report also alleges that 30,000 security officials are monitoring the use of websites, chat rooms and email.The Chinese government said Amnesty International's report had "no basis whatsoever".But Xiaou Qiang of Human Rights in China disagrees: "China has put tremendous resources into setting up a monitoring and surveillance system so they can control both the content itself and access to the content. And that has been extremely effective."The internet presents an awkward dilemma for the Chinese state. Although China wants to harness the web's potential for developing an advanced information economy, it is also desperate to ensure new technology does not undermine the ruling Communist Party's grip on power.Over the last few years, however, US web companies have launched Chinese versions of their sites, lured by the dizzying growth of the Chinese economy and the prospect of reaching over one billion consumers. Yahoo launched its Chinese website in 1999 through a Hong Kong-based subsidiary. AOL entered the Chinese market in a joint venture with Legend, the largest PC retailer in mainland China.There are now estimated to be 50 million Chinese internet users with the number growing rapidly, giving China the world's second largest internet population after the United States.But those most likely to take advantage of China's mushrooming internet infrastructure are also those least enamoured with the one-party state. Students in particular have flocked to the web.As a result, the government has continually sought to place restrictions on what Chinese citizens can see, resulting in a technological cat-and-mouse game between the state and internet users. As ISPs began offering services the state started blocking websites it considered to be potentially subversive - international news and human rights websites, as well as Chinese sites critical of the government.Many Chinese internet users got around the blocks by using proxy servers outside China. But the state has managed to restrict the use of those as well. More recently, the state blocked access to Google where web pages banned by the Chinese government were being made available. The state has since eased restrictions on Google, but access to its cached pages is restricted.The Chinese authorities also compelled internet companies operating in the country to sign a "public pledge on self-discipline". The pledge obliges the companies to police their own services and inform the authorities of any activity that could be considered subversive. Western companies, including Yahoo, have signed the pledge."Internet companies advocate freedom and freedom of expression everywhere in the world," says Xiaou. "But when they get into China, not only do they have to self-regulate but they also have to comply with the security and surveillance regime there that is developing very fast. Foreign technology is certainly a big part of that surveillance."A Yahoo spokesman refused to comment on the company's business in China.But Amnesty says it is concerned about the agreements between major internet companies and the Chinese government."We fear that the Chinese authorities are using agreements with major internet companies as part of a wider attempt to restrict the freedom of expression and association of internet users in China," says Durkin.Human rights campaigners are frustrated that western internet companies are not using their influence to push back the Chinese government's restrictions on internet use.Durkin hopes this will change: "Companies like AOL and Yahoo have considerable power and influence. Amnesty wants them to use this to actively promote good human rights standards - not least, given that they are in the communications field, over freedom of expression."
Steve Potter, professor of biomedical engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology, is using rat neurons to create a robot's brain. "In his experiment, Potter places a droplet of solution containing thousands of rat neuron cells onto a silicon chip that's embedded with 60 electrodes connected to an amplifier. The electrical signals that the cells fire at one another are picked up by the electrodes which then send the amplified signal into a computer. The computer, in turn, wirelessly relays the data to the robot," says the article. "Basically, we've taken these cells in a dish and given them back a body," says Potter.
Palm, the market leader in handheld computing, hasreturned to profitability, albeit with quarterly revenues down by 9% from $291m last year to $265 million. Palm made a profit of $3.5 million, compared with a year ago loss of $25.2 million.
Microsoft is putting together a $20 enhancement pack for Windows XP, which will include the impressiveMovie Maker 2program currently available as a beta test download. For Windows Media Player users, it also includes Plus Dancer, which "introduces several small animated characters that dance across a user's screen with music being played".Infoworldhas a run-down.
Anyone who wants the utimate performance PC today can zip off to Tom's Hardware Guide forThe Iceman Cometh, a review of a 3GHz Pentium 4 overclocked to 4.1GHz. It runs Quake III at 435 frames/second. There are some nice pictures of thecooling systemused to take the overclocked processor's temperature down to minus 50 degrees Celsius.
The New York Times magazine has produced its second annualyear in ideas, and Ben Hammersley isrightly chuffedthat Warchalking, which he championed after it was thought up by the highly cluefulMatt Jonesin the summer, made the final list. That was a very fun idea, but I think the magazine'sentry on "Smart Mobs"is an excellent summary of a more important and longer-term trend. It's all about how instant, mobile communication is allowing individuals to come together in swarms - to ogle at Princes, protest, topple governments or go on a murderous rampage. If you're going to read one piece on the concept, make it this one...
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City has been this year's blockbuster game, but it seems to have been too successful to make it as the Christmas chart-topper.At launch, it became the UK's fastest selling game of all time, and looked like dominating the charts for months. But to some people's surprise, it has already been ousted by Sony's expensively produced challenger, The Getaway. Of course, it collected a few knocks on the way from reviewers who reckoned the gameplay wasn't as good as the graphics, but The Getaway got away with it.All this has been tough on Electronic Arts, the world's biggest independent games company, which used to time its annual Fifa release to score a Christmas chart-topper. But with its Harry Potter, James Bond, Medal of Honor and Sims titles all reinforcing Fifa 2003's success, EA looks like ending the year in its usual style: to the happy sound of tills ringing.Overall top 101 The Getaway,PS22 Grand Theft Auto: Vice City,PS23 Harry Potter - Chamber of Secrets,PS2, PL, GBA4 FIFA 2003,PS2, PS1, XBox, PC5 James Bond 007: Nightfire,PS2, PC, XBox, GC6 Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers,PS2, XBox7 Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell,XBox8 Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4,PS2, PS1, GC,XBox9 WWE Smackdown! Shut Your Mouth,PS210 Pro Evolution Soccer 2,PS2Xbox1 Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell,&#163;29.992 Halo: Combat Evolved,&#163;20.993 Medal of Honour Frontline,&#163;37.994 Fifa 2003,&#163;34.995 James Bond 007: Nightfire,&#163;39.996 Championship Manager: Season 02/03,&#163;34.997 Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon,&#163;34.998 Blinx: The Time Sweeper,&#163;34.999 Harry Potter: Chamber of Secrets,&#163;37.9910 Colin McRae Rally 3,&#163;39.99PS21The Getaway,&#163;37.992 Grand Theft Auto: Vice City,&#163;35.993 James Bond: Nightfire,&#163;39.994 FIFA 2003,&#163;32.995 Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers,&#163;35.996 Harry Potter: Chamber of Secrets,&#163;34.997 WWE Smackdown! Shut Your Mouth,&#163;34.998 Pro Evolution Soccer 2,&#163;34.999 Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4,&#163;39.9910 Spider-Man: the Movie,&#163;22.99PC1 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault Spearhead,&#163;16.992 The Sims: Unleashed,&#163;19.993 Harry Potter: Chamber of Secrets,&#163;34.994 The Sims: Deluxe Edition,&#163;27.995 Age of Mythology,&#163;29.996 James Bond 007: Nightfire,&#163;32.997 Fifa 2003,&#163;29.998 Lord of the Rings: Fellowship of the Ring,&#163;29.999 The Sims: On Holiday,&#163;15.0010 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault,&#163;19.99GameCube1 Star Fox Adventures,&#163;32.992 Super Mario Sunshine,&#163;32.993 James Bond 007: Nightfire,&#163;44.994 Mario Party 4,&#163;32.995 Medal of Honor:    Frontline,&#163;39.996 Harry Potter: Chamber of Secrets,&#163;37.997 Fifa 2003,&#163;34.998 Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4,&#163;39.999 TimeSplitters 2,&#163;39.9910 Super Smash Bros Melee,&#163;33.99
Do you feel vindicated now Lastminute.com has turned a profit?It's not like that. I think some of the media would like us to be sitting here smugly but we care about creating a long-term business. It isn't about the last five years, it's about the next 15! Of course it's pleasing to still be running a business and that the customer experience has got so much better and the share price has shown some real growth. There's still a lot to do though.Will the dotcoms rise again?They are already. Out of all new businesses 80% fail! It was always going to be that 80% of new internet companies were going to fail and only a handful would be successful. The dangerous thing was during the time when every single one was being valued as a winner but that's over now.I still think we haven't even begun to see the impact of this technology yet - we're right at the beginning of the journey, not the end! Bill Gates said it best: "Everyone is focusing on the next five minutes when this is actually about the next 50 years!"Broadband?Yes, we have a big partnership with BT and others in Europe - although we don't sit around waiting for broadband to make our business model work. However, it will make it a lot easier and it will make customers buy more products. All these technology changes are going to help businesses like ours - increased use of GPRS mobile, 3G and "always-on" broadband access. They're all going to happen and when they do they'll all help in the take-up of e-commerce.Favourite gadgets?My laptop is a Dell but unfortunately it's falling to pieces - you'd be shocked at the state of my technology! I have a little Nokia 8310 - nothing flashy. I like SMS messaging so that's a key function for me. I'd like one of the new mobiles with the inbuilt camera for sending picture messages and also the newSony Vaio. Laptops are very sexy.What excites or frustrates you about the net?I'm still hugely enthusiastic about the potential of the net. We've only begun to harness it for consumer choice and making things more transparent so that you get better value as a customer. I'm also looking forward to better access for everyone and making people more international - you can have aRussian Javaprogrammer and a British Java programmer competing on a world stage.I get frustrated by the same things as everyone else does - there are still loads of websites with terrible user-interfaces that are hard to use. My home dial-up connection can also be slow and annoying but things are getting much better.Favourite sites?www.amazon.co.ukis still a fabulous customer experience. I love Google and the newGoogle Viewer. I get my groceries throughwww.ocado.comand enjoy readingwww.theonion.com.Visit:www.lastminute.com
The search has been on for a mobile power source that is no longer a slave to the recharger, the battery or the usual savaging from environmentalists.The answer could well be chemically enhanced. Chemical fuel cells generate power from a liquid source, such as methanol, and would give a mobile 20 hours of talktime and allow laptops free to roam far from any power point for days.Cars, generators and even vacuum cleaners have benefited from the new fuel cell technology. Now, thanks to advances in miniaturisation, they'll be powering portable electronics from 2004 or slightly earlier.It's a dream that has kept electronic firms busy for years. Quite apart from the ecological horror that conventional, bothersome   power packs represent, the electronics industry is also concerned that lithium batteries are not up to powering the latest energy-hungry notebooks that boast power-mad multimedia and wireless connectivity.Something small and portable, such as a methanol cartridge that pops into a powerful micro-fuel cell, would also be better suited to portable electronics, goes the present thinking. With legislation slated for the US and elsewhere designed to phase out the use of environmentally unfriendly laptop and mobile batteries, the major electronics companies are racing to be the first on the market with a viable fuel cell. We might even see them on sale next year says David Hart, a fuel cell research fellow at Imperial College London."They have the potential to oust the battery," he says.   "Advanced type batteries will give micro fuel cells a run for their money. But fuel cells do have some significant advantages over their rivals."Originally used to power Nasa's Gemini and Apollo missions in the 1960s, fuel cells are energy conversion devices that combine fuel with oxygen to produce electric power, heat and water.Fuel cells that turn hydrogen into electricity are already advanced on cars and home generators, but their smaller micro-cousins have been difficult to perfect and they are still in the prototype stage, says Hart.Unlike fuel cells for cars -polymer electrolyte fuel cells - those being used by the electronics industry, called direct methanol fuel cells (DMFCs), can be made smaller as liquid methanol is directly supplied to an electrode to produce electric ity. Casio, Sony and Toshiba have recently successfully demonstrated prototypes for PDAs and laptops. Now the key is to reduce the cost and size and increase the power output of DMFC cells to make them suitable even for cellphones."Initial costs will be prohibitive," says R Vasant Kumar, a batteries expert at Cambridge University. "But the advantages are that fuel cells are environmentally more friendly than conventional batteries." DMFC fuel cells using methanol emit only small amounts of water and carbon dioxide when generating electricity.Korean electronics company Samsung says it has developed a mobile phone with a fuel cell the size of a credit card. Running on a supply of methanol, which is stored in an ink cartridge-like capsule, Samsung claims its prototype fuel cell can operate a mobile for 26 hours on standby or power the phone for 2.6 hours of chat. After that the fuel cell is recharged with another methanol capsule. The Koreans hope to market it in 2004.Toshiba, meanwhile, says it will commercialise a fuel cell battery-operated notebook computer by 2004 with an operation time of about 10 hours, three times longer than conventional batteries.Superior energy supply is definitely one area where the fuel cell promises to outperform batteries, but their environmental credentials are not as "clean" as they might seem at first glance, says Greenpeace campaigner Rob Gueterbock."It's true that they are more environmentally friendly than batteries, but they will not reduce significantly our dependence on fossil fuels. Methanol, after all, is derived from petroleum."For the electronics companies the green aspects of the fuel cell are merely incidental. The power they generate is the most important aspect of the technology, he says."It was the increasing demand for on-board electronics in cars etc, which require more power, that drove the development of fuel cell-powered cars. This is what has been driving fuel cell technology in electronics, too, not so much environmental issues."As a practical answer to the world's pressing need for clean and efficient power, micro fuel cells seem to fall   wide of the mark. There are also safety considerations to be tackled by the electronics companies. Methanol is highly combustible and airlines are understandably nervous about laptops powered by fuel cells."The airline authorities have given certain fuel systems the green light, but regulations have to be ironed out first if micro fuel cells are going to be commercial," says Hart.But when they do arrive, it might be sooner than many expected, with the first fuel cell laptops appearing in Japan late next year. The instantly rechargeable mobile, regenerated by a tiny fuel cartridge from your pocket, will take a little longer, yet says Hart.Despite the claims of Samsung, Hart is not convinced that the scale of miniaturisation needed for today's midget cellphones can be achieved so easily without incurring a great deal of tinkering and extra expense."A mobile phone fuel cell would require complex management of heat airflow, and so on. It's not really been demonstrated and so I'm sceptical," he says.Still, the Japanese are confident the lithium-ion battery has had its day. One business research unit in Tokyo puts the shipment of fuel cells for portable devices, including mobiles, at &#163;220m in 2010. Providing the right chemistry, fuel cells and portables seem destined for each other.
Fujifilm @XIA ix-100 (1.3mp)&#163;69.90There are cheaper digital cameras around, but this is one of the cheapest with a resolution of more than a million pixels. It is not as small or as stylish as its replacement camera, the 6mm thin @XIA Slimshot, which appeared this month at &#163;79.90. However, the Slimshot is only a 0.3 megapixel camera (640 by 480 pixels), so the ix-100 has four times the resolution (1280 x 1024 pixels). Unlike the Slimshot, it also doubles as a webcam, takes SmartMedia memory cards, uses AA batteries, shows pictures on a TV set, and costs less at Jessops which has slashed &#163;30 off the price of the ix-100. Fujifilm has recently discontinued this model. But it is a bargain - while stocks last.Canon PowerShot A40 (2.0mp)&#163;230Two megapixel cameras represent the "sweet spot" in today's market for entry-level cameras that have LCD screens on the back, zoom lenses, and deliver results good    enough to print. There are at least three great buys available at varying prices: the Olympus C220, the Sony DSC-P51 and Canon's PowerShot A40. The Olympus is the cheapest and, like the Canon, has a 3x optical zoom, but I'm not wild about the lens covering system. The Sony is a great shape and has twice the storage (a 16MB Memory Stick), but only a 2x optical zoom. But, for me, the Canon edges it. It handles like a traditional camera, can be   used in point-and-shoot mode, and has the versatility to cope if you want to be a bit more creative. However, you will have to buy another Compact Flash card to supplement the 8MB supplied.Sony Cybershot DSC-P71 (3.2mp)&#163;300Sony doesn't have much of a history in the still camera business but its DSC-P models are typically compact, easy to use, well made, reasonably   priced, and produce very good results. They could be considered unpretentious were it not for the distinctive styling, with the lens positioned right at the curved end of the body. The DSC-P71 offers the extra quality of 3.2mp imaging, a 3x optical zoom lens, and a much better LCD screen, which justifies the extra cost over the P51. Or if you really want to spend more, there's the reassuringly robust 4.0mp DSC-P9.Canon PowerShot G3 (4.0mp)&#163;700The PowerShot G2 won both awards and fans for its ease of use and for producing outstanding results. The new G3 is much the same, and continues the line of rapid development that started with the G1 in 2000. The G3's main enhancements are a 4x optical zoom, faster top shutter speed (1/2000th) and more manual control of flash. It is also a little lighter and looks even box ier. Wielding a G3 will attract covetous looks from the cognoscente, but the average snapshotter won't believe how much you paid for it.Fujifilm FinePix S602 Zoom (6.0MP)&#163;800Like the Canon G3, the Fuji S602 is a reworking of a successful precursor - the "SLR style" FinePix 6900. The S602Z has a 5x optical auto-focusing macro zoom lens and more than enough features for the pro-sumer market. Some people have been sniffy about Fujifilm's mp ratings, and the S602 has a 3.1mp SuperCCD that interpolates pixels to create its high-end output for a relatively low cost. There are more desirable cameras out there, including the Nikon Coolpix (&#163;1,000), and the delightful Olympus E20P digital SLR (&#163;1,500), but the S602Z is undeniably value for money.
Ring cycleThe second Lord of the Rings film, The Two Towers is upon us, and whether you're braving the initial rush this week or waiting until the hype that it's "even better than the first film" dies down, you'll need to keep an eye on these sites for both film fans' and Tolkien enthusiasts' reactions. If you want to know more about the making of the movie, then the official site has plenty of features and interviews with Peter Jackson and various cast members, while The One Ring thrives on behind-the-scenes info and gossip. But if it's a wide selection of views that you're after before you decide to pay for a ticket, then the internet movie database has thousands of filmgoers' reviews.www.theonering.netwww.tolkiensociety.orgwww.lordoftherings.netwww.theonering.net" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.theonering.netHigh societyDue to the cautious nature of planning bodies and heritage trusts, the London skyline has only begun to rise noticeably since the 60s. As the buildings get higher, so too does our interest in such weird and wonderful creations as the Swiss-Re tower in central London, nicknamed the "erotic gherkin". Skyscraper News is dedicated to the art of skyscraper building and contains the latest news, statistics and plans on building projects, not just in London, but across the UK. There's a beautiful photographic gallery of famous architectural landmarks, which also includes fascinating renderings of how our skylines will look in the future if all the projects in the pipeline get built.www.skyscrapernews.co.ukClothes showManufactured pop acts haven't just lined the pockets of numerous TV executives - the mainstream fashion industry has also been taking on board the lesson that it doesn't matter how bitchy or backstabbing you are as long as you're fashionable enough. As Seen On Screen thrives on celebrity fashion, seeking out the most stylish pieces as   sported or influenced by our TV celebrities, and is currently brimming with offerings from TV shows such as Popstars: The Rivals and Pop Idol, to films like The World is Not Enough and Fight Club. ASOS is a rare retail dotcom success story. In order to secure that position, the site has teamed up with several well-known sites including beauty and fashion internet provider Zoom, who reins in the latest high street and designer styles at pocket-friendly prices in conjunction with an online beauty magazine.www.asseenonscreen.comwww.zoom.co.ukAnimal magicThe relatively cheap and easy availability of webcams might have increased our accessibility, at least on a pay-per-view basis, to all aspects of the human animal. But there are also many sites set up around the globe for budding naturalists to observe the habits of some more traditional wildlife. The discovery channel site has several webcams currently showing live footage ofpolar bearsin Toledo Zoo, a colony ofpenguinsin the Montreal Bio Dome and its newest addition, a total of six cameras showingSiberian tigersin the TigerHomes sanctuary in Florida. For a voyeuristic peek into life below the waves, or at least simulated life, theWaikiki Aquariumshark cam is one of the most interesting and has a quick refresh rate of every 10 seconds.Mods rockComputing may be a science but there are those out there who are turning it into an art by personalising their PCs through weird and wonderful   case modding. If you are saving up to build a new PC after Christmas or you're looking for a present for the gamer that has everything, then Cool Case Mods sells a range of pre-modded cases and all the gear you need to create your own case. If you need a little inspiration, then the Alien inspired case at The Best Case Scenario is every gaming film fan's dream. While Burnout PC shows you how one ambitious modder made a PC inside Darth Vader's helmet using the tiny VIA motherboard. Unfortunately the fan doesn't work. But you can't have everything.www.coolcasemods.comwww.thebestcasescenario.comwww.burnoutpc.comNew &amp; Noted&#183;Guide to science centres in the UKwww.scienceworlds.co.uk&#183;A Christmassy gamehttp://snowglobe.setpixel.com&#183;Create your own pixelated T-shirt masterpiecewww.pixeltees.com&#183;New interactive site for this year's Man Booker prizewinnerwww.pi.canongate.net&#183;The latest career info for budding designerswww.creativebehavior.comSix of the bestComicsU Comicswww.ucomics.comComicswww.comics.comPenny Arcadewww.penny-arcade.comDC Comicswww.dccomics.comMarvelwww.marvel.com2000 ADwww.2000adonline.com
So Santa has been briefed and dropping through your chimney next Wednesday will be a new handheld PC. The traditional Boxing Day TV marathon can be forgone as you spend time getting to know your new purchase.Your first problem is how to migrate all of those contacts you have built up over the years on to it. If you are making the transition from a Filofax style address book to your new electronic device and you don't actually own a PC - good luck. There is nothing for it other than using the device's on-screen keyboard, or handwriting recognition system (like Graffiti on the Palm devices) to input all your contacts manually. It's a thoroughly tedious process and, besides, if the device's battery goes you will invariably lose all those contacts anyway. Get yourself a PC, or at least some backup storage.Things get considerably simpler if you own a PC and haven't yet implemented a contact organisation/calendar system. The no-brainer option is to take the CD that accompanies the device; install the contact management/calendar system on your PC; key in all your contacts; and then transfer the information to   the device (the PDA industry calls this Syncing).The type of contact management system/calendar depends on the device you have bought. PDAs that use the Palm operating system - namely those from Palm, Handspring and Sony - are accompanied by a simple Palm Desktop system. This replicates the information on the device on your desktop and then relies on syncing the information with the device.Many computer owners will already be using a management/appointments solution. So choose a device that suits the calendar/contact management system you are using. Windows PC owners are arguably better off with a Pocket PC device, while the majority of Mac owners seem to prefer Palm OS based PDAs. There are ways of transferring information across platforms - more on this later - but they can be quite complex.Launched during the middle of 2002, i-Cal has already become established as the appointment/calendar system for Apple Macintosh owners. It boasts several unique internet-related facilities. With a Mac account owners can publish their i-Cal calendars on the web enabling colleagues and families to view them, therefore avoid organising appointments that clash. I-Cal can also automatically check other calendars and inform owners of potential problems.As i-Cal is colour coded you can use a different shade for a different part of your life - or a different family member. Unfortunately Mac users have to be running OS 10.2 or above for i-Cal to operate.Partnering i-Cal is Apple's Address Book contact management system. It offers a page per contact and allows images of the person to be added. Transferring information from an Apple desktop to a handheld was made significantly easier by the summer introduction of a system called i-Sync. It transports information from the desktop to a series of devices including Palm OS based handhelds, mobile phones such as Sony Ericsson's T-68i (via Bluetooth) and even Apple's own hard disk MP3 player the iPod.The introduction of i-Cal and i-Sync has created a real synergy between Apple and Palm, which makes it all the more ironic that not all Palm OS-based devices, including Sony's range of Clie PDAs, are Mac-compatible. Clies can be used with Macs, but only via third party software such asMarkSpace's Missing Sync.Almost all PC owners will already be using some contact management, even if it is only the e-mail system Outlook Express. Pocket PC devices such as HP Compaq's Ipaqs and the O2 XDA, plus the recently launched Windows powered smart phone, the Orange SPV, are accompanied by the Outlook 2002 contact management system. Outlook 2002 boasts some of the features found on i-Cal though executed in a less elegant manner.To transfer contacts from Outlook to a Pocket PC or Windows powered smart phone device is a simple process that uses Microsoft's software Active Sync. Should the user only want to take contact details from Outlook and transfer them once to say a Palm based PDA or a mobile phone, they can save the files as a CSV (comma separated values). To do this go to File in Outlook, then choose Import/ Export. Next choose export to a file and then opt for the comma separated values (Windows) option.If a person is already using Outlook and has bought a Palm OS based device there are a number of third party solutions for transferring the information from the desktop to the PDA. Among the favourites are Desktop To Gowww.dataviz.comandChapura.For those who have now bought a Pocket Pc based device to replace a Palm PDA, a valuable source of information can be found on thePocket Anywhere site.
The problem in many cases is your Auntie Ethel. She's not close, which is why you thought she'd died in 1997, except that was your second cousin Marjorie who had a similar halitosis problem so it was an easy mistake to make. Only now Ethel has sent this Christmas card with a postal order for &#163;1 like she's done since you were seven and her email address and everything's in it. And you've missed all the last posting dates.Logically, you should send her an e-Christmas card. The thing is, where to start? Starting off sending electronic cards of any description can be more than a little dodgy if you don't know what you're doing. Always read the terms and conditions, for example. One website which was drawn to our attention and which had mysteriously vanished by the time we logged on to check had started sending out cards only on condition that the recipient would allow a little applet to open up in the background, ferret around in Microsoft Outlook and send offers to everyone in the address book. The shortcut to reading all of the terms and conditions on every site is to send e-cards only from websites you trust.Bluemountain.comhas been there since the year dot and has a selection not only for Christmas but birthdays   and religious festivals - Islamic and Jewish as well as Christian. You have to join to send one but it's been around for a while and you'll know you're not transmitting viruses by sending the cards around. Also apparently virus-free is E-cards.com, which not only offers still and animated cards but adds sounds and allows you to customise your cards so they can be tasteful and select or garish and noisy depending on who it's aimed at.Established greetings card manufacturers have woken up to their electronic upstart competition, andHallmark.comis in the area with a vengeance. But it's three clicks before you get to the cards, although they are pretty good.When you receive an e-card, make sure that it is not an attachment. Virus writers have been disguising their wares since the I Love You virus from a couple of years ago. If a card downloads on to your computer then check it for viruses before it runs; cards you open up on websites are almost always safer. If your card tells you that your system needs to download an application before you can read your card be very wary unless it's Macromedia Flash - many of them need this. It's harmless, it's free and it'll make you swear if you're not on broadband.Understandably, quality and content of cards varies. If    you want to be obtuse, unseasonal and downright anoraky thenhttp://bbc.co.uk/drwhohas a few freebies on offer, as do many of the other cult areas at the Beeb. Traditionalists will find humour and chocolate box material athttp://uk.greetings.yahoo.com/browse/Holidays/Christmas, while the same source offershttp://uk.greetings.yahoo.com/browse/Holidays/Christmas/Christmas_Eve. If it weren't free it would be a rip-off.There are a few to avoid. Laughspot.com took ages to load even on a broadband connection, mostly because of the pop-up windows to which loggers-on are treated when they arrive; the cards might be achingly funny but your reviewer got bored waiting and pushed off.Jibjab.comhas a lot of pics of Santa on the loo; the drawing isn't great, Raymond Briggs long ago did the "miserable Santa" to greater effect.The informal award for the best card has to go to the enterprising people at friendsreunited.co.uk . You can choose to send a card to old friends which arrives on their computer and informs them "I'm sending you this e-card because you're not worth the price of a stamp". Which, presumably, is why you're sending e-cards in the first place.
A part from the robotic voice nagging "please look into the mirror, please look into the mirror" as you line up your eye, it's      absolutely painless. There's no flash, not even a click, as the hidden camera takes four digital snapshots of your iris.Within three minutes your iris pattern - theoretically unique - is stored in a smartcard's memory chip. Short of stealing      your eyeballs, no thief can pass themselves off as the legitimate card holder.Iris-scan biometric security is one of the few James Bond technologies (Moonraker) to become reality. People applying in      person for passports recently will have seen an iris-scanning machine at passport offices in London and Glasgow. It's there      to test public attitudes to biometrics as part of a consultation into the government's planned "entitlement card".If, as seems almost certain, the entitlement card gets the go-ahead, it will have at least one biometric security feature to      prevent identity theft and other fraud. Iris scanning is the most likely candidate: although nobody claims any technology to      be absolutely failsafe, it is more secure and more acceptable than fingerprinting.But choice of biometric is only one of several big technical questions over the entitlement card, quite apart from the      politics of grasping the identity card mettle. Enrolling card holders, issuing new cards and replacements will require a      national chain of retail outlets - possibly post offices, possibly private franchisees.Behind these outlets there will have to be a new database - "a central register of all UK residents". Unlike some continental      countries, the UK has no single population database it can use. Most of the government's existing registers are      compromised in some way: the national insurance database contains 82m numbers: some people have two numbers, some      have never received one. Driving licence numbers are suspect because they change if a person changes their name, and      Northern Ireland has a different system to the rest of the UK.The Passport Agency has a database of citizens, accurate apart from a few thousand "Jackal" passports issued in the      names of dead infants. However the entitlement card database would need to include residents who are not citizens. The      NHS has the most recent database, renumbered with "unique identifiers" in the 1990s. However, the Home Office      consultation rules out the use of the NHS number as it might raise concerns over the confidentiality of medical records.      The conclusion is that a new register would have to be created.According to the consultation document, the government is "examining the feasibility of developing a high-quality common      population register, holding core data and a unique identifier on UK residents that could be used across the public sector."      This database would hold "a very limited range of core information about people, such as their name, address, date of      birth, sex and unique personal number".Opponents of the entitlement card will question whether the cost of this infrastructure, which will run into billions, will      exceed the benefits. According to the Home Office, identity fraud costs the taxpayer £1.3bn a year.       But the card has another potential use that may sway the argument, as the key to e-government. According to the      consultation document "the card could provide a more efficient basis for administering public services by avoiding the need      for people to provide the same personal information time and again to a range of public services".The theme crops up repeatedly in e-government circles. The e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, says the biggest single problem he      faces is authenticating the identity of people contacting government agencies electronically. The first choice, commercial      digital signatures, was condemned last week as "costly and time-consuming" by the House of Commons Public Accounts      Committee.The IT industry agrees. "The lack of a personal electronic signature is the single biggest obstacle to e-government," Geoff      Llewellyn, head of public sector strategy at SchlumbergerSema, maker of the iris-scanning system, said last week.      Llewellyn says he's neutral on the entitlement card, but ready to provide one: "When the political and constitutional debates      have been settled, the technology should not be a problem."
Children's board games have traditionally revolved around ruthless capitalism (Monopoly), world domination (Risk) and cold-blooded murder (Cluedo). But this Christmas, parents will be able to buy a new breed of alternative game, offering less aggressive ways of whiling away a wet afternoon.The games are being marketed by a Sussex-based company, Gaia Distribution, and are designed to feed children messages of a more educationally nutritious nature than just "winner takes all". In fact, many of the games are played not on a competitive basis, but a cooperative one, so that no one ends up on the losing side and there are no tears either before or after bedtime.Gaia's Garden, for example, can be played by one to six people, aged four and upwards. Whereas the rules for a game such as Monopoly can be summed up in one sentence - get rich and bankrupt your competitors - the instructions for Gaia's Garden take up a couple of pages and touch on horticultural compatibility and ecological interdependence.The hardest concept to grasp is the idea that players are not allocated their own pieces. Whereas in Cluedo you are Professor Plum, or in Monopoly you are the car or the old boot, in Gaia's Garden there is no one piece that is yours. Each time it is your turn, you throw two dice: one shows which type of piece to move (gardener, pest or predator) and the other shows how many spaces you can advance round the garden path.Reach a paving stone next to a patch of bare soil, and you can plant one of the 48 vegetable discs from the nursery. But it must be a species that is compatible with the one planted alongside it - in other words, it's all right to put a beetroot beside an onion, but not next to a tomato.A problem arises if one of the pests (such as a slug or hungry insect) lands on the same patch and starts eating the fledgling veg. Then you have to cross your fingers and hope that one of your fellow players will throw the right number and land on your patch with a garden predator in tow (blackbird, robin etc) to eat the pest causing the problem.The end of the game comes either when all the vegetable rows on the board are filled with crops that are complementary to each other - or else when the pests have become so prevalent that no more planting is possible. "In that case," concludes the rule book, "no one individual player wins or loses the game, and everybody is happy or disappointed with the work done."Aware that this concept may at first be alien to children weaned along win-or-bust lines, the makers print an encouraging slogan on the box reading: "Let's give it a try."Games such as Gaia's Garden represent a distinct breaking of ranks from the long line of traditional, conflict-related board games. Pollock's Toy Museum in central London has a whole roomful of military strategy games dating back to the first world war - among them L'Attaque, Dover Patrol and Aviation (A Game Of Aerial Bombardment).Unease with the martial nature of these prompted a Sussex couple, Joe and Carme Brunner, to set up Gaia Distribution - named after the Greek goddess of the Earth - which specialises in the marketing of alternative games. The seed of the idea was planted three years ago when the Brunners were taking what they call an "ecological honeymoon" around the world."In Australia, we met a family of Flemish origin who were home-schooling their three children," says Carme Brunner. "They were dissatisfied with what was available and had created their own series of beautifully illustrated games with environmental and ecological themes."At that time, the games were only prototypes, but we helped fund the first edition of Gaia's Garden and began searching for similarly attractive, environmentally friendly games - of course, using recycled card and paper and wood from sustainable forestry. As well as stimulating both intellectual and non-intellectual learning, one of our biggest concerns has been to nourish children's aesthetic sensibilities, in a marketplace that favours caricature over sensitive illustration."Other games-creators that have been brought into the Gaia stable include a number of small companies in Switzerland and Canada, some with only one or two employees. Many of the products are variations on familiar themes. For example, the card game Tree Quartet is an eco-version of Happy Families; instead of Mr Bun the Baker (plus aproned wife and two doughnut-shaped children), you have the Norwegian Maple. To collect the full set, you need one card that is a picture of the tree, one that is a drawing of its leaves, one that shows its bark and one showing what the wood looks like when turned into floorboards. The same goes for the other eight tree families in the pack - all "part of an extended arboreal family, in that each of them is a strictly temperate-climate species".The memory-testing game of pelmanism (trying to locate pairs of identical cards) comes in many different Gaia manifestations. However, instead of cards with matching numbers, you are looking for cards showing the same tribal mask or Tanzanianpainting or statue from the Reitberg Museum in Zurich.As for Cluedo, the Gaia alternative is called Nature Detective, in which you have to track down the mystery animal by piecing together the foods it likes. Whereas in Cluedo you finger Colonel Mustard as the culprit in the ballroom with the lead piping, in Nature Detective you deduce that it must be the squirrel with the nuts and berries in the oak tree.There is even a more environmentally sensitive version of Monopoly. It is called Agropoly (ages five and upwards), and it is a test of who can "manage their land responsibly within the community and find the right relationship between supply and demand". Unlike its capitalist counterpart, a full circuit of the Agropoly board takes you not through London's property hotspots, but on a journey through the changing seasons and the farming year. The goal is subsistence rather than profit; the game can be played either with or without money; and instead of Chance and Community Chest, there are Insurance Against Hail cards.At present, most of Gaia's business is done via mail order, rather than retail. "Our sort of consumer is interested in the angle these games provide," says Renee Elliott, founder of Planet Organic, a London shop that stocks Gaia's Garden, Tree Quartet and Kambuka, the Tanzanian version of pelmanism. "At the same time, though, they've got limited advertising behind them, so they're not going to take the world by storm."While they have yet to attract crowds of Hamleys-type proportions, the Brunners are quietly branching out into puzzles and children's toys - including little Indian-made "put-put" boats, made of recycled drinks cans and powered, somewhat mysteriously, by teaspoons filled with candle wax. "We are constantly searching for new ideas," says Carme Brunner. "Our aim is always to look beyond the typically competitive and individualistic dimension."&#183;Gaia Distribution is at 79 Mackie Avenue, Hassocks, Sussex BN6 8NJ (01273-843901) or at:www.gaiadistribution.comPlanet Organic is at 22 Torrington Place, London WC1A 7JE (020-7436 1929)
John Oltsiktakes a look at the ten biggest "hype jobs" of the year on News.com. One or two of those he mentions - web services and security FUD - ring a bell, although if these are really the best he can come up with, it confirms my suspicions it has not been a vintage year for technology hype. But there is evidence of a slight improvement in hype's fortunes just of late, if the number of calls from PR companies asking "does the Guardian cover the internet at all?" are anything to go by.
Surveillance powers allowing law enforcement agencies to access the communications records of telephone and internet users are in such a legal mess that they are untenable, one of Britain's most senior police officers will today tell a parliamentary inquiry.Jim Gamble, assistant chief constable of the national crime squad and head of the association of chief police officers' data communications group, will admit to MPs that the current system to access web, email and phone logs is illegal under human rights law, the Guardian has learned.He will also complain that legal difficulties with the legislation passed to resolve this problem are "leaving the &#91;communications&#93; industry exposed to civil action and law enforcement uncertain of their powers".His astonishing intervention on behalf of the UK law enforcement community piles pressure on ministers to rethink their raft of surveillance measures. These will require communications providers to stockpile customers' records for long periods and allow law enforcement agencies to access them without need for a judicial or executive warrant.Richard Allan, Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman and the inquiry's joint chair, said: "Jim Gamble's submission reflects a climate change in the Home Office and the police. They have now realised that this is a matter of major public interest and are trying to strike a better balance between catching criminals and protecting the privacy of innocent citizens."But Ian Brown, director of the internet thinktank, the Foundation for Information Policy Research, said: "Despite admitting they have been illegally gathering information on telephone and internet users for many years, the police are now telling parliament they want access to even more information."At the moment, companies store data only for as long as necessary for their own purposes, such as billing and marketing. Law enforcement agencies are able to access an individual's records only if they can convince the service provider that they should be exempt from data protection laws because there is enough evidence to believe the person is involved in wrongdoing.This system, says Mr Gamble, breaches the European convention on human rights - enshrined in UK law in the Human Rights Act - and would be unlikely to withstand a legal challenge.The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, passed in 2000, was meant to resolve this problem, but the relevant sections have yet to come into force, stalled largely by the furore which followed the Guardian's revelation that a host of non-law enforcement bodies would also be handed sweeping data powers.In his submission Mr Gamble urges ministers to enact the Ripa provisions swiftly - either with or without the inclusion of the additional authorities - but the legislation has become tangled in an even more convoluted mess.The Home Office has been told the Ripa provisions are incompatible with new measures rushed through after September 11 that would require communications providers to retain customer records beyond the period required by normal business practices.Parliament restricted the anti-terror legislation so that records retained under it could only be accessed for national security-related cases.In his submission, Mr Gamble complains that police investigating other crime will be prevented from accessing data: "This is untenable."John Wadham, director of Liberty, said: "This mess needs to be sorted out, but not at the expense of giving in to the voracious appetite of the authorities for more and more information about everything we do."But last night a spokesman for the home secretary dismissed the criticism. "We just do not accept that Ripa and the anti-terrorism act are not compliant with human rights law. It is time to stop whinging and come together to work through the solutions."
Chris Morris' satirical TV news show the Day Today once had a sketch with prison authorities responding to the revelation that inmates at Strangeways had been running an international airport.The notion of prisoners having their own websites may seem similarly comic, yet a small but growing group of high-profile inmates are now enjoying some of the freedoms of the information superhighway. And, as we shall see, the ones that exist have their surreal elements.The prison service says prisoner internet access is heavily restricted as part of IT training courses, but there are no specific rules to stop material from prisoners that has been forwarded, for example by letter, being published online by third parties.Last week the website of convicted murderer Jeremy Bamber raised eyebrows when it scooped three judges by revealing that he had lost his appeal 24 hours before they confirmed as much in court.The site,jeremybamber.com, is an impressive affair, showcasing a tranche of evidential documents relating to his case. It also has a friendly colour picture of him, no doubt trying to look unlike a multiple-murderer.Then there isKingofhits.comthe "official site" of pop impresario Jonathan King, jailed late last year for sex attacks on boys. The site carries postings from a "JK", ostensibly expressing his views of life inside (he says he was convicted by a jury of "well meaning but brain dead morons"). There are also denials of tabloid stories, advice on "how to be a success" and a section headlined "send money".Bronsonmania.comclaims to be the official site of serial hostage-taker and armed robber Charles Bronson, and showcases claims of prison brutality, pictures of his artwork, and opportunities to buy merchandise, including his book, Solitary Fitness.However, the most recent one isbarrygeorge.co.uk. The home page has two frosted pictures side-by-side of Barry George and Jill Dando, the TV presenter he was convicted of killing, and asks "A miscarriage of justice?". There are details of how to petition the home secretary for his release.There is alsoconvictsreunited.com, the friends reunited for lags, and the Guardian has a regularprison columnist, Erwin James, who is serving a life sentence (payments for the articles are donated to charity) and whose pieces areavailable online at Guardian Unlimited.Earlier this year, the debate about prisoners writing for publication hit the headlines. In October, the prison service found Tory peer Jeffrey Archer to be in breach of prison rules for publishing an account of the start of his sentence for perjury. He was punished by being moved from a low security prison to a harsher regime for three weeks.Prison rules - drawn up in 1963 - state inmates cannot publish for profit, compromise the privacy of other prisoners, or provoke disorder.The Prison Governors' Association said that the parameters of prisoners publishing online would be governed by the "same principles". The prison service said governors would make decisions in individual cases, but added it was not possible for them to "police the internet".Depending on their category, existing rules allow for authorities to monitor prisoner correspondence for offensive material, but aside from this, there is little else to impede inmates providing content for websites.Dan Tench, a media lawyer at Olswang, says that under the European convention on human rights, prisoners have a right to freedom of expression which places the burden on the would-be restrainer to prove any material should be repressed. Mr Tench says: "There is no reason why prisoners should not have websites of their own ... it restrains unbridled government, the force of the executive just doing what it likes."Yet some would disagree. The Mirror reported that when the Bamber site launched in March, it carried adverts for "sexy underwear" that had angered victims of crime groups.Brian Caton, the general secretary of the Prison Officers' Association, says:   "The last thing we want is criminals being allowed to bask in some kind of fame." He added that while teaching computer skills was important, "there is always a chance that prisoners with internet access will go to areas that they shouldn't".David Roddan, the general secretary of the Prison Governors' Association,  said offence to victims and their families was a primary concern and that there was a responsibility to protect them and the public. "I think anybody who has suffered child abuse themselves or members of their family have, will be offended by the principle of Jonathan King being able to run a website," he said.But Mr Roddan said it would be "quite difficult to have a computer scheme, which we do, and some sort of policing arrangement against people setting up their own website, except for high security prisoners".Perhaps more crucially, he said that governors had to be very careful not to stray into moral judgments "that in fact legally we are not entitled to make, and find ourselves being challenged in the European court".A positive reason to support prisoner websites, is that they could be useful tools in genuine miscarriages of justice. The band Asian Dub Foundation used their website to campaign for Satpal Ram, who was released this year after serving 16 years for a murder committed during an assault by a group of white men in Birmingham.Over the Atlantic, though, there was a case last year where the family of murdered 12-year-old Polly Klaas, from California, started a campaign to stop her killer and kidnapper, Richard Allen Davis, seeking young pen pals via a prisoners' charity website, theCanadian Coalition Against the Death Penalty.Marc Klaas, her father, told wired.com: "This guy killed my daughter, and there he is, smiling and asking for pen pals ... I'd hack the &#91;website of the&#93; son-of-a-bitch if I could." But managers of the site, which has web pages and pen pal requests for more than 1,000 condemned prisoners, were defiant.
Most popular queries (UK)1.BBC2.Big Brother3.Easyjet4.Britney Spears5.Ryanair6.Gareth Gates7.Weather8.Kylie Minogue9.World Cup10.Holly ValanceTop women (UK)1.Britney Spears2.Kylie Minogue3.Holly Valance4.Kelly Brook5.Katie Price6.Shakira7.Jennifer Lopez8.Sarah Michelle Gellar9.Anna Kournikova10.Nell McAndrewTop men (UK)1.Gareth Gates2.David Beckham3.Eminem4.Orlando Bloom5.Brad Pitt6.Ja Rule7.Nelly8.Josh Hartnett9.Michael Owen10.Will YoungAll rankings supplied by Google
It's as easy as ABC, but even after spending an estimated £250m on an online empire and more on promotions on TV and radio, it seems millions of viewers aren still not familiar with corporation's website address.According to Google, the world's most popular internet search engine, the BBC  was the number one term searched for on the internet in the UK during 2002.It will be a depressing statistic for the BBC, which has poured so much money into educating a public who evidently still have not realised that a simple www.bbc.co.uk will access all the corporation's websites.In the UK, the BBC tops the list of the most popular search terms, followed by Big Brother, budget airline Easyjet and Britney Spears.Kylie Minogue was also popular on the search list but only makes it to number eight in the top 10 of searches.Another Australian soap star, Neighbours actress Holly Valance, also makes the grade - but has to make do with number 10.And the weather, the most talked about subject at breakfast tables and bus-stops, is the seventh most popular search.Google's annual figures provide a unique glimpse into the surfing habits of internet users around the world.In France, for example, the most popular searches were for rail company SNCF and weather site Meteo, while Germans were also fixated on transport, with UK dotcom success story Lastminute.com and Ryanair topping the pile.Overall, the queries that gained most in popularity during the course of the year were predictable blockbuster films such as Spider-Man, sporting events such as the World Cup and pop stars that hit the big time during the year such as Avril Lavigne, Shakira and Las Ketchup.The list of top ranked men and women around the world shows that Jennifer Lopez has overtaken Britney Spears as the most searched for female, while rapper Eminem has overtaken Brad Pitt as the most searched for male.But Britney has retained the top spot in the UK, where legions of teenage girls helped Pop Idol runner up Gareth Gates claim the title of most searched for man.Other names that featured heavily include actresses Halle Berry and Jennifer Love Hewitt, footballer David Beckham, chart topping rapper Nelly and film star Vin Diesel.The most searched for brands were Ferrari, followed by Sony, mobile phone manufacturer Nokia, Disney and Swedish home furnishing store Ikea.Many of the words and phrases that were big in 2001 but declined most in popularity during 2002 were related to September 11, including anthrax, Osama bin Laden, Pentagon and Afghanistan.But it also provides a glimpse into the falling stock of bankrupt music download service Napster, short lived internet crazes such as "all your base are belong to us" and stars such as Angelina Jolie.
The Sims - the hit computer game that gives you God-like control over a community of animated characters - hits the net today for the first time today.The Sims Online, a new version of the best-selling computer game, is being launched today in the US, and is specifically designed to be played over the internet. With a UK unveiling scheduled for February 14, the long-awaited release will be watched closely by the computer games industry as a key indicator of the online gaming market's commercial maturity.The Sims Online marks the first time a major games publisher has released one of its most successful gaming brands in an online format. The game was originally released in 2000 to acclaim from both gamers and critics, and went on to be one of the unlikeliest hits in the games market. It has since sold nearly 20 million copies.The gameplay is more EastEnders than Star Wars, with the Sim characters developing their own personalities and requiring guidance for the most mundane tasks, such as cleaning the house. The game's charm and deceptive simplicity has earned it a large and devoted fan base; almost uniquely, the game appeals to women almost as much as men, with 45 per cent of Sims players being female.For the game's publisher, Electronic Arts (EA), the latest release is a bold re-entry into the online gaming market. EA's last launch of an online game was "Majestic" in July 2001. The game only attracted 15,000 subscribers and was discontinued after eight months.The fate of Majestic is indicative of the industry's ambivalence towards online gaming. "Massively multiplayer" games are widely regarded as the future of the industry, as gamers interact with others in vast virtual worlds."If you can make it work it's a fantastic business model," says Ben Keen, an online games industry analyst with Screen Digest. "Not only are you getting a retail sale, but you're also getting up to $12 a month from subscriptions."But so far online gaming has largely failed to live up to its promise. Publishers have struggled to develop robust game architectures that can deliver fluent gameplay to thousands of players simultaneously.Online gaming has also been held back by the limited data capacities of a standard dial-up connection, which reduces many online games to a disjointed and tedious experience.Three exceptions to the rule have included Ultima Online, Everquest, and Asheron's Call, owned by EA, Sony and Microsoft respectively. Everquest is the clear market leader with Ultima Online holding off Asheron's Call for
second place. All three appeal to the core gaming market of male teenagers, adopting the well worn but ever-popular fantasy role-playing format.These games have even spawned their own virtual economies, where experienced players offer tuition, supervision and hard-to-get items from the game on eBay and other auction websites.And now, with broadband finally taking off, the games industry fully expects online gaming to come of age in 2003. Screen Digest estimates that there are currently 1.7 million online game subscribers in the US and Europe, jumping to 2.9 in 2003. Much of that growth will be fuelled by major releases such as The Sims Online."It's a hugely significant release," says Keen. "Online gaming tends to attract a niche market. But The Sims is proven offline and will have far more mainstream appeal."The original game is based around interaction between characters and relies little on reflex actions, it would seem well suited to an online environment. Players are encouraged to socialise with other players by letting out rooms in their Sim homes or joining forces with other players to start a business.The release of The Sims Online will be shortly followed the launch of Star Wars Galaxies, an online game based on arguably the largest game brand franchise of all. Galaxies will be released in late January by Lucas Arts
and will boast least 20 galaxies within the Star Wars world.However, many in the industry regard the console market as having far more potential, at least in the short term."I think success will come in the console market," says Michael Rawlinson of the European Leisure Software Publishers' Association, "because of the relative ease of connectivity, and because that's where the core gaming
market is."Microsoft and Sony have just launched online gaming for the XBox and Playstation 2 respectively. Both companies are launching their UK services in the spring.
