It's Friday.
Irish bookmaker Paddy Power has revealed its website was hacked in 2010 and personal details of more than 649,000 customers stolen.The breach was revealed on Thursday as the bookie wrote to inform customers of the incident.The stolen data included names, addresses, dates of birth, and details of the question and answer prompts often used to verify account details. However, the company said that no personal financial information had been taken.Peter O'Donovan, managing director of Paddy Power's online division, said: "We sincerely regret that this breach occurred and we apologise to people who have been inconvenienced as a result. We take our responsibilities regarding customer data extremely seriously and have conducted an extensive investigation into the breach and the recovered data. That investigation shows that there is no evidence that any customer accounts have been adversely impacted by this breach."The bookmaker was advised in May 2014 that some of its data was in the possession of an identified individual in Canada, and the company alerted An Garda Síochána, the Irish police force. The Canadian individual's IT assets have since been seized via a court order and with the assistance the Ontario police.In March Paddy Power said it had 1.9 million active online customers, up 19% on the previous year. Like many bookmakers, it is experiencing an online boom. In 2013, it won €473m (£375m) from online punters, an increase of 21%.
I would like to have all my music, video and pictures on one large, central hard drive, and then wirelessly access/play back this media from a variety of devices. I would also like the central hard drive to receive downloads and back up to another hard drive on a nightly schedule without me needing to do anything.We have two MacBooks and a Ubuntu laptop, two Android phones, two Android tablets and an iPad. This may change as, for example, I might replace one of the MacBooks with a Windows 7 or Windows 8 laptop, so I want a non-proprietary set up that won’t force me into buying one OS or hardware for years to come. If there is a good solution that doesn’t support the Ubuntu laptop, I could live with that, as it’s my oldest PC.I’m somewhat computer literate, but by no means an expert, and the husband and others who will also use this are less so.NorikoThere are a lot of different combinations of hardware and software that will do what you want. Look at some of the free programs and pick whichever you think will best meet your needs.The basic idea is simple. You start with a server, which will have a processor, memory, operating system, and one or more large hard drives to store all your media files. The server runs whichever media streaming software you choose. Finally, each of your devices – the clients in your client/server system – runs a separate program to display whatever the server sends its way.All the components could be developed by a single company, which is basically what Apple did with Airplay. (There are non-Apple devices that support Airplay but they are licensed by Apple.) Alternatively, all the components could work to common standards, usuallyUPnP(Universal Plug and Play) andDLNA(Digital Living Network Alliance). The standards should mean that all the bits work together correctly, but they don’t always. Still, if you want a non-proprietary solution, almost everyone except Apple supports DLNA.Picking a serverYour server could be a PC or a NAS (Network Attached Storage) device, and will be on all the time. Intel-based PCs are usually more powerful and more versatile, and include graphics cards and HDMI ports, but they may be bigger, noisier and more expensive. NAS boxes often have slower ARM processors and either two or four empty drive bays, but they often come with media server software, because streaming is a common requirement.If you already had a PC running (say) Ubuntu or Microsoft Windows 7, you could use that as your media server. Because you don’t, it’s worth considering a PC instead of a NAS. This includes “home theatre PCs” that people typically plug directly into their main TV set, and use to stream media to other devices. PCs can transcode files, stream movies from services such as Netflix -- in principle, they can do anything you can do with a Roku or Apple TV-type device -- download things from the net and perform other tasks.Transcoding is important if you use small devices such as smartphones. For example, if you have a full high-definition movie on the server, it may have to be transcoded to a smaller size or even a different format to suit the client display. A low-power server or NAS may stutter when doing that, especially if it’s serving several streams at once.For more information about NAS boxes, please see my earlier answer onWhich NAS should I buy to store files?I usually recommend Synology and QNAP, even though they are not the cheapest. For media serving, QNAP may have the edge.Media centre softwareThere are lots of programs that will make your PC or NAS work as a media server. Almost all run on PCs, some run on NAS servers, and a few also run on games consoles such as the Microsoft Xbox 360 and/or Sony PlayStation 3. At the moment,Plexseems to be the most highly regarded. The main alternatives includeXBMC,Universal Media Server,PS3 Media Server, andServiio. All of these run on Windows, Linux and Mac OS X.Wikipedia has a usefulList UPnP AV media servers and clients, and a somewhat confusingcomparison table of UPnP AV media servers. You may find thatUMS’s simpler tableis better for your purposes, bearing in mind that it’s promoting Universal Media Server.If you take the PC route with Microsoft, Windows 7 already has a DNLA/UPnP media server built in. Microsoftexplained its development, and has aguide to setting it up. Nonetheless, lots of Windows 7 users install Plex, XBMC and other programs instead of using Windows Media Player. (Microsoft dropped the Windows Media Center from Windows 8, though it’s still sold as part of theWindows 8.1 Pro Packupgrade.)Use one of your laptops to have a look at Plex, XBMC or UMS and anything else you fancy to see which you prefer. Plex is a proprietary program whereas XBMC and Universal Media Server are free/open source (GPL) software.You will have a smaller choice of software if you choose a NAS. Synology DiskStationssupport DNLA/UPnP as standardand many of its NAS servers can runPlex.QNAP’s NAS boxesalso include Twonky Media Server and can run Plex, XBMC and theBubbleUPnP“music cloud” app, among others. It offersQfilemobile apps for Apple’s iOS, Android and Windows Phone 8.Streaming clientsAny player that supports UPnP should be able to play streams from your media server, and that includes the widely supported, open sourceVLCmedia player.There are two ways to approach client programs: either you could hunt down the best UPnP app for each of your devices, or you could use the same software on each device.That’s where Plex may have an advantage.It has mobile apps for Android, iOS and Windows, Plex Home Theatre for Windows, and apps for Google Chromecast, Amazon Fire TV, Roku, Google TV, and Samsung Smart TVs. There isn’t an app for Ubuntu, but the server version of Plex includes the Plex Web App, which includes a player. I assume you can use this as a client for a Plex server running on a different machine -- please post a correction below if I’m wrong!Of course, there’s no reason why you can’t have two or more UPnP client programs on each device. Sometimes you may need to find a different program to handle a particular need, such as displaying subtitles.Other mattersWhether you decide on a PC or a NAS, it should take at least two 3TB drives. If you don’t need 6TB, you could leave one bay empty or use it to back up the other drive. Alternatively, you could use one or more external 3TB USB hard drive(s) to take back-ups, which is what I do withFreeFileSync. Keep the second drive in a different place and only plug it in once a week to back up your back-up.A PC running Ubuntu or Windows will obviously be able to download and save or stream files from the net. If buying a NAS, check that it will be able to do what you need. They can all do back-ups and almost all of them can stream media, but some may not be able to handle certain downloads or streaming services.Plex has aQuick-Start: Step by Step guideto setting up a media server for the first time. Even if you don’t like Plex, the text and short video will give you a good idea of what you need to do.
Merchandise has been in the news recently, from thearray of UKIP-related merchandisebeing readily snapped up from that party’s website, to the sale of Commonwealth Games props, including aTunnock’s teacake costumewhich sold for £1,605.We asked Guardian readers fortheir own tales of pointless memorabilia purchases- and we weren’t disappointed. From royal tat to life-size cardboard cut-outs of forgotten footballers, here are ten of the best.1)A set of Big Brother playing cardsBig Brother contestant Caroline in the Big Brother house, dreaming of the day she is immortalised in playing card form. Photograph: PA“I am ashamed to admit I own the deck of playing cards from the very first Big Brother house. My only defence is that the money went to charity, and I think they cost about £12. No idea what happened to them, doubt they’d be worth 12p now!”2)A papal visit bus-pass from TorontoPope John Paul II waves at pilgrims in Toronto, Ontario, in 2002. He’s in his popemobile, so no need for a bus pass. (AP Photo/Dan Loh) Photograph: DAN LOH/APCatholicism is a world-leader in producing spectacular kitsch, but this is endearingly banal.“Back in the 80s I spent a few weeks in Toronto visiting relatives. Another slightly more heralded visitor was due in the city a few days after I left - Pope John Paul II. So that people could get around during his visit the Transit Commission was selling commemorative bus/subway passes with the Pope’s image and the Vatican crest, valid for the days of his visit. Even though I wasn’t going to be there when the pass was usable, it seemed too good an opportunity for a very lapsed Catholic like myself to pass up. I still have it to this day. Very possibly the tackiest thing I own.”3)A well-used Charles and Diana plateAn “awfully cheap &amp; tacky plate”. Photograph:Jane Rolink/GuardianWitnessCountless thousands must have royal wedding merchandise squirrelled away in their cupboards, butJane Rolinkhas got her money’s worth from her collection, which includes “an awfully cheap and tacky plate commemorating Charles &amp; Diana’s wedding. Very well used as you can see.”“I use it as a meat plate.”4)A bag made from a tablecloth from the Beckhams’ weddingA tiara worn by Victoria Beckham on her wedding day. Photograph: Stuart C. Wilson/Getty Images“I have a velvet lavender bag made from one of the tablecloths at the Beckhams’ wedding. My mum used to work with the florist’s mum and she made these lavender bags from off cuts.“I’ve also got a couple of Four Poofs and a Piano T shirts - the ones they used to wear on Friday Night with Jonathan Ross with the guests’ faces on. One of them smells of male deodorant.”5)A life-size cardboard cut-out of Lee SharpeIs this Lee Sharpe, or is this a life-size cardboard cut-out of Lee Sharpe? Photograph: Allsport/ALLSPORTAnd from one Manchester United player to another...“I had a Lee Sharpe [cardboard cut-out] complete with a stand and a little circle of AstroTurf which the Leeds Utd shop gave me for free when he left the club. I suspect it now lives in my Dad’s attic with lots more junk.”6)A Nicholas Witchell Royal CreamerWe also heard from a purveyor of tat, rather than a purchaser. This commenter claims to have produced a limited series of Nicholas Witchell creamers, to celebrate the long career of the BBC’s chief royal-watcher. Watch the video and judge for yourself.“Unaccustomed as I am to self promotion, I did produce a Nicholas Witchell Royal Creamer to coincide with the wedding of the Duke of Cambridge.“Unfortunately there were no takers.”7)A large selection of unwanted Mel Gibson memorabiliaMel Gibson in Mad Max, which is due a remake. Photograph: Moviestore Collection/Rex Feat“My inventive and prank-loving best friend decided to start buying me loads of Mel Gibson memorabilia, even though I have never, at any time in my life, expressed any appreciation for Mel Gibson or his work, or for that matter any opinion of any kind. The collection now stands at one framed picture from Mutiny On The Bounty, one framed selection of original movie slides, two bookmarks (both containing original movie slides, one each from Braveheart and Mad Max), a mug, a t-shirt and a Newcastle United top with ‘Mel Gibson’ on the back where the players name should be. Sadly I don’t think this will be where my collection stops.”8)A large badge with the 80s logo for TV show The BillThe Bill theme tune, as heard in 1988“I have a large badge with the 80s logo for TV show The Bill, displaying the title and that silhouette of a policeman’s head. I would say i bought it somewhere, years ago, but in all honesty, I was stood in a beergarden, drunk and found it on the ground in about 2007. I often wonder who lost it but instantly forget their sad loss as it’s the possibly the coolest thing I’ve ever found on the floor and now it’s MINE!!”9)A button from Hubert Humphrey’s presidential campaignHubert H. Humphrey never did become president of the United States, but that doesn’t stop our reader being proud of owning his button.“I have an amazing collection of pins and buttons (started when I was very young), that include a button from Hubert Humphrey’s Presidential campaign, a button that says ‘Jefferson Airplane Loves You’ and a pin from the Queen’s coronation.”Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, along with “King of Soul” singer, James Brown. A badge featuring them both would be impressive. Photograph: Bettmann/CORBIS10) A piece of Morrissey’s shirtThe final item on our list may not be considered tat by all. In fact, some more obsessive fans of The Smiths may think this more akin to the turin shroud.“A piece of Morrissey’s shirt he wore whilst performing with The Smiths at Glastonbury 1984. Our mate got to the front as he threw the shirt into the crowd. This is the piece he got and gave to us being huge Smith’s fans!”A section of Morrissey’s shirt from Glastonbury 1984. Photograph: finljb/GuardianWitness
There is no sex tape of Rihanna and her boyfriend doing the rounds online. You can’t see who’s been looking at your Facebook profile. And you can’t change your Facebook colour either.This may all sound obvious, but according to antivirus firm Bitdefender, these are the most popular malware scams on the social network in 2014.The company has published a list of the top 10 Facebook scams, with the fake app promising to tell you your Facebook views and visitors by far the most popular, accounting for 30.2% of bogus links it identified on the social network this year.Clicking on any of them will lead Facebook users to sites that try to install viruses on their computers, as malware developers continue to seek new ways to spread their software to unsuspecting victims.The chart is good news for Taylor Swift and Disneyland, who both featured in Bitdefender’s list a year ago. Swift’s non-existent sex tape and an offer of a free trip to Disneyland have fallen from the top 10 over the last 12 months.“Why do people still want to see who has been taking a peek at their profile, despite all security warnings? I think they believe these are legitimate apps,” said chief security strategist Catalin Cosoi.“This is social engineering at its finest – a challenging mental game that pushes the right psychological buttons. The baits have changed over time, with stalkers, peekers, admirers, overly attached girlfriends and exes haunting you, but the reason this scam works is simple: human nature.”As with much news of this type, the company responsible for the research also has a commercial agenda: Bitdefender has its own Facebook app that alerts people to potentially-fraudulent posts.The threat is real, however: Facebook’s sheer size – it had 1.32 billion active users in the second quarter of 2014 – makes it an obvious target for malware developers hoping to infect gullible users.The full list of popular Facebook scams is below: suffice to say, if you see any of these sentences appear in your news feed, clicking on them would be an extremely bad idea.Top 10 Facebook scams, 20141. Total profile views/visitors – 30.20%2. Change your Facebook Color/Colour – 7.38%3. Rihanna sex tape with her boyfriend – 4.76%4. Check my status update to get free Facebook T-shirt – 4.21%5. Say goodbye to Blue Facebook – 2.76%6. Unsealed. We are giving them away for free – 2.41%7. Check if a friend has deleted you – 2.27%8. See your top 10 profile peekers here! – 1.74%9. Find out how to see who viewed your profile – 1.55%10. Just changed my Facebook theme. It’s amazing – 1.50%•If you see these knickers in your Facebook feed, don’t click
Google’s next tangle with European regulators is likely to focus on the deals it strikes with smartphone and tablet manufacturers using its Android software.The European commission is asking Google’s partners for details about these partnerships, including any requirement that they preload Google’s apps and services on their devices,according to Reuters.Its report suggests that the commission, which is due to appoint a new antitrust chief later in 2014, is keen to explore whether Google is abusing Android’s large market share to promote its own services.It would be the second major investigation by the EU into Google’s business practices, with the first – focused on whether the company gives undue prominence to its own services in its search engine results – yet to conclude.Google has beenlocked in negotiationswith current antitrust commissioner Joaquin Almunia for years over legally-binding concessions that would help it avoid a full court case, after the EC launched its investigation in 2010 in response to complaints from rivals including Microsoft.Its offer to give more prominence to links to competing services has been fiercely criticised by those rivals, with a final decision on whether to settle now expected in September. A second investigation focused on Android could launch as the first is closed, suggested one of Reuters’ sources.Android is the dominant smartphone platform, with research firm Strategy Analytics estimating that it was installed on 85% of new smartphones that shipped worldwide in the second quarter of 2014, compared to 12% for Apple’s iOS and 2.7% for Microsoft’s Windows Phone.Android’s market share of smartphones actually in use is the subject of more debate. Google recently announced that there are 1 billion monthly active Android users, up from 538m in mid-2013.The industry analyst Benedict Evans has used those figures to calculate thatthe average Android device has a shorter lifespan than one running iOS, so Android’s “true” market share of devices in use is likely to be lower than its share of new shipments –this Guardian articleexplores that debate in more depth.In any case, an Android investigation by the European Commission would be a new headache for Google in one of its key markets. Almunia has already signified his willingness to investigate Google beyond search, in a letter sent to colleagues in June, andsubsequently leaked to the New York Times.The letter cited “many allegations, the various practices that they cover, and the new types of markets that are affected” and described Android as “the most advanced investigation” beyond search.“The allegations relate to practices that may prevent the development of alternative operating systems to Android,” explained Almunia, who also mentioned “restrictive conditions in agreements”.Google has hit back at suggestions that its Android partnerships flout antitrust laws. “Anyone can use Android without Google, and anyone can use Google without Android,” a spokesperson told Reuters.“Since Android’s introduction, greater competition in the smartphone market has given consumers more and better choices. Both the US FTC and Korean Fair Trade Commission have examined Google’s agreements around Android in depth and concluded that there was no cause for legal concern.”Google is also facing anofficial complaint to the European commissionfrom independent music label bodies Win and Impala, over its approach to licensing music from their members for YouTube’s upcoming paid subscription service.This year, the company was alsoordered by the European Union’s court of justiceto delete “inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant” data from its search results when requested to by a member of the public.The so-called “right to be forgotten” ruling has since sparked controversy and debate, withGoogle executives Larry Page and Eric Schmidt publicly criticising it, and a report by a committee of the UK’s House of Lordsdescribing it as “unworkable, unreasonable, and wrong in principle”.•EU goes to war against power of US digital giants
This month, a professional Hearthstone tournament in Finlandcaused outragewith a rule stating “The participation is open only to Finnish male players.” The organisers quickly point out that it wasn’t their fault - the event was a qualification round for the International e-Sports Federation (IeSF) World Championships, an annual esports event that segregates its competition into male and female events.Or at least it used to. Responding to the subsequent online furore, the IeSF quicklycreated two event categories, one open to all entrants and another reserved for womenThe resulting discussion has centred around whether having a separate competition will actually help increase female participation in esports. A great number of the comments I’ve seen which disagree with the change have argued that if women were interested in or capable of playing at a professional level they would do so – basically that esports is a pure meritocracy and that there are no external factors at work whatsoever.Game developers and tournament organisers tend to acknowledge that the number of women in the general player base isn’t reflected in the professional scene – SuperData Research estimates a 70/30 split between men and women in games commonly used as esports, such a League of Legends and StarCraft II, but on the professional circuit the ratio skews heavily toward male. However, those developers and tournament organisers shy away from solutions like the IeSF’s.“Since the LCS is very much based on ability, we can’t really lobby to encourage people to participate unless they are at the same standard as the other competing teams in the Challenger Series,” said a spokesperson for League of Legends, the mulitplayer online battle game that has become one of the biggest titles in global esports.Tournament organiser Gfinity’s Paul Kent acknowledges that the sector is currently male dominated and says that the organisation actively engages with its female community members buthas stated that“we’re against positive discrimination”.Valve didn’t respond to our email butprevious rulesetsfor its International competition have stated “he/she” when referring to competitors.Educating gamersLooking at the fruits of this general attitude – a European LCS with no female members, a SMITE EU kick-off tournament with no female competitors, a stage devoid of professional female gamers at Dota 2’s recent multimillion dollar TI4 competition – it can feel like a problem with no solution. But looking at the tournaments themselves is not the most helpful way to approach this. Hope for a more gender-balanced pro gaming scene comes in the form of community efforts and projects aimed at younger players.The High School Starleague is a US organisation which supports students in setting up gaming clubs. Speakingto Red Bull recently, media relations director, Alex Hsu said, “I know you’d expect it to be primarily men, and that’s true, but there are a surprising amount of teams who are all-female or who have female leaders, which is encouraging to see.” Girls make up about seven per cent of their current rosters and that number is on the rise.League of Legends is also building relationships with university gaming clubs and supporting regional tournaments, aiming to make the game more accessible to everyone. “With this growing support, popularity and accessibility, we do expect to see women joining teams and challenging convention in esports,” a company spokesperson told us.Todd Harris, co-founder of Smite developr Hi Rez Studios, points out that they employ female competitive gamers as visible community spokespeople. The studio also features female competitive community members on its Twitch livestream and co-promotes female pro players like AshhBearr of COGnitive XX on its community channels.The Electronic Sports League (ESL) sent over a statement by managing director Heinrich Zetlmayer explaining that it’s more about ensuring women feel just as welcome as men and don’t run the risk of harassment at events. He adds that, “On one hand it’s a matter of time, but on the other, as an industry, we need to be as proactive as possible. If you look at ESL for instance, we’re seeing more women in our company in leadership roles. And that’s not because we have a quota or something but because they all go beyond the call of duty to truly bring ESL to the next level.”Tammy Tang, leader of all-female Dota 2 team PMS Asterisk* helps run the Female Dota 2 website which is aimed at connecting teams and gamers. “I think that getting females into pro gaming starts from introducing them to the basics of competitive gaming and being part of a proper team,” she says. “I’d like to eventually see inspired and motivated females move on from theFemale Dota 2 SEA Leagueand actually get recruited into male competitive teams and eventually pro teams.”The lack of women in the top tier of professional gaming won’t change overnight, but the efforts being made to increase accessibility are encouraging. Hopefully in the next few years we’ll see the results filtering through in the form of a pro scene better representative of the player base.Call of Duty v the planet: inside the world of competitive gamingStarcraft: how Day[9] became the biggest star in esports
The Tor Project has warned that an attack on the anonymity network could have revealed user identities.Two researchers from Carnegie Mellon University claimed to have exploited fundamental flaws in the Tor network’s design.“While we don’t know when they started doing the attack, users who operated or accessed hidden services from early February through 4 July should assume they were affected,” said Tor co-creator Roger Dingledinein a blog post.The attack started on 30 January and was neutralised on 4 July by the Tor Project, after the researchers contacted Tor ahead of a scheduled talk at the Black Hat hacker conference in Las Vegas.The talk was subsequently cancelled due to legal concerns from Carnegie Mellon.What is Tor? A beginner’s guide to the privacy tool‘We know the attack looked for users who fetched hidden services’Tor allows users to access information on the open web with their identity protected, as well as access sites, files and services hosted within the Tor network – typically called the “dark web” which is not accessible to users or services like Google.The Tor network uses various different volunteers’ computers around the world to bounce a user’s internet traffic through, with each bounce increasing the anonymity of the user.“We know the attack looked for users who fetched hidden services [within the Tor network], but the attackers likely were not able to see any application-level traffic (eg what pages were loaded or even whether users visited the hidden service they looked up),” explained Dingledine.“In theory the attack could also be used to link users to their destinations on normal Tor circuits too, but we found no evidence that the attackers operated any exit relays [access to the open web], making this attack less likely,” Dingledine said.Several government agencies, including the US National Security Agency and the UK’s GCHQ, are actively looking for ways to compromise the Tor network, which is used by people all over the world to avoid surveillance, internet restrictions and oppressive regimes, but it can also be used for criminal or terrorist activities.•US government increases funding for Tor, giving $1.8m in 2013•New ransom ware employs Tor to stay hidden from security
Facebook’s latest mobile application is only available in one country to customers of one mobile operator, but it’s part of the social network’s much bigger plans for the developing world.The company has launched its Internet.org app in Zambia, as an Android app for people using the Airtel mobile network.The app provides access to Facebook and its Messenger instant-messaging service, as well as Wikipedia, Google search and AccuWeather, as well as local health and jobs services including Go Zambia Jobs, Mobile Alliance for Maternal Action and Women’s Rights App.Facebook’s deal with Airtel means people using the app will not have to pay data charges for using any of these services.“By providing free basic services via the app, we hope to bring more people online and help them discover valuable services they might not have otherwise,” wrote Facebook’s product management director Guy Rosenin a blog post.Rosen added that the company plans to “continue to improve the experience and roll it out to other parts of the world” as it strikes more agreements with mobile operators.Facebook originallylaunched its Internet.org initiative in August 2013, with fellow technology companies Samsung, Qualcomm, Ericsson, Nokia, Opera and MediaTek joining the social network as founder members.Its stated goal is removing “barriers in developing countries to connecting and joining the knowledge economy” by reducing the costs of getting online through mobile devices. Obviously, spreading Facebook’s services in these countries is part of that too.The inclusion of Google search in the new Internet.org app is an interesting development, since Google was not one of its founder members, and has run its own zero-data initiative calledFree Zone– including apartnership with Airtel in India. Google’s own services: Gmail and Google Plus as well as search – are its focus.Google and Facebook are also competing to find new ways of delivering internet access to remote parts of the world that aren’t well served by existing mobile networks.Google’s Project Loonis a network of high-altitude balloons.“We believe that it might actually be possible to build a ring of balloons, flying around the globe on the stratospheric winds, that provides internet access to the earth below,”explained its project head Mike Cassidyin June 2013.And Facebook? “In our effort to connect the whole world with Internet.org, we’ve been working on ways to beam internet to people from the sky,”wrote Zuckerberg in a status update in March 2014, citing “drones, satellites and lasers to deliver the internet to everyone”.Facebook isn’t flying laser-toting drones over Zambia just yet, but with the Internet.org app’s launch through a traditional mobile operator, the country is at the forefront of the social network’s global growth ambitions.“Zambia will now be the first country where we’ve been able to provide a whole set of free basic services,”wrote Zuckerberg in a new status updateas the Internet.org app was announced.“Right now, only 15% of people in Zambia have access to the internet. Soon, everyone will be able to use the internet for free to find jobs, get help with reproductive health and other aspects of health, and use tools like Facebook to stay connected with the people they love.”•Sorry Facebook, developing nations need net freedom•Why Facebook’s future is (almost) all about smartphones
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) has released a new iPad app that aims to help 5-7 year-old children take their first steps in programming.ScratchJris a free app based on MIT’s existing Scratch programming language, which has become a popular choice for slightly older children learning to code in schools around the world.The new app encourages children to “program their own interactive stories” using graphical programming blocks. It is a collaboration between MIT’s Lifelong Kindergarten research group, Tufts University’s Developmental Technologies team, and technology startup Playful Invention Company.The ScratchJr projectraised $77,474 on crowdfunding website Kickstarterearlier in 2014, havingpassed its original $25,000 goal in the first two days of its campaign. The project has also received funding from the National Science Foundation, Code-to-Learn Foundation, Lego Foundation and BT.Although the app is currently iPad-only, its creators promised that if they raised more than $60,000 on Kickstarter, they would also launch it for Android devices later in 2014.MIT is stressing to parents and teachers that ScratchJr is about more than simply learning to program, promising parents that children will also be developing their maths, problem-solving and language skills: “Children don’t just learn to code, they code to learn,” as its App Store listing puts it.“As young children code with ScratchJr, they develop design and problem-solving skills that are foundational for later academic success, and by using math and language in a meaningful context, they develop early-childhood numeracy and literacy,” said Tufts professor Marina Umaschi Bers,in a statement.“Coding is the new literacy. Just as writing helps you organize your thinking and express your ideas, the same is true for coding,” added MIT’s Mitchel Resnick. “In the past, coding was seen as too difficult for most people. But we think coding should be for everyone, just like writing.”The ScratchJr app is on iPad, with Android to comeScratchJr is one of a growing number of tablet and smartphone apps trying to teach children early programming skills. Competitors includeTynker– which recentlyexpanded from iOS to Android–Hopscotch HD,Hakitzu Elite,Kodable,LightbotandMove The Turtle.Later this year, they will be joined by US companyPlay-i, whose app will be used toteach coding by programming a pair of toy robotscalled Boy and Yana. British startupKanois about to start shipping its build-your-own-computer kit for children, including its own Kano Blocks visual programming language. Both firms ran high-profile crowdfunding campaigns.Meanwhile, in the UK – where programming will become part of the national curriculum at a much earlier age from September – production company Aardman is running its Shaun’s Game Academy contest, encouraging children to create games based on its Shaun the Sheep character using Scratch.•Seven kids coding projects that crowdfunded their first steps•Syria’s children learn to code with Raspberry Pi•Hello Ruby kids’ coding book smashes target on Kickstarter
If you’re hoping to tempt parents and children away from apps like Netflix, YouTube and the BBC’s iPlayer, a few terrible tusks, terrible claws and terrible teeth in terrible jaws can’t hurt.UK-based appHopster TVhas bagged an exclusive deal to stream The Gruffalo and The Gruffalo’s Child, the two films based on Julia Donaldson’s perennially-popular children’s books.Hopster, which charges parents a £3.99 monthly subscription to access TV shows and educational games through its iPhone and iPad app, is the first paid streaming service to secure a deal to offer the two films.It’s a coup for the app, which launched in late 2013, and has been downloaded more than 100,000 times in the UK. Hopster has also just struck a deal with Hit Entertainment to bring shows like Thomas &amp; Friends, Bob the Builder and Pingu to its app later this year.“We’re really stoked: 100,000 downloads for an app that’s really tightly targeted at pre-schoolers, in a single country. There’s only a certain number of families with kids of the right age,” Hopster’s chief executive Nick Walters told The Guardian.“We’re thrilled to have clocked up that many downloads in seven months just in the UK. And now to have the two Gruffalo films, which have never been on Netflix or Amazon. We’ll be the only place to get them over the summer.”Walters said that The Gruffalo is a good match for Hopster TV, and not just because the app is aimed at the 2-6 year-olds who love the films, books and related Gruffalobilia. From launch, Hopster has pitched its app’s ability to encourage children in their early reading through play.The app has shows including Paddington Bear, Ben &amp; Holly’s Little Kingdom and 64 Zoo Lane through existing licensing deals, but complements them with its own learning games, created around the UK’s early years foundation stages curriculum.The idea: children watch a show, then play a game geared towards early reading and writing, featuring that show’s characters and themes.“We don’t just dump games in there: they really fit back to the TV show that you’ve just been watching,” said Walters. “There’s quite a lot going on under the surface: we’ve been out and developed a whole curriculum based on those early-years standards, working with experts.”The company hopes this makes Hopster TV appealing to parents as an alternative to purely-passive TV viewing (not to mention non-educational game-playing) by their children. It sets the company apart from Netflix and Amazon, which are both doing more around children’s TV, but not yet adding interactive learning around that.If anything, Hopster’s most direct competitor in the UK is the BBC’s CBeebies channel, which complements its shows with learning games on its website and in itsPlaytime app– although the latter does not also enable people to stream the shows.“What’s so interesting about tablets and touchscreens is that kids encounter this world completely differently from adults,” said Walters.“As a grown-up, you come at something like this going ‘is this a channel or a gaming service or a video-on-demand platform? But kids encounter it fresh: that move from watching a video to playing a game and back is so natural for them, and so encouraged by touchscreens.”The Gruffalo is taking over the Hopster TV app.While Hopster has a seven-day trial for parents downloading its app, the company is otherwise entirely funded by their subscriptions: there is no free, ad-supported option. Walters declined to say how many of those first 100,000 downloaders have become subscribers, but said he’s seeing “exciting increases” on this front.“The beauty of subscription is that we have no incentive other than to create something that parents absolutely love. We’re not trying to flog ads to them, or getting them to buy £69.99 of dodgy virtual goods,” he said.“If we create something people really like, they can subscribe to it once then keep on paying, while also cancelling without penalty if they decide they don’t want it any more. We don’t want to just be a nice video player for kids: it’s an incentive for us to really invest in the curriculum in the games, and new features like offline viewing, which we added earlier this year.”Hopster is part of a flurry of British startups exploring digital entertainment for children: there is also digital books storeMe Books; the creativity-focusedNight Zookeeper; and apps and books publisherNosy Crowto name just three.That’s alongside the efforts of a number of small but inventive children’s apps developers; larger companies likeMind Candy; and established media companies from the BBC to book publishers like Penguin.“There’s a new wave of kids’ media that’s more personalised and which fuses elements of learning and education with more conventional media, and which in some cases is disrupting established business models” said Walters. “There’s a really interesting wave of startups coming out of the UK.”He hopes Hopster’s Gruffalo deal will help more parents discover its app, with TV star Davina McCall enlisted to provide voice narration for an “in-app takeover” this week to help them find their way around the app.For now, Hopster TV will remain iPhone and iPad only, although Walters said that “once we have the experience right” the company will look to other devices, including Android. Hopster is also thinking hard about when and how to expand beyond the UK in the future.At a time when Netflix and Amazon are commissioning entirely new children’s TV shows, Hopster is also mulling its options for original content, or at least licensing videos from outside the traditional TV world.It has already picked upCaspar Babypants, a series of music videos for children by Chris Ballew – from the band Presidents of the United States of America – which were originally launched online.“We found it on YouTube, and it’s brilliant: outrageously catchy songs and really nicely animated. We picked that up, and it’s going gangbusters for us on the app. And as a digital platform, we can do that: look at shorter content, things that have their roots on YouTube,” said Walters.He added that the Gruffalo deal shows Hopster’s commitment to companies in the traditional children’s entertainment world too, though.“It’s exciting and humbling to work with someone like Magic Light, which created the Gruffalo films. They take this really seriously, and think really hard about who they want their partners to be,” said Walters.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
It's Thursday.
London’s much heralded Old Street technology startups are struggling to grow their businesses because of poor internet connection services, the Guardian has been told.Lengthy installation delays and high fees have caused some companies to leave the area, while others complain of months of costly hold ups moving to new offices.Startups and smaller ISPs, as well as technology collective Perseverance Works, are all due to meet Labour MP Meg Hillier on Thursday to discuss the crisis in the capital’s broadband provision. Hiller represents Hackney South and Shoreditch where many tech companies are based, and described the situation “a national embarrassment” that requires urgent action.Hillier claims that some companies have left the area because of problems accessing high-speed broadband - and despite government access grants of £3,000. She called for a “comprehensive review of broadband, plans for infrastructure and roll out and a competitive framework for delivery”.The Old Street area was labelled ‘Tech City’ as part of a government promotional campaign for the area in 2010 and is touted as the centre of Europe’s technology scene, yet startups say the difficulties accessing adequate broadband have been an issue from the outset.Five months for new broadband connectionAffiliate marketing service Skimlinks moved offices in 2013, but it took five months for the fibre broadband to be reconnected in the new office near Old Street.“After mixups with council addresses, wiring and hardware deliveries the SDSL (slow backup) lines were finally active one week after our move,” said chief technology officer Richard Johnson. “During this time we attempted to make-do with bonded 4G dongles, so most people worked from home. Our fibre was active on 4 March 2014, having given the go-ahead to move on 11 October 2013.“Five months without fibre for an internet-based organisation is difficult to swallow. Our old office was vacated and demolished in the time it took to get fibre connected,” said Johnson. “There is nothing more frustrating than rapidly needing to provision new servers and seeing your terminal take seconds to acknowledge each keystroke.”‘We paid rent for months on an office we couldn’t use’Another business, the money transfer service TransferWise, endured a four-month delay while the internet service provider (ISP) paid to secure a wayleave from the new landlord, which gives the ISP permission to enter the property to install the fibre cable.This process, TransferWise co-founder Taavet Hinrikus explains, can take weeks because the landlord is under no pressure to comply, and can also choose their fee.“It’s ridiculous that it takes so long for a company building an online business to get internet - not to mention that we had to pay rent on an office we couldn’t use for months,” said Hinrikus. “If the UK is serious about making Silicon Roundabout into a global tech hub, we need to do something to speed this up. Now it’s all installed, we are happy with the speed and reliability of the connection but it took far too long to get to this point.”New, faster BT serviceBT announced a new trial of faster fibre-to-the-remote-node broadband for the area on Thursday which will offer speeds of up to 80 Gbps, in addition to existing Openreach business service offering speeds up to 10Gbps.“However, we see a lot of smaller businesses going for consumer lines, because they are cheaper, lacking service up-time agreements and extra security services,” said spokesman Richard Knowles, explaining that three-quarters of business premises in the Tech City area will have fibre connections by the end of 2014.Entrepreneurs have been quick to blame internet service providers (ISPs), including BT, Virgin Media and TalkTalk, yet those ISPs have also failed to communicate to customers the significant costs and logistical challenges of installing broadband in a heavily built-up area. Many of the problems can’t be solved with faster speeds alone.When a business orders broadband, it sets in motion a multi-stage process involving bartering deals, on-site visits, permits, digging up roads and eventually the installation.“Planning regulation accounts for approximately 85% of the costs Virgin Media faces in building network,” explained Dan Butler, Virgin Media’s head of public affairs. “This has a direct effect on the number properties we’re able to serve. Currently, planning regulation prevents us from deploying network in more cost effective and less disruptive ways, such asnarrow trenching.”‘The government needs to get involved’Tech City also includes several red routes, some of London’s busiest and most strictly controlled roads, including limitations on road works. Utilities have to apply for a permit and pay a fee, which can take 10 days.“Getting a broadband connection capable of supporting our businesses has been a nightmare,” explained Paul King, chairman of Perseverance Works - a co-operative of technology businesses in Tech City. “It’s the kind of thing government will have to get involved with to solve.”The government’s broadbandconnection voucher scheme– a grant for up to £3,000 aimed at covering the installation costs of broadband for small businesses – alleviates some of the financial burden placed on startups trying to fund a solid internet connection, but does nothing to speed up the process.King and the Perseverance group went beyond BT and other big ISPs to fit their own broadband infrastructure, clubbing connection vouchers together to cover the cost. It took the group two years to be ready to start installation.Broadband: one of top three issues for small businessesSome critics have suggested that the problem will remain until internet connections are treated like water or electricity, already connected to the building or property as part of the landlord’s responsibilities.“This area of London produces more job opportunities than anywhere else in the country, primarily in the digital economy,” said King. “It is absolutely vital that we have an infrastructure set up that enables us to compete with the rest of the world.”Hackney Council has made moves to try and address the complaints of local businesses, launching public Wi-Fi in central areas across the borough, whileEE launched a high-speed 4G networkin the area for anyone with a 4G handset, capable of reaching speeds around 300Mbps.“Broadband speed is one of the top three issues brought to me on a regular basis by business leaders in Hackney,” said Andrew Sissons, head of regeneration delivery at Hackney Council, told the Guardian.“Companies moving into the area need to better prepared, giving people more notice especially when moving into properties like old warehouses where there was no previous provision for high-speed internet. But internet connectivity is a thing of national importance, and critical to our economy.”•The slow death of Silicon Roundabout - the creative energy is gone
When we ran our first coding event for young people in 2009, it took me three months to find 50 young coders in the whole of the UK.Our event,Young Rewired State’sFestival of Code, offered a free weekend of coding and mentoring at Google’s offices in London. I did find those young coders eventually - and one by one - but the magic of that first weekend was that all those talented and self-taught youngsters walked into a room full of kids exactly like them, who understood their passion: digital languages and building stuff from nothing.I remember realising that lifetime friendships were being created in that moment. That was what was important – not getting these kids to engage with democratic governance or open data, but to introduce them to each other. It created a real-life web of humanity, a network of happy, supported and competitively brilliant young people. All of my middle-aged tech genius friends were often isolated in their skills – what if they never had that isolation from the beginning?Six years on and the Festival of Code is more important than ever. This week, nearly 1,000 children aged seven to 18 are taking part in 61 centres across the UK, building apps, websites, games and writing algorithms to solve real-world problems.Our coders are completely free to build whatever they like, but we ask that they use at least one piece of open data, or create their own open data collection for others to use. On 1 August, all those young people will travel to Plymouth for a code showdown, showcasing what they have made in X Factor-style heats and finals. (It’s not all work; they get to let off steam with bubble football, skate parks, digital graffiti, photobooths,chiptuneartists and famous speakers.)Digital skills in education has been a hot topic for the past few years and Young Rewired State, the organisation behind the Festival of Code, was a champion of that effort - but the festival is much more about this community of young people.I’m hugely proud of the Young Rewired Staters. I have seen them grow up and though I hate to single out any particular story, this year I discovered @JO_JO_LOL, one of a vocal group of girl coders determined to make as much noise as possible about the work they are doing.I don&#39; think i&#39;ve ever learnt so much coding in my life! it&#39;s all down to#YRS2014#YRSFoC@aneeqamunir@callum_css@cdmh@hubmumthank you!&mdash; JOJO!!!! (@JO_JO_LOL)July 29, 2014@hubmumno problem, i&#39;ve already taught my brother ;) and ok, i&#39;&#39;l check him out!&mdash; JOJO!!!! (@JO_JO_LOL)July 29, 2014#YRS2014#YRSFoCGIRLS CAN CODE!pic.twitter.com/JNwdFtZpSV&mdash; JOJO!!!! (@JO_JO_LOL)July 29, 2014Last year one of the many YRSers who touched my heart was Jenny Lea; she was keen to do her bit to help show that code clubs aren’t the exclusive domain for the kid who sits in the library hacking into the dinner menu and school grades system.AndHarry Rickardshas been another star of this year. He’s about to leave the UK to study a degree in computer science at MIT (all expenses paid by them) but has been a YRSer since 2010. We should celebrate his self-taught genius (the kind Young Rewired State thrives on) with a standing ovation as he leaves us to go learn even more at MIT, and we’ll welcome him back in a few years with open arms.With 40 children from the international YRS community, as well as a centre of young people joining us remotely from Kosovo, the festival is about so much more than coding.If your children are interested in coding, pleasesign upand come and join us in Plymouth for our grand finale on Sunday 3 August. You can follow us on Twitter at#YRS2014. These children are already talented, creative and enthusiastic coders, but they will also be the people who build the technologies of our future.Syria’s children learn to code with Raspberry Pi
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJohnny Dronehunter Does Exactly That In This Insane Shotgun Silencer Ad &gt;&gt;&gt; Motherboard“In the not too distant future,” the video’s description reads, “privacy is a thing of the past. Undeniable rights degrade like the paper they were written upon, and Big Brother has a constant eye on you and your family.” At which point, only a “determined man and an unequaled weapon”--Johnny Dronehunter and the Salvo 12, I assume--can save you.Yes, it’s an ad for a shotgun silencer (shotguns can, apparently, be silenced). But guaranteed: in five years, you’ll wish shooting drones out the sky was legal.Why Does Google Employ a Pro-Slavery Lunatic? &gt;&gt;&gt; ValleywagIt’s now difficult to tell if Justine Tunney is a real person or not. Reading her Twitter and blog, she seems like some sort robot intelligence, an artificial entity designed to offend and disgust. No person can be this awful, right? Is it an act? A long-con of hardcore trolling? At a time when anti-tech resentment is at a high, can someone possibly be this brazen?One school of thought says “don’t feed the trolls”. Another says “this is dangerous and should not be ignored”.Amazon’s new attack on Hachette touts the benefits of cheaper e-books &gt;&gt;&gt; The Washington PostIn a post on its company’s forums Tuesday, Amazon said that it would like to see most e-books priced at $9.99, rather than the common $14.99 or $19.99 prices that publishers set for digital copies of their books. Amazon argued that while it doesn’t want every e-book to be set at $9.99, using that price for the majority of digital books would benefit customers, publishers and Amazon itself.Hachette, unsurprisingly, does not seem to feel that “let’s lower the price of books” is a good selling point.Wikimedia Foundation Now Accepts Bitcoin &gt;&gt;&gt; Wikimedia blogWe’re fortunate that millions of people all over the world support the work of the Wikimedia Foundation through donations. It has always been important to the Foundation to make sure donating is as simple and inclusive as possible. Currently, we accept 13 different payment methods enabling donations from nearly every country in the world, and today, we’re adding one more: Bitcoin.Surprising it’s taken this long, really.Banking Ikea Style Puts Billionaire’s Model to Test &gt;&gt;&gt; BloombergIn “Flappy Saver,” a knock-off of the popular mobile game Flappy Bird, the player best able to navigate hurdles such as jewelery stores and shoe shops wins the highest score by protecting savings stored in a flying piggy bank.Truly we live in the worst of all possible worlds.What’s a group selfie? Usie (pronounced uss-ee) &gt;&gt;&gt; Associated Press“Usies are a growing trend that I think have far more social value than selfies,” said Michal Ann Strahilevitz, a professor of marketing at Golden Gate University in San Francisco who studies consumer behavior. “It’s magical capturing moments we share with other people.”Definitely the worst of all possible worlds.Wladimir Palant’s notes: Which is better, Adblock or Adblock Plus?On Chrome, two popular ad blockers are currently available: AdBlock and Adblock Plus. Despite the confusingly similar names, they are completely unrelated projects. I am in charge of the latter, yet people will occasionally ask me whether I would recommend AdBlock or Adblock Plus to them.The AdBlock wars get nasty.Tor security advisory: “relay early” traffic confirmation attack &gt;&gt;&gt; The Tor BlogWe know the attack looked for users who fetched hidden service descriptors, but the attackers likely were not able to see any application-level traffic (e.g. what pages were loaded or even whether users visited the hidden service they looked up).This may or may not be related to a cancelled talk on Tor attacks at Black Hat 2014.You can followGuardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Snapchat, the loss-making company behind a disappearing photo messaging service, is reportedly in talks with investors that could value the business at $10bn.According to Bloomberg, the investors include Alibaba Group, the Chinese internet giant currently planning the largest tech initial public offering of all time. All parties have so far declined to comment.Last year Snapchat’s chief executive and co-founder Evan Spiegel rejected a $3bn offer for his messaging service from Facebook. Spiegel has said Mark Zuckerberg warned him he planned to launch a rival service unless he sold. “It was basically like, ‘We’re going to crush you,’” he toldForbesmagazine.Google then reportedly offered $4bn for the company but was similarly rebuffed.Since those rejections there has been a flood of money into the tech sector that has led some to speculate about a new tech bubble.In April, house-sharing app Airbnb raised another $500m from investors at a price that valued the company at $10bn. In June, car-booking app Uber raised $1.2bn at a record-breaking valuation of $17bn.Snapchat allows people to draw on photos taken on mobiles and send them to friends. Messages disappear a few seconds after they have been opened. Snapchat has also recently added a texting service that, again, wipes out messages once they have been read. The company says its users send 500m messages a day and is popular with teens and a growing number of older users concerned about privacy.The company is likely to face stiff competition from Facebook which has its own Snapchat-like service called Slingshot. Facebook-owned Instagram also unveiled a Snapchat rival, called Bolt, this week. Slingshot is Facebook’s second attempt at a Snapchat killer. The first service, Poke, was not a success.Matt Turlip, senior analyst at PrivCo, said: “Ten billion is quite a valuation. It’s got to be the most valuable pre-revenue start-up ever.” He said other companies like Airbnb, Dropbox and Uber that had recently attracted sky high valuations were at least making money. “At the moment Snapchat is just an app,” he said.But Turlip said Snapchat could build a valuable business from its loyal and active users and had recently filed copyright applications for mobile payment systems. WeChat, a popular Chinese messaging service, makes money from mobile payments. Turlip said Snapchat could also be a valuable platform for advertisers.“Snapchat does seem to have cornered this market,” he said. “They are going to have to prove that they can get the revenues to match. You can’t go on taking venture capital money forever and not produce revenues.”Turlip said the deal was also an interesting sign of Alibaba’s US ambitions. The Chinese firm has made some smaller investments in the US already but Snapchat would be by far its most high profile investment to date.Alibaba is expected to go public in September and raise $20bn, eclipsing the record $16bn Facebook raised for its IPO. Analysts have forecast the company could be valued as high at $240bn, making it more valuable than JP Morgan Chase, the US’s most valuable bank.
When Ubisoft commissioned horror director Rob Zombie and Walking Dead artist Tony Moore to make a promotional short for Assassin’s Creed Unity, it must have known what to expect. Blood. And lots of it. Released over the weekend and premiered at the San Diego Comic-Con, the four-minute video provides a historical backdrop to the forthcoming stealth sequel, which follows a secretive assassins’ guild during the French Revolution.And by “historical backdrop” we actually mean “blood-splattered costume horror”.The film shows the events leading up to the revolution: the ruinous wars, the aristocrats feasting while the poor starved, the formation of the National Assembly, and then the storming of the Bastile and lots and lots of beheadings. So many beheadings. The video ends with the execution of Maximilien Robespierre (beheaded, naturalment) as an assassin – probably the game’s lead protagonist, Arno Dorian – looks on from the rooftops; a moment that recalls the E3 trailer for the game.No doubt commissioned specifically to appeal to the Comic-Con audience, the film has provoked some controversy this week. While the Assassin’s Creed games have been based amid a series of bloody historical conflicts, from the crusades to the American war of independence, it’s certainly not a horror series. Yet here we have multiple decapitations, eyes stabbed and faces shot off – all familiar fare to fans of Rob Zombie gore-slathered movies, House of 1000 Corpses and The Devil’s Rejects.Ubisoft has said it wanted to bring to life, “the gory details, bloody battles and terrifying events of the revolution.” It has certainly done that. And the film is a more interesting promotional concept than the standard video game trailer (lots of suspiciously high resolution “in-game” footage, some explosions, a man with a deep voice telling you to pre-order).There’s a decent little ‘making of’ documentary online too:This is, of course, not the first promo to intentionally contrast with the game it is advertising. Microsoft’s famedGears of War commercialset the third-person space blaster to Gary Jules’ lugubrious cover of Mad World, while the masterfultrailer for Dead Island, made this witless horror romp look like the most heartbreaking narrative video game ever made.Certainly, as more gamers block online ads, and watch on-demand TV only, the opportunities to reach them through traditional channels are narrowing. If it’s not viral these days, it’s not hitting Gen Z. And if there’s one thing the internet likes, it’s gory movies by cult directors and artists featuring heads flying all over the shop. That and kittens.Assassin’s Creed: Unity confirmed for PC, PS4 and Xbox OneShock and gore: why video games are failing at horror
The House of Lords is holding an enquiry into the civil use of drones, to determine whether the conditions are right “for the industry to take off”.In a call for submissions, aimed at gathering expert written and oral evidence as a precursor to its final report in March 2015, the Lords’ EU subcommittee on the internal market, infrastructure and employment said that the increased use of drones throws up “a multitude of questions”.“How safe are they? Do drones pose a privacy risk? What are the economic benefits to the UK and EU of drones? Is the European industry falling too far behind the rest of the world? These are some of the issues” that the committee will address, in its investigation into “Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems (RPAS)“ – the official terminology for drones, known in the US as “Unmanned Aerial Vehicles” (UAVs).Baroness O’Cathain, the committee’s chair, said that “the rise of civilian use of drones across the EU is staggering. In the UK alone the number of permissions granted for civilian use of drones in congested areas went up 40 fold between 2006 and 2013.“With this increase comes a raft of issues that need to be addressed, such as whether safety considerations are and should be standard across Europe and whether they need to be changed; the issue of correct controls being in place to protect European citizens’ privacy and data; and if the European industry can become a global leader. Nevertheless, we must remember that too much regulation too early will kill off the industry in its infancy.”The inquiry will focus mainly on the European Commission’s work on drones, and the deadline forsubmission of evidenceis 19 September.•Lords describe Right to be Forgotten as ‘unworkable, unreasonable, and wrong’
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe meet American playwrightJennifer Haley, whose playThe Netherruns at the Royal Court theatre in London until 9 August. Jennifer discusses her exploration of the the dark side of virtual worlds in the not-so-distant future, and why technologies that recreate perfectly experiences and sensations also throw up deep moral and philosophical questions.Aleks is joined byJemima Kiss,Alex HernandSamuel Gibbsto discuss some of this week's big tech stories, including the hacker who revealed thatUber is rating you, and it's not just about you rating the driver; andGoogle put their money and might behind scientific researchto understand what being physically healthy actually means.Julia PowlesandJat Singhfrom St Johns College Cambridge discuss why the internet of things poses huge risks to online privacy. Julia and Jat discuss theirrecent article on the issueand why the law needs to catch up with these technological developments.Listen to the podcast and have your say below.
Just two days ago, there was a consensus, of sorts, around Twitter’s predicament. Its stock had fallen 44% over the course of the year, partially because of a drop-off in the number of new users it was getting each month. That led the company’s chief executive, Dick Costolo, to admit that the service wasn’t easy enough for newbies to get their head around.Worse, the average revenue per user wasn’t rising anywhere near as quickly as Facebook’s; without the massive levels of personal data that its main competitor has, Twitter can’t deliver targeted ads with the same degree of accuracy.Its competitive advantage lies in real-time advertising, charging companies to promote their tweets alongside sports, TV shows and current events, but analysts complained that it hadn’t come far enough along in the practice to justify its valuation.There were even rumours that Twitter was about to shift the goalposts, introducing new metrics to replace standard measures such as monthly active users (MAU) or revenue per user. That would have highlighted their strengths, but also been seen as an admission that they weren’t playing the same game as Facebook.But after Twitter filed its quarterly financial report on Tuesday, the old fears were dead – and users were facing new ones.The company reported revenue more than doubling to $312.2m, and MAU rose alongside, hitting 271 million people, a 24% year-on-year increase. Four-fifths of the its total ad revenue came from mobile ads in the quarter, and Twitter accounts for 2.5% of the world’s mobile ad.Its growth is starting to vary, too. Twitter is growing the fastest in Asia-Pacific, according to figures from eMarketer, and is expected to increase its user base there by more than a third in 2014. Against that background, shares spiked, rising over 30% in after-hours trading, although still not undoing the tumble in the first half of 2014.But if good news for Twitter means that users can sit back and be comfortable that there’s no major shake-ups ahead, Costolo has other thoughts.Asked whether the company was considering rolling out an algorithmic timeline, taking inspiration from Facebook’s heavily algorithmic newsfeed, Costolo answered “I think it’s fair to say that we are not ruling out any kinds of changes that we might deliver in the product, in service to bridging that gap between signing up for Twitter and receiving immediate value… you will see a number of kinds of experiments that we produce there”.If Twitter did make such a change, it wouldn’t be the first time the two major social networks had taken inspiration from each other.Despite launching with radically different focuses, both Twitter and Facebook – as well as smaller networks like Google+, and LinkedIn – have been converging.Nowhere is that more obvious than in the design of profile pages: all feature a large “header image” with a smaller profile picture inset on the side; all feature personal information going down one side, with a semi-curated selection of recent updates down the other; all feature rich media, embedded within the posts, as well as short excerpts from outgoing links.But it’s not just profiles. In December 2012, just months after Facebook bought Instagram, the company added the ability to put filters on photos.In January 2014,Facebook introduced“trending topics”, attempting to seize a portion of Twitter’s prowess in real-time updates for itself.Reports from mobile userssuggest Twitter is even experimenting getting rid of its trademark “@-reply”, in favour of a Facebook-style mentions feature, whileFacebook itself recent launched a “Mentions” app, bringing Twitter-style replies to Facebook.Its latest acquisition, of French image search firmMadbits, points to far more intelligent interpretation and contextualisation of images, which could give it more power to try and compete with Facebook’s powerful sharing currency of photos.Yesterday, Twitter was doomed. Today, it’s reborn from the ashes. But none of that changes that tomorrow, it’s going to be more like Facebook than ever. The great convergence of the social networks is upon us.Is Meow the new Chatroulette, or is it the new Tinder?
We were sitting one afternoon watching a pixellated video on a phone that was barely smart. It was one of the videos we had shot earlier that day, at a crowded child development clinic. It showed a boy who had come with his mother to a specialist because he was four and had not yet spoken a word. The family had gone through much frustration, several steps of referrals and had travelled for a whole day from a village in rural India to get here. The boy had finally been diagnosed with profound hearing loss.We had met people in other countries during our travels who were deaf but could speak with ease and had equal opportunity. This rarely happens in India because hearing screening is not done here. By the time the problem is diagnosed, a child is four or five, has lost valuable time and never catches up in development with his or her hearing peers.90% of all babies born with hearing loss are born in developing countries like India, because of jaundice, meningitis, parental history, use ofototoxicdrugs, birth trauma and other factors. To identify the 100,000 babies born annually with hearing loss in India, we would need to screen the 26 million babies that are born here every year.We decided to change this.For those who think that design means to make things pretty, let me clarify that, first, design should be empathetic to the problems of others. Second, it solves these problems in a creative way so that it drives value for everyone involved.After several years of working with corporations, large and small, around the world, I learned that sometimes the solution calls for a new product, maybe new features, new functions. Sometimes the problem can be best solved by an awareness campaign or a new business model or a service. But to solve sticky problems, such as that of preventable speech loss in developing countries, we needed to be open and flexible.With my passion for design and business, and with my colleague Nitin Sisodia's expertise in technology and engineering, we foundedSohum Innovation Labto create context-specific health care for resource-poor settings.It has been three years since that afternoon. Today we are tackling a mission of this magnitude using three key solutions: first, we are creating an awareness campaign to inform parents about the criticality of timely hearing screening and encouraging them to demand hearing screening for their child after birth. We have made a start through the design and implementation of a simple wall calendar that's also fun to use.Second, we have made a unique hearing screening device that is designed to perform in resource-poor settings. How are these different? There are too many babies being born, there is too much noise, too little time and a lack of skilled caregivers, among a hoard of other constraints. The Sohum device performs even in such extreme conditions.Finally, to close the loop, we are creating a network of audiologists, speech and launch therapists and rehabilitation experts, so that we can give the baby who screens positive the appropriate care at the right time, so that speech is not impacted.With the success of the project, we will be able to make sure that every child can be screened at the right time for hearing loss, no matter where he or she is born in the world. In the future, we look forward to bringing affordable and preventive health care to all those who are in resource-poor settings.Considering that I'm still a young and struggling entrepreneur and by no means a startup guru, I do have the following aspirations and observations that hopefully inspire you in your next venture.FocusBy virtue of being an entrepreneur, you are enthusiastic, enterprising and full of great ideas. Well, that means you are great at starting new and seemingly insane initiatives with gusto. However, to truly witness success you have to follow through and not be distracted. This is particularly hard to do because the next new initiative will most definitely be more exciting than the one in which you are currently engaged. Make sure you focus, grit your teeth and keep at it.Expect EverestIt's so exciting when you first start a venture and you believe that it will bring success. There will be big wins that will take you to great heights. But there is also a chance that in the midst of all the activity, you don't quite realise the goal is further away than it appears and the road looks shorter than it really is. I'll warn you now: the hard times will be far longer than the good times.Be happySo you have lasted through all those hard times and are still rolling, which means you are undeniably a positive and energetic person. However, there are bound to be those who may feel threatened, challenged or may even experience indignation at your positivity and energy. So if you are to keep going, and see the initiative through, you have to stay happy and healthy, and surround yourself with people who are too.Neeti Kailas is co-founder ofSohum Innovation Lab. She will be speaking at the Every Second Counts Forum on 15 November 2014 at Kings Place, London. Followthis linkto find out more and to apply to attend.
Troubled phone maker BlackBerry has attempted to expand its security offerings with the acquisition of voice encryption provider Secusmart, though onlookers aren’t convinced it will reverse the company’s fortunes.The deal to acquire the young German company, announced on Tuesday, forms part of BlackBerry’s shift away from consumer devices and further into the business protection realm.It has already released software and services designed to prevent attacks on smartphones, whether they’re BlackBerry, Apple or Android devices.Terms of the deal were not disclosed.“We are always improving our security solutions to keep up with the growing complexity of enterprise mobility, with devices being used for more critical tasks and to store more critical information, and security attacks becoming more sophisticated,” said John Chen, executive chairman and CEO, BlackBerry.“The acquisition of Secusmart underscores our focus on addressing growing security costs and threats ranging from individual privacy to national security.”BlackBerry and Secusmart were already partners, having teamed up to provide data and voice encryption to Germany’s Federal Office for Information Security. Even Chancellor Angela Merkel was said to be a user of the pair’s tools.BlackBerry is trying to capitalise on the growing interest in end-to-end encrypted voice services, brought about by the Edward Snowden revelations of mass snooping by global intelligence agencies. Companies such as Silent Circle have been able to piggyback on the heightened focus on security to acquire customers, including some within the US government.Just yesterday,Open Whisper Systems made a potentially disruptive announcementwith free, global encrypted phone calls for iPhone. The organisation, whose co-founder is renowned security professional and privacy activist Moxie Marlinspike, said the Signal app would work with its Android equivalents, which would also be getting a refresh soon.With all this competition, analysts aren’t banking on BlackBerry dominance, despite its reputation. “BlackBerry has been on the back foot for some years now. It is true that security needs to stepped up in the way mobile devices are used, but the basic encryption capability is available for all the common operating systems,” Bob Tarzey, security expert at research firm Quocirca, told the Guardian.“The Secusmart acquisition looks to be pretty focused on those with a high level of security concerns - enterprise, government - so it may help Blackberry maintain its shrinking foothold in these sectors in the short term, but will do little to help with broader appeal.”iPhone ‘backdoors’ can be used for surveillance, warns researcher
Electronic Arts is launching a new subscription service, giving Xbox One owners access to a range of its games for £3.99 (or $4.99) a month.NamedEA Access, the initiative allows members to download a selection of titles from an online catalogue named The Vault. A beta test has already launched to a limited number of console owners who will be able to access Fifa 14, Madden NFL, Peggle 2 and Battlefield 4. The publisher says that more titles will be added before the official launch of the service.Along with the basic games rental model, EA Access will also offer members a 10% discount on new titles and other digital content downloaded from the EA Online store. The service will also provide early access to forthcoming titles; subscribers will get access to games like Dragon Age: Inquisition and Fifa 15 up to five days before the official release, and can then continue their saved games after purchasing the full product.Doubtless inspired by video-on-demand service Netflix, EA Access represents a fresh model for the games industry. Console manufacturers Sony and Microsoft both offer subscription based services that include regular access to free games, but EA is the first major publisher to experiment with a similar concept for its own titles. In the past, subscription access has tended to be limited to add-on digital content, and has proved controversial. Activision was initially criticised for its Call of Duty Elite service, which offered subscription-based access to map packs for the military shooter series.However, by offering complete titles, EA Access may well open up the publisher’s roster of games to a wider audience – if successful, it will doubtless inspire other publishers to explore similar concepts. The service, which is exclusive to Xbox One, is also a coup for Microsoft, which has seen its console fall behind rival PlayStation 4 in sales. Meanwhile, Sony hastold video game news site Eurogamerthat it will not feature the service on its machine. “We evaluated the EA Access subscription offering and decided that it does not bring the kind of value PlayStation customers have come to expect,” a spokesperson stated.The biggest question is whether game purchasers will be willing to rent titles rather than own them. The concept works with movies and television series, because most consumers tend to watch them only once. Games have a longer lifespan and players invest heavily in them, both in terms of time and unlocked content. There was a backlash against Microsoft when it revealed the Xbox One would be based around a digital distribution model, with most games purchased online and subject to stringent digital rights management. It lateru-turned on the model.There is no firm release date for EA Access at present. Electronic Arts will not provide any information beyond a short statement: “You’ll be able to become an EA Access member this summer. We’ll announce the launch day soon.”
An open-source project to track edits to Wikipedia made from within parliament was nearly scuppered by the government’s refusal to reveal the IP addresses that MPs and Lords use to access the internet.A Freedom of Information request, which would reveal whether MPs and peers were engaging in “astroturfing” on the crowdsourced encyclopaedia, was turned down on the basis that “releasing the information would be likely to prejudice the prevention or detection of crime.”The@ParliamentEditsTwitter account, set up by the journalist and developer Tom Scott, was designed to automatically tweet whenever Wikipedia was edited by someone within the Houses of Parliament.Its creation followed a wave of news stories of elected officials and government employees embarrassed by Wikipedia edits made from within the workplace, althoughScott had been tracking the editsfor considerably longer. In June,a civil servant was sacked for offensive editsmade relating to the Hillsborough disaster, anda total of 5,500 editshave been made from within the Houses of Parliament since 2003.Key to the creation of Parliament Edits was knowledge ofthe IP addressesthat the legislature uses to connect to the internet, but in 2014, those addresses were changed, leaving Parliament Edits unable to function.Scott attempted to find out the new IP addresses, but was turned down by the House of Commons, which claimed that it would be predjudicial to attempts to prevent crime – despite the fact thatsimilar informationhas previously been released by government ministers in response to parliamentary questions.While he has the right to appeal against the finding, Scott says “I suspect it wouldn’t be fruitful to appeal, and it’s not a fight I have time to enter into right now”.The project can continue, even without the government’s aid.“Bear in mind that the general IP block assigned to parliament is public knowledge anyway,” Scott explained. “All that’s been declined is the more specific detail of which particular addresses parliament uses. I was hoping that they’d have a consistent response, given that they’ve previously released that data.“Even in the absence of that more specific data, though, Jonty Wareing has done an excellent jobshowing that folks within parliamentappear to edit from many of those publicly-known IPs.”With that new information, and new code fromweb developer Ed Summers, the Twitter account has been brought back to life.It has already spotted two edits from within parliament – one,a simple grammatical correctionon the entry about the first ever female German general, and the secondcorrecting a factual erroron the article about former solicitor general Derek Spencer.Parliament Edits also inspired the creation of similar projects tracking other legislatures. A Russian spin off discoverededits being madeexonerating the nation from the MH17 crash, while the US versioneventually ledto Congress being temporarily banned from Wikipedia for abusive edits.US Congress banned from editing Wikipedia after staff caught trolling
The UK is to encourage the development of driverless cars on its roads, it was announced on Wednesday, with a multimillion-pound research fund and a review into the relevant laws around road safety.The business secretary, Vince Cable, said a £10m fund will be made available for driverless car researchers in the UK, joint funded by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (Bis) and the Department for Transport (DfT).“The excellence of our scientists and engineers has established the UK as pioneers in the development of driverless vehicles through pilot projects,” said Cable. “Today’s announcement will see driverless cars take to our streets in less than six months, putting us at the forefront of this transformational technology and opening up new opportunities for our economy and society.”Fully autonomous and driver-equippedThe DfT will also kick off a review process of the laws governing road use, including the Highway Code and the Road Safety Act, to permit the testing of driverless cars on public roads, Cable said while visiting the technology and engineering company Mira in Nuneaton.Two types of testing will be reviewed for public roads: fully autonomous cars without a driver, and those with a qualified driver who could take control at any time, similar to laws in the US where driverless cars have been tested on public roads since 2011 in some states.The review process will conclude in a report submitted to government by the end of 2014, a spokesperson for DfT told the Guardian.Research groups to apply for government moneyThe £10m fund will be governed by the UK’s innovation agency the Technology Strategy Board.Interested local research institutions will be able to apply for funding by submitting a business case paired with a local city or authority as to why driverless cars are a viable transport solution in their area.Three cities across the UK will be selected to host driverless car trials from next year, with each test to last between 18 and 36 months starting in January 2015. The deadline for driverless car research applications will be 1 October.The fund was first announced by the chancellor, George Osborne, in December as part of the national infrastructure plan.Google’s driverless cars hit headlines and thepublic consciousness in May, when the search giant announced a brand new bespoke prototype design.‘A big leap of faith needed by drivers’The UK has various groups already working on driverless car technology, including engineers at the University of Oxford and engineering firm Mira, which provides autonomous vehicle technology to the military and has been testing driverless cars on a 850 acre site in the Midlands.“Today’s announcement takes us closer to seeing fully autonomous vehicles on our roads but it will take some time for them to become commonplace,” said Edmund King president of the AA.“Cars are becoming more automated with the introduction of assistance systems to aid parking; keeping a safe distance from the car in front; or lane departure warning systems,” said David Bruce, director of AA Cars.“However, there is a big leap of faith needed by drivers from embracing assistance systems to accepting the fully automated car. Two-thirds of AA members still enjoy driving too much to want a fully automated car,” Bruce said.‘Britain brilliantly placed to lead the world’“Driverless cars have huge potential to transform the UK’s transport network – they could improve safety, reduce congestion and lower emissions, particularly CO2,” said the transport minister, Claire Perry, who committed to the regulatory review of road law.“Britain is brilliantly placed to lead the world in driverless technology,” said the science minister, Greg Clark. “It combines our strengths in cars, satellites, big data and urban design; with huge potential benefits for future jobs and for the consumer.”Driverless cars are expected to begin being tested on public roads in 2015, although the DfT could not provide a timescale beyond report submission to the government by the end of 2014.“This competition for funding has the potential to establish the UK as the global hub for the development and testing of driverless vehicles in real-world urban environments, helping to deepen our understanding of the impact on road users and wider society,” said Iain Gray, chief executive of the Technology Strategy Board.“The ability to test driverless cars at scale, when married to the UK’s unique strengths in transport technologies and urban planning, will also attract further investment, helping to establish new design and manufacturing supply chains, driving forward UK economic growth,” Gray said.Dr Geoff Davis, chief commercial and technical officer of Mira said he welcomed the news.“Our 10 years of experience developing driverless car solutions with successful applications in defence and security as well as cooperative systems in road transport applications means we are already working on a number of projects that explore the potential of connected and cooperative driverless cars,” Davis said.Google’s self-driving car: how does it work and when can we get one?
The European Union’s “right to be forgotten” ruling is “unworkable, unreasonable, and wrong in principle”, according toa report by a committee of the House of Lords.Published on Wednesday, the Lords’ Home Affairs, Health and Education EU Sub-Committee’s report strongly criticised the court of justice of the European Union for its ruling, which created a requirement for firms such as internet search provider Google to remove outdated information.The committee argued that not only was the ruling problematic, the 1995 directive it was based on is itself out-dated, and calls on the government to continue its fight to ensure that “the updated Regulation no longer includes any provision on the lines of the Commission’s ‘right to be forgotten’ or the European Parliament’s ‘right to erasure’”.“It is crystal clear that the neither the 1995 Directive, nor the CJEU’s interpretation of it reflects the incredible advancement in technology that we see today, over 20 years since the Directive was drafted,” said the committee chairman, Baroness Prashar.“Anyone anywhere in the world now has information at the touch of a button, and that includes detailed personal information about people in all countries of the globe.”The committee gave two main reasons for finding the ruling “unworkable”. The first, according to Prashar, is that “it does not take into account the effect the ruling will have on smaller search engines which, unlike Google, are unlikely to have the resources to process the thousands of removal requests they are likely to receive.“Secondly, we also believe that it is wrong in principle to leave search engines themselves the task of deciding whether to delete information or not, based on vague, ambiguous and unhelpful criteria, and we heard from witnesses how uncomfortable they are with the idea of a commercial company sitting in judgement on issues like that.”In early July, Wikipedia’s founder Jimmy Wales weighed in against the CJEU, warning that Google must not be left to “censor history”.•Revenge porn: why the right to be forgotten is the right remedy
It's Wednesday.
When you switch off a video game, a really involving and engrossing video game, sometimes it doesn’t go away. Not straight away. Instead, it can linger in the mind, overlaying the real world.At least that’s according tonew researchfrom Nottingham Trent University’s International Gaming Research Unit. Recently published in the Journal of Cyber Behaviour, Psychology and Learning, it suggests that players often hear game sounds such as explosions, screams and laser fire, long after they’ve left a game.This is the latest study into what the university calls “game transfer phenomena”, a range of cognitive quirks that can follow extended gaming sessions. Previous research has concentrated on visual distortions and effects – Tetris players seeing falling shapes when they closed their eyes, for example. The new paper is the first time that specifically auditory experiences have been analysed.For the study, the Nottingham Trent team visited games forums and collected anecdotal evidence from 1,244 gamers about GTP experiences. 12 per cent of those spoke of re-experiencing game audio outside of the game environment – hearing sword slashes, electronic beeps and Super Mario’s falling coin sound were all reported.“There were lots of examples of players hearing the game music, in the same way as you continue to hear music in your head when you’ve stopped listening,” said psychology researcher Angelica Ortiz De Gortari, who is leading the study. “Some players heard voices, some heard game sounds. Often it happens when you’re trying to fall asleep – players would look for their computer or console because they thought they’d left the game on.”The most interesting examples, however, are those that seem to be triggered by real-world cues that relate to in-game situations. One player reported hearing sounds from the first-person puzzle game Portal when passing specific buildings that reminded him of the game’s world. De Gortari also discovered more disturbing examples: “There was a gamer who, whenever it was dark, would hear the sound of the crackling radio signal from Silent Hill, warning him that monsters were coming.”There is plenty of skepticism around GTP. The research is currently drawn from a very small base of players speaking to their peers on forums where exaggeration is always a possibility. It may be difficult to recreate these phenomena in a more accurate and controlled experiment. However, experiences similar to GTP have been studied since the early nineties. In 1994, Wired ran an article entitled“This is your brain on Tetris”, detailing University of California research into the effect that the popular block-sorting puzzle game had on the brains of players.The Nottingham Trent University team is very early in the process of understanding what’s going on. De Gortari has theorised that GTP is about the way the brain assigns meaning to sensory inputs. “These sounds have a meaning, a purpose in the video games – and their meaning affects how players can respond in real life,” she said. “Players hear the sound in their head or ears, or they externalise it. The research tells us about how the brain forms associations, and how easily they can be confused. It shows a lack of control over auditory experiences – they can be disturbing, annoying or even funny.”One of the goals of the project is to demystify GTP for players who have been frightened by the experience. The phenomena tend to last a few hours or days, and follow intense or very long gaming sessions. “We want to identify, classify and explain these experiences,” said De Gortari. “But this research also tells us about how the mind works, and how it creates associations, how we learn from associations - this may be useful in the learning of new languages, for example.“There’s a lot of research into the effects of music, but not a lot into sound. What are the ramifications? There is lot to learn.”‘Game transfer phenomena’ and the problem of perceptionWhat is the link between violent video games and aggression?Have you ever experienced game transfer phenomenon? Let us know in the comments section.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow to get a good rating from your Uber driver &gt;&gt;&gt; Daily DotWhile most drivers noted that truly bad experiences are few and far between, almost everything about being a good, responsible passenger can be boiled down to “don’t be an asshole.”“Don’t be an asshole”isa fairly good rule.Anti-surveillance camouflage for your face &gt;&gt;&gt; The AtlanticCV dazzle is ostentatious and kind of rad-looking, in a joyful, dystopic way. The first time I saw it, three years ago, I found it charismatic and captivating. Here was a technology that confounded computers with light and color. Since then, more and more people have learned about the technology. Harvey has contributed op-art about dazzle to The New York Times and enthusiasts have held facial dazzle parties. After documents from the Snowden tranche revealed the NSA had harvested an enormous database of faces from images on the web, CV dazzle seemed all the more urgent.If nothing else, the pictures are worth a click.Co-op readies hi-tech trolleys to improve customer service &gt;&gt;&gt; Marketing MagazineSelected Co-op stores are trialling the new scheme, which prompts shoppers at various points in-store to answer questions about the layout, the ranges and products on offer. More general questions will quiz consumers on issues such as sustainable food, youth unemployment and localism.Do you want a survey with your chicken drumsticks?Nvidia quadruples display resolution by stacking two cheap LCD panels on top of each other &gt;&gt;&gt; ExtremeTechNvidia researchers have used a fantastically straightforward approach to quadruple the effective resolution and double the refresh rate of cheap, off-the-shelf LCD panels: Stacking them on top of each other.Why didn’t we think about that? Sounds stupidly simple, but highly complex all at the same time.Achievement Unlocked: Mars rover sets off-world driving record &gt;&gt;&gt; SlashGearNASA’s Opportunity Rover has set the human record for off-world driving distance this week. This record was previously held by the Soviet Union’s Lunokhod 2 rover, whose record was smashed as Opportunity kicked out 25 miles (40 kilometers) of driving. Any opportunity to one-up our space-race comrades, that’s what we like!Only 10 years into a 90 day mission...Piracy police hijack ads on copyright-infringing websites &gt;&gt;&gt; CNETTo avoid that, a firm called Project Sunblock checks the content of websites, and has now been recruited by PIPCU to target dodgy sites.Project Sunblock, only in Britain.Is Big Pharma testing your meds on homeless people? &gt;&gt;&gt; MediumIf you’re looking for poor people who have been paid to test experimental drugs, Philadelphia is a good place to start.Rather puts “OKCupid experiments on its users” into perspective.The history of information &gt;&gt;&gt; Kottke.orgThis timeline of the history of information has some outstanding rabbit-holes: multiple entries on the history of magnetic card readers, Plimpton 322 (a cuneiform tablet called “the most famous original document of Babylonian mathematics”), and a whole series on crimes, forgeries, and hoaxes.Get lost in this for half an hour.You can followGuardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A "right to be forgotten" – enforcing the removal of online material – is wrong in principle and unworkable in practice, a parliamentary committee has said.The House of Lords home affairs, health and education EU sub-committee has condemned regulations being drawn up by the European commission and a recent landmark judgment by the European court of justice (ECJ) in Luxembourg.The study supports the coalition government's opposition to the EU proposals on the grounds that search engines should not be made responsible for the content of the internet.The committee points out that the EU's 1995 data protection directive on which the ECJ judgment relied was drafted three years before Google was founded. The judgment agreed that a Spanish claimant could require Google to delete search links to an article about him relating to a repossession notice. In the weeks following the ruling, Google's European sites were inundated with more than 70,000 removal requests.The committee's chair, Lady Prashar, said: "It is crystal clear that the neither the 1995 directive nor the [ECJ's] interpretation of it reflects the incredible advancement in technology that we see today, over 20 years since the directive was drafted."We believe that the judgment of the court is unworkable for two main reasons. Firstly, it does not take into account the effect the ruling will have on smaller search engines which, unlike Google, are unlikely to have the resources to process the thousands of removal requests they are likely to receive."Secondly, we also believe that it is wrong in principle to leave search engines themselves the task of deciding whether to delete information or not, based on vague, ambiguous and unhelpful criteria, and we heard from witnesses how uncomfortable they are with the idea of a commercial company sitting in judgement on issues like that."We think there is a very strong argument that, in the new regulation, search engines should not be classed as data controllers, and therefore not liable as 'owners' of the information they are linking to. We also do not believe that individuals should have a right to have links to accurate and lawfully available information about them removed, simply because they do not like what is said."
Shares in Twitter rose sharply on Tuesday, after the company beat analysts’ expectations with higher-than-expected revenues and user numbers.The social media company has struggled in its short life as a public company amid fears that its growth was slowing to a standstill. Before the latest results, Twitter’s stock had fallen 43.8% this year.Reporting its second quarter results after stock markets close, Twitter said sales more than doubled to $312.2m, exceeding the $282.8m analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Its number of monthly active users (MAUs) reached 271m at the end of June, 24% higher than last year but still marginally lower than the 25% year-on-year growth in the previous period.Investors seemed cheered by a sharp rise in revenues and Twitter’s shares rose sharply in after-hours trading, rising over 30% shortly after the announcement. The spike came even as some analysts noted little had changed, highlighting losses for the quarter, which widened to $144.6m, or 24 cents a share, from a year-earlier loss of $42.2m, or 32 cents a share.“We had a very strong first quarter. Revenue growth accelerated on a year over year basis fueled by increased engagement and user growth,” said Dick Costolo, Twitter’s chief executive officer. “We also continue to rapidly increase our reach and scale.”Last quarter the growth rate of Twitter’s MAUs declined – worrying investors that the company was running out of steam. And the quarter-on-quarter growth rate remain low. Twitter’s latest monthly user figures were 6.3% higher than the last quarter when the growth rate was 5.8%.In terms of user numbers Twitter remains a distant also-ran to Facebook, which added 40m new users last quarter to reach a total of 1.32bn.Twitter has been attempting to downplay the importance of MAUs, arguing that its content is widely shared outside its platform, on TV and in other media. On a conference call with analysts Costolo said he saw a “big opportunity” for Twitter to make money from the way its service is used outside of Twitter’s platform.Twitter’s audience is larger than its monthly active users numbers, Costolo said. “We believe [Twitter] ranks us among the top 10 largest digitally connected audiences in the world.”The company is expected to unveil a set of new metrics that it hopes will paint a broader picture of its reach.The company is particularly strong in mobile advertising. Some 81% of its total ad revenues came from mobile ads in the quarter, up from 80% in the previous quarter.Alan Patrick, founder of tech consultant Broadsight, said ultimately Twitter needed to be valued on its revenues and its costs. “In the early days of a tech company you often don’t know what the end of day costs will be,” he said. “This fixation on one number – MAU in this case – in post IPO companies, without reference to the rest of the added value equation is at best lazy, and in my opinion its irresponsible – but it seems to be the way things are in tech stocks.”James Gellert, CEO of Rapid Ratings International, said the stock price hike was “a sign of the times”. “People are excited to see any positive movement and to be fair to Twitter these numbers are green not red. But they do not mean that Twitter is a profitable company.”He said the growth in users was still low and Twitter was now losing more money on a yearly basis than it did in 2013. “Ultimately this company needs to graduate from a company that’s measured by its growth to one that’s measured by its profitability and returns to shareholders,” he said.
What a world we live in:Kim Kardashian is fronting one of the most lucrative mobile games in the world, and now it’s being joined on Apple’s App Store by an official game for the Sharknado films.Sharknado: The Video game has been released for iOS devices in time for the premiere this week of Sharknado: The Second One on TV channel Syfy. That follows last year’s breakout success of the originalSharknadofilm.The game is heavily inspired by endless runners like Temple Run as players run through the streets of New York avoiding sharks – although broadswords and chainsaws are available for those who prefer a more aggressive approach.The game is hoping to have its cake and eat it – do sharks eat cake? – combining an upfront price of £1.99 on the App Store with in-app purchases of virtual coins and buckets of chum to smooth progress through the game.Coins can be bought for between £1.49 and £10.49, while buckets of chum are sold for between £1.49 and £34.99 – although in both cases, there’s an option to watch a sponsored video to get some for free.The game is the work of developer Other Ocean and publisher Majesco Entertainment Company. “The Sharknado movies already exhibit a strange video game logic, so translating them into a work of interactive art wasn’t much of a challenge,” said director Frank Cifaldi as the game was released.Will the game take a big chunk of App Store revenues, or sink like... well, a shark falling out of a tornado?Charging up front rather than making the game free to download is a bold move, but the hype around the film sequel’s premiere could help it float to the top of the charts. At least in the short term.•40 best iPhone and iPad games of 2014 so far
Revenge porn is an undoubtedly vile phenomenon. A couple, often young and foolish with lust, get together and share trust and intimacy. In the modern style, they take pictures or videos of each other or “sext” each other revealing selfies.Then they break up and he posts these pictures on a website and labels her a whore to the world. Modern love?This is, of course, a very partial description. Revenge porn can cut across same-sex as well as heterosexual couples, and can be done by the girl to the boy as much as the other way round. Yet revenge porn is typically one of the nastiest offshoots of the misogynistic abuse rampant and normalised in the online space, as seen in recent cases like theCriado-Perez and Stella Creasy Twitter abuse storms.How then do we try to stop revenge porn, as we undoubtedly should? The kneejerk reaction – which we saw inhasty and ill crafted amendmentsto the Criminal Justice and Courts Bill last week – is to saySomething Must be Done. New criminal laws must be passed. Sentences must be extended. Draconian powers must be given demanding all social networks institute real name policies (even thoughthese would be unenforceable and harm the vulnerable more than abusers).New laws ‘unnecessary and counter-productive’A timelyHouse of Lords Select committee report, released today, points out that something has already been done, and that even with a “new” phenomenon like revenge porn, new laws are both unnecessary and quite possibly counter-productive.In oral evidence given to the committee, the police, civil rights organisations, social networks anda leading QCall pointed out that in fact we already have a multiplicity of overlapping criminal laws in place around harassment, threats, menace and abuse, which apply as much to the online world as the offline.Adding new laws to this existing jungle is likely to confuse the public, perplex arresting police and mystify the internet abuse teams which work across time zones on an international scale rather than looking at the laws of one small island. It would also be likely to lend scope to ill-conceived prosecutions jeopardising ordinary free speech rights, such as the notoriousTwitter Joke Trial.Victims want a remedy, not a prosecutionThe US experience (sadly about six months to a year in advance of the UK) is that what victims of revenge porn really want most urgently is a remedy, not a prosecution.While pictures of women branded as sluts, victims, home-wreckers (etc) stay accessible on the internet, job opportunities, new relationships, college entry and basic self-esteem are wrecked. On many US based sites, images stay up till blackmail is paid.Responsible sites such as Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr depend on the goodwill of their clientele and are already responsive to take down requests (although possibly not as fast as could be hoped – see below). But because websites hosted in the US benefit from a law which gives them complete immunity from prosecution or action relating to content posted by users, smaller, less reputable sites - like the notorious MyEx.com or IsAnybodyUp.com - can refuse to take down revenge porn without incurring legal liability and do so as a lucrative business model.Increasingly UK and EU women will find images of themselves, sickeningly, on these sites, and UK prosecutions, or longer sentences, will do little or nothing to help.The solution is a take down, and link removalA good remedy for the UK thus involves two steps : mandatory take down of images posted without consent from hosting sites in the UK, and, if take down is not obtainable because the host site is in the US and hiding behind a liability shield, a right to removal of the link from Google’s memory so a search on a name will not bring up as first result shocking pictures posted and hosted without consent.Many press reports have responded negatively to the recentGoogle SpainEuropean Court of Justice case, which held that a person has the right to have a link relating to their name which is inaccurate, misleading or distressing removed from the search engine – the so-called“right to be forgotten”.Whether you view this as a vindication of basic rights to control our own personal data online, or a worrying trend for the public record online, it is an undoubted godsend to revenge porn victims. Google is the search engine of choice for around 90% of European users – if a link vanishes from their index, the content essentially ceases to exist.Some will say this is an after the fact remedy, and that we still need to make examples to stop people doing it in the first place. We again already have a law, the same law used in the recent high profile Twitter cases, which criminalises “malicious, threatening or grossly offensive” speech sent through email or posted online. Again the Lords report calls usefully for it to be clarified if “grossly offensive” does cover revenge porn, for which there is currently no clear case law.A social problem, not a legal problemLong term revenge porn, just like Twitter misogyny and the kind of racist and homophobic abuse routinely hurled online at people like Tom Daley and Felix Mwamba, is not a criminal law problem but a social problem.We need, by education in schools and homes, by peer pressure and, most immediately, by swift and resolute response from hosting social networks, to show that this behaviour is unacceptable.Facebook and Twitter both revealed in oral evidence to the Lords that their abuse response teams – for their global markets, not the UK – were in the low hundreds not the thousands. They also pointedly refused to say how many abuse complaints they received per day, what their clean up rate was or the speed of response.Victims complain that response from abuse teams takes too long, and is hesitant when it comes. Facebook and Twitter’s watchword is self-help – block your abuser from your Twitter feed, ask your troll to stop tagging pictures of you.Blocking in revenge porn especially does precisely no good since the image is still out there, destroying reputations; self help is of course much cheaper and easier for the networks than investing in real-time monitoring or intervention.Worse is the frequent suggestion that women who suffer on social networks should simply withdraw from the internet. In today’s world, the internet is a vital part of all lives and asking women to withdraw from it to some kind of digital purdah is in itself shockingly misogynistic.As Criado-Perez herselfrecently said: “When a woman does speak up, she runs the risk of being shouted down by a society that is still so scared of a woman’s voice, it must silence it by any means necessary - including the threat of rape, of death.“To that society, women must shout back and louder, until a woman’s voice is as unremarkable as a man’s. Only then will we combat the fear of a woman’s voice; only then will we live in a democracy worth the name.”Lilian Edwards is professor of internet law at the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow. Disclaimer: Lilian Edwards was the Specialist Adviser to the Lords Select Committee on communications report on social media and criminal law. However the views above are hers and hers aloneAnnmarie Chiarini:I was a victim of revenge porn. I don’t want anyone else to face this
You&apos;ve probably already heard of it. You&apos;ve probably been invited to join by every singleFacebookfriend you have. It&apos;s calledMeow, and it&apos;s the chat app which is currently the most popular free app in the UKiTunesstore.Meow is not a recent release. Developed by Minus, it&apos;s been around since 2013. Which makes it around 10 in cat years. The update on 17 July, however, saw a flood of Facebook invites to join; in a repeat of what I like to call theFarmVilleonslaught, and theCandy Crushputsch.The reason behind this is that users are required to sign up using a Facebook account, and then are asked whether they would like to invite their friends. If one clicks no, however, the following screen pops up.Photograph: Hannah Jane ParkinsonI suspect that clicking &quot;I understand&quot; is not, as you would assume, an acknowledgement of understanding, but an actionable OK for Meow to spam your notifications list. (I furiously swiped up to exit the app.)So what&apos;s new Pussycat?Meow has been described as a cross betweenWhatsAppandTinder, which isn&apos;t strictly accurate. While it has a lot of similarities with WhatsApp andKikin terms of messaging features – users can send text, audio, pictures and video – it is not very similar to Tinder, which has become a genuinely useful tool on the dating scene (ditto withGrindrandDaatch).Meow shares its DNA withChatroulette,Whisperand (RIP little guy)MSN messenger. It&apos;s like being picked up and dropped in 2001. It has chat rooms, for God&apos;s sake.A profile is easy to set up with minimum information, and there are options to describe a hometown, hobbies, relationship status and more.There is a gamified element; the more friends you invite and the more people who favourite you, the more Meow points you earn. At this point there doesn&apos;t appear to be any point to Meow points.There is, should you so wish, the possibility to connect withTwitter,InstagramandTumblras well as Facebook. God help us.What&apos;s purrfect?The idea of connecting with people all over the world is a nice one, and in this Meow has the potential to be the pen pal scheme for the internet generation. The app allows you to select one-on-one conversations with people in geolocations around the globe using the Explore function.Photograph: Hannah Jane ParkinsonNot only is this a great way to meet and speak to people worldwide, but it&apos;s a nice way to pass time. You can divide search by gender or whether a person is online or not – but it would be nice to have less banal filtering options here.The element whichissimilar to Tinder, is the random match feature. I was matched to a guy whose profile picture was a sloth. Promising.What&apos;s paw?Oh, there are quite a few bad things. Some of them falling into the hilarious category, and some the concerning. I spoke to Maria, who explicitly states on her profile that she&apos;s not into anything explicit. When I asked her why she felt the need to point this out, she replied thus:Photograph: Hannah Jane ParkinsonA &quot;fur&quot; point, I think you&apos;ll agree. Nicholas reckoned that there were plenty of rude people on the app. I went into a randomly selected chat room to see what other people made of it.Photograph: Hannah Jane ParkinsonAwkward. The main point though, is that Maria is right. A lot of content on Meow is filthier than a litter tray. I won&apos;t repeat the things that were said to me, or the pictures I was sent, because as Maria points out, there are place you can go for that. #p0rnWhat is genuinely concerning is that Meow has an option to hide a person&apos;s age, which could be very problematic in the wrong hands.Photograph: Hannah Jane ParkinsonAre we feline it?The frustrating thing about Meow is that it could be a really strong app. In fact, it is a really strong app – it just has a lot of idiots on it right now. It&apos;s a sexed-up Chatroulette advertised by a cat that in no way resembles a cat.The good thing is that once a user has fully established a network of friends, I think the app would really step up.There is Feed section, with very similar interface to Instagram, which streams photos only from &quot;friends&quot; (in this case, people who have favourited you and who you have favourited), which is a nice touch.Equally, if the filters were better in Explore, it would be a fascinating tool to find like-minded people the world over. If Meow managed to claw out the dick, jizz and tit pics, it could be one of the best social apps out there. &apos;Twas ever thus.•What&apos;s next after WhatsApp: a guide to the future of messaging apps
Tor, the internet anonymiser, received more than $1.8m in funding from the US government in 2013, even while the NSA was reportedly trying to destroy the network.According to the Tor Project&apos;s latestannual financial statements, the organisation received $1,822,907 from the US government in 2013. The bulk of that came in the form of &quot;pass-through&quot; grants, money which ultimately comes from the US government distributed through some independent third-party.Formerly known as &quot;the onion router&quot;, Tor is software which allows its users to browse the internet anonymously. It works by bouncing connections through encrypted &quot;relays&quot;, preventing any eavesdropper from determining what sites a particular user is visiting, or from determining who the users of a particular site actually are. That makes it popular amongst organisations trying to promote freedom of speech in nations like China and Syria – but also popular amongst users trying to evade surveillance in the West.The two largest single grantors of federal money were SRI international, a non-profit research and development centre that aims to bridge the gap between abstract research and industry, and Internews Network, an international non-profit that funds programmes supporting democracy and human rights. The latter gave $555,413 in funding originally from the US Department of State, while the former gave $830,269 in funding ultimately stemming from the US Department of Defense.The Tor Project also received direct funding from the National Science Foundation and the US Department of State, totalling $100,325 and $256,900 respectively.The continued funding of Tor by the American government, including (indirectly) the Department of Defense, stands in stark contrast tothe Guardian&apos;s revelationin October 2013 that the National Security Agency and GCHQ were attempting to destroy the network. Documents obtained by the Guardian detailed proof-of-concept attacks designed to either bring down the Tor network entirely, or to de-anomymise users.Despite the NSA&apos;s attacks on the service, federal funding of Tor has actually increased year-on-year.In 2012, the organisation only received $1.2m in funding from the US government, none of which was direct.NSA and GCHQ target Tor network that protects anonymity of web users
Does your iPhone feel like it gets slower the moment the latest Apple smartphone gets released?You’re not alone. Google Trends shows a spike in searches from people simply for “iPhone slow” the moment Apple releases its latest iPhone, showing that people perceive their older iPhones to suddenly slow down.The Havard economics professor Sendhil Mullainathan presented Google Trends dataon the New York Timesto posit that this could be a deliberate, preprogrammed action, to spur people to buy new iPhones.While that is possible by any company who makes complex electronics and software – thePhoebus cartelof the 1920s and 1930s proved companies were willing to intentionally hobble their products to get consumers to buy more – it is highly unlikely in this case.Bloated systems slow everything downSmartphones and tablets suffer from similar issues to desktop and laptop computers. The longer they run, the more digital debris and detritus their software collects. Left over files, broken interlinks and conflicting software can quickly cause issues, tying up the device’s processor unnecessarily and making other necessary functions slow down.Meanwhile the demands made of the processing hardware of devices by software ever increases as the systems and techniques improve and allow more and more powerful solutions to be developed.The Facebook app for instance, does far more and requires far more of the hardware now than when it was first released, as does the Twitter app, Safari, Mail, and even the Guardian’s own app.App updatesAs apps get updated to do new things they can become slower on older hardware, but it might go unnoticed at first, until someone points it out. Hearing about a new smartphone release reminds the user that their phone is older, making them more sensitive to the lag and stutter they might previously have ignored.A similar thing happens with cars when a faster, more powerful model is released, making an older (though still shiny) car seem a little less new and seem a little less quick off the mark.But where Apple’s iPhone is more or less unique is that the release of a new iPhone also brings a new version of Apple’s iOS software for older iPhones, typically within days.Software updatesAs the software improves and adds more features it demands more of the hardware, and could make older models feel slower than they previously were.Millions of iPhone users promptly upgrade to the latest software when it is released, instantly highlighting small and subtle changes. Users excitedly update their smartphones and pore over every little aspect, causing many to wonder, &quot;does it feel slower?&quot;.Do you feel like your iPhone suddenly gets slower as Apple releases a new phone?
Dating service OkCupid has cheerfully admitted to manipulating what it shows users, a month after Facebook faced a storm of protest when it revealed that it had conducted psychological experiments.Christian Rudder, OkCupid’s co-founder and data scientist, posted three examples of experiments the firm had performed on to the site’s OkTrends blog, in an upbeat article entitled “We Experiment On Human Beings!”.The blog, which used to chronicle the discoveries OkCupid made by observing its users’ behaviour, has been mothballed for three years, since OkCupid was purchased by dating behemoth Match.com in February 2011.“OkCupid doesn’t really know what it’s doing,”writes Rudder in the most recent blogpost. “Neither does any other website. It’s not like people have been building these things for very long, or you can go look up a blueprint or something. Most ideas are bad. Even good ideas could be better. Experiments are how you sort all this out.”Rudder refers specifically to Facebook’s troubles over its experimentation, when the firm tweaked the content of users’ news feeds in an effort to discover what their reaction was to a higher proportion of positive or negative posts. “Guess what, everybody,” he says, “if you use the internet, you’re the subject of hundreds of experiments at any given time, on every site. That’s how websites work.”The first experiment Rudder describes occurred in January 2013. To promote the site’s new blind date app, OkCupid removed all pictures from the site, calling it “Love is Blind Day”; sure enough, fewer users were active on the site, but of those who were, first messages were responded to 44% more often.The second involved attempting to discover how much of a given user’s rating – the score ascribed to them by other users – was derived just from their picture. By presenting a small subset of users with their profile text hidden, Rudder found that just 10% of the typical user’s score is based on the text they write on their profile. The vast majority of the rating, it seems, is based purely on the picture.The final experiment Rudder describes has proved more controversial, however. OkCupid assigns users a “match” rating, showing how likely it thinks a pairing is to get along. The rating typically proves accurate, but, Rudder writes, “in the back of our minds, there’s always been the possibility: maybe it works just because we tell people it does. Maybe people just like each other because they think they’re supposed to? Like how Jay-Z still sells albums?”To test its theory, the site lied to a portion of users about how strongly they matched with other users, and observed how many single messages led to a full conversation. Sure enough, they found that two users who actually had a 90% match but were told that they had a 30% match were less likely to carry on talking than two users who actually had a 30% match but were told they had a 90% match. In other words, Rudder says, “if you have to choose only one or the other, the mere myth of compatibility works just as well as the truth.”But while OkCupid’s blog post was seemingly an effort to demystify the process of experimenting on users, for many, it simply underscored the tech industry’s failure to “understand why some testing is ethical and some is not”,in the words of the sociologist Nathan Jurgenson. Despite OkCupid’s personable demeanour, the firm is owned by the IAC conglomerate, a multinational corporation with a market cap of $5bn. “Tech folks routinely equate emotional manipulation and a logo change,”Jurgenson continued. “[You] need an ethics board to distinguish what requires opt-in, debriefing, etc.”At one end of the spectrum lie Google’s famous A/B tests, where the company experiments on users to find out which shade of blue is most effective for outgoing links, while at the other lie Facebook’s experiments on users. The question posed to tech firms is whether there’s a line which is crossed, and where that line is.For others, though, even the most basic experiments still pose awkward questions. Academic Zeynep Tufekcipoints outthat62% of usersare “unaware even of the existence of Facebook newsfeed algorithms.”For her, “OkCupid’s finding people talked more when falsely told the algorithm ‘matched’ them highlights the stealth power of algorithmic mediation.”Facebook reveals news feed experiment to control emotions
With only 140 characters, it can be hard to tell the right story on Twitter. In its short life as a public company, the social media company itself has had its own struggles with messaging – struggles that will be in sharp focus on Tuesday when it talks to Wall Street about its latest quarterly results.Twitter may seem ubiquitous – a word chief executive Dick Costolo likes to throw around when describing the social media firm’s influence, especially around events like the World Cup. But no matter how often the media calls for people to follow them on Twitter, fewer people seem to be listening and, in the US in particular, growth has slowed to a trickle.The number Wall Street is focused on is monthly active users (MAUs) – the number of people who logged into Twitter during the month. In the first quarter of 2014 Twitter, reported it had 255m MAUs, up 25% year-over-year but up only 6% from 241m in the prior quarter. Twitter’s stock priced slumped on the news, and the company has since undergone a major management reshuffle. Analysts are expecting MAUs to slow again on Tuesday. What happens then?Sterne Agee’s Arvind Bhatia and Brett Strauser are estimating MAUs for the second quarter of 266m, up just 4% from the prior quarter. Wunderlich Securities analyst Blake Harper estimates MAUs will be lower still, at between 260m and 262m.Twitter cannot comment ahead of its quarterly earning report. There are hopeful signs that the World Cup was a boon for social media. Facebookrecorded over 1bn interactions(post, likes, comments) during the tournament. And Twitter has said there were672m Tweets sent related to the 2014 #WorldCup– which fell half in this quarter and half in the next.But even if soccer saved the quarter for Twitter, the longer-term problem of the “Twitter quitter” remains. Last year a Reuters/Ipsos poll last year found 36% of people who joined Twitter say they do not use it. In comparison, only 7% of Facebook members reported not using it. For all Twitter’s attempts to add more photos, videos and easier ways to follow people, the world of RTs, MTs, hashtagsand subtweetsappears to be too much for many people.In a note to investors, Harper said he expected positive news about “engagement” – how long people spend on Twitter – and “monetization”, or how much Twitter is making. However, he said: “Expectations are still too aggressive on MAU growth and the company has struggled to meaningfully grow its user base.”The company clearly recognises that it has a problem. In JuneAli Rowghani, Twitter’s chief operating officer, resignedafter a dispute with Costolo. Rowghani, once Costolo’s closest ally and a man often described as Twitter’s Mr Fix-It, had taken over product development at Twitter last October when it became clear that company would badly miss its internal projection of 400m MAUs by the end of 2013.At the start of the month, Twitter named Goldman Sachs banker Anthony Noto as its new chief financial officer. As a former top-ranked internet analyst, Noto is ideally positioned to start rewriting Twitter’s message to the analyst community.BTIG analyst Richard Greenfield wrote in a recentblogpostthat the World Cup had revealed some of Twitter’s strategy for attracting, and keeping, more users. Twitter sent out a World Cup-focused email before the tournament that showed people how to personalise the service so they could better follow news about their team.“This is exactly what Twitter needs to do – leverage major events where live, real-time information and conversation are used to educate and engage consumers in the power and value of Twitter,” he wrote. He had some criticisms too – the lists provided were “extremely repetitive” and “seemingly odd or overly-generic choices”. They also failed to offer suggestions outside the World Cup that might have kept people engaged once the tournament ended, wrote Greenfield.“Twitter is clearly showing a clear use case for the service via the World Cup email marketing campaign. The question remains: once the World Cup ends, will these reengaged users stick or be a one-time boost to Q2 MAUs?” he wrote.Brian Weiser, senior research analyst at Pivotal Research Group, believes there was a more fundamental problem with Twitter’s message. He argues the company, as much as Wall Street, is guilty of focussing on the growing its user base when in fact it now looks like Twitter is a niche company – with its own unique audience and attractions.“Maybe they haven’t accomplished what they set out to do but they have done some wonderful things,” he said. The company’s live, as it happens, nature, its mobile ad systems, and its ability to target key demographics offer advertisers something that other social media companies do not have, he said.How does Twitter get Wall Street to look at something other than MAUs? It’s not going to be easy, said Weiser. Having Noto may help, but Twitter is going to need more than that to turn the debate. “There’s going to have be a little bit of ‘these aren’t the droids you’re looking for,’” he said.It remains to be seen whether Costolo or Noto have the Jedi skills to pull that off.
Felix Arvid Ulf Kjellberg – akaPewDiePie– remains the most popular star on YouTube, with his gaming channel generating 351m views in June 2014 alone.That&apos;s more than 8,100 views a minute on average, fuelled by the UK-based Swede&apos;s huge fanbase on Google&apos;s video service. PewDiePie ended June with 28.2m subscribers on YouTube, but that has since grown to nearly 29.1m.Kjellberg regularly tops the chart of worldwide YouTube channel views produced by industry website Tubefilter and video analytics company OpenSlate, includingJune&apos;s edition.In the year between the start of July 2013 and the end of June 2014, PewDiePie&apos;s videos were watched more than 3bn times on YouTube.The growth in his monthly views – from 221.6m in July 2013 to 351m in June 2014 – reflects the growth of YouTube, and of PewDiePie&apos;s audience on it: he had 11.8m subscribers a year ago.Music remains very important to YouTube, with 24 of the 100 most popular channels in June being official channels for musicians, run by Vevo. Indeed, six of the top 10 channels on YouTube were music-related last month.Shakira (287.9m), Pitbull (203.6m), Katy Perry (195m), Enrique Iglesias (161.8m), Psy (154.4m views, fuelled by his Hangover duet with Snoop Dogg) and dance channel Spinnin&apos; Records (147.5m) all made the upper reaches of the Tubefilter/OpenSlate chart.They were joined in the top 10 by toy-unboxing channelDisneyCollector, which is the third largest YouTube channel with 225m monthly views. According to arecent BuzzFeed profile, its mysterious creator could be pulling in &quot;seven figures a year&quot; in advertising revenues.British gamer Joseph Garrett, who explores the Minecraft game in the guise of cat characterStampy, was the sixth biggest YouTube channel in June with 181.8m views. Garrett is preparing tolaunch a second Stampy-branded channel focusing on education, Stampy School.Meanwhile, US chat-show The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon took eighth spot in the June YouTube rankings, with 158.5m views of its blend of skits and interview clips last month.•YouTube multichannel networks stake claim to the future of TV
Millions of people using Android devices could be left open to attack from malicious apps that appear to come from legitimate developers, due to a flaw in Google&apos;s mobile software.The flaw has been named &quot;Fake ID&quot; by security company Bluebox Labs, which discovered it. However, Google says it has already issued a patch to protect Android users from attacks exploiting the flaw.Fake ID has been resident in Android from version 2.1 to 4.4, although it was fixed in April as part of the latest update, Android KitKat. Millions of devices could still be at risk, though, as Google&apos;s own figures show that82.1% of Android users are running an older version.In a blog post published today, Bluebox explained that the problem lies in how app security is checked on Android, with each app given its own cryptographic signature determining who can update it, and what privileges it has on a device.To get these signatures, apps are signed using “identity certificates”, which go along a chain of trusted parties, supposedly to guarantee the right people are in control of the software.There are “parent certificates” and “child certificates”, which are checked against one another upon installation to ensure they match up and the app is trusted. The parent, usually handed down by the original software creator, effectively proves the child is worthy of being trusted, as part of what is known as the “certificate chain”.This should act as a decent security mechanism, but Bluebox Labs claims that the whole signature system had been undermined, as Android did not carry out adequate checks on the certificate chain.“In other words, an identity can claim to be issued by another identity, and the Android cryptographic code will not verify the claim (normally done by verifying the issuer signature of the child certificate against the public certificate of the issuer),” explained the company.The problem was more severe in cases where very specific signatures were given special privileges, said Bluebox. For instance, any app that contains a parent certificate from Adobe Systems is allowed to launch a webview plugin, which is used to load HTML code in apps, in all other applications.So an attacker could create a new certificate that appeared to have been issued by Adobe and merge it with the child certificate of a malicious application. That bad app would then get all the permissions Adobe software would without the user being alerted.To finish off the attack, the hacker could open a webview plugin in another app, which would let them run malicious code on the device and infect the Android phone with malware.They could do the same using the signature of the Android Near Field Communications (NFC) file to gain the same privileges of a Google Wallet application. This could place people’s financial data in danger, said Bluebox.“The problem is further compounded by the fact that multiple signers can sign an Android application (as long as each signer signs all the same application pieces). This allows a hacker to create a single malicious application that carries multiple fake identities at once, taking advantage of multiple signature verification privilege opportunities,” Bluebox added.A Google spokesperson said that after Bluebox’s disclosure, it quickly issued a patch that was distributed to Android partners and to the Android Open Source Project.“Google Play and Verify Apps have also been enhanced to protect users from this issue. At this time, we have scanned all applications submitted to Google Play as well as those Google has reviewed from outside of Google Play and we have seen no evidence of attempted exploitation of this vulnerability,” the spokesperson added.•Forget lone hackers, mobile malware is serious business
A Chinese hacking group has been accused of stealing data from Israel’s billion-dollar Iron Dome missile system.The state-sponsored Comment Crew hacking group, thought to operate out of China, was responsible for attacks from 2011 onwards on three Israeli defence technology companies Elisra Group, Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) and Rafael Advanced Defense Systems (Rads) all involved with the Iron Dome project.TheIron Domeis Israel’s advanced anti-missile defence system – part funded to the tune of $1bn by the US government. It fires missiles to intercept rockets and artillery shells fired from between 2.5 miles and 43 miles away into populated areas, commonly described as a missile shield.The revelation comes as cyber attacks against Israel have intensified during its current conflict with Palestine, including recent attacks defacing Israel Railways and hospital websites and denial of service attacks which slow Israeli’s internet connections, according to Dina Beer, managing director of the Israeli Internet Association,talking to Bloomberg.‘We transferred this technology to them, and they coughed it all up’The hacks occurred between 10 October 2011 and 13 August 2012, according to security firm Cyber Engineering Services (CES), talking toindependent security researcher Brian Krebs, which tapped into the secret communications of the hackers and discovered that they had stolen over 700 files from IAI.CES said that the majority of the data was intellectual property and that the 700 files likely represented only a small proportion of the data stolen from the three defence companies.Among the documents stolen from IAI were detailed schematics and specifications for the US-designedArrow 3 missile, which is restricted under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and a key component of Iron Dome, as well as drones and other rockets.“Most of the technology in the Arrow 3 wasn’t designed by Israel, but by Boeing and other US defence contractors,” Joseph Drissel, founder and chief executive of US-based CES, told Krebs. “We transferred this technology to them, and they coughed it all up. In the process, they essentially gave up a bunch of stuff that’s probably being used in our systems as well.”‘The information was reported to the appropriate authorities’The hackers had access to the corporate networks to some of the Israeli defence companies for over a year, and stole confidential emails from top executives at the companies.An IAI spokeswoman brushed off the hacking allegations as “old news”.“At the time, the issue was treated as required by the applicable rules and procedures,” IAI’s Eliana Fishler told Krebs. “The information was reported to the appropriate authorities. IAI undertook corrective actions in order to prevent such incidents in the future.”Meanwhile Rafael Advanced Defense Systems denied knowledge of the attacks.“Rafael does not recall such an incident,” said Amit Zimmer, corporate spokesperson for Rads told the Guardian. “Rafael’s data bases, including its air defence data bases, are extremely well protected to the highest standards.”“The real victims here are the people on the other end who are put in harm’s way because of poor posture on security and the lack of urgency coming from a lot of folks on how to fix this problem,” said Drissel. “So many companies have become accustomed to low-budget IT costs. But the reality is that if you have certain sensitive information, you’ve got to spend a certain amount of money to secure it.”The CES report on the attacks has not yet been publicly released, but the Comment Crew is thought to be associated with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), which was accused of stealing large amounts of data from US defence companies.People’s Liberation Army Unit 61398Security firmMandiant identified the Comment Crew as PLA unit 61398in February 2013, while the United States Department of Justicecharged five members of the hacking groupwith various cybercrime and espionage offences in May.China is not the only country attacking Israeli through cyber channels. Israel counted 44m attackson government sitesduring Israel’s eight-day conflict with Hamas in 2012, with the majority originating from Palestinian territory.‘It’s terrorism, designed mostly to frighten’Social media feeds and websites of news organisations have also been hit, including a TV channelthat was hacked to display a Hebrew messagein July urging Israeli mothers to call their sons home from the country’s military or see them killed or captured.Domino’s Israel had its Facebook page taken over by hackers posting messages, including one that stated that, “today will strike deep in Israel, Tel Aviv, Haifa, Jerusalem, Ashkelon, Ashdod more than 2000 rockets. We’ll start at 7. Counting back towards the end of Israel … Be warned!”“The attacks aren’t sophisticated; they just give the feeling that someone else is in control,” said Beer. “It’s terrorism, designed mostly to frighten: ‘See, we can control your sites and do things you don’t want us to do.’ And it works.”IAI further denied the hack and theft of data.“The information reported regarding the leakage of sensitive information is incorrect,” said a Eliana Fishler, senior vice president for communications at IAI in a statement sent to the Guardian.“The publications refer to an attempt to penetrate the Company’s civilian non-classified Internet network which allegedly occurred several years ago,” she said. “IAI’s cyber security systems operate in accordance with the most rigorous requirements and also in this case they were proven to be effective.”Elisra Group had not responded to comment at the time of publication.• This article was updated on 30 July 2014 to include a further statement from IAI.Hack on European Central bank puts personal information at riskChinese man charged with hacking into US fighter jet plans
Writing about children&apos;s use of technology can be surprisingly controversial, judging by some of the comments on yesterday&apos;s feature onapps that kids might enjoy using while travelling.&quot;Tomorrow&apos;s shelf-stackers will be screen pokers. Give them a pencil instead.&quot;&quot;If you don&apos;t want to &apos;deal&apos; with kids, don&apos;t make them. More Apps to pacify (passive? Aye) them. This article is nauseating.&quot;&quot;This is grotesque and is symptomatic of everything wrong with modern life.&quot;&quot;What a stupid article highlighting more useless drivel to hinder their childs [sic] development.&quot;&quot;Prefer to keep my kids off stupid apps, thank you.&quot;Similar sentiments regularly appear as comments on related articles on this site and elsewhere, seemingly born of the belief that if children are using tablets and apps, they won&apos;t be reading books, riding bikes, drawing with pencils and engaging with the real world.It&apos;s a strange, straw-man argument that underestimates a.) many parents&apos; desire to ensure their children still do all those things too, and b.) their ability to manage their children&apos;s screen-time accordingly.That&apos;s a much more positive discussion worth getting into though: if you&apos;re a parent, howdoyou manage screen-time for your children?Do you set certain time limits per day, and if so, how much? Do you treat all screens the same, or separate out TV time from apps, games and/or internet use? How much do you participate in what your children do digitally, versus leaving them to get on with it?How do you explain to your children when it&apos;s time to turn the screens off, and how do they react? And what kind of rules do you place on what they do on those screens: from watching ad-supported TV channels to what kind of apps you&apos;re happy for them to use?And, if you don&apos;t let your children use apps, play games and/or watch TV, what&apos;s your thinking behind that, and what effects have you seen this have on your kids?I&apos;m hoping this will spark a polite exchange of opinions and advice: less &quot;screens are dreadful and any parent who disagrees with me is a lazy moron&quot;, and more constructive advice and experiences.Well, I&apos;m an optimist... The comments thread is open for your thoughts.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
Modern popular culture is not very good at endings. Writers find them difficult, fans find them unsatisfying – from Lost to the Sopranos, our episodic fiction is so expansive and all-consuming these days, so labyrinthine with sub-plots and character arcs, that it is almost impossible to end everything gracefully; at least to the satisfaction of most viewers. And by God, those viewers get angry about it.Of course, epic novelists have managed complex narratives for hundreds of years, but they did so before the endless discursive whirl of social media. Nowadays fans rely on continuity not closure; they want to keep talking, and whether its Harry Potter or Towie, the primary narrative is only ever a kicking off point for community conjecture and debate. Late in the 20th century, multinational corporations found that they had to bet billions on entertainment brands and then endlessly stretch out the rare successes to maximise profitability. Modern popular culture is not very good at endings because endings are anathema to the franchise process that we have embraced. Art is about ownership these days.The Last of Us belied that process. Naughty Dog&apos;s apocalyptic masterpiece, in which humanity is struck down by a parasitic fungal infection, had an ending. Its two protagonists, the world-weary and remorseful Joel, the young and determined Ellie, reached conclusions that were logical to the themes of the game. The ending that came was harrowing, it was controversial, it was as bleak as the deserted urban landscapes that formed the game&apos;s haunting backdrops. But it was an ending.And yet now we have The Last of Us: Remastered. Converted from PlayStation 3 to PlayStation 4, with upscaled visual fidelity and an improved frame rate, the commercial objective is obvious – Sony needs bandstanding releases for its new console, and while developers are still working on showcase titles, here is one we made earlier. But the idea that this is somehow The Last of Us for people who missed the PS3 version is slightly disingenuous – it sold 6m copies, after all.UPDATE:However, as one reader points out in the comments section below, it&apos;s true that the PS4 has attracted a large amount of Xbox owners who have deserted the Microsoft camp and genuinely are discovering this title for the first time.Nevertheless, this is also a release for completists. For fans. It adds the wonderful Left Behind downloadable content, which expands the back-story of co-protagonist Ellie, it adds new multiplayer maps, and a &quot;director&apos;s commentary&quot;. Vitally, too, it provides a photo mode that lets you pause the action and take snaps from any angle. This last feature, though seemingly modest, is hugely telling. It is an invitation to veterans to really inhabit this world, to explore and document it like tourists. They&apos;ve done the narrative, now it&apos;s time to really dig in and &quot;be&quot; the Last of Us. To make fresh discoveries; to keep the story alive. To inhabit. To own.The curse of the collectorsReally, the Last of Us: Remastered is very much the gaming equiavelent of a DVD or Blu-Ray &quot;collectors edition&quot;, those bulky confections filled with documentaries that most people will never watch and audio commentaries that most will never hear. In these synthetic archeological artifacts, fans of old media – the movies produced before the age of the franchise – get to re-experience favourite narratives, get to kid themselves that a few deleted scenes will spark the story back to life for them, that it will reanimate dormant plot strands. We don&apos;t want things to end – that&apos;s natural. But now it is a global entertainment business plan. &quot;It&apos;s OK, it&apos;s not over, we found some more footage.&quot;Modern creators are taught to propogate doubt; to hint, to tease, to suggest there is more. Even if a successful series, game or movie ends, every festival or conference appearance is an opportunity to seed expectation. At an event to celebrate the launch of the Last of Us Remastered this week, the game&apos;s director, Neil Druckmannhinted that there is a secret ending to the game, picking up the story four years later. That impish revelation will hit the forums and news sites like a religious proclamation. Maybe there can be more. Maybe it hasn&apos;t ended. Maybe there will be a sequel.Modern fandom is a complex business. We want more and yet we dread it. The likes of the Phantom Menace and Prometheus have shown us that you can&apos;t go back, that addition so often becomes subtraction. Somehow we want it and have to see it. We live in an endless present, where every movie, album and TV series ever loved is becoming instantly available through digital distribution. Twin Peaks is out on Blu-ray this week, and will no doubt fan the flames of frustration. David Lynch didn&apos;t end it the way he wanted, did he? There were too many questions. But yet, as with Lost, the questions were always the substance. They can&apos;t and shouldn&apos;t be answered.The last of Us Remastered has earned favourable reviews; if you haven&apos;t played this genuinely gripping and meaningful game, you should purchase it. If youhaveplayed, this is an interesting chance to re-experience it, to talk about it again, to try things a little differently.But that&apos;s it. The Last of Us ended. It launched and closed a franchise in one stunningly effective thrust. No extra DLC, hidden endings or spin-off adventures will add to that impact. Closure is painful and we have invented a technoculture in which it can be kept at bay. But sometimes, it has to happen. The best stories end and then they haunt us; they leave something of themselves that cannot be substantiated or monetised.As Don Henley put it in Boys of Summer, his paean to lost love, &quot;Those days are gone forever, I should just let them go.&quot;He was right. And there is no sequel to Boys of Summer.The last of Us – reviewThe last of Us: Left Behind – reviewThe Last of Us, Bioshock: Infinite and why all video game dystopias work the same way
It's Tuesday.
Dancers wielding giant Tunnock&apos;s teacakes were one of the hits of the opening ceremony for the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games. But how much are they worth now? £1,605 each.At least, that&apos;s the value of a single teacake prop sold off on the Games&apos; official auction website this week. In two days online, it attracted 108 bids,including the winning bid of £1,605.(Or, to put it differently: the price of 1,000 boxes of 10 regular-size teacakes. Although none of them would come with a &quot;commemorative metal tag&quot; with a hologram of the Games logo.)The organisers are using the official auction website to sell various pieces of memorabilia from the Games, including chairs, fishing boats, anEdinburgh cannonand even aflushing toiletfrom the opening ceremony.More giant teacakes are also being auctioned off, with current highest bids of£405and£210with one and two days to go respectively.It&apos;s not just the organisers cashing in. Sales of the actual teacakes rose sharply after their starring role in the opening ceremony, with Waitrose announcing that sales rose 62% in the 24 hours afterwards.Tunnock&apos;s gave permission for its teacakes to appear in the ceremony, which at its peak waswatched by 9m viewers in the UK. The company has said that it did not know exactly how they would be used.&quot;We were blown away by the exposure, and we felt quite humbled that the producers of the ceremony felt that the brand merited the exposure,&quot; said operations director Fergus Loudon.•Commonwealth Games 2014: opening ceremony – as it happened
The action figures are lining up – the battle will soon commence. This autumn will see a three-way fight in the nascent &apos;toys to life&apos; market – a range of video games that come with compatible action figures.For a while, Activision had the sector sown up with its Skylanders series; then Disney popped in with Infinity; and now Nintendo is introducing itsAmiiborange of classic characters. The novelty of being able to place a physical figurine on a special controller and see the character appear on screen will no longer be enough. It&apos;s all about having the right licenses and line-up now.Disney Infinity 2.0: Marvel Super Heroes is pretty well placed. As the title suggests, the game is introducing a large range of comic book stars to the sequel, including Spider-Man, the Avengers and, as announced last week, the Guardians of the Galaxy. As usual, the figures will all be sold separately from the game, or in bundle packs, and each group gets its own story mode and missions.For Spider-Man, it&apos;s a classic face-off against Norman Osborne, who has kidnapped Venom and is trying to clone the symbiotes. The parasitic aliens escape however, and now Spidey has to protect the city. The Avengers, meanwhile, are dealing with Loki&apos;s attempt to freeze New York City, while the Guardians of the Galaxy are basically reenacting their movie.This time round, all the playable characters get skill trees, so players can increase certain abilities as they collect experience. With Spider-Man, for example, the accuracy and range of his spider sense can be increased, and his range of web attacks widened, to include things like web barrages. However, it&apos;s impossible to level up completely and get all the powers – Disney wants players to personalise their figures with preferred skill ranges.Seducing the Marvel fanaticsIt seems there&apos;s a realisation that Marvel is going to bring in older more experiences gamers. As such, there&apos;s a health bar now, and players can fail missions. There&apos;s also more depth to the gameplay structure.&quot;We’ve added in a whole variety of side-quests and missions in the Play Sets so that gamers can tackle new tasks away from the storyline,&quot; says exec producer, John Vignocchi. &quot;This all takes place in some of the biggest cityscapes we’ve ever created – the city in The Avengers play set is four times bigger than the city from The Incredibles play set in Disney Infinity, for instance.&quot;As for the Toy Box mode, where players are able to create their own missions and environments, the aim has been to add more choice, but also to simplify things for newcomers. My children never really built much in the Disney infinity version. It was too fiddly and complicated to use, and they just ended up spawning robots and throwing them off the edge of the world.This time there are Templates – a range of pre-built &quot;attractions&quot; which can be placed into a world and will immediately function as mini-games. For example, the Cliff-side Battle Arena template is essentially a scrolling beat-&apos;em-up for four players. There are also more extensive customisable missions which can be played with any of the characters. The starter pack includes two – “Asgard Tower Defence” and “Dungeon Crawler” which play about with familiar genres.&quot;We’ve also added new Builder and Creator tools to aid gamers in their world creation,&quot; says Vignocchi. &quot;Builder tools will automatically populate a user-defined section of the Toy Box with a new set-piece – whether that’s a castle, tree-house, cityscape, pirate town or even race track. Creator tools work exactly the same, except instead of drawing out an area which automatically populates, gamers can drop in a friendly creature who will get straight to work creating new environments.&quot;It&apos;s a good idea, giving fans something to work around rather than just a blank canvas to fill. But at the same time, experienced users get a host of new Marvel items to play about with, plus the chance to design interiors for the first time. They&apos;ll also be able to bring across all their unlocked toys and saved projects from the first title.The key aspect is going to be appeasing the Marvel acolytes while staying true to the slightly younger demographics that&apos;s embraced the &apos;toys to life&apos; genre so far. Traveller&apos;s Tales skilfully appealed to differing groups with its Lego Marvel Super Heroes title, playing on the self-conscious comedy of the series, but making enough nods to comic book lore and Marvel canon to appease the fans. It&apos;ll be interesting to see if Infinity developer Avalanche Studios can manage the same feat.Certainly, the team is trying to emphasise authenticity, bringing in Spider-Man and Avengers writer Brian Michael Bendis and working closely with Marvel&apos;s chief creative officer, Joe Quesada. And the figures are rather lovely, retaining the slightly playful look of the original Infinity characters, but with more muscle tone and edge to them.Against Activision&apos;s Skylanders Trap Team, which is a more complex game with a new enemy control mechanic and the more pervasive Amiibo figures, which work with a variety of games and don&apos;t need a seperate &quot;portal&quot; peripheral, Infinity 2.0 is a sort of mid-point. It&apos;s going to to require significant investment from parents, but you won&apos;t need a new portal to put the figures on as you do with Trap team.The real draw, of course, is being able to design your own super hero showdowns in the Toy Box mode. The automated add-ons seem like a good idea, and anything that services the idea of designing a world entirely for Hulk to smash is probably going to go down well. As a parent, I&apos;m torn between despairing at the incoming expense and really wanting the Thor figure. Disney, as always, has us right where it wants us.Disney Infinity 2.0 is due out on PC, PS3, PS4, PS Vita, Xbox 360, Xbox One and Wii U this autumn.Disney Infinity - ReviewSkylanders Trap Team – the billion dollar series gets a new generation
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIf TaskRabbit is the future of employment, the employed are fucked &gt;&gt;&gt; ValleywagAs of two weeks ago, the company no longer uses the bidding system. Each Rabbit is pegged at an hourly rate, accessible only via smartphone, and expected to be available immediately, a la Uber. If you can&apos;t commit to a task within 30 minutes, it moves on to someone else, reassigned via computer. Tasks that don&apos;t fall within generic categories like moving, cleaning, or food delivery are discouraged. Rabbits are matched with people looking for help via yet another mystical algorithm, removing whatever personal connection eager users enjoyed.So TaskRabbit is... a temp agency. But it&apos;s probably got a higher valuation than your typical temp firm.Teen&apos;s Samsung phone bursts into flames while she&apos;s sleeping &gt;&gt;&gt; BetabeatLike all of us, 13-year-old Ariel Tolfree is addicted to her cell phone, so she keeps it tucked under her pillow while she&apos;s sleeping. But, last week, the battery on her Samsung Galaxy S4 apparently overheated and bursted into flames in the middle of the night.Aaaaaaaaaaaaargh.Star.21 is a £19 fitness tracker that aims to permanently change your attitude to health &gt;&gt;&gt; The Inquirer&quot;Most Fitness Bands today do not work because the novelty is short lived&quot; said Oaxis CEO, G-Jay Yong. &quot;Our human brain is capable of rewiring itself in 21 days to establish new neural pathways. Through 21 days of repetitive actions, the long lasting healthy habits can be formed.&quot;£19 for 21 days. Worth a shot, but could just end up being yet more landfill.3D holograms that track you around for any viewing angle are here &gt;&gt;&gt; Pocket-lintThe artwork was named Help Me Obi, for the Star Wars fans out there, and offers a 360-degree view. The floating baby might freak you out at first but watch on in the video to see how the image follows the position of the viewer.Clever stuff, but mass market? Not any time soon. Do people actually want holograms still? Might be good for video conferencing, Star Wars style.Dear Instagram &gt;&gt;&gt; BoltWe know it&apos;s a great name, because we chose it last year when we set out to build a better mobile voice and messaging experience. We&apos;ve worked really hard since then building the Bolt brand and technology to where it is today. Please don&apos;t destroy all that effort.Complaints before its even announced. Is that a new record?EU gives the green light to Apple&apos;s $3 billion acquisition of Beats &gt;&gt;&gt; TUAWIn addition, Apple and Beats Electronics are not close competitors because the headphones they sell differ markedly in functionality and design. Moreover, even after the transaction, a large number of global competitors such as Bose, Sennheiser and Sony would remain.The EU&apos;s fine with it, not sure Bose is. Also has to go through US regulators, so not quite done yet.Want a 3D-Printed Bobblehead? Amazon Can Help &gt;&gt;&gt; PC MagThe online retail giant is embracing the 3D printing phenomenon with a new Web store where you can find more than 200 3D-printed products available for purchase. Most of the items in the store range from around $40 to $100, including cufflinks, bobble head figurines (pictured) wine glass holders, and fashion accessories like pendants, earrings, and necklaces.So, tat and jewellery then. Some of them even have a limited number ready to ship. Pretty sure that&apos;s not quite how 3D printing is meant to work. Printed on demand, surely? Anything else is just selling normal stuff that just happens to be printed.PantryChic&apos;s Bluetooth ingredient dispenser is for lazy, type-A bakers &gt;&gt;&gt; EngadgetMeet PantryChic, an airtight food canister that dispenses ingredients into a digital scale, so that you never even have to break out a measuring cup.Internet of things gone too far, or not far enough depending on how you look at it.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Napster was the first truly global digital music brand. Just not a legal one. The peer-to-peer music downloads company wassued and shut down by labels in 2000, after a brief but intense period of popularity.Napster as a brand didn&apos;t die: it went through a few owners, ending up with US subscription music service Rhapsody as its non-US arm. In mid-April, the pair announced they had 1.7m paying subscribers between them. Today, they updated that figure to 2m.“We’ve had an impressive growth of 300k just in the last quarter,” Napster senior vice president and general manager for Europe Thorsten Schliesche told the Guardian, citing Rhapsody&apos;s partnership with mobile operator T-Mobile US and Napster&apos;s expansion in Latin America as key factors.“With these numbers and the growth, we have finally established ourselves among the top 2-3 streaming services globally. We see ourselves in this for the long term,” said Schliesche.In April, Napster said that its 1.7m subscribers was up 63% on the previous year, which suggests it had been adding around 54,000 paying subscribers a month. Since April, then, that has nearly doubled to 100,000 a month.That&apos;s still outstripped by some rivals. Spotify averaged around 286,000 new subscribers a month as it went from 6m paying customers in March 2013 to 10m in May 2014. Deezer averaged around 167,000 new subscribers a month between May and November 2013, when it went from 4m to 5m.How does Rhapsody/Napster plan to fuel more growth outside the US? Something called unRadio, which it launched in the US in June with T-Mobile as a service streaming traditional radio stations, as well as &quot;personal radio&quot; stations based on favourite songs or artists, created on the fly.In the US, the latter concept is well established through services like Pandora, and more recently Apple&apos;s iTunes Radio. In Europe, it&apos;s a newer idea, although the UK has seen it with Tesco&apos;s Blinkbox Music and the now-closed Bloom.fm, while personal radio is also now a feature in services like Spotify too.In France, unRadio will launch with mobile operator SFR under a new name, Napster Découverte, costing €3.95 a month. It&apos;ll be available in other countries too, as an alternative to the company&apos;s full €9.95-a-month streaming service.&quot;Every person has used radio in their life, so we’re basically using that as the common anchor, and giving people the ability to listen to their favourite radio stations, but then giving them premium radio – additional channels based on genres, decades, or certain occasions like barbecue, sitting in the park or doing a workout,&quot; said Schliesche.“It’s a very interesting product for people who are not 100% convinced that streaming is something they would like to pay for. It’s something I feel could move the needle again a little bit.”Mobile is already very important to Napster, with Schliesche saying that in Europe, around 60% of its listening happens on mobile devices – tablets included – rising to 90% in some countries where the company has a strong partnership with a mobile operator.He is also bullish about Napster&apos;s chances of continuing to compete with bigger rivals, whether the likes of Spotify and Deezer, or streaming services owned by technology giants like Apple, Google and Amazon.“The advantage that Napster and Rhapsody have compared to the competition is that I see ourselves more as a Switzerland: we are neutral,” said Schliesche.“We do not belong to a big hardware manufacturer or a big ad agency, and we are not trying to sell stuff other than music. It is easier for us to work with carriers like we have done with SFR. If a carrier wants to work with Beats, it’s not a decision to work with a music service any more: it’s ‘would we like to go into a relationship with Apple?’”He added that since Rhapsody launched in 2001, and Napster relaunched in 2003, &quot;we have seen a lot of services come and go, even big ones&quot;, suggesting that rivals owned by the richest technology firms may struggle for boardroom support.&quot;When you talk about customer experiences, algorithms, following trends… things are changing so fast, you have to basically reinvent your service and certain features every 8-12 months. So it’s highly important that you have a team focused on doing nothing other than music,&quot; he said.“With a Google or an Apple or an Amazon it is really hard to get this kind of attention, especially at the senior management level. Especially if the revenue you are providing is more or less a rounding error in their overall service. It’s a threat, just their size and the money they have, but it’s nothing we should be afraid of, sitting like the rabbit in front of the snake.”How many pure streaming services – or Switzerlands – can survive in the music industry alongside this big snakes, though?“Overall, 4-5 music services per market is something like the maximum size I would expect in the future. If you have 2-3 global companies, there will be room for 1-2 more local or more regional services,” said Schliesche.“If you look at Germany today, where we have 17 music streaming services. But if you look at the market share, basically three services own more than 90% of the market. How can the other 14 ever survive? It’s not very different for all other markets.”Thorsten Schliesche of Napster.YouTube is one of the most intriguing rivals already, with its free music videos service that&apos;s used by many young people in particular as their main way of listening to music, not just watching it.Google&apos;s online video subsidiary is now planning a full music subscription service, and while it has beenstrongly criticised by independent labelsover its approach to licensing their music, it could be a powerful competitor in the future. But Schliesche takes a different angle when asked about it.“I’m getting a little frustrated with the labels and YouTube. For a long time a lot of artists have not given their music to legal streaming services like Napster, Deezer or Spotify, saying ‘we don’t earn enough’. But the same artists have promoted their videos on YouTube,” said Schliesche“The labels have more or less created the power YouTube has for music promotion, without a real need. They have been very short-sighted.”Schliesche added that he gets an insight into how teenagers are accessing digital music from watching his youngest child, aged 14, and their friends. “They are using YouTube not as a video service: they use it to listen to music, and as a stream ripper to convert it to MP3s,” he said.“The majority of the young audience is doing this on a very high frequency. If we now look forward at YouTube entering the streaming market, it’s some kind of a threat because of high user numbers, but in my mind, a lot of those users made a very explicit decision to use YouTube because it’s free, and because they can easily translate it to MP3s.”In other words, he thinks YouTube may struggle to persuade large swathes of its keenest users – teenagers – to start paying for a music subscription option. “Selling into this group of users a new subscription service? Now that’s a challenge! Maybe more of a challenge for YouTube and Google than for the rest of us,” he said.Schliesche also has strong views on a defining question for streaming music in 2014: how much (or how little) money musicians – including songwriters – make from streams of their work, via the royalties paid to labels, publishers and collecting societies by the streaming services.A number of prominent artists – Thom Yorke and David Byrne being two of the most high-profile – have spoken out publicly about their distrust of the model:Yorke&apos;s famous &quot;last desperate fart of a dying corpse&quot; broadsideat Spotify, andByrne&apos;s wider concerns about streaming&apos;s ability to fund creators of all kinds. Byrne alsoreturned to the subject in a recent interview with Billboard.The Napster view? &quot;It’s definitely getting better. If you see the amount of paid subscribers, globally we are somewhere close to 20-30m, and the money which is distributed to artists is getting bigger and bigger,” said Schliesche.However, he also suggested that there needs to be more discussion within the music industry about the revenue share being paid out in royalties by streaming music services – usually around 70% of their income.Despite the heated debate about artist payouts being too low, Schliesche believes that the streaming services should perhaps be keeping a greater share of the money they make.“The whole licensing model is built in a way that the licence owners – labels and publishers – say that ‘the customer is paying €10 a month just for music, and out of that €10, we want to have a defined share,” he said.“Yes, the customer is paying for music, but not every cent is for music. A certain amount is for convenience, recommendations, discovery, ease of use… something we as Rhapsody/Napster and others have to put a significant amount of money into research and development to keep our services up to speed and innovate.”It&apos;s a risky argument to make: Rhapsody and Napster&apos;s rivals may share these views, but they don&apos;t tend to talk about them in public, for fear of another backlash from musicians. But Schliesche would like to see more debate on this score.“Is it really fair to say that the customer is paying 10 Euros only for music? Should the music industry admit that there is a certain value that the music services provide as well, so either the share for labels is smaller, or we can keep more margin? Then we can continue to invest in marketing and innovation,” he said.“I would like to see the whole discussion going down that little-bit different route. It’s funny, when you find the music industry globally shouting for respect for intellectual property, but at the same time they do not seem to value innovation on their partners’ side. It has to become a partnership on a more fair level.”In the meantime, Rhapsody and Napster are focusing on more growth in their paid subscribers, seemingly with no plans to add a Spotify or Deezer-style free version – supported by advertising – in the near future.“We do not strongly believe in this kind of ad-funded model. If you look at the size of Spotify, they have become really big. But if you look at their financial statements for their last two years, they have lost around 90m Euros,” he said.“Do I see this as proof that ad-funded music is working? No, I do not! Is it proven that ad-funded music is sustainable? I would say no, not at this point in time. Maybe Spotify could do it this year or next, but we will see.”•Five big challenges looming for Spotify and streaming music
For a short period on Monday morning, users of taxi firm 2.0 Uber were able to see their passenger rating, the company&apos;s internal ranking of how good a customer you are.The coderAaron Landy discoveredthat by pasting a short chunk of code into their browser, any Uber customer could find out the rating they had been assigned. Landy himself scored 4.6 out of 5.Uber rapidly fixed the hole, but not before the ability to check passenger ratings had gone viral on social media. For some, that meant sharing their their passenger ratings, commiserating over low scores and congratulating each other on high ones. For others, it was the first introduction to the fact that their drivers were reviewing them.The concept seems at first like a novelty, an shining example of our data-driven times. The same arguments that Uber makes for letting passengers rate drivers apply in reverse, after all: more information improves the automatic matching of passengers to drivers, which should improve service for all. The company itself tells the Guardian that &quot;feedback is a two way street at Uber, to ensure a good service for both our riders and drivers alike.&quot;But some worry that the concept of rating passengers could have pernicious effects. Parker Higgins, an activist for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, is one.&quot;Passenger ratings like the ones Uber has exposed raise two kinds of concerns,&quot; Higgins, speaking in a personal capacity, told the Guardian. &quot;First, that opaque and inaccessible metrics don&apos;t allow for recourse or even explanation; and second that driver ratings aren&apos;t very consistent or reliable raw material for those metrics.&quot;&quot;You hear stories from people who missed a pickup because of buggy notifications, for example, and those people all of a sudden just can&apos;t catch a cab. Any kind of technical error can skew the ratings, but because they&apos;re invisible they&apos;re also treated as infallible.&quot;Users have been able to find out their passenger ratings through back channels since the concept was introduced, most commonly by simply asking their driver, who is shown the passenger rating before they accept the fare. That means that some have already been able to identify the source of problems:@xorwas told by a driver that my rating was &quot;low,&quot; turns out it was due to buggy android app—cars would arrive without any notifications.&mdash; elizabeth stark (@starkness)July 28, 2014But for Higgins, there&apos;s a more fundamental question at stake.&quot;When you condition catching a cab on how drivers rate passengers, you run the risk of amplifying human biases.&quot;We may think it&apos;s OK for a rude or inconsiderate passenger to get low ratings, but what is the effect on people who speak with an accent, or people who have been drinking, or get picked up or dropped off outside a gay bar, or pregnant or nursing women?&quot;Passengers don&apos;t know if drivers are trained to rate consistently or whether those ratings get audited or normalized in some way.&quot;Uber, speaking before Landy publicised his method for discovering passenger ratings, says that the company doesn&apos;t blacklist customers based on their rating. Instead, they say, &quot;the ratings exist to ensure that our customers get the high service quality we expect; and that our partners can be sure of a safe and pleasant working environment.&quot;Unlike driver ratings, which are part of a system that ensures that only high-rated drivers can get work, passenger ratings are an internal measure, so &quot;there&apos;s no threshold&quot; at which they stop being accepted for rides. &quot;It&apos;s only used in the case of a serious claim being made, when it provides one more data point in understanding the claim.&quot; The firm says there are only two rare reasons customers are taken off the platform: &quot;either our security system picks up concerns around fraud or non-payment; or in the case of a very serious complaint, which would be handled on a case by case basis.&quot;The company was also keen to emphasise the diversity of their drivers, saying that &quot;Our drivers are from a diverse mixture of backgrounds, we have a zero tolerance response to racism or any other form of discrimination in either direction.&quot; The firm can&apos;t directly confirm whether or not there is bias in the ratings customers receive, because it doesn&apos;t have the demographic information necessary to check, but it says that &quot;there is no problem.&quot;&quot;We use the data to ensure both high service levels, and to ensure passenger and driver safety and security, so we would be able to spot a service level issue that needs fixing rapidly and take action if it were to develop.&quot;Anecdotally, Uber&apos;s system of passenger ranking is a good deal better than the outright discrimination that came before. From Danny Glover&apos;s1999 claimagainst New York City taxis for racial discrimination, through to the head of New York state&apos;s taxi driver federationencouraging the same in 2010, in practical terms, efforts to pick and choose customers have typically resulted in racist outcomes, butwriter Latoya Peterson saysthat Uber seems to be breaking that connection.&quot;Most analysis of Uber’s costs and benefits leave out one huge piece of the appeal: the premium car service removes the racism factor when you need a ride,&quot; she wrote in 2012.For Higgins, that hope is justified – but the rankings of Uber still need to be examined carefully. &quot;Tech like Uber could be helping to erase discrimination in transportation, but if it&apos;s not done thoughtfully it could just as easily entrench it much further.&quot;Boris Johnson says Uber ban in London would be &apos;difficult&apos;
