A handful of Londoners in some of the capital’s busiest districts unwittingly agreed to give up their eldest child, during an experiment exploring the dangers of public Wi-Fi use.The experiment, which was backed by European law enforcement agency Europol, involved a group of security researchers setting up a Wi-Fi hotspot in June.When people connected to the hotspot, the terms and conditions they were asked to sign up to included a “Herod clause” promising free Wi-Fi but only if “the recipient agreed to assign their first born child to us for the duration of eternity”. Six people signed up.F-Secure, the security firm that sponsored the experiment, has confirmed that it won’t be enforcing the clause.“We have yet to enforce our rights under the terms and conditions but, as this is an experiment, we will be returning the children to their parents,” wrote the Finnish company in its report.“Our legal advisor Mark Deem points out that – while terms and conditions are legally binding – it is contrary to public policy to sell children in return for free services, so the clause would not be enforceable in a court of law.”Ultimately, the research, organised by the Cyber Security Research Institute, sought to highlight public unawareness of serious security issues concomitant with Wi-Fi usage.The experiment used a mobile hotspot device built for less than £160 by German ethical-hacking company SySS using a Raspberry Pi computer, a battery pack and Wi-Fi aerial, all held together with elastic bands.The device “could have been easily concealed in a woman’s handbag and could be deployed in seconds,” claimed the report. It was first deployed in Cafe Brera in Canada Square, in the heart of Canary Wharf, and later just outside the Queen Elizabeth Centre near the Houses of Parliament.After the initial Herod clause experiment, the research continued with the terms and conditions removed. In Westminster, 33 devices connected to the hotspot, with researchers startled to find that the popular POP3 email protocol revealed passwords in plain text when used over Wi-Fi.This vulnerability dates back 13 years to 2001, showing how little effort has been put into fixing a potentially critical issue. If the researchers had been malicious, they could have easily siphoned off critical data like usernames and passwords and logged into people’s accounts.“The authentication happens in plain text in some old protocols,” F-Secure’s Sean Sullivan told the Guardian. “You could probably snare a lot of people using email… you could do more to refine [an attack] to capture more people’s mail.”But more mundane data can also be useful for hackers. Even when they aren’t connected to a hotspot, devices on average reveal the last 19 access points they hooked up to, the study found.“It‘s a particularly disturbing development as recent research has shown that individuals can be accurately identified by using just the last four access points where they have logged on,” F-Secure’s report read.Other metadata, such as websites people have visited or their device ID, would also prove useful to criminal or government spies hoping to piece together a fuller picture of targets.The report concluded that there needs to be much more education around the use of public Wi-Fi, especially hotspots that are of unknown origin. F-Secure is also calling for more transparency from the telecoms industry.Currently, users are suffering because of “collusion between different branches of the industry”, which has sacrificed security for the sake of usability, the researchers claimed.“People haven’t had anything to compare it to to wrap their head around,” Sullivan added. “People are thinking of Wi-Fi as a place as opposed to an activity... You don’t do unprotected Wi-Fi at home, why are you doing it in public?”Sullivan advises users run a Virtual Private Networking (VPN) software product, which will encrypt the data being sent to and from their device.Turning Wi-Fi off when in public or when around untrusted hotspots can also be helpful wherever and whenever possible. Deleting old and known networks broadcasted by the device can help protect from metadata snoops too.•Animal hackers: War Kitteh sniffs out insecure Wi-fi networks
Microsoft; Xbox 360/Xbox One (version tested); £45; 3+Forza Horizon has moved. The motoring festival that forms the focal point of this vast open racer has abandoned its original Colorado home, turning up instead on the Mediterranean coast.Gone are the first game’s abrasive hipster bros; tamed are the obnoxious cutscenes that suffocated you with faux-cool lingo whenever you weren’t at the wheel. Sure, there is now a handful of rich 20-somethings racking up their insurance claims because, heck, Daddy can afford it, but this time they want you to be part of the fun rather than running you off the road like B-movie villains. They also stay out of the way for the majority of the game. Thank goodness.It feels like Horizon 2 has matured significantly, then, but it’s still strictly iterative. There was plenty to love in developer Playground Games’ 2012 debut and it’s all back – just in more generous helpings. The move to Europe brings a much larger playspace, not only in physical dimensions – the map spans a condensed array of French and Italian cities complete with rolling fields, cliffside roads and long tunnels – but also in the spaces in between roads. The countryside is now open, allowing mad dashes through crops, fences and shrubbery.The shiningWith seemingly endless automotive freedom on and off road, the presentation takes a minor hit: there are noticeable texture issues on the Xbox One. There’s also little distinction in the environments themselves – while Horizon’s Colorado felt like a range of hyper distinct regions packed into one space, Horizon 2’s Europe feels more geographically authentic but more samey because of it.Still, the 200 or so cars are shiny enough to make even the most apathetic magpie perk up and pay attention – there’s a gorgeous sheen to everything. Plus, the new weather effects and day/night cycle add compelling visual diversity to long drives.It all makes for wonderful racing. No, wonderfuldriving.That distinction is important in Horizon 2, because so much of the fun comes outside of races. The structure of the campaign is similar to the first game, but a couple of changes have shifted the way you progress. You still work through a mishmash of different events to progress to the next wristband level, but this time you travel between hub areas that add their own new events into the mix. To ascend to the next level you go on a Road Trip – a lengthy drive from one area to the next, through day and night, rain or shine.The trips are some of the highlights of Horizon 2, and they give context to aimless cruises through the Italian and French hills. Reliving them at your leisure is just part of the extracurricular fun, and driving from point-to-point is always exhilarating – you’ll never want to fast travel (i.e. skip long sections using the map screen), despite having the option.Structure and experienceEvents are tied to car types – super cars, muscle cars, SUVs and the like – and it only takes around 15 championships to reach the final stage of the game. However, with almost 170 championships including just under 700 events, there’s a hell of a lot to do even after you’ve reached the finale – and it’s all enjoyable if repetitive by nature.Earning XP has also changed, this time referring to a much more fleshed out skill-based system that rewards you with driver points for drifting, near misses, drafting, getting big air and more. As you go you’ll increase your overall level, add perks to an arbitrary progress tree and spin the Wheelspin, a random lucky dip available whenever you level up. This nets random rewards like credits or perhaps even a free ride. If there’s one flaw in the system it’s that the game makes progression feel slower with how it dishes out cars, even if you’re technically leveling up faster by earning kudos points.Events like the plane chases from the original game have received tweaks to make the option even more unbelievable, this time featuring a barrage of stunt jets barrel rolling above your head with multicoloured vapour trails billowing out the back while you hurtle towards the finish line. There are also more set piece treats along the way, but they’re best left for you to discover on your own.The new cross-country races add hilarity to the game’s racing, but they never quite hit the mark. Forza’s handling feels near flawless on road, but stray onto the mud and dirt and it feels floaty and difficult to control. This is exacerbated by the event design itself, which requires precise control to navigate through unforgivably narrow checkpoint spaces. It’s often a case of trial and error with the rewind button, which becomes annoying when your AI opponents run into no trouble at all while snaking through each course.The fun of it allStill, that’s hardly a real issue as there’s so much else to keep you occupied while you’re racing around the riviera. The new Bucket List challenges are excellent fun and a regular highlight, taking standard event challenges like time trials, near miss targets and more, and giving you a gorgeous car that you probably haven’t accrued the points to buy yet. It’s both a taster of the rides to come and a quick way to experience something off the beaten path as you drive between main events.As a festival of speed, Forza Horizon 2 succeeds in almost every way. With such a strong offering of cars and events, and a gorgeous environment that feels more like a holiday destination than a game location, there’s strength and beauty in Playground Games’ second lap. On top, there’s a stronger multiplayer offering, complete with whole Road Trip events to share with your friends, which take advantage of the game’s spaciousness, the day/night cycle and dynamic weather additions. Add in the ability to start clubs and race socially and you have some real longevity here (even if forthcoming titles like DriveClub and The Crew promise a much more expansive social structure).The game’s only issues are minor – a reliance on a race discipline it doesn’t quite master, and the fact that it really only builds on what we knew from the first game without ever striking out too far on its own. The Horizon offshoot has unshackled the Forza franchise, letting it run free into the wild, and this new adventure ensures that we don’t take that freedom for granted. Everything is bigger and better, everything is designed to make damn well sure that we’re having fun.
Mobile makes computing look easy; not only easy but sexy too. From point-to-point directions to play-by-play sports action, our screens light up at just the right moment to keep us in the know. In reality, however, mobile devices are just an endpoint. They are powerful, but nowhere near powerful enough to perform the processing required for all but the most basic operations.And just as professional athletes make their sport look easy, in reality these super stars actually have an entire team behind them that propels them to shine at just the right moment. For mobile, this powerful teammate is the cloud. It is precisely in sports where mobile, and its massive computing power teammate, the cloud, shine their brightest.The cloud, with its distributed and scalable computing model is the brains and brawn behind the mobile mod. The cloud is a critical component for exciting mobile experiences. It is the cloud in conjunction with mobile that is able to meet the demand of that ever growing number of mobile devices which now exceeds the population of the planet.Sports venues and teams are leveraging cloud and mobile to jump ahead of enterprises in their pursuit of pushing the frontier at the end-user mobile experience. Business can find a lot to learn from the success of the power couple of cloud and mobile in sports.First, sports teams are leveraging the power of the cloud and mobile to extend existing services.The NBA is using the cloud to deliver statistics, from the most recent games all the way back to the first game played in 1946. This just wasn’t possible before mobile and the cloud when the computing power of the average user was isolated to the PC on her desk. But fans today can use their mobile device to answer in an instant questions like, who is the bigger basketball star, Michael Jordan or Lebron James?Businesses too should first look for systems and processes that would benefit from the computing power of the cloud to improve existing capabilities. They should look for present processes that are slow or could be enhanced through a more dynamic distribution platform. This could mean improving the systems and services for customers as well as internal employees.Sport teams are also using mobile and the cloud to expand their fan base and loyalty in novel ways. From fan analytics to better understanding their customer, to social and sentiment analysis, to precision and contextual marketingFor example, to call on the NBA again, they aretesting a precision marketing service, from mobile carrier Verizon, to present promotions that associate a fan’s location, demographic data, and nearby businesses such as fast food establishments. These establishments have seen an average increase of 8.4% in sales following a promotional game. What used to only be actionable well after the fact is now actionable in real-time because of the compute power of the cloud delivered directly to fans mobile devices.Businesses too should be looking for ways to expand their existing sales and partner networks by using the power of the cloud. They should look for ways to combine ancillary revenue opportunities to further bring value to their clients. Businesses should be asking where can we leverage our customer base, customer data, partner network, and combine that into a compelling proposition that can be computed in the cloud and delivered as a value added service to existing and potential clients.The power of cloud and mobile isn’t just for improving client services and offerings. It is being used in sports for looking at internal operations as well. Teams are asking, what could make us a better, stronger team? These teams have come to rely on analytics powered by the cloud and mobile as much as they do a coach or star player.Professional sports organization are betting big too. From recruiting, to scouting, to salary cap management, to player analytics, sport teams are voraciously consuming the cloud and mobile to find that edge against the competition. The NHL usesanalytics to analyze in real time the effectiveness of a team’s style of play. The NFL usesanalytics powered by the cloud to help select draft picks. Teams are turning to the cloud via mobile on almost a play-by-play basis for next step insight.Many sports teams are making the analytics department one of the most crucial members of the team. They have come to see that the success of their season depends on it. Why then are many business, with just as much on the line, not taking advantage of the same capabilities?Like sports, business should be turning the power of the cloud on themselves to find efficiencies, advantages, weakness, and room for improvement. They should break down their processes and actions into distinct pieces to find an advantage. Most importantly, they should use mobile to get this data into the hands of the right people at the right time to leverage it to the fullest.Sport teams have demonstrated that the cloud and mobile can be a powerful ally. Those who wield it win, those who don’t stand there wondering why. Is your business positioned to win or wonder? Is actionable data in the hands of those who need it the most when they need it? The cloud and mobile are on your team – have you put them in the game?Benjamin Robbins is a co-founder at Palador, a mobile consultancy located in Seattle, WA. He can be followed on Twitter @PaladorBenjamin.TheDriving innovation hubis funded by HP. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out morehere.
Kids these days, eh? They’re lazy and devoid of imagination. They take no interest in learning, have short attention spans and maintain zero respect for their elders. All they do is play video games which encourage aggression, antisocial behaviour and obesity.Never Alone, a new co-operative puzzle platformer based on native Alaskan myths and stories, is about to blow this particular tired but frequent narrative apart.The title, which is released on 18 November, is released byUpper One Games, the world’s first indigenous-owned video game company, which was established byCook Intel Tribal Council(CITC), a tribal nonprofit organisation based in Anchorage, Alaska.The story of how Upper One Games came to be is almost as exciting and inspiring as the stories represented in its debut title.CITC serves the 12,000 strong Alaskan native population, helping to tackle issues as wide-ranging as unemployment, drug and alcohol addiction, youth engagement and education. The foundation is funded by the US government, but several years ago CITC realised that to continue its work it would also have to find income from elsewhere.“The board said: ‘we want you to make an investment, we want you to develop a double bottom line company, making money first and making impact second’,” CITC’s president and CEO Gloria O’Neill tells me.“So, we looked at everything from traditional real estate to funeral homes. We also wanted to be bold and be courageous, so we started thinking about how CITC could become more progressive.“How could we use technology? And we asked ourselves at the time, what is the greatest asset of our people? And we said, our culture and our stories.”It was one thing, however, for CITC to identify that the native Alaskan community’s strongest asset was its long history of storytelling. But how to turn that in to something that made money to help support the community in the future, while also sharing it with others?The answer, CITC decided, was to build video games.A screenshot of Nuna and Fox from Never Alone.Photograph: Upper One GamesThe result is Never Alone, or Kisima Inŋitchuŋa, to give it its native title. A two person cooperative puzzle platformer, Never Alone is based around Kunuuksaayuka, a traditionalIñupiattale in which a girl fights against a great blizzard which threatens the community’s survival.In Never Alone’s eight-chapter version, the young girl, Nuna, is helped by her companion, an impossibly cute arctic fox. One of the game’s key themes is friendship – in particular, cooperation and codependency. To succeed in the game, Nuna and fox must work together, utilising their different skill sets.Nuna, I learned when testing the game, is stronger, can climb and carry things. Fox is slight and quick, and can squeeze into smaller spaces. A gamer can choose to switch between characters, or two players can co-play.“The dream would be that parents play with their children”, says Alan Gershenfeld, founder and CEO ofE-Line Media, the company which published the game.“The dialogue around the game is precious. That’s very important, in terms of inter-generational co-viewing and co-playing.Sesame Workshophave done research that says the co-viewing around the television is where the real literacy and education happens.“Why not co-play? It’s a two player. The themes of interdependency, innovation, survival are infused throughout the whole game.”CITC approached Gershenfeld’s E-Line media because “their values and long term goals aligned” – plus their team was willing to visit Barrow, Alaska in the deep winter.Gershenfeld, who started as head of creative affairs atActivision, is a chairman ofGames for Change, a nonprofit which brings together social entrepreneurs, government agencies and academic researchers for social change and education purposes. CITC’s proposed game appealed to him and his business partner, Sean Vesce, at E-line.“We had looked at how indigenous were represented in media. Films likeWhale Rider, for instance”, says Gershenfeld.But in video games? “A lot of exaggeration, co-opting, sampling, but nothing that was the real voice with the involvement of an indigenous community.”Minnie Gray, the daughter of Robert Cleveland plays Never Alone with E-Line’s Sean Vesce.Photograph: E-Line Media/Upper One GamesIshmael Hope, a native Alaskan writer and storyteller, was brought on board to script the game, ensuring its authenticity in sharing theIñupiatculture and history.“Robert Cleveland [who wrote Kunuuksaayuka] was clearly one of the greatest storytellers ever”, he explains. “We have all read the Odyssey or the Iliad or Beowulf and written literature, we see how imaginative Shakespeare or Thomas Middleton could be.“But there are elders who tell stories where their images evoke the range of human experience, and with native stories; they illuminate the land and the surroundings around them.”It was important, says O’Neill, to present the community as truthfully as possible, but also the landscape and the environment.To this end, Never Alone looks stunning. Despite being set in a blizzard, the game looks warm and inviting. The detail in the weather and terrain is stunning – especially in the depiction of King Island, a rock island in the Bering sea which has been abandoned, but has become host to a returning community. The game’s Russian art director, Dima Veryovka, was once a classical artist. Light plays on the snow like a Turner painting.Artwork from Never Alone. Photograph: Upper One GamesPhotograph: Upper One GamesBut as well being incredibly handsome; Never Alone isfun. It even has a level set inside a whale. Evoking the game play of previous popular platform puzzlers such as Mario Brothers orLimbo. The fun element is important in making a game which also aims to be educational.“It’s a hard play balance challenge to create a game that will appeal across generations and across genders. Very few games have done that. So we’ll find out when the game comes out, but we’ve really aspired to make this a game that is accessible to anybody who wants to lean forward and play.“If you are kind of a newbie gamer, we encourage you to play it in a two player mode with someone who is more experienced”, says Gershenfeld.One of the loveliest things about Never Alone is its unlocks, which consist of 24 short educational films about Alaskan culture.“We shot 40 hours of footage of elders and storytellers that provide context around the game. These films reference something you are experiencing in the game, like bola – a traditional weapon you get in the game, or something to do with the environment and the culture”, explains O’Neill.One film, “Silla Has a Soul”, explores the atmosphere and weather, while another features Hope’s mother, explaining a traditional Iñupiat tale revolving around the Northern Lights.The Northern Lights, as represented in Never Alone.Photograph: Upper One GamesHope explains: “My mum always told me that the Northern Lights, if you’re not careful, could come down from the sky and grab your head and take it up into the sky and play football with it.”“We were made to come inside when the Northern Lights came out, or made to put our hoods on. It was a way of keeping us safe”, adds O’Neill.Never Alone will be released at first in ten different languages and on PS4, Xbox One and PC, with more platforms to come in the Spring. But with the creation of Upper One Games, it won’t be the first and last title to explore and share indigenous culture.CITC and E-Line worked together so well, that they have since merged their management structures.“People think video games have disconnected youth from their heritage, from their storytelling and their culture. But why not use this incredibly powerful medium to fire imagination and reconnect youth with other cultures, with their own cultures and with their elders?” asks Gershenfeld.“This is the start of a worldwide games movement.”•The 10 most interesting new games at Gamescon 2014
One of 10 executives, academics and regulators on Google’sadvisory councilfor ethics, Luciano Floridi explains the outcome of the third public meeting inParison 25 September.During the first two consultationsthe council mostly discussed the legal and ethical framework needed to address the consequences of the ruling by the European court of justice (ECJ) againstGoogleregarding the removal of links to personal information that remains legally available online.In Paris, some of the most valuable contributions concerned procedural matters. I welcomed this more pragmatic turn - it is what the current debate needs most.Forget for a moment academic ruminations on fundamental human rights and their balance or complementarity. Google has already received more than 135,000 requests to remove links to approximately 475,000 urls, and behind these numbers lie actual lives and real people. Pressing decisions concerning them need to be taken. What is the best way of proceeding?During the meeting at least one point emerged quite clearly: publishers would like to be involved in the decisional process, and as early as possible.Before Google decides to de-link some information published byLe Monde, for example, it should consult the newspaper to check whether the removal of the link clashes against the freedom of the press or other rights. To put it more technically: notification should be ex ante. It seems a sensible idea, and most people agreed upon it. However, having crossed this particular bridge, we stumbled upon a new problem.Suppose that the notification has been discussed and the link has been removed, should the public be informed about such removal? It may seem a mere technicality, but unpack it and a significant difficulty surfaces.Currently, if you search for “Mario Costeja”, you are informed that “Some results may have been removed under data protection law in Europe.”The public notification seems similar to the process search engines use when asked to remove content that infringes copyright laws. Yet publicising the fact that some information about someone has been de-linked is problematic. After all, being told that an individual has gone through the effort of asking Google to remove a link to some personal information may raise some serious suspicions, which may damage that individual as much as, and perhaps even more than, the original information itself.And there is an ironic twist: if information about a removed link is made public, it can beexploited to create servicesthat can re-link the de-linked material. Above all, it becomes a tempting invitation to look for the same personal information using a search engine that is not based in Europe, such as google.com.Those who dislike the previous solution do not enjoy a more palatable alternative. Suppose you are not told that a search page you are viewing has had some links removed. This appears to be more in line with the spirit of the ECJ’s ruling and the protection of privacy, but the problem is that now you are truly kept in the dark.Not only you donotget the link to the information you were looking for, you are not even been told that you are not getting it. In mathematical logic this is called negation by failure: if you do not obtain some information, you assume that the information in question is not there to be obtained in the first place. A bit like a fisherman assuming that if he fails to catch any fish then there is no fish in the lake.This starts smelling very badly, in terms of freedom of information. If you are paranoid, you will be chronically suspicious about what links you are obtaining any time you run a search about someone. So you may end up using google.com anyway.There is no easy solution because the ECJ’s decision currently applies only to search engines operating in Europe. No coordination among search engines is envisaged at the moment, either within Europe or internationally. Despite avery recent ruling in France, it still seems that what happens in Europe stays in Europe. This is known as the territoriality issue and we only began to discuss it in Paris. I suspect it will part of the next debate when we meet again in Warsaw.• Luciano Floridi is director of research, and professor of philosophy and ethics of information, at theOxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford. He is a member of Google Advisory Council on theRight to be Forgotten. His last book isThe Fourth Revolution: How the Infosphere is Reshaping Human Reality (Oxford University Press, 2014)
A burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamI turned my apartment into a smart home… and all I got was bored &gt;&gt; PandoDailyJames Robinson:I guess I am better off now in some ways. My smart home toys let me know that the temperature in my home generally hovers in the late 60 degree territory during the daytime. I didn't know that before. I know now that as soon as I put a white locator beacon on my key ring, Murphy's Law means that I will always find my keys within three seconds of looking for them, for now and forever more. I can safely conclude that a moisture sensor in my home is meaningless to me because I've lived my life weighed down with very little fear that my home will flood.The concept of the smart home has problems. I'm a cynic.Breakthrough in LED construction increases efficiency by 57 percentThis latest work was the culmination of previous research by Chou and his team where they first developed the PlaCSH structure to be used on solar cells to more efficiently focus incoming light. This increased the absorption to as high as 96% of the solar energy being received by the photovoltaic cell, which resulted in an increased efficiency of 175%. As such, the team figured that if such a device was so efficient at absorbing light then, logically, it could also be used for light extraction as well."From a view point of physics, a good light absorber, which we had for the solar cells, should also be a good light radiator," Professor Chou said. "We wanted to experimentally demonstrate this is true in visible light range, and then use it to solve the key challenges in LEDs and displays. It is so flexible and ductile that it can be weaved into a cloth."The team also claims that the PlaCSH organic LEDs are exceptionally cheap to make as they are made using a system called "nanoimprint," a technology Professor Chou invented to make nanostructures in a similar way to a printing press produces newspapers.PlaCSH = plasmonic cavity with subwavelength hole-array, but you knew that.Cyber attack on Japan Airlines impacts up to 750,000 &gt;&gt; SC MagazineA phishing attack may have resulted in the theft of personal information belonging to customers of Japan Airlines's frequent flier club.The data compromised includes names, addresses, genders and places of work of anywhere between 110,000 and 750,000 members of the program, according to the Japan Times.Following an investigation – which found that 23 computers contained malware – the airline determined that no credit card or financial information was impacted by the breach.Just personal information. So that's.. OK?On the future of Apple and Google &gt;&gt; steve cheneyPeople expect value from new categories like wearables and sensor networks overnight. But the reality is that the pieces need to work harmoniously, tied together by software. And only after the infrastructure is in place can developers go and create cool new things. Wearables and sensors and connected devices are interesting – but much more so when tied together with killer apps. And platform history tells us that only after infrastructure is laid do developers write software. This was even true for the internet back in the 90's. It wasn't until the web browser and email and other killer apps came along that you really understood the value of the internet, even though it had connected people years earlier.These system wide network effects in mobile, together with new classes of connected devices, are helping close the divide between the digital world and the physical world. It will continue to fall away gradually as we mature technologically. In five years, it's likely that the notion of an app won't exist like it does today.iPhone 6 and 6 Plus bend test &gt;&gt; Consumer Reports NewsApple applies 25 kilograms (slightly more than 55 pounds) of force to an iPhone 6 Plus to test flex. What does 55 pounds mean in context? Using our Instron, we found that it's approximately the force required to break three pencils.Consumer Reports' tests pushed the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus much further than 55 pounds. We started light, applying 10 pounds of force for 30 seconds, then releasing the force. Then we increased the force in 10-pound increments, noted when the phones first started to deform (that's what our engineers call it) and stopped the test for each phone when we saw the screen come loose from the case.The results: all the phones we tested showed themselves to be pretty tough. The iPhone 6 Plus, the more robust of the new iPhones in our testing, started to deform when we reached 90 pounds of force, and came apart with 110 pounds of force. With those numbers, it slightly outperformed the HTC One (which is largely regarded as a sturdy, solid phone), as well as the smaller iPhone 6, yet underperformed some other smart phones.Throughout most of our test, the LG G3 and Samsung Galaxy Note 3 bent, then recovered completely from each step up in force. But at 130 pounds, the case of the G3 fractured. At 150 pounds of force, the Note 3's screen splintered and it stopped working.The iPhone 6 turns out to be weaker under this test than the 6 Plus. And slightly stronger than the this year's HTC One M8. The Galaxy Note 3 and iPhone 5S arereallystrong.Top Gear Tigers and Bingo Boilers: farewell then, Phones4U &gt;&gt; The RegisterAndrew Orlowski got hold of - and can finally publish - an internet Phones4U document:As a fond farewell to Phones4U then, this is the way it saw its customers. As far as Phones4U was concerned, the UK was inhabited by such tribes as the iPod Babes, Top Gear Tigers, and Bingo Boilers.Yes, it's a sustained insult by a company to its potential customers - with potentially Ratneresque consequences had it ever got out. But these stereotypes also allowed a 16 year old with no prior retail experience in a phone shop to sell phones successfully - without wasting the punter's time on something that didn't really suit them. And that's successful salesmanship: everyone was happy.The UK has changed, and the phone market has changed enormously in nine years. The prepay/postpay split has reversed. There's much less diversity than before. But I wonder how many of the identifiers are still true? "I do well for myself &amp; don't mind telling you! (The "i" on the back of my car is crucial to me!)", "says" Top Gear Tiger. And maybe he still does.Anyway, without further ado, here are the people of Britain as seen through the 2005 lens of the Phones4U marketing departmentWhich one are you?Old technopanic in new iBottles &gt;&gt; Cato @ LibertyJulian Sanchez:Gather around young'uns: Back in the antediluvean early 90s, when the digital world was young, a motley group of technologists and privacy advocates fought what are now, somewhat melodramatically, known as the Crypto Wars. There were many distinct battlefields, but the overarching question over which the Crypto Wars were fought was this: Would ordinary citizens be free to protect their communications and private files using strong, truly secure cryptography, or would governments seek to force programmers and computer makers to build in backdoors that would enable any scheme of encryption to be broken by the authorities?Sanchez's (long) post is an excellent response to all the concerns about smartphones having better default security than PCs. Why don't PCs have default security as good as smartphones?How Apple's business model burned Samsung &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsTim Bajarin (who is the older Bajarin - consulted with Diamond Multimedia about MP3 players and Microsoft about tablets in 1991):To say there was pent up demand for an iPhone with larger screens would be an understatement. One of the things I found out when talking to people waiting in lines for the new iPhones at Apple Stores is many of those who bought the Samsung Note 3 did so because it was the only one out there with this size screen. But now that Apple had one with basically the same size screen, they were going to switch to Apple. I also talked with someone familiar with Samsung's own research on what prompted people to buy a Note 3, thinking it might be the pen or the larger screen. Interestingly, what they found is that many people, especially in Asia, believe bigger is better and that the Galaxy Note in their mind was a premium product. Now that Apple has one of their own, it too will be viewed as a premium product in all of these markets and there is no doubt Apple is going to capitalize on this fact in a big way.Apple's entering the phablet space with a premium competitor is going to have a major impact on Samsung's fortunes."Talking to people and finding out their motivitions" is such a foreign concept to many.Yahoo to shut down another batch of products as activist investor pushes for AOL acquisition - TechSpotToday spells the beginning of the end for another batch of Yahoo products as investors put more pressure on the company to merge with AOL. Jay Rossiter, SVP of Yahoo's cloud platform group, revealed in aTumblr postthat the Internet pioneer will be closing down Yahoo Education, Qwiki and Directory in the coming weeks and months.Oh, not Qwiki - it's so useful for.. what does it do?BlackBerry earnings: progress on several fronts &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson:BlackBerry's results look horrible on the face of them. It's losing money, it's shrinking, it's hardly selling any devices, and so on and so forth. If you compare them to almost any other handset vendor out there, they come off looking pretty bad. But looking at BlackBerry as just another handset vendor is making the very mistake I warned against inmy post earlier in the week. BlackBerry's future involves devices, to be sure, but it goes well beyond them.December 2013: one-in-four smartphone owners don't use a case &gt;&gt; npd.comDecember 2013:While a large portion of smartphone owners do use a case to protect their smartphone, one-in-four go case-less, according to The NPD Group's recentSmartphone Case Segmentation Study. Among this group, almost 70% own an Android phone while just 20% are using an iPhone.One-in-three Android owners who don't have a case said it's because they weren't worried about dropping their phone. A third of iPhone owners who do not use a case say a case would add too much bulk to the design of their phone.22% of iPhone owners then were unworried about dropping their phone (v 32% Android owners). In all, 87% of iPhone owners used a case; for Android the figure was 66%.Crisis in China: Samsung fell to #4 smartphone maker in China in August &gt;&gt; BusinessKoreaChinese smartphone vendors are increasing their global market share at an alarming rate.According to sources in the financial investment industry on 24 September, four Chinese companies – Lenovo, Huawei, Xiaomi Tech, and ZTE – made up 25% of the global smartphone market in August, a 12% year-on-year gain, which is the highest-ever result.In particular, the upward trend of Lenovo's market share was noticeable. The Chinese Android phone manufacturer has maintained the third spot by steadily increasing its share with 7.5% in June, 8.0% in July, and 9.2% in August.On the other hand, the position of Samsung Electronics and Apple, the two prominent smartphone makers, weakened owing to Chinese firms' good performances. Last month, Samsung and Apple comprised only 33.7% of the market with Samsung at 22.3% and Apple at 11.4%. The combined market share of the two companies was 39.9% in June, hovering below 40% for the first time in 21 months. Since then, the number has further decreased, with 35.1% in July and 33.7% in August."Alarming"?Samsung: learning from the PC era &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh harks back to the 1980s and 1990s:when "good enough" PC clones entered the market, IBM's products were the first to be caught in their upmarket march. On the other hand, Microsoft and Intel, suppliers of the two most valuable components of the PC, saw a sharp uptick in their revenues and profits as downstream competition intensified.But, thanks to Lou Gerstner, IBM also found a way to recover from this decline. First, IBM refocused on their core competence to stabilize their business (selling mainframes to enterprises). Second, and more importantly, IBM de-emphasized highly competitive, commodity businesses and pivoted their business model to focus on layers of the value chain that were not over-served. Thanks to intense price competition and "good enough" products, PC penetration was skyrocketing among businesses. This created an opportunity to profit from new demand for enterprise services and systems integration.The first half of this IBM's story clearly describes Samsung's predicament today.But, he suggests, the second half suggests Samsung's path to future success.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday!
In 1984 I saved my pocket money and bought myself the Commodore 64 version of Elite.That summer I discovered something incredible. A representation of a region of the universe in which I could do whatever I wanted, whenever I wanted.The game’s sparse vector graphics, all white lines and black emptiness, managed to provide a vast explorable space inhabited by traders, pirates, bounty hunters and fearsome Thargoids. All of them seemed to be living independently throughout the game’s eight galaxies – it was up to you to decide how to fit in and conduct yourself among the throng, exploring, trading and surviving.On 5 January, 2013, Frontier Developments closed its Kickstarter funding campaign for a new title in the fabled series: Elite: Dangerous. Headed by Elite co-creator David Braben, the company managed to raise almost £1.6m. Fortunately, I’d joined 25,680 other backers just in time, and at the premium beta tier, so the chance to get back into the Elite universe was tantalisingly real, but still achingly far away.It wasn’t until 30 May 2014 that the premium beta launched and, having built a new PC specifically for playing this one game, I was back in again.For a longtime fan like me, the experience was magical. Beautiful visuals, absorbing audio and super-smooth controls and motion once again dropped me into a small ship, surrounded by an immense universe, begging to be explored, watched and tested. But this time there were other, real players out there, mixed in amongst the non-player characters, and it isn’t always easy to tell one from the other.Since then we’ve progressed through a second premium beta, and into the standard beta phase. Every update has brought in new features, opportunities, challenges and players, but the essence of what it means to be a part of the Elite universe has somehow been maintained.That’s no moon …The first dramatic improvement over the original 1980s version of Elite comes in the form of docking with, and undocking from, beautifully rendered space stations, complete with fully realised external features and dynamic, credible internal spaces complete with operational landing bays, other ships coming and going, and surface vehicles trundling around the roads that follow the inner circumference of the station. The control towers and ancillary buildings of each dock force you to stay alert until the moment you bring your ship in to touch down gently on the centre of the landing pad, when clamps grab the ship and your engines are powered down.Many of the details that could only be imagined among the 1980s wire-framed renderings are now visible in glorious, silky smooth HD imagery. It’s worlds (and decades) away from the concentric rings animation that used to serve as the visual clue that you had docked successfully. After perhaps the 100th attempt.I have to say at this point that I find flying with a stick and throttle controller (the Saitek X-52) so much better than anything else. I tried an Xbox controller at the video games Bafta awards event, and keyboard and mouse at home, but I personally found both of those inferior to a “proper” control system. You need to exercise some finesse, especially in and around stations, as docking can still be a slightly worrisome undertaking when your ship has a belly full of very expensive cargo.The process of piloting has also become a whole lot more demanding. Players now have the ability to redistribute the ship’s finite power resources to where they’re needed most, which will depend on circumstances. For example, having been dragged out of super-lightspeed travel (referred to as frame-shifting) by some low-life pirate wanting to separate you from your hard-earned cargo, you may choose to run (divert all power to engines) or fight (constantly juggle power distribution between weapons and life-support systems) or go stealthy (shut down all non-essential systems to minimise your ship’s heat, and therefore radar signature) to get the upper hand. Then there’s the opportunity to explore newtonian physics flight mode by disabling flight assist, which definitely gives you an edge during combat, but it really takes some practice to use effectively.Weapons, friends and cargoIn addition to all that are the choices for loading out your ship with various weapons that all have pros and cons – you have to figure out which configuration suits your playing style. For example, there are the ubiquitous laser choices (pulse, beam, military etc), missiles or projectile weapons. The latter are good for maintaining stealth as they have low power requirements and are hard to detect because they have minimal heat signatures, while lasers deliver more damage with successful hits. These can all be countered to some extent by selecting different classes of armour or active defences too, so there’s no one-size-fits-all weapon that’ll give anyone an unfair advantage.Another departure from, and massive improvement over, the original version is the ability to add friends and create open or private groups for online play. In this way you can explore the stars, and battle enemies, alongside a small flotilla of pals. While this is a welcome development there is still a need for some additional features before this aspect really fulfils its potential. For example, you have to know your friend’s commander name before adding them – a contacts/social search would be nice. Also, in-game comms are easily missed, especially when you’re trying hard not to crash and burn. Oh and finding your friends can be tricky, too, even if you know where they were when you launched the game. Space is big.The commodities markets are back, providing trading prices for different items on each space station, allowing you to set up profitable routes between worlds. However, in Elite: Dangerous the prices are dynamic, reacting to changes in supply and demand as traders move cargo from place to place, and unseen political forces exert their influences. This is interesting for traders as it can mean either having to explore new routes in search of higher profits, or accepting ever diminishing returns from regular haunts.Players of the original game may remember the missions that occasionally cropped up to add some variety and structure. These have also arrived in standard beta phase one and, like previous versions of Elite, they currently consist of running commodities from one place to another, bringing something back from somewhere, or taking on combat or mercenary missions, all of which pay out varying rewards, depending on difficulty. It’s familiar stuff, but these may evolve further as development progresses.Another vita feature, one that I have craved since the 80s, is a virtual reality cockpit, courtesy of the Oculus Rift 3D headset. I was able to try one out at the Bafta games event a few months ago; suddenly the cockpit surrounds you, and beyond the ship’s canopy, so does the entire universe. It is a beautiful and breathtaking experience. As you turn your head to look around the cockpit, holographic displays pop up allowing you to access most, if not all, of the ship’s essential systems and operations (after all, you can’t see your keyboard anymore!). The Oculus also completely separates your visual attention from the act of flying the ship, allowing you to independently track other craft and obstacles while flying by intuition. The effect is extraordinary.Taking stock of cash and killsSince joining the premium beta, I’ve racked up some interesting stats:14,144,603 credits earned6,201 minutes played20 deaths (I remember all of those)11 kills (and most of those)0 human kills (this is intentional)11 NPC kills5 bounties collected17 crimes committed9 attempted murders (no idea where these came from!)5 murders (unless self-defence with extreme prejudice counts?)3 thefts (ok, these I do remember - and they’re the ones I got caught for)So having invested around one hundred hours, I’ve earned over fourteen million credits, of which I currently have a shade over two million in the bank, having bought myself a nicely tricked out Cobra Mk III that I’m using to re-visit bounty hunting for a while.The road to this particular place was indeed long and winding but essentially began with alotof exploration. After that came trading. Alotof trading, and with it, a need to keep meticulous paper records of where to go and what prices to expect.Writing my own notes in this way allowed me to upgrade from a Sidewinder to a Hauler but quickly became impractical as the number of possible destinations expanded. Also, who wants to do paperwork in space? Instead, I started usingSlopey’s Best Profit Caclulatorwhich allowed me to progress more surely from the Hauler to a Cobra Mk III to a Type 6 Transporter, and then make the move back to a Cobra with a decent load-out for my bounty hunting tour. Frontier may pull the plug on this kind of unofficial add-on though as it potentially makes investigating game crashes more complex. The studio has said that it will be investigating opportunities for an official API later on so we may well see a return of this and similar tools.The future of space travelFrontier has also promised many other features that are yet to emerge. These include planetary landings, the ability to move around inside your ship, to disembark at and explore space stations, ship-to-ship docking and boarding, and support for other platforms including the Mac. Some of these may make it in to the launch version, while others are definitely slated for post-launch DLC packs.UPDATE:The 1.06 update hopefully fixed a lot of the latency issues that were introduced in 1.04, and beta 2 is imminent so it’ll be exciting to discover what new features arrive with that.For now, I will probably soon resume my quest to obtain an Anaconda, via the Type 9, before the next big wipe comes along and I start all over again.In short, this Beta version is as absorbing and time-warping as the original Elite. This time round, however, the classic exploration and trading sim will be competing against a host of other fascinating contenders, including the epic Star Citizen and the indie-flavoured No Man’s Sky. It’s a fascinating new era of discovery.See you among the stars.You can keep up with Justin Pinner’s experiences in Elite: Dangerous at hisrun-stop.netblog.David Braben on Elite, Kickstarter and Raspberry PiHow David Braben’s 1984 space game Elite inspired the Rasberry Pi
Yesterdaywe looked at how much social media interactioneach pairing for the foursomes and fourballs was getting online during day one of the Ryder Cup.European pairings outscored their US counterparts in all but one match, giving them a 7-1 lead. Would the same thing happen on day two?Paul McGinley’s team took their social score to 13 points ahead of the US team’s three. That’s even better than theirhandsome lead of 10 points to sixin the actual golf.One possible reason for this is the home team’s time zone advantage, with European supporters much more likely to be up watching the day’s early matches.The pairing with the biggest combined score was Ian Poulter and Rory McIlroy who together registered 85,538 interactions compared with the 3,569 achieved by their opponents’ (Ricky Fowler and Jimmy Walker).This article was amended on September 29. It previously suggested that Jose Maria Olazabal was the 2014 captain of the Europe team rather than Paul McGinley.
Twitter’sVine apponly launched in January 2013 but has become a powerful network of new stars attracting the attention of the TV and music industries. Its top Viners have millions of fans and draw large crowds on the increasingly popular real-world tours, where they appear withdigital stars from YouTube.It’s a far cry from Vine’s launch, when it was pitched as a way to share “little windows into the people, settings, ideas and objects that make up your life”, using up to six-second videos that would loop when watched within Vine’s app or on Twitter.Initially on iPhone only, Vine has since launched Android and Windows smartphone versions as well as a website, added video-editing features and the ability to “re-vine” clips to your own followers and started tracking “loop counts” to show how often each video has been watched.Research firm GWI estimates that 4% of British mobile internet users are using Vine’s app, although that rises to 16% for 16- to 19 year-olds. In the US, those figures stand at 9% and 25% respectively.“Every month, more than 100 million people watch Vines across the web and there are more than 1bn loops every day,” said Vine in an August blog post.This audience is creating its own stars, with the biggest Viner,Nash Grier, accumulating 9.3 million followers and more than900 million loops of his videos. By contrast,Justin Bieber,usually one of the biggest stars on social networks, is only the 57th biggest star on Vine with 2.1 million followers.“The recent explosion of Vine stars is unsurprising,” says Allan Blair, head of strategy atdigital agency Tribal Worldwide. “YouTube has been the most influential medium for teens and the wider youth audience for quite some time now. Vine is a logical extension of that but with an intensive burst perfect for the increasingly short attention span of Generation Z.”Vine’s six-second time limit on videos is seen as one of its creative strengths. “The restrictiveness of the six seconds has also been a driving force for creativity, in the same way as Twitter’s 140-character limit,” says Damian Collier, founder ofViral Spiral Group, which was one of the first multi-channel networks (MCNs) signing up Vine stars.“As a creator, I love how with the time constraint Vine really challenges my creativity,” saysVine star Amymarie Gaertner, who has more than 3.1 million followers. “With so many categories and ways to showcase users’ content, Vine encourages all users to be versatile with their creativity.”It is little wonder traditional media companies are swooping to sign up talented Viners.Musician Shawn Mendesis a good example: he signed a deal with Universal Music Group’s Island Records in June. That month, his first single sold close to 200,000 copies, while his debut EP in July topped Apple’s iTunes chart 37 minutes after being released. Independent artistJoshua Micahis another success story: he started recording “Six Second Covers” of famous songs, and now has more than 490,000 followers and 31.2 million loops of his songs.In the UK, comedian Dapper Laughs, likened to offensive dinosaur Roy Chubby Brown in theRadio Times, had a top 10 hit on iTuneswith his song Proper Moistearlier this year before striking a deal to front his own dating show on ITV2.“I believe he is the new Cilla Black,” said the show’s executive producer, Dan Baldwin, although Laughs – favoured topics: “Girls/Dates/Mates/Banter/Work/Sex/Family” – is advertising his Christmas gigs with the decidedly un-Cilla-like warning that “anything and everything goes… If easily offended please stay away”.Brands are also flocking to work with Vine’s big stars.Ford launched its Mustang car in Europe through a Vine campaigndevised by Viral Spiral, while Fanta is investing in its own #FantaForTheFunny comedy channel on Vine.“It appeals to brands because it’s a relatively low investment compared with, say, a YouTube video, with a high payoff for success,” says Pete Wood, social media director at digital marketing agency360i London. “A branded Vine is four times more likely to be shared than a branded video. The platform also has high penetration in youth culture, a notoriously tricky demographic to be relevant to.”“Actors and musicians are no longer your only bridges to reaching a highly engaged audience with your message,” adds Elise Bartlett, general manager of marketing agencyGrapeStory, which has a number of Vine stars on its books. “Brands are seeing the value in working with social media celebrities while they are gaining visibility and acclaim, as it tells their younger consumers that the brands understand their tastes as well as the up-and-coming celebrities who are important to them.”Vine has had its share of controversies. Grier was recently accused of homophobia after posting a clip in which he shouted the insult “Fag!”. The 16-year-old has since apologised for being “young, ignorant, stupid and in a bad place” when he posted the video. Vine has also faced tricky decisions over pornography, banning sexually explicit clips in March 2014. “We don’t have a problem with explicit sexual content on the internet – we just prefer not to be the source of it,” explained the company at the time.Copyright has also been an issue, with Prince’s label demanding in April 2013 that it remove clips shot at his gigs. Meanwhile, this summer’s World Cup popularised the practice of recording clips of goals on TV and sharing them to Vine and Twitter, a practicenow being cracked down on by the English Premier League. “It’s a breach of copyright and we would discourage fans from doing it,” said a league spokesperson. “We’re developing technologies like gif crawlers, Vine crawlers, working with Twitter to look to curtail this kind of activity.”What next for Vine and its stars, though? Some are exploring other digital platforms, from YouTube – Grier recently signed a deal with AwesomenessTV, the YouTube network owned by Hollywood studio DreamWorks Animation – to Snapchat and Instagram, where there are thriving groups of short-form video creators. Vine doesn’t have ads, so it doesn’t earn revenue from clicks, but top Viners are working with brands more, so they’ll get money to make sponsored clips or feature their products. Some have started to upload compilations of their clips to YouTube, where they can earn ad money.Live gigs are also a growing source of income for Viners: the Digifest NYC festival in New York last June attracted 12,500 fans, while clips where a Viner spins around to reveal a crowd of thousands of screaming fans at a live event are increasingly common.But a Viner’s core activity remains the app and the website, with its 100 million viewers and culture of music, gags and bite-size video-blogging. “Anyone can become a Vine star, it’s video for everyone,” says Pete Wood.Allan Blair suggests that talent is the only barrier: “Only the best, most creative minds shine through, making it the perfect breeding ground for those who can go on to greater things.”ON THE VINE: 10 to watch■KingBachVisual comedy turning a shrewd eye on social awkwardness, racism and the nature of friendship.■Nicholas MegalisUS-based musician whose videos invariably have a comic touch, food (from sausages to pineapples) and the odd toy penguin.■Brittany FurlanShort-form sketches from a comedian whose talent is already seeing her looking beyond Vine to TV.■Dapper LaughsLaddish laughs from a comic sometimes dismissed as a poor man’s Danny Dyer (who poked fun at himself in a clip with the actual Danny Dyer).■Amymarie GaertnerAlthough dance moves are her speciality, Amymarie adds in dashes of comedy and collaborations with other Viners. And dogs.■Zach KingMagician exploring the visual illusion potential of the short-form video, from printing pets and mutant room-cleaning to a cardboard invisibility suit.■Jack and JackBig on Vine, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram alike, the Jacks blend music, jokes and teen culture.■Us the DuoMarried musicians who, besides recording their own material, publish six-second covers of Pitbull, Calvin Harris, Justin Timberlake and more.■Ben PhillipsKFC, Burger King and a precocious child named Harley star in this British Viner’s comic clips.■Reid WisemanWiseman is an astronaut working on the International Space Station. But also shooting Vine clips.
With every yearly update EA has inched closer to what appears to be its goal – a game that expertly apes the Sky-style TV presentation of the nation’s favourite sport. So here, in the first truly next-gen iteration,Fifa 15’sgraphical heft certainly helps spruce up the shiny pre-match rituals. Sadly, the virtual pros are still not a close facsimile of their real-life counterparts – Mesut Özil looks particularly odd, even for him. More impressive are the improvements to the grounds and crowds, with the pitch cutting up and fans reacting to events with club-specific chants. There’s also a greater sense of solidity to the players; tangles of feet result in frustratingly authentic fouls; goalies keep the ball out with a desperate scramble of arms and legs; and easing defenders off the ball as you run in on goal feels just right.The “emotional intelligence” that EA has bestowed upon the squad creates an interesting element of randomness – don’t expect to see any biting, but players railing at referees mid-game, sometimes to the detriment of your play, certainly adds to the experience – as does their unilateral decision to “park the bus” when leading in an important game. And the previously frustrating menus are now slick, making a run through the near-unchanged career mode less of a chore.Fifaisn’t perfect – that pre-game hype and the endless replays, while accurate, serve only to delay the action, but luckily, when you do get down to it, virtual football has never looked or felt better.
Coming an epic 26 years after the firstWasteland, this long-awaitedsequelis unapologetically aimed at the hardcore RPG player. Creating your four-member team of Desert Rangers is the first hint of the brilliant complexity of the game – you even have to write your characters’ bios, not just distribute skill points between a host of abilities.Wasteland 2is inherently a game of sacrifices, though – not just in the grim choices you’ll have to make as you explore the post-apocalyptic setting but in how it is explored. However you distribute those skill points, you’ll inevitably lack some skill that will prove useful later, confronting gamers with the uncomfortable realisation that you can miss items or events permanently. Combat is fairly dry – a chess-like, turn-based affair with overly realistic problems such as jammed guns – but the strength of the game’s writing, with its superb dialogue and moral ambivalence, makes up for it.
Few games enter the subconscious enough to evoke dreams about their gameplay and fewer still quite likeMurasaki Babywhich, it has to be said, does not engender the good kind. With its forehead-mouthed characters, Tim Burton andEdward Gorey-inspired visuals and disconcerting soundscape, it’s a deeply unsettling experience.As a game, it makes use of the Vita’s unique capabilities. You’ll guide Baby through levels filled with nightmarish visions, literally taking her by the hand with a touch of the screen. Nothing is explained, leaving players to discern visual clues – for instance, Baby’s heart-shaped balloon represents health and can be moved to protect it from hazards. Swiping the rear touchpad shifts the nature of the world, presenting colour-coded environments and abilities with which to solve puzzles.It’s an “artsy” game, for sure, but when your fingers end up obscuring much of the screen, making puzzles even harder, you’ll be thankful it’s only about four hours long.
The popularity of independent young video bloggers, the "vloggers" who film their thoughts and observations for thousands of followers to enjoy online, is already setting the future shape of marketing and advertising. But it is also becoming an important route into traditional careers in print publishing or television, according to Alfie Deyes, the vlogger with more than three million subscribers who was mobbed by 8,000 fans at his book launch earlier this month.Speaking to theObserverafter the publicity furore surrounding the publication of his first volume,The Pointless Book, which already tops the Amazon bestsellers list, Deyes, 21, said he would consider moving into the world of conventional, networked television and radio if he was in charge of the content."Having creative control, as well as carrying out the whole process myself – shooting, editing and post-production – of all my videos is important," he said, "but I would not completely reject TV. If something were to come up where I had enough control and it was suitable for my fanbase, I would consider it."Television might seem like a step up from YouTube, but Deyes sees it as a completely different public platform, though one where you may be no more than a face or a voice to someone else's script. The vlogger from Brighton made his name on the YouTube channelPointless Blog, on which he and his friends set each other silly challenges. He began his videos, which included titles such asGirls Are Confusing, when he was 15.Deyes is also the boyfriend of one of the most influential vloggers in the young female market, Zoe Sugg, known asZoella, and the couple sometimes vlog together under the name of Zalfie.With a relaxed, chatty style, young vloggers such as Sugg, who has more than six million YouTube followers, and the beauty expert Tanya Burr, 25, who has around10 million views per month on her channel, are now seen as the key to reaching younger audiences, not just for commercial advertising but for the orthodox broadcasting and book publishing businesses.Sugg's book about the life of a young girl who has a blog is published by Penguin this November and on Thursday she will also launch her beauty range at a party venue filled with pink balloons. She set up her blog and YouTube channel in 2009 from her Brighton bedroom and quickly specialised in shopping advice. Now she has a line of beauty products with packaging bearing images of her beloved guinea pigs, Pippin and Percy.Some high-profile video bloggers are thought to earn up to £4,000 for mentioning a specific product on one of their entries and may be paid up to £20,000 for advertisements on their YouTube sites, according to an estimate from the digital marketing firm eight&amp;four.While Deyes says he has no plans to move into television for the moment, he does have a one-hour slot on BBC Radio 1, on which he appears alongside other vloggers includingTomSka,Tyler OakleyandCaspar."Social Talent is definitely the new celebrity," said Dominic Smales, Managing Director of Gleam Futures, a company that manages emerging digital celebrities such as Deyes and Sugg. "Far from being a 'flash in the pan' this is the result of a total shift in the way a whole generation consumes their entertainment and selects their influences."But Deyes is determined to counter the idea that vloggers have an easy life and just got lucky. The notion they shoot a video, post it online, go to the beach and then watch the click statistics fly high is wrong, he feels.The pressure is intense because a dedicated vlogger has to keep watching the sites. "Everything changes so fast and there are always opportunities coming up on YouTube, you just have to be there when it happens," he said.The scale of the reception to his book signing at Waterstones in Piccadilly was overwhelming, Deyes added, but vlogging is not a way to get famous quickly. "It's a powerful outlet in itself," he said. The drawbacks include the prolific internet trolls who attempt to undermine vloggers who are trying to make a living online, but Deyes says that he is surrounded with so much positivity that negative comments do not bother him.He was also keen to point out that this new breed of lifestyle "mega vloggers" are not all school drop-outs. Deyes studied science at A level he said and the psychology graduate Lily "Superwoman" Singh, who hit six million followers on her YouTube channel on Wednesday, is a case in point. "Education is essential as a way to give you every opportunity to explore what you may love to do in the future. For me it was was YouTube," Deyes said.
To the technology trade, I am what is known as an “early adopter” (translation: gadget freak, mug, sucker). I had a mobile phone in the mid-1980s, for example, when they were still regarded as weird. It was the size of a brick, cost the best part of a grand and exposed me to ridicule whenever I took it out in public. But I didn’t care because the last Soviet president,Mikhail Gorbachev, used the same phone and he was cool in those days. Besides, it had always seemed absurd to me that phones should be tethered to the wall, like goats. I still have that Nokia handset, by the way: it sits at the bottom of a drawer and I sometimes take it out to show my grandchildren what phones used to be like.Over the decades since, I have always had latest-model phones – just like all the other early adopters. And of course I used them to make phone calls because basically that’s all you could do with those devices. (Well, almost all: one of mine had an FM radio built in.) And then in 2007 Steve Jobs launched the iPhone and the game changed. Why? Because the Apple device was really just a powerful computer that you could hold in your hand. And itwasa real computer; its operating system was a derivative ofBSD, the derivative of Unix developed by Bill Joy when he was a graduate student at Berkeley. (Note for non-techies: Unix is to Windows as a JCB is to a garden trowel.)The fact that the iPhone could also make voice calls seemed, suddenly, a trivial afterthought. What mattered was that it provided mobile access to the internet. And that it could run programs, though it called them apps.From then on, I made very few voice calls. This was mainly because it turned out that most of my phone calls were work-related and as the decades wore on it seemed increasingly intrusive to call people at work: they were usually “in a meeting”, so one wound up playing voicemail tag. It was much more efficient to send a text or an email and with a smartphone such as the iPhone (or, before that, the BlackBerry) that is exactly what one wound up doing. So as the years wore on, I found myself at the end of each month with hundreds of unused call minutes but rapidly increasing charges for mobile data.For a time, my usage pattern appeared to be in line with industry trends. The amount of data shipped across mobile networks increased inexorably, while the volume of voice calls stayed roughly level, despite the massively increased adoption of mobile phones, which meant that the relative importance of voice was steadily decreasing. According to the wirelessindustry’s annual surveydata, between 2008 and 2010, text messaging doubled while voice remained constant. Then mobile data use (mostly internet access) began to make an appearance in the statistics, accounting for 388 MB in 2010 and rising to 1.5 trillion MB in 2012, while voice remained stuck at roughly the same level that it had been in 2008. Last year, mobile data more than doubled (to 3.2 trillion MB), which is exactly what one would have expected from the rapidly increasing penetration of smartphones. But, here’s the intriguing bit, voice usagealsoincreased – up by 14% year on year in the US.What’s going on? Are text and email fatigue setting in? Are we seeing early signs of some sort of seismic shift in the information ecosystem? Or is it just a reflection of the fact that an increasing number of households have effectively given up on landlines, so that they are now exclusively reliant on mobile phones? In the last couple of years, I have spoken to lots of young people who have made that decision, for practical (living in short-term rented accommodation) as well as economic reasons.But I suspect that the most plausible explanation for the resurgence in voice usage is the most humdrum: it simply signals that people have got over the “shock of the new” and are now becoming more pragmatic at choosing horses for courses (as it were). Anyone who has tried to set up a meeting of more than three people via text messaging, for example, knows that it’s a daft way of doing something that can be done better via a few quick phone calls.Recently, I watched a man texting furiously as he walked along the street – straight into a lamp post. Turns out he was trying to let someone know that he was going to be late for a meeting. A phone call would have achieved the same end, minus the bruises. As BT used to say, sometimes it’s good to talk.• This article was amended on Saturday 27 September 2014 because it incorrectly stated that the iPhone was first launched in 2008.
The 40th Ryder Cup has teed off at Gleneagles in Scotland, with the European team coming out ahead in the first day offoursomes and fourballs. Can the same be said of how much interest they were generating online?We found out using HP’s Explore tool, which gave us a total score for each player based on how often they were mentioned in tweets, retweets, Facebook updates and even news stories.To keep the competition fair we made sure that we were only tracking roughly during the period of the matches. On the first day, as well as winning in the golf, the European side had a comfortable social lead against the US.This was in no small part due to huge interest in the team of Sergio Garcia and Rory McIlory and a tweet from a member of a certain pop band which made sure Henrik Stenson was the player being mentioned the most online.Yessss! Get in ! Rosey and Stenson get the first point on the board for@rydercupEUROPE! Rock solid golf all day !&mdash; Niall Horan (@NiallOfficial)September 26, 2014Take a look at all the head to head scores below.
Muscling in on the brisk trade being done by Activision’s Skylanders, Disney Infinity 2.0 also gets you to place statuettes on a special pad to make characters pop up in the game. Infinity’s vision is broader, though, offering you the tools to create mini-games using familiar characters, props and settings. Each character comes with its own sub-game, the starter set comprising a Thor-led tower defence-style Assault On Asgard, uncomplicated beat ’em-up Escape From Kyln, and The Avengers game, which sees you roaming around a lifeless city in search of frost giants to pummel. It looks and sounds passable, and the sheer volume of content is initially overwhelming. But – despite appearances – there’s more going on here than a cynical attempt to flog plastic figurines.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKMuraski Baby, PS VitaLike playing one of Tim Burton’s dreams, Murasaki Baby has you dragging a strange infant with a mouth at the top of her head through a succession of eerie hand-drawn landscapes in search of her mummy. You touch the screen to pull baby along by her hand, making sure you don’t drag too fast or she falls over, looking sad as she picks herself up off the ground. Her life is a fragile pink helium balloon clutched in one hand, which she releases into the air when she gets frightened. It can also easily be popped by enemies or sharp pieces of scenery. Dragging two fingers on Vita’s rear touchpad changes the backdrop, with differing effects on creatures and objects, giving an eccentric, idiosyncratic dimension to an already quirky adventure. Less inspiring, during its play time of just under three hours, is a tendency for fat thumbs to obscure the screen as you perform the delicately balanced finger ballet necessary to navigate baby and balloon through later levels without meeting a sticky end.Sony, £7.99
I am sitting in traffic, gazing down upon the voluptuous charms of the Lotus Elan in front of me, when the thought occurs that&nbsp;I am driving a washing machine. It's the burly dimensions of the Ford EcoSport that do it – though the fact that my test version&nbsp;is a brilliant shade of Hotpoint white doesn't help. Even the name seems reminiscent of a 30C cycle, one that's gentle on the environment but tough on stains.The EcoSport is part of Ford's latest rally into the SUV market –&nbsp;its&nbsp;budget, entry-level model. As&nbsp;such, it is functional rather than beautiful, despite some attempts at&nbsp;spangle (LED lights, titanium trims). There are the same basic issues that afflict other compact SUVs: a small base and a body that builds upwards, meaning a car that is tall and square and serviceable.Of course, there is nothing inherently dreadful about functionality – after all, I am today on a useful mission: driving across town to buy a piece of wood to fix my bed. However, the fact that I&nbsp;have owned this bed – an antique French rattan frame with a tendency&nbsp;to half-collapse – for a year&nbsp;and a rickety half without mending it says something about how I rank usefulness against aesthetic appeal; I'm afraid I choose the beautiful over the practical pretty much every time.The EcoSport is not exactly ugly, it&nbsp;simply parks in that space of perfectly all right. Essentially, it's a&nbsp;Fiesta with planning permission – the same frame, and a similar engine, though lugging the SUV's extra bulk, it lacks the Fiesta's pep. The steering is pleasingly light for city driving, if a little twitchy, but it's strangely noisy – the sound of the engine seems to come whistling round the eaves.The big let down is the interior, where the plastics feel tinny and slight, disappointingly workaday. And while the driver's seat is a fancy, six-way adjustable thing, the&nbsp;truth is it feels hard and a little awkward whichever way you adjust&nbsp;it. Still, there's scope for an upgrade on the technology: an extra&nbsp;£250 buys you the Ford SYNC, which gets you a Bluetooth connection and voice-activated apps&nbsp;–Parkopedia(which finds your&nbsp;nearest parking space), emergency assistance and an impressive music-streaming service.Most of all, though, the EcoSport is desperately useful, a Robert Dyas of a car. It boasts 20 storage compartments, from backseat pockets to a cooled glove box and a&nbsp;drawer beneath the passenger seat&nbsp;for storing rawlplugs or rivet nuts or similar. Its height means the&nbsp;rear seat can accommodate three (lean) adult passengers, and makes it much easier to load; a boon for anyone juggling infants and car seats. There is plenty of boot space: I can tell you, with some authority, that a large piece of wood fits comfortably.Some of this space has been achieved by mounting the spare wheel on the tailgate. While this might be a pleasing feature for some&nbsp;– and I'll admit that finding the&nbsp;boot handle secreted in the rear&nbsp;light is rather nice – the fact that&nbsp;the door then has to hinge outwards rather than upwards seems daft for a city car. And that tail-mounted wheel? There's no escaping it: an unmistakable reminder of the front load and spin&nbsp;cycle.Ford EcoSportPhotograph: Simon Stuart-Miller   for the GuardianPriceStandard on the road £16,495 (this version £17,205)Top speed99mphAcceleration0-62mph in 14 secondsCombined fuel consumption61.4mpgCO2emissions120g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating4/10• Follow Laura onTwitter.
A year to the day after Fifa 14: Ultimate Team comes this year’s barely distinguishable update,Fifa 15(all formats), which features enhanced ball control and player AI. You’ll already know whether that’s worth £50 to you. Also out this week areSchrödinger’s Cat And The Raiders Of The Lost Quark(PC), a physics-themed puzzley platform game with one of the best names of all time; lightweight RPGFairy Fencer F(PS3) is one for Japanophiles; ambient supernatural horror,The Vanishing Of Ethan Carter(PC), wants you to explore and deduce rather than search and destroy;Ar Nosurge: Ode To An Unborn Star(PS3) is a sci-fi-infused turn-based strategy game; andMiddle-earth: Shadow Of Mordor(PC) is set in Tolkien’s over-exposed milieux, where your character is a wraith heading off to Mordor for a spot of revenge.
Thom Yorke is no stranger to making waves in the digital music world, from the pay-what-you-like release ofRadiohead’s In Rainbows in 2007, to hisfierce criticism of Spotify in 2013, and nowthe release of his new solo album Tomorrow’s Modern Boxesthrough a partnership with BitTorrent.Matt Mason is the chief content officer at BitTorrent, and the driving force behind the company’s “Bundles” initiative, which gets musicians, filmmakers, authors and other creators to release their work packaged up as torrent files, with fans unlocking the full contents usually by entering their email address.Kaskade, DJ Shadow, Moby, De La Soul, Pixies and Public Enemy are among the artists who have tried it, but Yorke is the first to use a new “pay-gate” feature. Instead of exchanging an email address for his album, fans pay $6 (£3.68). Mason talked to The Guardian about how the partnership came about.“We started talking to Thom and Nigel [Godrich - Yorke’s collaborator and producer] about a year ago. I met Nigel on Christmas Eve just gone in London. We didn’t think they were doing anything: they’d just had a year off,” said Mason.“We met up and talked about BitTorrent: where the internet should be going for artists, where they saw the opportunities and problems today, and one of those conversations got onto the idea of pay-gates in BitTorrent bundles. And Thom wanted to be the first.”Mason says that he can’t think of a better musician to work with, given Yorke’s history with In Rainbows – a giveaway he says artists have struggled to repeat at a similar scale, at least until U2’s recent iTunes giveway (more on that later).“This is now what we hope is the world’s first direct-to-fan publishing system that truly has a global audience,” he said, referring to the 170m active users of BitTorrent’s file-sharing software. “It’s the size of Spotify, Hulu and Netflix combined and doubled.”Initially, Yorke and Godrich thought they had enough new material for a new EP, but when Mason met their managers Brian Message and Chris Hufford at the SXSW conference in March, they sprang a surprise: there’d be a full album“This album was born out of these conversations we had on how the internet should work for artists: the vision we both share, which is that at present we don’t have a sustainable business model for artists on the internet,” said Mason.“Major labels have really given up on selling music, it seems. Pushing Spotify to an IPO is what most of the senior executives at the major labels are concerned with, which might be something to do with the fact that they own a piece of Spotify, and will participate in that IPO. But it doesn’t bear any relation to an artist trying to make a living from their work on the internet.”•What are BitTorrent bundles and how can I download them?•Thom Yorke – Tomorrow’s Modern Boxes: our first thoughtsBitTorrent may be associated – especially by many people in the music industry – with online piracy, through the numerous filesharing services that use the company’s technology. But right now, the company is defining itself in opposition to Spotify and other streaming music services. An intriguing development.“We’re not interested in streaming for the sake of lining the pockets of a few people at major labels. We’re interested in helping artists make money from their work in the long term. We’re designed to be used by artists without a label, or for labels to use with their entire catalogues,” said Mason.“We’re a technology company, we’re really good at moving files. We’re not so great at being a label, a film studio or a book publisher. So we’re trying to make something that works for individuals, labels and aggregate publishers. I’m not trying to bash the people at the labels, but it does seem like the senior executives at the majors have said ‘we give up, let’s just make some money on the Spotify IPO, then go home and let the next generation sort it out.”Since Yorke’s album was unleashed earlier today, I’ve seen two key criticisms voiced in my Twitter feed from people within the music industry. The first is why didn’t Yorke and Godrich work with another service – Bandcamp is the one mentioned most often – which can help them in their aim of “bypassing the self elected gate-keepers”?“We love Bandcamp. If you want the main difference between us, it’s that we have over 170m users we can put bundles in front of. Over 40m people who use BitTorrent every day will see this. It’s a massive, massive user base,” said Mason.The second criticism, which has been voiced regularly ever since BitTorrent started work on its bundles initiative, is that when a famous artist releases one, they’re teaching their fans to pirate music, because getting a bundle involves downloading BitTorrent’s software client.Mason gives the question short shrift. “Should we blame Apple for selling you a laptop? Why not attack the guy who invented streaming or HTTP? People misunderstand BitTorrent and think it’s something just for piracy,” he said.“If you look at BitTorrent, the stuff you’ll be offered in BitTorrent and uTorrent, our clients... If you’re just using our websites and products, there’s literally no way to get any illegal material. That’s not what they’re designed for.“They point you to – aggressively I might add – licensed, legal pieces of content. We’ve got over 2m licensed pieces of legal content – music, films, photography, books – in the BitTorrent system. And pay-gates is about helping publishers put more stuff on BitTorrent legally.”Inevitably, Yorke’s new album is already available on other torrent services as regular MP3 files, without a pay-gate in sight. Mason brought this up before I could, pointing out that the legitimate bundle “has a much larger swarm than any of the illegal versions – that’s huge for the industry”.But about U2. The band opted to strike a deal with Apple todistribute their new album to every iTunes user, including – via the automatic downloads feature that a number of iOS users have turned on – pushing it to their iPhones and iPads.Could or should they have talked to BitTorrent? By this point in the interview, Mason is on something of a roll.“It’s interesting, the whole U2 thing. I’m an iPhone user, and I’m so pissed off that thing’s on my phone. I haven’t had time to delete it yet, butApple’s removal websiteis probably the best thing that a technology company released in terms of a music product this year,” he said. “It’s been a pretty miserable time for innovation.”He continued: “If that’s our best thinking – get the biggest band in the world to push something onto phones that everyone hates... The U2 thing is a way to encourage piracy more than anything we’re doing. Pissing off half a billion people is a really bad idea,” he continued.“I don’t understand why you’d do that, if you don’t care about the result and the effect it has on other bands and musicians. With Thom and Nigel, every step of the way they kept asking ‘is this feature you’re putting up for us something everybody can use?’ They held our feet to the flames in building a better product for everyone.”At the time of writing, Yorke’s BitTorrent bundle has been downloaded just over 54,000 times, according to the figure shown on its widget that can be embedded on websites. Over the coming days and weeks, as it’s downloaded and shared on, that will likely climb –Moby’s BitTorrent bundle was downloaded 8.9m times in 2013, as a comparison.Mason said BitTorrent is already planning its next partnerships with artists. “There’s a group of people in the music industry really thinking about the collective future of the business, and how we can all work together,” he said.“It shouldn’t be about ‘how can I make the most money right now?’ and screw the fans. That’s what I didn’t like about the U2 thing: it felt like that, which isn’t productive. Thom and Nigel took the time to understand who we were, and once they did, they made sure we worked our arses off to build a brilliant product.”•BitTorrent bundles reach 100m (legal) downloads and streams
Thom Yorke’snew solo albumis being sold and distributed not through Apple’s iTunes, Amazon or Spotify streams, but via thenew BitTorrent bundles, direct from the artist to the listeners. Unlike traditional methods of buying and downloading music, BitTorrent bundles work through a different system shared between users in much the same way as pirated music, with the crucial difference being that users pay for it.What is BitTorrent?BitTorrent became notorious for the illegal sharing of pirated music, movies and TV shows during the early noughties, but is actually a piece of technology that allows for more efficient distribution of files across the internet. The software system allows users to share files between computers on a peer-to-peer basis, rather than downloading direct from one server owned and operated by a company, which leads to faster downloads and a significantly reduced cost for the file distributor, in this case Thom Yorke.How does it work?Each of the files are broken down into small chunks and sent across the internet between the computers using the BitTorrent software. The small chunks are downloaded to a user’s computer from anyone on the network that is also sharing the files. Downloading from multiple users at the same time speeds up the download considerably. Once all the small chunks are downloaded, the software stitches the file together into the completed file.How do ‘bundles’ work?Unlike most files shared over BitTorrent via sites like the Pirate Bay or other illegal file sharing sites, “bundles” are links to the files that can be controlled and sold to users legally. Until now, all BitTorrent bundles were a collection of free files from artists with the option to sign up with a mailing list to get access to more. Tomorrow’s Modern Boxes marks the first paid-for album to be distributed via BitTorrent bundles.How do I get the album?Listeners will need a computer, but can buy the album via the BitTorrent site. After entering PayPal or credit card details the user is given a Torrent file. To then download the album, they need to use a BitTorrent client – a piece of software that connects to the BitTorrent network and downloads and shares the chunks of files before building the finished album. TheBitTorrent software is free to downloadand use. With it installed on a computer opening the album’s bittorrent file will start the download of the album.How do I listen to it?Once the album has been downloaded it is no different from any other MP3 file bought from Amazon, Apple or any other music service. The files can be added to iTunes or any other music player to play. To play them on a smartphone they will need to be transferred to the smartphone either manually using a cable, or via a cloud music service like Google Play Music or iTunes Match.Why is BitTorrent better than iTunes, Amazon or Spotify?The benefits for artists or publishers are clear. Distributing music or any other file is much cheaper via BitTorrent. They save on the server costs needed for direct downloads, but it also allows them to sell albums directly to the public without involving a third-party like Apple or Amazon or even a record label.For listeners the advantages are less clear. It is possible to do on a smartphone or tablet, but most will need a computer. The files won’t automatically be available on all their devices via a cloud service like iTunes Match or Google Play Music and the process of actually downloading the files could take longer.But the savings that the artist makes should hopefully be passed onto the consumer – in this case Tomorrow’s Modern Boxes costs $6, much less than most new albums. Users can also download the music without having to sign up for a service or give information to the likes of Apple, Amazon or Spotify.Have any other artists used BitTorrent bundles?BitTorrent bundles reached 100m legal downloads and streams in June this year, with Madonna, Public Enemy, Moby, De La Soul and others using the service to reach fans.Some, like Madonna, haven’t used the technology to share music but rather other content including a documentary film called Secretprojectrevolution. Moby gave away three songs and audio “stems” from his latest album, so fans could create their own remixes, as did Public Enemy. De La Soul gave away a digital mixtape and documentary film about pioneering hip-hop producer J Dilla, while Cut/Copy shared a music video along with the 3D printing files for making the video’s characters.Is BitTorrent the future of music downloads?BitTorrent would like to think so, but Thom Yorke is the first artist to seriously try and sell music through BitTorrent. Seeing how many people can get to grips with the technology and download the album will be a good test to see if BitTorrent bundles can work for the mainstream music audience and not just the tech savvy or those used to BitTorrent from other activities.Apple, Amazon and Spotify won’t be quaking in their boots just yet, but the technology does show promise in saving costs for artists. A direct connection to fans cuts out the middle man and funnels more of the money back to the artists, but that might only be viable for established acts who have already gained recognition, like Thom Yorke.•BitTorrent says Netflix is hogging bandwidth – not ‘beating’ it•BitTorrent bundles reach 100m (legal) downloads and streams
Microsoft will show off the next version of its Windows software next week, known internally as project “Threshold” or Windows 9.Microsoft hopes the new software will help improve sales to businesses, man of whom have avoided Windows 8 with its unfamiliar tile-based interface in preference of the four-year-old Windows 7.Microsoft is expected to unveil a new name for the software, ahead of its widespread release next year.The name change is symbolic of a new direction for Microsoft moving away from an aggressive focus on Windows and PCs, the hallmark of previous chief executive Steve Ballmer. The new, quieter emphasis is on selling services across all devices and is championed by new boss Satya Nadella.Moving away from Windows 8“Windows 8 was not a shining moment for Microsoft,” said Michael Silver, an analyst at tech research firm Gartner. “Probably the biggest issue that lingers is the negative brand equity in the name.”Many users howled in protest over the death of the start menu and the introduction of a colourful grid of squares or tiles representing apps. It was originally known as “Metro UI” before atrademark dispute with a Metro AG, a large retail group based in Germany, forced a name change to just “Windows” or “Modern UI”.Recent leaks indicate the start menu will come back in the next Windows, with an option of tacking on tiles if preferred. The Windows 8.1 update brought back the start button to Windows 8, but it simply opened the tiled start screen and not a start menu similar to Windows 7 or previous version of Windows.The problem of users having to toggle between the modern interface and the old-style desktop for Microsoft Office among other desktop applications has yet to be solved.Microsoft declined to comment on the new name, or what it plans to unveil on Tuesday.‘Nadella’s holistic cloud vision’Microsoft has said only that it will have a “discussion” about where Windows is headed at a stylish event space in San Francisco on Tuesday.Microsoft under Nadella is keen to rebuild respect in Silicon Valley as it moves away from the PC toward a larger role in the mobile computing world with Apple and Google.Nadella’s slogan is “mobile first, cloud first,” and although he will not be at the San Francisco event - he is traveling in Asia - that theme will be at the fore.“This is a launching pad and catalyst for Nadella’s holistic cloud vision over the coming years,” said Daniel Ives, an analyst at investment bank FBR Capital Markets. “Windows 9 is a potentially game-changing product release for Microsoft.”Nadella is resigned to the fact that sales of PCs have leveled off, and with it sales of Windows. With the explosion of smartphones and tablets, Windows now powers only 14% of computing devices sold last year, according to Gartner.His response is to focus on selling high-quality services to people on whatever device or system they are using.“Microsoft is changing from a company that was Windows-centric to one that is services-centric,” said Silver. “It has to be that way. Windows revenue is likely going to decline, and Microsoft’s task is to replace that Windows revenue with revenue from services on all sorts of platforms.”The challenge is to come up with apps and services users can’t live without.“Microsoft built their business on being very good at delivering what people needed in the moment, for example Excel in the 1990s,” said David Johnson, an analyst at tech research firm Forrester. “That’s what Microsoft has to get back to, innovating and creating things that people find indispensable.”Surface Pro 3 review: the most lappable tablet yet
What’s the most dramatic part of Nirvana’s Smells Like Teen Spirit? The second verse. Pixies’ Gigantic? The first verse. Mogwai’s Mogwai Fear Satan? The bit about five minutes in when the guitars kick in.If you’re a fan, you may have known this already, but Spotify claims to have proven it using data. At least, that’s the aim of the latest hack from Paul Lamere, director of developer community for the streaming music service’s Echo Nest division.Lamere has released theWhere is the Drama? web-appafter building it during this month’s Music Hack Day Berlin event. It analyses the audio from any song in Spotify’s catalogue to identify its most dramatic section.“The app grabs the detailed audio analysis for the song from The Echo Nest. This includes a detailed loudness map of the song. This is the data I use to find the drama. To do so, I look for the part of the song with the largest rise in volume over the course of a 30 second window,”Lamere wrote on his blog.“I give extra weight to crescendos that culminate in louder peaks (so if there are two crescendos that are 20dB in range but one ends at 5dB louder, it will win). Once I identify the most dynamic part of a song, I pad it a bit (so we get to hear a bit of the drop after the build).”The hack identifies the likely section of drama, then plots it as a “heavily filtered loudness curve” with the relevant section highlighted. Spotify users can then “play the drama”, with Lamere having discovered a way to skip to specific points in songs.Users can also click a “Stop the Drama” button to stop playing the track, which – this being a hack – switches the music for silence by flipping to John Cage’s 4’33 track. “In other words, to stop playing one track, I just start playing another (that happens to be silent),” wrote Lamere.“The awesome side effect of this is that I’ll be slowly turning anyone who uses Where’s the Drama? into experimental music listeners as the Spotify recommendation system responds to all of those John Cage ‘plays’. This should win some sort of ‘hackiest hack of the year’ award.”Spotify ispromoting the hack on its own site, pointing fans in the direction of the graphs for the Nirvana, Mogwai and Pixies songs mentioned above, as well as tracks by The Lonely Island, Led Zeppelin, Nero and Guns N’ Roses.•Music is louder, less acoustic and more energetic than in the 1950s
Sony’s latest Xperia Z3 flagship smartphone sets a new bar for battery life, and manages to last half a day longer than most other smartphones without cutting back on features or power.The Z3 is the latest in Sony’s premium smartphone range, and part of its plan to replace them every six months.“We are a latecomer to the smartphone market and have a lot of new technology bubbling up inside of the company,” Sony’s head of mobile Kuni Suzuki told the Guardian. “We want to show it off and use it to be more competitive.”“Every six months we find many, many areas where we can improve in both hardware and software, but it’s only sustainable as long as we are growing in the premium product market,” he said.Sony warned on 17 September that poor sales and negligible growth in its smartphone division, primarily fuelled by failures in the US, woulddrag the company into a £1.3bn projected loss.The Z2 released in April this year was a solid phone, but felttoo big and bulky. Does the Z3 have what it takes to bring Sony out of its tailspin?Thin, metallic and glassStereo speakers are above and below the screen, with nylon corners joining the metal bands around the sides of the phone.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z3’s smooth, rounded metal band around the outside, and the glass front and back, both look and feel premium. Its nylon corners are designed to absorb impact without shattering the screen, although they were not put to the test.The phone is 9g lighter and 0.9mm thinner than itsZ2predecessor, weighing 152g at 7.3mm thick. It is still heavier than the competition including the145g Samsung Galaxy S5and the129g iPhone 6.The Z3 is thinner than most of its Android and Windows Phone competition including the 8.1mm thick Galaxy S5, but is 0.4mm thicker than the new iPhone 6. It is waterproof to 1.5m for 30 minutes, with small doors protecting the microUSB port, SIM and microSD slots.The phone feels solid, with little twist or bend in the frame, although I’m sure if you really tried you could bend it like aniPhone 6 with sufficient force. Tapping on the screen and the back plate feels hollow.The glass back provides good grip in the hand, but could be prone to scratching and shattering if not looked after.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe 1080p resolution 5.2in screen is crisp and colourful, with wide viewing angles with similar pixel density to its competitors. It is one of the brightest screens I’ve ever seen on a smartphone, but adapts to whats on screen a lot like a TV, locally dimming dark areas for better blacks and a higher contrast with high brightness levels.Stereo front-facing speakers are loud and clear even at maximum volume.The small bezels around the screen combined with the the 7.3mm thickness and rounded sides make the Z3 easy to hold, despite the large screen – a significant improvement over the bulky-feeling Z2.SpecificationsScreen:5.2in full HD IPS LCDProcessor:2.5 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801RAM:3GB of RAMStorage:16GB plus microSD card slotOperating system:Android 4.4.4 “Kitkat”Camera:20.7MP rear camera, 2.2MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE and GPSDimensions:146 x 72 x 7.3 mmWeight:152gStamina to go the distanceWaterproof doors protect the various ports and slots.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianIn six months, there has been little improvement in processing power between the Z2 and Z3. The Z3 is just as powerful as the older smartphone and as quick as the competition from Samsung and HTC. Having 3GB of RAM, instead of 2GB like the One M8 and Galaxy S5, makes multitasking smoother with many apps running in the background.The Z3 will easily be able to smoothly handle anything from graphically intensive games to video and image editing.Sony’s built-in noise cancelling technology is as effective as most dedicated active noise cancelling headphones worth over £100, but requires a special headset to use.Stamina mode can extend the battery life by days, with Ultra Stamina mode able to draw out just under nine days usage from 70% battery, disabling all but phone, messaging, calendar and camera functions.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe biggest upgrade is in battery life. Sony claims the Z3 has a longest usable battery life of any flagship Android or iPhone, and it has made significant power savings with new screen technology.The smartphone easily lasted two days on a single charge with heavy use: push email arriving all day, hundreds of notifications from social media, three hours a day of browsing and 30 minutes of gaming, plus an hour of streaming music over Bluetooth.That was without activating any of the battery saving features, which can reduce processor performance or shut off data when the screen is off, as well as other power saving tweaks to extend standby and usage time by days.The Z3 is easily the longest lasting flagship Android smartphone currently available and shows that battery life does not have to suffer for thin devices.Small additions to standard AndroidThemes are one of the small additions made by Sony to the standard Android experience. They can change the look of the home, back and multi-tasking buttons, as well as the status bar and other interface elements.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Z3’s software is identical to the Z2’s, with Sony’s small customisations to Android, adding theming for changing the appearance of the softwareamong other useful additions.Sony’s apps including its Music and Video Unlimited on-demand subscription services are decent, but can be ignored in favour of Google’s or other apps.The Walkman app is capable of playing Hi-Res audio files, able to play the music regardless of the format. In my testing it handled 24bit FLAC studio master files without issue.The Z3 will be compatible with the Remote Play Android app that allows PlayStation 4 games to be played remotely via Wi-Fi or the internet, connecting a controller via Bluetooth. The app was not available for testing at the time of this review.CameraThe AR effects and functions are fun for kids and big kids alike.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Z3 has Sony’s excellent 20.7-megapixel camera, which is a capable point-and-shoot camera replacement using its Intelligent Auto mode. It also has extensive manual modes for those that want to explore their photography, with HDR, white balance, ISO modes and metering all available.The phone can record 4K video. At the lower 1080p resolution it also has two levels of electronic shake protection, what Sony calls Steady Shot. It uses the phone’s accelerometer to smooth out shakes and jerks, and is impressive even smoothing video shot on the move.Sony’s playful augmented reality camera modes can also overlay dinosaurs, clown hats or party balloons in real-time into photos and video for anyone that wants to do that.PriceFour colours available. All but the white have black screens.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z3 costs £530 in black, white, copper and green, making it £9 less than the iPhone 6 and around the same price as most of the competition from Samsung and HTC.VerdictA great overall smartphone, at least for the next six months.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Xperia Z3 is easily the best smartphone Sony has ever made and an improvement in feel and design over its predecessor.The lack of wireless charging for something waterproof with fiddly doors covering the charging port is disappointing, but it has a magnetic charging port for an accessory dock.It has a tough job on its hands battling with Samsung and Apple, but the Z3 is comparable in most ways short of a fingerprint sensor. A worthy contender for the next six months with the great battery life making it one of the best smartphones currently available.Pros:great battery life, solid build, waterproof, great camera, built-in battery life, PS4 Remote Play support, built-in noise cancelling techCons:fiddly doors for ports, no fingerprint sensor, heavier than some competitors
If you were hoping to get some time away from your PC or console this autumn – perhaps to kick leaves around in the park or sit beside a roaring fire in a country pub – you can probably forget it. Scores for the first batch of post-Destiny releases are coming in, and they’re looking very good.We’re reviewing all of these titles right now, but to keep you in the picture, here’s what specialist game sites are saying about Microsoft’s latest open-world racer, a new Tolkien-inspired action adventure, and some legendary Nintendo characters hitting each other for no discernible reason.All of these titles are due out on 3 October.Forza Horizon 2 (Microsoft, Xbox One)It’s an interesting time for racing games, with Sony’s DriveClub, Ubisoft’s The Crew and Namco’s Project Cars all revving up on the starting grid. But this sequel from Leamington-based Playground Games has squealed away first.Set amid the beautiful scenery of southern France and Italy, the action once again involves an exotic car festival where players drive about freely in over 200 top-end motors picking and choosing events.What we’re seeing so far are solid 9/10s and 4/5s.CVG(9/10),GamesRadar(4/5) andDigital Spy(4/5) all make similar points: while hardly revolutionary, the game builds perfectly on the foundations of its predecessor. Meanwhile,Eurogamer(9/10),IGN(9/10) andJoystiq(4/5) all wallow in the exuberant joy of the game, its emphasis on fun rather than slavish authenticity.The main dissenting voice isPolygon(7/10), which feels the open-world focus is less well-executed than the more circuit-based original.Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor (Warner Bros, PC/PS3/PS4/Xbox 360/Xbox One)Developed by Monolith Productions, famed for very dark horror action games like F.E.A.R and Condemned Criminal Origins, Shadow of Mordor is an open-world action role-playing adventure set between The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings.Players take on the role of a ranger named Talion who must fight his way to Mordor for revenge after Sauron’s army slaughters his family. With a complex battle strategy system, combined with the sort of world exploration components gamers will recognise from titles like Assassin’s Creed and Batman: Arkham City, it’s an intriguing melting pot for players to stir as they wish.Indeed,GamesRadar(4.5/5),Polygon(9.5/10) andEurogamer(8/10) all enjoy the level of personal freedom being offered. Although there’s a suitably epic narrative behind the game, its open-world environment, morally flexible framework and in-depth character customisation, mean that everyone is able to craft their own personal stories through the adventure.Meanwhile,GamesTM(8/10),ShackNews(9/10) andGamespot(8/10) all concede that the title is a sort of grab bag of familiar action adventure components, but that it puts them together very nicely.Destructoid(6/10) is less certain, finding nothing new in its competent mix of strategic battle and exploration.Super Smash Bros (Nintendo, 3DS)Nintendo’s famed brawling series returns, once again pitching many of its most well-loved characters against each other in amusing multiplayer arena fights. Key among the latest additions is the ability to add your own Mii avatar to the roster and level him or her up as the game progresses.As we’ve already seen with Mario Kart 8 this year, Nintendo is a master of re-energising ancient brands with superlative gameplay and novel ideas.VideoGamer(9/10) andNintendoLife(9/10) both point to the HUGE range of options, modes, stages and characters on offer.Polygon(9/10),IGN(8.8/10) andCVG(9/10) both praise Nintendo for the perfectly executed miniturisation of the game from console classic to handheld experience.However,GamesRadar(3/5) points to latency problems with the vital local multiplayer mode and questions how much the new 3DS features add to the experience.CVGandVG247both have very complete score round-ups for all of these titles.Forza Horizon 2 – offroad in Lamborghinis and racing steam trainsFifa 15 or Marvel Super Heroes? Which video games to buy this autumn
Lots of developers and publishers are exploring the potential of interactive picture book-apps for children, but can they ever hope to deliver a reading experience comparable to books? Author and critic Nicolette Jones remains to be convinced.“I’m very impressed with those sorts of apps that tell you something around a book – what Egmont did with theWar Horse app, or what Hot Key Books did withMaggot Moon, orHero On a Bicycle, with its online presence that told you about Italy during the war,” she said, speaking at The Bookseller Children’s Conference in London.“What I have more reservations about, although I see some publishers working very hard at it, are the kind of apps that replace a book. Picture book apps. I’ve never seen a picture book-app that does something that a book doesn’t do better.”Jones is the children’s books editor for the Sunday Times, who estimates she is sent between 40 and 50 books a week for potential review, but who has also explored the growing number of book-apps available.As a journalist, I’ve written regularly and enthusiastically about these kinds of apps, and their potential to complement (note: not replace) printed books.My first response to Jones’ comments was to feel a bit defensive, then, but the more I listened, the more I thought about where her criticism was coming from, and why it sparks some important debate for anyone making children’s apps.Jones cited an example: a figure of a child running, which in an app, might have an animation triggered by a tap from the reader. “The child keeps on pressing it, and the figure goes on running,” she said.“In a picture book, if a child is drawn running, in your head they run over to the next page where something else is happening. In a peculiar way, the technology interferes with the story in most of the apps I see.”I was keen to ask Jones whether she sees this as an intrinsic, unsolvable problem with apps and interactivity in general, or whether it’s just that not enough developers and publishers have made apps whose features serve the story (and children’s comprehension of it) rather than interfere with it.When a microphone came near in the Q&amp;A section of her session, I asked, and Jones was keen to clarify her comments.“I can see some publishers likeNosy Crowdoing fantastically well with very interesting apps, and trying to reproduce the quality of a book. There’s a lot of energy and creativity and intelligence going into this, and I don’t want to be too dismissive,” she said.“What works for me is the stuff that extends the book. Apps, they replace the space in your imagination with something that’s... the interactivity is appealing for children, but the best picture books are interactive in another way.”As an example, she talked about the book There Are No Cats In This Book, where children are encouraged to physically interact with the pages. Jones also talked about interactivity in another way: the interaction between children and parents while reading together.“If you look at a book with a small child, it’s a hug,” she said, making a gesture to show a parent with a child sitting in their lap, and an open book in front of them.“With a device over here, there isn’t that relationship, and it doesn’t go through the adult,” said Jones, motioning to an imaginary tablet by a child’s side.“But there’s still a place to go to find ways that what technology can do, which is amazing, will do something special and beyond and valuable which isn’t interfering with the story, or replacing the imagination. That’s my particular bugbear.”Nicolette Jones (left) speaking at The Bookseller Children’s Conference.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianI think Jones’ views are an important challenge to people making children’s apps that involve stories and reading, just asThe Gruffalo author Julia Donaldson’s criticism of apps in 2011was a challenge.Howareapps going to use interactivity and multimedia to do something “special and beyond and valuable”? How can they best serve storytelling and reading and children’s imaginations, rather than just giving them things to tap and swipe on?I don’t think apps can or should replace reading physical books with children – I’m a tech journalist with devices coming out of my ears and my two children get (carefully limited) tablet time every day, but when we settle down for their bedtime stories, it’salwaysbooks – but I think more developers can rise to Jones’ challenge and prove that apps can tell a story beautifully, rather than just extending books.Kate Wilson, the MD of the company mentioned by Jones – Nosy Crow – has similar views,publishing a blog post late last nightwith her response to the discussion earlier in the day.“I think that it is possible to create apps that deliver stories well and that involve children in new ways in the story,” she wrote, suggesting that it’s more important than ever for publishers to be exploring digital reading, to ensure that the growth of devices doesn’t have a negative impact on children’s skills.“I can absolutely imagine a scenario in which mass literacy is just a historical blip; something that started in in the 19th century and lasted until the middle of the 21st. Technology could easily make the ability to decode text irrelevant. I think that would be a terrible thing,” wrote Wilson.“I want to give children the incentive to learn to decode text. I think we can do that best by making sure that we use technology to engage children with reading in every way that we can.”Often, when I write about children’s apps for The Guardian, commenters steam in with variations on the argument “children should be READING books not jabbing at screens”.The inherent assumption here – that kids can’t do both over the course of their week, with good parenting the key to ensuring screen-jabbing doesn’t squeeze out reading – really bugs me. But I see where the view comes from: the importance of reading, as well as that one-on-one time with a parent that often comes with it.The best book-apps should be able to deliver both of those things, and the considered criticism from experts like Nicolette Jones is an incentive for more developers to strain to reach those heights.•50 best apps for kids from 2013 that parents can trust•Minecraft, YouTube, David Walliams: children’s books in 2014
Apple has released a second update to its new iOS 8 iPhone software in two days after its iOS 8.0.1 update that left iPhone owners unable to make calls or use their Touch ID fingerprint sensors, which waswithdrawn.Apple apologised for the update that crippled phones and required users to re-install older software, sayingthat it was sorry“for the great inconvenience experienced by users” and that it had worked “around the clock” to fix the flaw.The new iOS 8.0.2 update was released late on Thursday night and promises to fix connectivity and Touch ID issues created by the broken iOS 8.0.1 update, as well as bugs with Apple’s HealthKit apps, third-party keyboards and more than six other issues.Stalled Health launchThe bug affecting HealthKit, Apple’s health and fitness data service, forced third-party Health apps to be pulled from the App Store upon iOS 8’s release on 18 September, delaying the launch of Apple’s new health and fitness push.It is unknown what caused the issues with iOS 8.0.1, with users who updated through iTunes on a computer seemingly unaffected, and only those who updated directly on their iPhones finding the connectivity issues.User reports of iOS 8.0.2 suggest that the update has fixed the issues, although caution over installing the update is understandable for those with iPhones with iOS 8.•iOS update: Apple apologises for breaking new iPhones•Apple iOS 8 update withdrawn from App Store after user complaints•iOS 8 review: the iPhone and iPad get customised, extended and deepened
Apple has responded firmly to claims that its new iPhones can bend in use, saying that only nine customers have contacted it with problems since the phones went on sale last Friday. The company said in a statement earlier this week that it had sold 10m of its new iPhones over three days.The response comes after claims on social media that the new iPhone 6 and especially the larger 6 Plus can become warped or bent when carried in trouser pockets.“With normal use a bend in iPhone is extremely rare and through our first six days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted Apple with a bent iPhone 6 Plus,” said Apple spokesman Adam Howorth. “As with any Apple product, if you have questions please contact Apple.”The company has reacted quickly to the potentially damaging claims that the phones, which are made of aluminium alloy and at 7.1mm thick are among the thinnest available, could become misshapen.Claims that the larger phones could bend could affect sales of the phone, which generate more than 50% of the company’s revenues and a larger proportion of its profits. The first reports of bending surfaced earlier this week, but there has been no authoritative figure of how many people have been affected. The Guardian’s own testing of the phones did not show any problems with bending or warping.“Our iPhones are designed, engineered and manufactured to be both beautiful and sturdy,” Howorth said. He added that the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus “feature a precision engineered unibody enclosure constructed from machining a custom grade of 6000 series anodized aluminum, which is tempered for extra strength. They also feature stainless steel and titanium inserts to reinforce high stress locations and use the strongest glass in the smartphone industry.”6000 series aluminium alloy is one of the most widely used, and includes magnesium and silicon to harden it. Thousands of different aluminium alloys are used in a variety of industrial applications ranging from bridges, cranes and beer barrels to aircraft wings. Apple has used aluminium for the body of its products since the iPhone’s launch in 2007. The new iPhones start from an alloy ingot which is then hollowed and shaped to produce the chassis for the phone.“We chose these high-quality materials and construction very carefully for their strength and durability. We also perform rigorous tests throughout the entire development cycle including 3-point bending, pressure point cycling, sit, torsion, and user studies. iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus meet or exceed all of our high quality standards to endure everyday, real life use,” Howorth said.“Three-point bending” means that a force is applied at a single point - each end and the middle while the other two are held steady. “Pressure point cycling” means repetitive forces are applied to see whether a part fails under repeated stress, while a “sit test” aims to mimic the effect of sitting down with the phone in a back pocket - a situation that some are now claiming has led to the problem. Apple also gets its own employees to test the phones in real-world situations - which has previously seen staff lose prototype phones ahead of their launch.Gallery: how to pocket the new iPhones without bending them
First it was Heartbleed, now it’s Shellshock. Two vulnerabilities affecting many of the planet’s web users have hit widely deployed free and open source software in a matter of months.Heartbleed brought about distrust in OpenSSL, which was designed to make websites more secure but instead opened them up to attack.Earlier this week,Shellshock landed, allowing hackers to easily exploit many web servers that used the free and open source Bash command line shell, managed by the GNU Project.Malicious types are now trying to exploit the flaw en masse as attempts to close off the vulnerability have failed and critics have called for greater controls over open source software, though GNU Project founder Richard Stallman told the Guardian that Shellshock will soon be deemed by the world as only “a blip”.Bash exploits have thus far tried to place at least two different kinds of malware on vulnerable web servers, both of which seem to be creating armies of bots for future Distributed Denial of Service attacks, which typically flood website networks with traffic to take them offline, security experts have warned.As many as 715 users, most likely victims, connected to a server controlling one of the malware variants,notedJaime Blasco, director of AlienVault Labs. Romanian cybercriminals appear to be in control of that server, he added.There are indications Shellshock is considerably more prevalent than initially predicted too. “Right now people are pretty much falling over themselves trying to come up with the craziest attack vector possible,” said security expert Andreas Lindh, who successfully exploited his own Buffalo Linkstation Network Attached Storage (NAS) device using the Bash bug.The vulnerability was supposed to only affect those machines that ran Bash as their default command line interface, but mounting evidence has hinted even those using related interpreters could be exploited.Lindh’s NAS ran Bash alternative Dash by default and atweetfrom security researcher Dragos Ruiu appeared to back up Lindh’s early research. If derivatives of Bash are also vulnerable to Shellshock, this would widen the number of potential targets massively.“We should probably not make big a fuss about that just yet, but if it turns out that some old Dash shells are also vulnerable, then consumer appliances will definitely be at risk,” Lindh added.Bashing the Bash creatorFingers have now pointed to the GNU Project, which spawned Bash. Critics have noted only one person has been given the job of maintaining and updating Bash, though all developers are invited to contribute to the code.More controls are now needed to ensure future Heartbleeds and Shellshocks don’t send the world into a frenzy, they’ve argued.“The open source fans all say that it is the best approach as anyone can check the code. Sadly it doesn’t happen like that it practice as it gets forgotten about (this problem could be 25 years old) and a lot of the older code is written in opaque languages like C, not to mention not being well structured,” said Professor Alan Woodward, security expert from the Department of Computing at the University of Surrey.“It’s like trying to untangle 25-year-old spaghetti so not surprising it is never checked that often. These flaws are being found most often when someone notices an effect, not because they are trawling through the code.“It is a problem and needs to be addressed or there will be more of these legacy issues come back to bite us.”But Richard Stallman, founder of the GNU Project and the Free Software Foundation, disagrees. He believes that whilst Shellshock is evidently a big deal, like any vulnerability it will simply be a “blip” in the long-term.Free software (don’t call it open source, there’s a difference, according to Stallman’s GNU crew) is still going to keep people safer than proprietary code, which comes with purposeful vulnerabilities, known as backdoors, he added.“In the long term, this will be a blip, it’s patched, people will install. It will be one of thousands bugs that people will exploit,” Stallman told the Guardian. “When users control the program, they can add features and fix bugs.“Any program can have a bug. But a proprietary program is likely to have intentional bugs, malicious functionality.”He said the GNU Project always had just “barely enough” resources, but only because the more backing it received, the more it tried to do.•What is the Shellshock bug? Is it worse than Heartbleed?
A breakfast of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEverything you need to know about the Shellshock Bash bug &gt;&gt; Troy HuntRemember Heartbleed? If you believe the hype today, Shellshock is in that league and with an equally awesome name albeit bereft of a cool logo (someone in the marketing department of these vulns needs to get on that). But in all seriousness, it does have the potential to be a biggie and as I did with Heartbleed, I wanted to put together something definitive both for me to get to grips with the situation and for others to dissect the hype from the true underlying risk.And when he says definitive, he is.Startup is building a wearable air-quality monitor &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewA startup is building a wearable air-quality monitor using a sensing technology that can cheaply detect the presence of chemicals around you in real time. By reporting the information its sensors gather to an app on your smartphone, the technology could help people with respiratory conditions and those who live in highly polluted areas keep tabs on exposure.Berkeley, California-based Chemisense also plans to crowdsource data from users to show places around town where certain compounds are identified.Brilliant application.Do the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus Bend? &gt;&gt; Consumer Reports NewsGlenn Derene:as luck would have it, Consumer Reports has exactly the right equipment to test this sort of thing, and we've used it to test theflexibility of phones before. We want to do a scientifically valid test of the structural strength of the new iPhones as well as that of comparable phones, and we'll have results soon. So stay tuned.Sure to satisfy everyone.'Bendgate' video: is it fake? Questions over editing &gt;&gt; Pocket-LintElyse Betters:It's worth mentioning that one of the most popular videos from yesterday, which reportedly showed an iPhone 6 Plus bending with little pressure applied, appears to be edited in a way that might reveal the video is a fake.Notice the video shows the iPhone 6 Plus drastically bending at 1:40 minutes, and the time on the phone at that point displays 2:26 PM. The man in the video then proceeds to explain around 2:35 minutes into the video that he just finished bending the phone with his thumbs.But there's one problem with that version of events: The iPhone 6 Plus he supposedly "just" bent displays the time - 1:59 PM - around 2:45 minutes into the video, roughly 27 minutes before the smartphone is shown succumbing to little pressure.The Fappening, Ebola-chan, revenge porn: Why isn't 4chan's founder accountable for 4chan's crimes? &gt;&gt; SlateDavid Auerbach:Obviously anything illegal should be policed, but what about morally questionable but legal activities, such as encouraging certain forms of harassment?Responsibility for drawing this line lies only with Poole himself. Tech gadflyAnil Dash once wrote, "[I]f your website is full of assholes, it's your fault." Dash excoriated many of 4chan's anonymous policies and those who share Poole's hands-off attitude: "[T]ake some goddamn responsibility for what you unleash on the world." Whether or not you agree with Poole's views on freedom of speech (I myself am in fact sympathetic, if not in total agreement), Dash is right that Poole bears the ultimate responsibility for the standards—or lack thereof—set in place on 4chan. For all the bile directed at "4chan" and "4chan users," very little of it has been directed at the single person with the ability to change the site's standards and enforce them, should he so desire. It's one thing to share a site with awful people; it's another to make money off of them.Auerbach's later point about Brendan Eich (ex-Mozilla) and Poole is worth considering. And Poole isn't above censoring 4chan.BlackBerry Passport review &gt;&gt; The VergeDan Seifert:BlackBerry is also trying to rectify accessing your work email, documents, and communications across the various devices in your life with BlackBerry Blend. Blend lets you connect your iPad, Android tablet, Windows PC, or Mac to your BlackBerry via USB, Wi-Fi, or cellular networks and access your BBM messages, email accounts, calendar and other things without picking up your phone. It's designed to keep everything segregated — your work email and calendar never integrate with your personal ones and no work data gets stored on the computer or tablet. BlackBerry wasn't able to provide a way for me to test Blend in time for this review, but the demo I was shown performed as promised. It's something that will likely make IT managers at BlackBerry's corporate customers happy, if not the BlackBerry users themselves.Like the Passport's hardware design, BlackBerry 10.3 got in the way of me being productive more than it helped me. I can't archive anything in the email app, which is soul-crushing for this Gmail user. Collaborating on Google Drive documents with my colleagues is all but impossible on the Passport. I also can't confer with my coworkers on the Passport with our group chat app of choice (Slack), so it was difficult to fully integrate it into my mobile workflow.With due respect to Seifert (who has done a thorough review), the people at whom the Passport is aimed probably don't use Google mail or calendars or documents. It's for governments and businesses wanting high security. In that sense, the ruler against which the Passport is generally being measured simply isn't appropriate. The key question is: can it sell enough to BlackBerry's core users to keep it going?At LA Clippers, Steve Ballmer prizes team tested by adversity &gt;&gt; ReutersIt should come as no surprise, then, that the Clippers will be a Microsoft organization. The son of a Ford Motor Co manager, he's always been a company and product loyalist, banning his own family from using Apple's iPhones."Most of the Clippers on are Windows, some of the players and coaches are not," Ballmer said."And Doc kind of knows that's a project. It's one of the first things he said to me: 'We are probably going to get rid of these iPads, aren't we?' And I said, 'Yeah, we probably are.' But I promised we would do it during the off season."One in three Vietnamese uses smartphone &gt;&gt; TuoitrenewsOne out of three people in Vietnam, or 36% of the population of 90 million, now own a smartphone, nearly double last year's figure, according to findings from a Google-backed online behavior study.Vietnamese smartphone usagee rose from 20% in 2013 to 36%, Google said, citing findings from the Global Connected Consumer Study 2014 by market research firm TNS, part of Kantar, one of the world's largest insight, information and consultancy groups.The number is still lower than the global average of 49%, or the 40% recorded in Thailand, the market researcher said. Fifty-one percent of people in Malaysia have a smartphone, while the figure in Singapore is 85 percent, according to TNS.49% of mobile users have a smartphone? That figure sneaked in quietly.The rise of the hacker bounty hunter &gt;&gt; NYMagKevin Roose:HackerOne is a sort of start-up security bazaar, built not on the hacker principles of vandalism or greed but something much more like monetized goodwill—a crackerjack coder discovers a corporate vulnerability, writes a note to company HQ, gets a thank-you note and often a payment (anywhere from $25 to $5,000 and up) in return. On the flip side, a company like Secret—or Twitter, Yahoo, and Square, all of which run programs through the site—gets to mobilize a volunteer IT army. HackerOne provides the infrastructure for these arrangements but stays out of the deals themselves, merely tacking on a 20 percent fee for each successful bounty. Think of it as TaskRabbit for hackers.Bug-bounty programs aren't new in the IT world. (Netscape ran one in 1995, offering T-shirts and mugs to hackers who found software glitches.) But today's efforts are bigger and more systematized. Since opening for business in 2012, HackerOne has raised $9 million from investors and staffed up to 18 employees, making it a mainstream tech player in its own right.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Ryder Cup interactiveRyder Cup interactive
It's Friday.
Deridedas part of the hipsters’ uniform,malignedby women’s magazines as unflattering,declared dead, only torefuse to die– it has long been clear that skinny jeans can do nothing right.This week, however, skinny jeans have committed their latest, perhaps most egregious transgression:bending wearers’ new iPhones.It seems the marriage of tight jeans and shoddily-made cellphones has not been a happy one. But skinny jeans loyalists will be all to aware that it isn’t just iPhones that their pinched denim have ruined.Skinny jeans are a threat to the very existence of the human race, responsible as they are for giving menlow sperm counts. Andurinary tract infections. Andtwisted testicles.Skinny jeans can also lead to bladder weakness and fungal infections.Skinny jeans are anti-wallet. This reporter had to replace his credit-card holder with a much smaller variety in order to halt questions about the large square bulge around his hip. The switch to the small card holder itself was not without consequence. On one occasion the absence of the larger wallet meant this reporter was not carrying his Duane Reade balance rewards card, which in turn led to unclaimed balance rewards.Skinny jeans, despite the name, are no friend to skinny legs. Once easily concealed under baggy clothing, in skinny jeans there is no place for the skinny leg to hide. Which led to this reporter attempting to do squats, which in turn led to a rather sore back.Skinny jeans are no good to the knobbly-kneed person. The shame of knobbly-knees was once easily masked, but in the skinny jean there is no place to hide. The skinny jean is responsible for deep-seated anxiety over the knobbliness of this reporter’s knees.Skinny jeans hate cycling, and cyclists. They impede the bending of the knee, making pedalling difficult. Interestingly, bicycles hate skinny jeans, too, and the act of cycling will pull the skinny jean out of shape around the knee. None of this makes it any better for the cyclist, who completes an unnecessarily difficult bike ride only to find that his skinny jeans looklike cavalry pants.Skinny jeans have made tying shoe laces into a real chore. The same goes for putting on socks. And itching ankles. And picking things up off the ground. And being alive.Skinny jeans mean the days of getting undressed gracefully are gone. Skinny jeans mean the days of undressing someone else gracefully are gone.Skinny jeans have won.
Cartier International, the luxury watch and jewellery company, is attempting to block websites allegedly selling counterfeit goods in a test case that could have far-reaching consequences for the internet.Lawyers for the Paris-based company launched their claim at the high court in London on Thursday. It is believed to be the first time online service providers have been asked to close down websites on the grounds that they feature pirated trademark logos.The case against BSkyB, BT, TalkTalk and other firms raises concerns about the impact on online businesses and possible restrictions on freedom of speech. The Open Rights Group (ORG), a digital campaign organisation, has intervened in the brand protection action.ORG’s legal director, Elizabeth Knight, said: “As the court is being asked to extend the circumstances in which blocking orders are granted, it’s vital that the wider public interest is taken into account. We hope that our intervention will help ensure that future claimants cannot use blocking orders to restrict legitimate activity or free speech.”David Allen Green, a lawyer at Preiskel &amp; Co which is acting for ORG, said: “Nobody sensible wants to give comfort or support to counterfeiters. But it is not difficult to see the problems which such injunctions may cause to other people using the internet.“For example, a whole website could be blocked just because of the activities of a few sellers. Or a rights holder may threaten to apply for an injunction on the pretext of an alleged infringement when all that is happening is unwelcome consumer criticism or parody.”The judge, Mr Justice Arnold, has asked for submissions on how the rights of legitimate internet users would be affected by injunctions against counterfeiters. Cartier International, which established its reputation in the 19th century by crafting tiaras and necklaces for royalty, declined to comment on the case.
When Google Wallet was introduced in May 2011, it looked as though Google was going to push cashless in-store (as opposed to just online) payments in a big way.“You’ll be able to tap, pay and save using your phone and near field communication (NFC). We’re field testing Google Wallet now and plan to release it soon,”said the blogpost introducing it. “With Google Wallet, we’re building an open commerce ecosystem, and we’re planning to develop APIs that will enable integration with numerous partners.”The first partner was Citi Mastercard - but since then, Google Wallet has barely made any progress. It is still limited to the US, with no signs of being extended beyond those shores.But the introduction ofApple Paywith the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus has renewed interest in NFC-based payment systems.And with more than 10m NFC-enabled iPhones having been sold and distributed worldwide, of which perhaps half have gone to the US, the question is: how effectively will Apple Pay compete with Google Wallet?Figuring the numbersGoogle declined to give the number of downloads ofGoogle Wallet, which is available as a download from Google Play. (It is region-controlled, and so cannot be installed on devices outside the US.)The current number of downloads shows as between 10m and 50m - offering a wide margin for error.However, based on download figures on the Google Play store, the total installed base is less than 20m. Download milestones recorded on the Internet Archive show that itpassed 1min August 2012, 5m download byMarch2013 and passed 10m downloads between4 Octoberand9 October2013.Based on that data, the growth in downloads fits a straight-line extrapolation, which yields this graph:Google Wallet downloads can be estimated by a straight-line graph fitted to its download milestones recorded in the Internet Archive. By September 2014, they would be below 20m.Photograph: GuardianThat suggests that there have been fewer than 20m downloads of Google Wallet. Although it comes preinstalled on the Nexus line of phones, those have had comparatively low sales - in the single-digit millions in the US - suggesting 20m as the maximum number in use.Google declined to comment on the Guardian estimate. However, sources with authoriative sources at the company indicated that it is “not far away from the truth” and that 20m is viewed there as “actually a good number”.Downloaded - but who’s using?But of 20m downloads, how many might be active? Once again, Google hasn’t released any information.Of 50,000 Google Play reviews, a total of 7,135 (14.4%) are one-star reviews - which typically use phrases like “doesn’t work” - and 1,699 (3.4%) are two-star reviews, using phrases like “not finished” or “refuses to work after update”.If we assume that those who gave the app one or two stars are not active users (which seems reflected in their comments) while those with three or more starsdouse it, that suggests there are about 16.4 million devices using Google Wallet in the US. If one assumes that only the proportion who give it one star don’t use it, the figure is 17.1m.Compared to the total 89.4m Android userbase in the US (via data from ComScore), that means around 19% - or nearly one in five - has the Google Wallet app and probably uses it at least occasionally.Slow progressThe slow progress of Google Wallet for retail transactions might seem surprising, but there’s a simple reason why it hasn’t exploded into use - there are very few NFC-equipped retail outlets in the US. According to Mark Hung of Gartner, in 2013 there were only about 100,000 NFC-equipped outlets in the US - out of millions of retail outlets.Wallet has also been criticised for being difficult to use. “I had to first unlock my phone by typing a PIN, then open my wallet app and unlock that with a separate PIN,” noted Daniel Wolfe in anarticle in May. Nielsen in July 2014foundthat out of all those who had made an NFC-enabled purchase in the US, only 37% had done so with a phone.The total value in the US of mobile payments (which includes both Google Wallet and the carriers’ own Softcard, recently rebranded from Isis) in 2013 was expected to be $37bn, up 50% from $24.7bn in 2012.But how much was down to Wallet? Google hasn’t released any data on the value or volume of transactions made through it, either in real-world shops or for mobile sites and apps online. In September 2012 itclaimed that “usage has more than doubled”with the addition of multiple credit cards to those accepted by Wallet.The biggest problem Google has faced is Softcard, which uses mobile carrier-issued sims - which block Google Wallet payments in shops. All the big US carriers, except Sprint, are Softcard members - making it likely that Google Wallet’s use for real-world payments, as opposed to online ones, has been stymied.Apple however may break the logjam, as its NFC model routes around Softcard - which now looks under threat.Different modelsGoogle’s model for Wallet differs substantially from that of Apple Pay. In Apple’s model, the user stores a secured “token” issued by their bank on their phone; this token is then used for transactions, authorised by the user’s fingerprint on the phone’s Touch ID system. Apple receives a small cut of the transaction - reported to be 0.15%. But Apple is not involved in the transaction: it is not involved in any of the processing, though the banks which authorise the transactions can “see” its involvement because of the token used.Google Wallet, by contrast, does not use the same bank-issued token mechanism. Instead, users’ cards are “enrolled” into Google’s system, which then becomes a front end for any transactions - so that when a user buys something, Google makes the actual payment and in effect charges it back to the user’s card. Google thus “sees” every transaction by every user.While this is advantageous for Google’s data collection model, it has costs. Bloomberg BusinessWeekreported last yearthat “Google Wallet is leaking money”. In its report, it said that “Google pays such high fees to the credit-card companies it works with, though, that it loses money on every transaction, says Osama Bedier, who stepped down as head of Wallet on May 20 and will shortly leave the company.”The rollout of Apple Pay - and more importantly the installation of NFC-enabled terminals in stores across the US - should mean greater uptake for Google Wallet.But although Google Wallet has a far larger installed base, Apple’s iPhone sales suggest that it could quickly challenge Google Wallet in the US for real-world transactions, and the company is also implementing payments for apps.That means the stage is set for NFC to take off - and also for a fresh battle to be fought, in which Apple is claiming privacy (it doesn’t track transactions) and usability (where transactions are authorised via its TouchID system) while Google can claim broader reach through its installed base.Google may face €6bn antitrust fine
Apple has issued and then immediately withdrawn the first update of its latest mobile operating system, just a week after the release of iOS 8.It is thought to be the first time that the company has pulled a software update from its App Store.The release of iOS 8 followed the launch of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus earlier this month, but the operating system has been plagued by a range of problems, including wireless connectivity problems and battery drain.In addition, Wednesday’s update affected the way the device connects to mobile networks for some users, as well as the Touch ID fingerprint sensor.An Apple spokesperson said: “We have received reports of an issue with the iOS 8.0.1 update. We are actively investigating these reports and will provide information as quickly as we can. In the meantime we have pulled back the iOS 8.0.1 update.”The technology website ZDNet reported that hundreds of users had said on Twitter that they could not get a mobile signal after downloading the update, with their iPhones remaining in “searching” mode or giving a “no signal” message.Its tests in the US and Britain confirmed the network connectivity problem, which may be limited to the iPhone 6 models. The update is also available for some older iPhones and iPads.The problem could only be solved by reverting to the original version of iOS 8, ZDNet said. The site haspublished a guide to rolling back.The move will prove an embarrassment for Apple, which prides itself on the smooth functioning of its operating system.The update to iOS 8 was also intended to fix bugs with the much-heralded HealthKit apps, which will integrate with the new Apple Watch that is yet to go on sale.
Ed Vaizey, the government minister for culture and the digital economy, has announced an initiative called the Next Gen Skills Academy, designed to give 16- to 18-year-olds a fresh route into the games, animation and visual effects industries through apprenticeships and dedicated college places.NGSA is described as a “virtual resource” which will connect schools and further education colleges with blue-chip companies from the creative industries.Sony, Microsoft, Ubisoft, Framestore and Pinewood Studios have signed up to the scheme and are contributing £3.6m, with £2.7m investment from the UK government’s Commission for Employment and Skills.“Next Gen Skills Academy is a network of further education colleges, providing places for students as well as apprenticeships,” said Vaizey, speaking at the videogames show Eurogamer Expo at Earls Court in London.“It will really provide a step-change in terms of the skills needed for a career in the industry. We do have a very good ecology of games courses, but the Next Gen Skills Academy takes this to another level. There’s a narrow focus of working with key companies, who are not just putting in cash, but services in kind in terms of work placements, expertise and skills.”Along with around 1,200 student places, Next Gen Skills Academy will encompass 150 apprenticeships, designed to give students the skills for jobs in the games, animation or VFX industries.“The apprenticeship programme is going to be one of the most interesting areas, as it will give people a different route into the industry than university,” said Gina Jackson, acting managing director of NGSA.Katherine Cottrell, manager of the UK Commission for Employment and Skills, said the scheme would encourage more diverse applicants, particularly to try and increase the number of women in the games industry form the current all-time low of 2%.“The diversity issue was something that was really attractive – this was an opportunity to give people who don’t go to universities or through the traditional academic route a chance to get into the industry, irrespective of gender or ethnic background.”Jackson admitted the next 12 months will involve putting infrastructure in place, including setting up a bespoke e-learning platform, defining the curriculum (with heavy industry involvement) and getting the schools and colleges involved.The scheme will begin in September 2015, and is inviting 15-year-olds to register their interest via theNGSA website.52% of gamers are women -but the industry doesn’t know it
The clouds over Apple’s launch of its large-screened iPhone 6 Plus - which some users say they have unwittingly bent - could have a silver lining for accessory makers. Or more precisely, an aluminium one – to strengthen it.STK Accessories, which makes iPhone and iPad accessories, has begun a crash program to build a “bumper” that will fit around the 5.5in 6 Plus to make it more resistant to bending. It comes afterreports this weekthat some users had found the phones bending after carrying them in trouser pockets and subjected to stresses from sitting.The company aims to have the product on sale within a month, though other companies are expected to offer similar products in the same timeframe.“We had a meeting this morning - our retailers are asking for something for this, and our product team has come up with an interesting solution,” Deborshi Sarkar, the global head of sales at STK, told the Guardian.The company has instructed its factories in Shenzhen, China, to begin making an aluminium bumper that will fit around the large phone and “prevent it being bent”, says Sarkar.Though the iPhone 6 Plus is made of a strengthened aluminium alloy, some owners have reported problems with bending.Independent testshave shown that the 6 Plus is easier to bend when force is applied than other similarly-sized devices - but it’s still unclear how many people would be able to apply such force unintentionally.Apple said it sold 10m of both phones worldwide in its first three days on sale; analysts say survey data suggests the smaller 4.7in iPhone 6 has outsold the 5.5in 6 Plus by about 3:1, suggesting 2.5m of the sales were 6 Plus models.For accessory makers, though, the news of “Bendgate” could be a fresh boon, after they were caught flat-footed by the announcement of the larger phone.Unlike other smartphone makers, Apple does not share any details of forthcoming handsets with acessory makers ahead of its launch. Many had thus only been expecting a single new iPhone that would be larger than last year’s iPhone 5S and 5C, due to leaks from Apple’s supply chain over the past few months - but the “phablet”-sized 6 Plus caught accessory makers by surprise.Now, though, that could be turned to their advantage as the 6 Plus has a perceived problem. The situation mirrors that in 2010, when the newly released iPhone 4 was found to suffer from phone reception problems when held in certain positions - which Apple resolved by offering a free bumper to customers. Accessory makers cleaned up though by offering their own cases.Sarkar says the 6 Plus’s “bumper” from STK will cost about £15 - but that the most important element in the modern accessory business is “time to market”: the early product gets the customer looking to protect their investment from lumps, bumps and inadvertent overstretching.But Sarkar also thinks that Apple will take some measures to strengthen the 6 Plus itself: he thinks that it will change the composition of the alloy to increase its resistance to bending, which will be visible in future batches.Apple has made no comment on the reports of bending of some of its phones.Apple 6 and 6 Plus can bend, users complain
YouTube channels Vice News, Zoella and The Slow Mo Guys will soon be familiar to millions more Brits, thanks to mainstream advertising campaigns funded by Google’s online video service.YouTube is paying to run TV, print and billboard ads in the UK for the three channels, as well as running online ads on its own and other websites.The campaigns follow the launch of similar ads for prominent YouTube channels in the US earlier in the year, includingYouTubers Bethany Mota, Michelle Phan and Rosanna Pansino.In the UK, Vice News, Zoella and The Slo Mo Guys will feature in 30-second YouTube-branded TV commercials running around primetime shows including X Factor.YouTube is also paying for billboards, bus and tube station posters across London, as well as digital ads running on its own homepage, and media partners including Glamour, Wired, Sky Sports and The Guardian.It’s part of YouTube’s wider drive to capitalise on the popularity of its top channels among young people, while boosting awareness of their stars among older people who’ve never heard of them.“Across the globe people are watching more than six billion hours of video each month, as they go online for everything from beauty and fashion advice, to gaming tips and cool stuff, to news and sports commentary,” said YouTube’s partnerships director Ben McOwen Wilson.“YouTube stars are not only entertaining us through their quirky videos and updates but building long lasting relationships with their fans.”The three channels chosen for the company’s first YouTuber-led advertising push in the UK are certainly popular. British fashion and beauty vloggerZoellahas more than 6m subscribers and nearly 265m total views of her main channel, for example.The Slow Mo Guys, who are also based in the UK, specialise in slow-motion videos, from jumping dogs to bursting six-foot water balloons. Their channel has nearly 4.4m subscribers and nearly 430m total views.Vice News, meanwhile, has just over 930,000 subscribers and 130m total views for what it pitches as “a news channel created by and for a connected generation”.It’s part of Vice Media, which recentlysecured a $500m investmentfrom Silicon Valley firm Technology Crossover Ventures and US cable broadcaster A+E Networks, which valued the company at more than $2.5bn.Vice is thus least in need of the three of help from YouTube to fund its marketing, although its news channel fits neatly into Google’s wider aims to position its online video service as a thriving, mainstream alternative to traditional TV networks.For someone like Zoella, TV ads may help her reach a different audience, but not necessarily that much larger – as a comparison between her 6m YouTube subscribers and the8.7m viewers averaged by last week’s Sunday episode of X Factorshows.•From YouTube to Vice – 10 trends changing how we watch TV
A hacker tool popular across underground Russian crime networks has been used in attacks on the Ukrainian government, indicating the use of “privateers” for digital espionage, according to researchers.The malware, known as BlackEnergy, appears to have been used in cyberattacks against Georgia during the Russo-Georgian conflict of 2008 too, but has also been operated by criminals as a means to steal credit card data.This summer, it was tailored to hit a number of Ukrainian targets. Researchers from security firm F-Secure said Ukrainian Railways and infrastructure related to government bodies in Dnipropetrovsk, a city in the southeast of Ukraine, were in the crosshairs of the hackers. The researchers uncovered the hackers’ use of proxy servers - used to reroute internet traffic - linked to those targets’ networks.The current “working theory” is that the attackers were carrying out hits on a wide range of targets to earn themselves a living, but were “somehow co-opted” into carrying out state espionage, F-Secure’s Sean Sullivan suggested to the Guardian. “They used to steal credit cards and now they have a different kind of buyer,” Sullivan added.Victims were sent emails containing documents that ostensibly offered information on Russian plans to take over the world,said researchersfrom another anti-virus firm ESET. One appeared to be astory from the Guardian, entitled ‘Russian ambassadors: next we’ll take Catalonia, Venice, Scotland and Alaska’. Though this was a genuine article online, anyone who clicked on the associated Word file would open themselves up to BlackEnergy infection.The malware can scoop up reams of information from victims’ PCs, including passwords and system information. “The nature of the information being gathered seems to be generic rather than targeted. This may be because the malware has roots from crimeware,” F-Secure’sreportread. “The information is still useful however as such data makes it easier for the gang to plan any further attacks on the same targets.”Sullivan said many of the targets were using an old form of anti-virus protection, where “signatures” or markers of malware are used to blacklist them and ban them from the network. The BlackEnergy hackers, just like most cybercriminals on the planet, have tweaked their code so anti-virus won’t recognise them as there is no corresponding signature.“The attackers don’t need a lot of sophistication to get round a 2001 technology,” Sullivan said.The so-called Quedagh gang behind the attacks has been operating since 2010, F-Secure said, but their tools have been used by various cyber criminals since 2007.There is much suspicion around Russian government involvement in cyber attacks on foreign entities, especially those related to the current conflict in Ukraine. UK defence contractor BAE Systems reported in March thatUkraine was facing a barrage of attacks from digital spiesas tensions escalated between the two countries.TheFBI is investigating whether Russia backed recent attacks on US banks, including JP Morgan, in response to sanctions imposed by the west since the Putin regime’s support of rebels in the east of Ukraine.
I need to purchase a couple of PCs for a small but growing business. I like the look of all-in-one desktops as they take up less space. We will be using them for email, spreadsheets, our CRM, accounts etc – general office stuff. We use Microsoft Office Professional 2010 and Sage 50 Accounts 2013.I have done a bit of research, and have been looking for an i5 or i7 processor, 8GB of memory, 2TB hard drive, 23in screen, and a wireless keyboard and mouse. We would like Windows 8.1 – we currently run Windows 8 on our existing PCs. Will these be suitable for business use?SharonAll-in-ones have been around since the 1970s with machines like theCommodore PetandSuperbrain, and they do have advantages, such as eliminating external wiring. However, they also have disadvantages, compared with buying a tower system with a separate screen. The main ones are as follows:1. With a tower system, you can easily replace either the system box or the screen without the risk of losing both when only one of them develops a fault. With an all-in-one, you can’t replace the PC without dumping the screen, even though the screen may be perfectly usable.2. Tower systems have more space inside, and are easier to expand, upgrade or repair. Towers have drive bays for multiple hard drives, SSDs (solid state drives), and optical drives, and they have expansion slots for fast graphics cards, adding ports and so on.3. Having more space also means more cooling space. Towers can use cheaper, faster processors that use more power and run hotter than laptops and all-in-ones. All-in-ones are more like giant laptops and suffer from similar heat problems, though not as badly.4. Buying a tower system enables you to make the best use of your money, since you can decide how much to spend on the system, the screen, and the keyboard and mouse. (Bundled keyboards and mice may not be very good and it’s better to pick ones you’ll enjoy using.)Obviously, not all desktops are created equal: they vary in size from tinySFF (small form factor)PCs to hulking great towers. If you buy a small box, it takes up less space, but it won’t be as expandable. You can also do something about the wiring problem by buying a wireless keyboard and mouse, a wireless printer, and even install a Wi-Fi card. But a desktop still isn’t going to give you the uncluttered look that you can get with a properly set up all-in-one.As you’ll have gathered, I generally prefer tower PCs because I can upgrade them. But I expect I am in a minority, and that most people never open their PCs. There’s not much point in having a flexible, upgradeable PC if you are never going to upgrade it.In that context, it’s not surprising that all-in-one PCs are becoming more popular, both in homes and in offices.Set the specI think your specification is a good one for a PC that you will want to run comfortably until 2020, at which point you should replace it, because parts are increasingly likely to fail. This applies to the hard drive in particular. According to Backblaze, a cloud company that buys thousands of disk drives, about 20% fail in the first four years, and I reckon there’s a 50:50 chance the drive will fail by the end of 2020.A fourth-generation (aka Haswell) Intel Core i5 is the right sort of chip to go for, and the Core i7 isn’t worth the extra unless you do things like video processing. Your current workload would run on a cheaper Core i3, but the Core i5 gives you a “burst mode” for handling harder tasks, and some spare capacity in case you add extra applications.Although 4GB of memory would be enough, I’d certainly recommend 8GB for the same reason. In fact, I think you will need it. Web developers are already swamping PCs with slow, bloated, memory-hungry Javascript, and the chance that they’ll suddenly get a clue is effectively zero. (I don’t think Javascript is going to get much better either.)I’m not sure if you really need 2TB hard drives, but again, it’s nice to have the space if it doesn’t add much to the cost.Screen size is partly a matter of taste, but 23in is a good size with a resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels, aka 1080p aka Full HD (High Definition). Some people prefer 27in screens but I find them a bit overpowering, and prefer to add a smaller second screen (usually the one from my previous PC, unless the colour rendering is too far off). Windows happily supports two or more screens.If you’re already using Windows 8 then the 64-bit Windows 8.1 Update 1 is a natural choice, since it works better with a mouse and keyboard. I don’t think it’s worth hanging on for Windows 9 (aka Threshold), though it should be a good upgrade when it arrives. We’re expecting some Windows 9 news on Monday, and it should ship by the end of next year, if it doesn’t make the end of April.Hardware choicesThere’s a wide range of all-in-ones from the white 19.5inLenovo C260 at £319.99to theHP Z1 G2 Workstation at £2,335. The Lenovo has a humble Pentium J2900 chip whereas the HP Z1 G2 has an Intel Xeon. I like the Z1 because you can get at the insides in seconds.The main suppliers of business PCs are Dell, HP and China’s Lenovo, which took over IBM’s PC division. Have a look at the HP Recline 23-k210na at£999.99or£1,049, theDell OptiPlex 9030 at £964.80, and either the Lenovo ThinkCentre M83zif available or the Lenovo IdeaCentre A530 at£949.97or£1,049.99.Cheaper options include the 23in Acer Aspire Z3-615 with a Core i3 processor (£549.99), or a Core i5 (£714.24), and the 21.5in Asus ET2221 (£774.28). The Asus has a 2.7GHz Core i5-4430S, 6GB of memory, a 2TB hard drive, Blu-ray, and a Full HD screen.My Dell OptiPlex 9030 pricing included current discounts and three years of next-business-day on-site service. This can be incredibly useful if you’re running a business. Consumer-oriented PCs are cheaper, but there’s an argument for buying business build quality and a business service from a company that makes its living serving businesses.In any case, it seems reasonable to spend £1,000 on a PC that you’ll plan to use for around 2,000 days or, preferably, 1,400 weekdays. It’s cheap compared to buying Starbucks’, or parking.
In December, Amazon announced that it intended to deliver packages to customers using drones. But its “Amazon Prime Air” initiative, revealed on US current affairs show 60 Minutes, waswidely ridiculedfor being an over-hyped announcement with little to show for it.This summer, Google demonstrated its own drone-based delivery service, using a fixed-wing aircraft to deliver packages including chocolate bars, dog treats and cattle vaccines to farmers in the Australian outback.But now, German delivery firm DHL has beaten the tech firms to the post, announcing a regular drone delivery service for the first time, nine months after it launched its “parcelcopter” research project in December 2013.The service will use an autonomous quadcopter to deliver small parcels to the German island of Juist, a sandbar island 12km into the North Sea from the German coast, inhabited by 2,000 people. Deliveries will include medication and other goods that may be “urgently needed”.Flying under 50 meters to avoid entering regulated air traffic corridors, the drone takes a fully automated route to a dedicated landing area on Juist. “From there,” the company says, “a DHL courier will then deliver the goods to the recipient. To optimally secure the goods during transport, DHL Parcel developed a special air-transport container that is extremely lightweight as well as weather- and waterproof.”There are still hitches to overcome. Although the flight is automated, the parcelcopter will be “constantly monitored” by a ground station on the German mainland for safety reasons, and to ensure compliance with the nation’s regulations. The ground station will also liaise with air traffic control.Nonetheless, the company is taking orders for the parcelcopter’s regular flights, which islanders can place at the island’s pharmacy. The scheduled flights will focus on times when conventional ways of delivering packaged, such as ferries and manned flights, are not available.“Our DHL parcelcopter 2.0 is already one of the safest and most reliable flight systems in its class that meets the requirements needed to fulfill such a mission,” said Jürgen Gerdes, CEO of Deutsche Post DHL’s Post – eCommerce – Parcel Division. “We are proud that this additional service can create added value for the residents of and visitors to the island of Juist and are pleased with the support we have received from the involved communities and agencies.”Rules for autonomous vehicles differ in jurisdictions around the world, but in the UK DHL would have a hard time institution the same project. British rules laid out by the Civil Aviation Authority limit unmanned vehicles to operating at least 50m from a building or person, and always within sight of an operator.As such, fully autonomous vehicles such as the parcelcopter aren’t legal to fly in the UK, although a CAA spokesman told the Guardian in July that “the line-of-sight provision could go away some time in the future when we see a device able to make decisions about avoiding whatever objects are out there”.DHL’s scheme is similar in practice to that detailed by Amazon: a small rotary-blade copter, carrying packages to and from locations which it delivers by landing. But in finding the niche in Juist, the company has overcome several of the difficulties that Amazon faces in launching its own service: the copters do not have to navigate complex urban and suburban environments, nor do they have to deal with the possibility of vandalism or theft once they land.Google, with its own prototype drone delivery service, has taken a different tack. Using a fixed-wing aircraft, the drone can fly further, faster; and it doesn’t land at all to deliver the package, instead lowering the items on a tether while it hovers.Amazon seeks US permission to test Prime Air delivery drones
The bigger screens but thinner bodies of Apple’s new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus models have come at the cost of rigidity, according to owners who say they bent while being carried in trouser pockets.A number of users across variousforums,sitesand Twitter have reported – and pictured – that their phones have become warped after they sat or bent down with them in front and rear trouser pockets.The reports come just after an insurance company claimed that the new iPhones are the most robust ever – though its tests didn’t include bending.The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus chassis is milled from a solid piece of aluminium alloy whose composition is secret. The weak area of the phone appears to be around the volume buttons, where the frame is at its thinnest and creates a fulcrum point around which the phone bends. Surprisingly, the screen does not break when the phone bends – though it does if the phone is then bent back to a flat profile.Apple is not the first to have the problem of a large-screened metal-framed smartphone bending under use. Sony’s Xperia Z1, which had a 5in screen and a metal frame, saw users complaining that they bent in pockets, whileSamsung Galaxy S4 usershad similar complaints, as didBlackBerry Q10 users.The exact number of iPhone 6 users affected is unknown. The Guardian found dozens of people on Twitter whose iPhone 6 or 6 Plus had bent – though there are also hundreds more echoing news reports and the pictures put up by those who have been affected.Oups, l&#39;iPhone 6 se déforme dans la poche !http://t.co/szFfovaHB7pic.twitter.com/Zru9uozhMU&mdash; Florian Paulmier (@FlorianP123)September 23, 2014The iPhone 6 Could Bend In Your Pocket… !! haha.. love u APPLEpic.twitter.com/MJV2s5kT1a&mdash; Nelson Cardoz (@nelsoncardoz)September 23, 2014Testing by Unbox Therapyshowed that the iPhone 6 Plus can be bent by applying substantial force by hand.The amount of force required to bend the smartphone is unlikely to be repeated in all but the skinniest of trousers. Before conducting the test, Lewis Hilsenteger from Unbox Therapy said his 6 Plus showed signs of being bent simply from being in his trouser pocket.The Guardian’s testing of the phones over the past two weeks has not revealed any tendency towards deformation when normal care is taken.Bending the iPhone 6 Plus.Apple had not replied to request for comment by the time of publication.Hilsenteger conducted a similar test with the 5.7in Samsung Galaxy Note 3 phablet, which warped to a lesser extent and then came back into shape due to its primarily plastic construction. The Note 3 is 2.5mm thicker than the iPhone 6 Plus, which is 7mm thick.‘Bigger and more durable than any before them’Reports of the phones’ bending comes as SquareTrade, which offers extended warranties on products, concluded that the new iPhones were the most robust yet in its “breakability” rating. The company put the phones through submersion in water, drops and sliding tests.“Both new iPhones are bigger and more durable than any before them,” the SquareTrade spokesman said in the YouTube video of the company’s testing regime. “The iPhone 6 passed all of our tests with flying colours. The iPhone 6 Plus also did extremely well but it’s so big that it lost points for gripability and size, and didn’t do quiet as well in our drop test.”Testing the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus for durability.A dissembling or “teardown” byrepair specialists iFixitshowed that Apple has made durability improvements to the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, with rubber gaskets around buttons to help prevent water and dust entering and causing damage. Other manufacturers including Sony and Samsung have made their smartphones including theXperia Z2andGalaxy S5resistant to brief submersion in water. Apple hasn’t made any claims about water resistance for the new iPhones.Smartphones bending under pressure in the pocket is not a new thing. Phones whose frames are made of metal are most susceptible and noticeable because the metal permanently deforms - rather than rebounding or snapping as plastic does.‘Weakness of the new iPhone’Previous iPhones, including theiPhone 4, iPhone 5 andiPhone 5S, have suffered from bending, with users complaining about the problem in 2010, 2012 and last year via Apple’s official internet forums.But the larger and thinner the smartphone, the more likely it is to be damaged by being carried in the pocket under tension.“In material bending, larger cross-sectional areas [thickness x width] and shorter lengths make things stronger - you can’t easily bend a cube - while the opposite makes things very easy to bend – paper is easily folded,” Jeremy Irons, a design engineer at Creative Engineeringexplained to Gizmodo. “The increased length and decreased thickness contribute to the weakness of the new iPhone. Strength is proportionally related to length, but strength is affected much more by changes in thickness.”The thinner and larger the phones get the more susceptible to damage they are likely to be, regardless of how strong the materials used in the phones to reinforce them. Being thin makes large phones more pocketable, but users need to think about the stress and strain in tight pockets as they sit down, regardless of whether they carry them in the back or front pockets.•iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper•Apple iPhone 6 Plus: it’s a very big phone and it feels great - review
Security experts are warning that a serious flaw named Shellshock could be about to affect many of the world’s web users.Some analysts warn it could beworse than Heartbleed, a vulnerability within web encryption library OpenSSL which caused a stir this year as it theoretically allowed attackers to take over websites.The US government-backedNational Vulnerability Databaserated Shellshock 10/10 for severity. Here’s a simple guide to what the Bash bug is, why it matters and what people can do to help prevent future attacks.What is Bash?Bash, an acronym for Bourne Again Shell, is a command-line shell. This lets users issue commands to launch programs and features within software by typing in text. It’s typically used by programmers and shouldn’t be open to the wider world, though Shellshock changes that.Mac OS X users can run it by opening up their Terminal, as can anyone using the Linux operating system by launching the same machine. Linux and Mac OS X are largely derivatives of the Unix OS, so share some features.What is the vulnerability and how might attackers exploit it?The 25-year-old vulnerability is related to the processing of what are known as “environment variables” in Bash, which provide a way to influence the behaviour of software.The Bash bug, discovered by the Linux expert Stéphane Chazelas, is causing concern as the command-line interface is used by many popular tools to run those environment variables.In theory, an attacker could exploit a machine running Bash by forcing it to set specially crafted environment variables. This could then be further exploited to let them execute shell commands, ie run programs on other people’s computers. That’s endgame for the victims - their machines would in effect be in the control of the hacker.In slightly more detail, when dealing with environment variables, Bash shouldn’t continue to process commands that come after the “function definition” - the declaration of a software routine that performs a certain task. But it does and therefore allows for an outsider to send exploit code via software that uses Bash and have it run commands. They should never be able to do that.For instance, the widely deployed Apache web server software has Bash run in the background to parse CGI scripts - little programs that process data from web users, such as when they enter information into a form. As there’s no authentication on these CGI scripts, a hacker could call them with a web request and include lines of exploit code, which would then set malicious variables on the server via Bash. From there, they could play with programs on the server, including the website itself to launch further attacks on visitors, hence the fear of widespread impact. This is believed to be the most likely attack vector.However, this is all hypothetical right now. There have been no reports of real world attacks exploiting this flaw. But most experts believe they will emerge, as Bash is so widely used.“What we think will cause significant issues is that people will find plenty of unexpected ways to trigger this vulnerability and that means its scope will be wider than appreciated, and this might have a detrimental impact,” Robert Horton, managing director of NCC Group’s European Security Consulting division, told the Guardian.“A lot of systems do appear to be remotely vulnerable to this which means the impact of this has the potential to be large and much more pervasive than Heartbleed.”One of the major worries is that attackers will use Shellshock to create worms – attacks that automatically replicate across machines. “In theory, this could take the form of an infected machine scanning for other targets and propagating the attack to them,” noted security expert Troy Hunt. “This would be by no means limited to public-facing machines either; get this behind the corporate firewall and the sky’s the limit.”Is my Mac vulnerable?Horton said: “There may be potential implications for Mac OS X. In the desktop scenario this risk may manifest itself in certain client software scenarios where scripts take untrusted input from the network.“Also as with Linux where it is used as a server it may also be vulnerable.Details have been made availableon how to mitigate it for very technical users . For less technical users it is advisable to wait for an official patch from Apple.”Apple hasn’t yet responded to a request for comment.Using test code supplied by security firm Qualyshere, Mac OS X 10.9.4 is vulnerable. It’s worth opening up Terminal (search for it in Finder) to copy and paste that text into Bash and running it (by pressing Enter). This won’t affect the security of the machine, don’t panic!Linux users should check the websites of those managing their distribution, whether that’sRedHat,Ubuntu,Debian,CentOSor any of the other myriad operating systems.What should I do now?It’s obvious, but many don’t do it, despite being warned: patch your systems now. Anyone hosting a website running the affected operating systems should certainly move as quickly as possible.All of those OS-specific sites linked above have instructions on how to update, with all the necessary files. Information can also be found on theSecLists advisory website.Time for the bad news: there’s some concern the patches aren’t wholly effective. “Third parties have found the initial patches have not be comprehensive in nature. However, they do limit the attack surface,” said Horton.Anyone who can afford it should look to their monitoring and web application firewalls to look out for any attacks. Other than that, it’s time to cross some fingers and hope attackers don’t outsmart the defenders.• This article has been amended to clarify that test code was supplied by Qualys and to make clear that Mac OS X is vulnerable.
Testing of the iPhone 6 has shown that it is significantly more resilient to bending, after users began complaining that the largeriPhone 6 Plus was bending in their pockets.Scores of users took toforums, Twitter andtechnology sitesto complain that their brand-new iPhone 6 Plus phones had become bent, just by being carried in front and back trouser pockets.Lewis Hilsenteger from Unbox Therapy took a brand new iPhone 6 and subjected it to the same bending test as the iPhone 6 Plus, which deformed significantly under pressure.“The iPhone 6 is far more durable. It has a smaller footprint, so the material isn’t spanning such a large footprint, so it’s integrity is significantly better,” said Hilsenteger in avideo bending the iPhone 6and other competing smartphones. “Can you still bend it? Probably, but under normal usage I don’t see this ‘bendgate’ issue affecting regular iPhone 6 users in the same way as 6 Plus users.”Phone bending.The testing was not scientific, but the strain across Hilsenteger’s face was obvious, showing how much pressure was required to bend the phone.‘That baby is solid’Hilsenteger also attempted to bend other smartphones, including the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 – a direct competitor to the iPhone 6 Plus – the 2014 Motorola Moto X, the Nokia Lumia 1020 and HTC One M8, which has an aluminium body similar to the new iPhones, and the iPhone 5S.The Motorola Moto X is the most rigid of the new phones, exhibiting no signs of bending or breaking, while the the HTC One M8 does not bend in a similar way to the iPhone 6 or 6 Plus, but the screen did flex and come away from the phone’s body temporarily under pressure, as did the Nokia Lumia 1020.“That baby is solid,” exclaimed Hilsenteger while visibly straining to bend the Moto X. “No noises, no movement; that is a robust device.”The iPhone 5S also resisted bending, showing no signs of deformation after testing in the same manner.‘If you bend it, of course it bends - that’s not the case’Previous testing of the 5.7in Samsung Galaxy Note 3 showed that it too bends like the iPhone 6 Plus and remained slightly warped after bending, but not to the same extent as the iPhone 6 Plus. The Note 3 is 2.5mm thicker than the iPhone 6 Plus, which is 7mm thick.“People have been saying that ‘if you bend it, of course it bends’ – but these other devices are proof that’s not necessarily the case as I used the same amount of force and had very little result,” explained Hilsenteger.Whether Apple has a serious issue with the iPhone 6 Plus is uncertain. The company has yet to respond to calls for comment. As smartphones get thinner and bigger, the strain put on them in pockets increases, while their strength decreases as the material is spread thinner over a larger area.Other smartphones have suffered similar issues in the past. Sony’s Xperia Z1, which had a 5in screen and a metal frame, saw users complaining that they bent in pockets, while Samsung Galaxy S4 users had similar complaints, as did BlackBerry Q10 users.“Regular iPhone 6 users, don’t panic; this thing is not going to bend easily, not nearly as easily as the iPhone 6 Plus,” concluded Hilsenteger.•iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper•Apple iPhone 6 Plus: it’s a very big phone and it feels great - review
An amuse-bouche of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBrain Corporation offers a way to train robots by demonstration, not coding &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewIzhikevich's startup, Brain Corporation, based in San Diego, has developed an operating system for robots called BrainOS to make that possible. To teach a robot running the software to pick up trash, for example, you would use a remote control to repeatedly guide its gripper to perform that task. After just minutes of repetition, the robot would take the initiative and start doing the task for itself. "Once you train it, it's fully autonomous," says Izhikevich, who is cofounder and CEO of the company.Izhikevich says the approach will make it easier to produce low-cost service robots capable of simple tasks. Programming robots to behave intelligently normally requires significant expertise, he says, pointing out that the most successful home robot today is the Roomba, released in 2002. The Roomba is preprogrammed to perform one main task: driving around at random to cover as much of an area of floor as possible.Okay it's been almost 6 months since EOL of Windows XP, who is still running it? &gt;&gt; Spiceworks forumsAnswer: substantially more than zero, and some of them in factories.BlackBerry Passport review: a smartphone aimed squarely at professionals &gt;&gt; WSJFormer BlackBerry devotee Joanna Stern:Instead of a home button, you swipe up from the bottom of the screen to minimize any app. You swipe to the left from any screen to get to the universal inbox, which houses all your emails and other messages. It is an incredibly efficient way of getting to what I still believe is the best mobile email client. Superior draft email support, attachment editing and formatting options continue to put BlackBerry ahead of the native iOS and Android email apps.There are other industry-leading features of the operating system, including how multiple notifications are organized by app on the lock screen and how easy it is to jump between open apps. With BlackBerry Balance, you can encrypt business calls and data, and store them away from your personal content. The battery even outlasted the new iPhone 6 and Moto X, making it into the next day without needing a charge.But BlackBerry is still years behind on everything else.Notebook demand undermined by new Apple devices &gt;&gt; DigitimesAs the enterprise PC market's replacement trend in the wake of Microsoft terminating support for Windows XP has not been as strong as expected and demand from the consumer PC market has been undermined by Apple's mobile products, IT players are now placing their hope on 2015, industry sources said.The sources pointed out that Apple's iPhone 6 series products are not only impacting other smartphone vendors, they will also affect consumers' decision on purchasing other IT products.Since August, demand for notebooks has only seen a slight growth because sales in China has not been as strong as expected with consumers waiting for Apple's new smartphones.How selfish of Apple to launch new phones at such a completely unexpected time.Samsung Electronics expects jump in handset sales &gt;&gt; Korea Times"I can't tell you about the internal sales target for the Note 4; but it will be much higher than for the Note 3. We have expectations given initial consumer reactions," said mobile business division strategic marketing head Lee Don-joo.The device will be available from the three major mobile carriers ― SK, KT and LG Uplus ― from Sept. 26. By October, the Note 4 will have been released in 140 countries."Samsung can improve its profits as we are positioned well to pursue technology improvements, steadily, based on solid corporate fundamentals," Lee said.While 10 million Note 3s were sold in the first two months after its launch, the company aims to sell at least 15 million Note 4s in the first 30 days.Lee stressed that Samsung was responding to consumer needs in different markets with a diversified product portfolio according to target countries.Interesting contrast to another story on the same site, headlined "Can Note 4 curb Apple iPhones?", which says"The positive reaction from consumers to those two Apple devices prompted us to launch the Note 4 earlier than previously scheduled. Samsung will be aggressive in promoting the Note 4 as it's true that we are being challenged and pressured amid a difficult situation," said an official at the company's marketing unit.The iPhone 6 models won't go on sale in Korea before December, but Samsung's concern is clearly elsewhere.Google cuts ties with ALEC over climate change 'lying' &gt;&gt; BusinessweekGoogle will stop working with the right-wing American Legislative Exchange Council because of its stance on climate change. Responding to a caller's question on Diane Rehm's National Public Radio show, the tech giant's chairman, Eric Schmidt,saidhis company had funded ALEC in support of "something unrelated. … I think the consensus within the company was that that was some sort of mistake, and so we're trying to not do that in the future."ALEC pushes model state bills on issues ranging from supporting charter school expansion and right-to-work laws to inhibiting lawsuits over asbestos or drug-testing. The group claims more than 2,000 state legislators and almost 300 corporations or private foundations as members. Right now, Google is one of those members. After Schmidt's comments, Google confirmed it would not be renewing its membership once it expires at the end of the year.Good.DxOMark Mobile Report: Apple iPhone 6 &gt;&gt; Digital Photography ReviewWith aDxOMark Mobile score of 82the Apple iPhone 6 takes the number one spot in the DxOMark smartphone rankings and shares it with its sister model iPhone 6 Plus. TheSamsung Galaxy S5andSony Xperia Z3are following in positions three and four respectively.The DxOMark team reports the iPhone 6 shows "very good overall exposure, impressive autofocus performance in both low and bright light, good color rendering and nice detail preservation outdoors and indoors". The engineers were also impressed with the new device's flash behavior which resulted in "good exposure, stable white balance, good color rendering, low noise level and good detail preservation."On the downside there is "luminance noise visible in low light conditions and color quantification, ghosting and fringing noticeable on HDR pictures."BlackBerry Passport priced to take on Apple &amp; Samsung &gt;&gt; CBC NewsBlackBerry's latest smartphone, the Passport, is set to be unveiled Wednesday, and it's priced to give it a leg up on the most recent offerings from Apple and Google's Android.According to an interview the CEO did with the Wall Street Journal on Monday, the phone will retail at just under $600 without a contract in the U.S. — significantly lower than even the most bare-bones versions of Apple's recently announced iPhone 6, or market-leading Samsung's latest Galaxy 5.That's a key strategic decision to make the phone especially appealing to large corporate orders, which once formed the backbone of the company's market-dominance before the iPhone entered the smartphone scene.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
When Apple introduced its smartwatch, the company borrowed an approach from fashion brands and offered an array or prices, styles and sizes.Zound Industries is making a similar transition but in reverse, expanding from its UrbanEars and Colour headphone brands into smartphones. Planning to launch its first at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January 2015, Zound is attempting to repeat the success it has had - along with companies including Apple-owned Beats - in turning headphones from a functional accessory into a fashion brand.The move from audio products to smartphones is driven by the observation that smartphones have reached the same level of commodification that headphones reached in the mid-noughties, Zound president Konrad Bergström explains. Further gains in the market won’t be made by marginal improvements, he believes, but by adapting products to meet the needs of particular niches and fashion trends. One size - the Apple approach - no longer fits all.“Eight years ago, when you were choosing your sneakers and the right shirt and then you just put on your ugly headphones,” said Bergström. “You didn’t think about it, because the headphones showed that you liked music. And then when someone started to work with it and then make nice headphones that were more in line with design… then all of a sudden everybody started to say ‘oh, I can’t wear these headphones because they don’t look cool’.”The other factor pushing Zound towards the smartphone sector is the commodification of the industry, leading to a situation where Bergström describes the majority of smartphones on the market as “good enough”.“You’re looking at a consumer, and thinking ‘how do you get the consumer the best user experience’. All these things, with like 4K blah blah blah, and a gigabyte here and there: the phone works, you know? A lot of people keep their iPhone now until it’s dead, but before, it was clearly a huge leap. Technology stagnated.”Speaking at an event held by technology investment bank GP Bullhound, Bergström described his own company’s technology as “very functional, but pretty low,” but says that focus on R&amp;D for the new phone is paying off “with innovations in software and hardware.”Zound has four brands in the headphone market. UrbanEars, the biggest, is a mid-point range; Coloud offers a cheaper alternative; Marshall, a brand licensed from the venerable amplifier company, serves the high end of the market; and Molami is an ultra-high-end female-focused range. The company’s first smartphone will follow a similar segmentation, said Bergström.“When you start to work in the fashion segment, brands always go up and down. It’s not only about technology, it’s a combination of technology and brand and design. It’s really really hard to keep a brand on the top all the time, and it’s also really hard to have a low-price segment and luxury segment in the same brand.”The risk for the company will be falling into the trap of other “design-focused” smartphone manufacturers, such as British firm Vertu, whose phones make up what they lack in critical acclaim with an eye-watering price tag.“I would buy an iPhone before a Vertu,” Bergström says, “but I think they haven’t looked at user experience. We are not looking to have a super-expensive price. Look at our price range, we always work with a bang-for-the-buck ideology, and we’re going to keep doing that.”Further into the future, the company is also considering expanding into wearables, a term Bergström bridles at, saying “for me, wearables is also headphones. They found out a new word, like ‘IT’ in the 90s.”•Headphone tribes: twenty years ago it was the trainers that defined youth subculture - now it’s the headphones
The Guardian is opening its doors on Monday 29 September from 5:30pm - 9:00pm for a lively debate around the future challenges of securing mobile technologies for business -and you can be there.The event will be hosted by award winning security journalist Thomas Brewster and will include a panel of leading technology and security experts including Neal Watkins, vice president of product management &amp; development at Symantec, Sanjeev Skukla, director, cyber security consulting at Accenture and Gavin Franks, general manager of enterprise at Telefonica.The panel will investigate how businesses are using mobile technologies to transform their business processes and make them more efficient whilst also protecting themselves against data leakage and malware attack.The kind of questions we will be exploring during the session are:How can you access corporate data securely?How can you create an enterprise ‘App Store’ without compromising the native experience?How can you provide secure alternatives to consumer apps that can form a protected workspace on the device?Where and when is the event?The event will be held at the Guardian head office at Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU on 29 September 2014A report of the event will be published in the technology section of The Guardian on Monday 13 October 2014, summarising the outcomes of the discussion and profiling the participants. The report will also be published online on the same date on theSecure + Protect Hub.You can register to attend the event by followingthis link.
US regulators are seeking to shut down Butterfly Labs, a Missouri-based company they allege deceptively marketed specialised computers designed to produce the virtual currency bitcoins.According to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the companycharged thousands of consumers a total of between $20m and $50m for its bitcoin mining computers and services, but then failed to provide the computers until they were practically useless - and in many cases, did not provide the computers at all.Bitcoins are not distributed by a central bank, but instead are “mined” using increasingly complex algorithmic formulas. Solving a formula leads to the bitcoin system, which is run by a worldwide group of volunteers’ computers, awarding a set number of bitcoins.Butterfly purported to sell dedicated bitcoin mining machines, with its more powerful models costing up to $29,899. But according to the FTC, Butterfly employees said some of their machines were only useful as a “room heater”.Last August, Butterfly announced it was selling the “Monarch” mining machines, a machine the company called the “fastest and most power-efficient bitcoin miner yet.” Consumers were asked to pay between $2,499 and $4,680 upfront to purchase the machines.Getting more powerful computers has become increasingly important for professional bitcoin “miners”: as the number of people using bitcoin systems grows, it becomes harder to “mine” each new coin, leading to an arms race in which the amount of computer power used has risen exponentially.That has raised the pressure to deliver high-powered systems quickly to meet user demand. But Butterfly Labs has yet to provide consumers with a single Monarch machine, “despite defendants’ representation that the machines should be delivered by the ‘end of the year’ [2013],” the FTC said in court documents.“We often see that when a new and little-understood opportunity like bitcoin presents itself, scammers will find ways to capitalise on the public’s excitement and interest,” said Jessica Rich, director of the FTC’s bureau of consumer protection. “We’re pleased the court granted our request to halt this operation, and we look forward to putting the company’s ill-gotten gains back in the hands of consumers.In a statementButterfly Labs saidit was “disappointed in the heavy-handed actions of the FTC and its “rush to judgment”.The statement said: “It appears the FTC has decided to go to war on bitcoin overall and is starting with Butterfly Labs. Butterfly Labs is being portrayed by the FTC as a bogus and fake company. To the contrary, Butterfly Labs is very real. As pointed out in court filings Butterfly Labs made last night, Butterfly Labs has shipped more than $33m in products to customers and voluntarily granted refunds approximating $17m to customers for cancelled orders.”The company said it was “literally in the midst of shipping out completed products to fulfill the remaining millions of dollars of orders on our books and issuing requested refunds when the FTC effectively closed the doors of Butterfly Labs without any chance to be heard in court.”A court hearing is set for 29 September and Butterfly Labs said it would “defend our business and our nascent and promising industry. The government wants to shut Butterfly Labs down, and we are not going away without a fight to vindicate bitcoin, our company, and our employees. Our continued focus is our customers and finding a way to continue to deliver products and processing refunds for those who have requested them.”Judge calls bitcoin investment company a ‘Ponzi scheme’
The problem with games designed to be played online is that they can be shut down by their publishers. Decisions that often make commercial sense for the publishers a few years down the line, but which still have an impact on any remaining players.One such game was Metal Gear Online (MGO), whichshut down in 2012, four years after it launched. Yet in 2014, the game has been brought back to life by a group of ethical hackers, working under theSaveMGObanner.Later this week one of the researchers, Joseph Tartaro from security consultancy IOActive, will detail the techniques his crew used to get Metal Gear Online back online for its fans to enjoy.Tartaro, who will deliver his‘Cyber Necromancy’ talk at the Brucon conferencealongside fellow security technician Matthew Halchyshak, told the Guardian that as many as 80 people are playing MGO every day thanks to the group’s work. And he predicted that other games will be resurrected in the same way.The group’s aim was to create a server that would effectively trick PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 consoles into believing they were speaking with the old official server. In the case of the PS3, the researcher believes this could be the first private server to host multiplayer melees on the console.The team started with the PlayStation discs themselves, taking a look at the executable files that make the game run.They figured out how the code worked – reverse engineering it, and then did something similar with the network protocol determining how the consoles communicated with each other, and the now-defunct remote server that once hosted the multiplayer games.The process was rather tedious because the original online server was no longer available, said Tartaro. The team had to use educated guesses in pushing various pieces of fake data to their consoles, and then using the responses to craft adequate private servers.Thus, Metal Gear Online came back to life, initially for PS2 last year, and then for PS3 just over a month ago. In a gaming context, “cracking” is often discussed in the context of piracy, but in this case, the encryption was being cracked in order to help fans of the game play it once more.“We broke the encryption for the network protocol, as well as the file encryption, but the network protocol was the only one necessary to get it back online,” said Tartaro.There are a few caveats to this project. Anyone wanting to play MGO again on PS3 needs to be running a hacked console, although for the PS2, a cheat device like Code Breaker will suffice, as well as a rooted console.The SaveMGO group isproviding information about how to modify consoleson its website, but Tartaro recommends that people don’t tinker with the hardware themselves, but rather acquire a downgraded console to install the necessary custom firmware.These issues arose largely because the SaveMGO project involved altering or patching the game files, with unsigned code unable to run on non-jailbroken consoles.The team is hoping to find a vulnerability in the game which they could exploit to make hacked consoles unnecessary. “There’s no easy security bypass or vulnerability that I’ve found so far,” said Tartaro.He also suggested that many other older online games could be brought back to life using similar tactics. “In the end, you’d be able to do this to any game,” he said, pointing to similar work onPro Evolution Soccer 6andResident Evil Outbreak.The obvious question: what will the original games’ publishers make of these efforts? The SaveMGO group has sent tweets to MGO publisher Konami to make them aware of the not-for-profit project, and are hopeful of avoiding a copyright fracas.•Replica of Nintendo’s classic NES console goes on sale
