Now that James Bond is longer in the tooth, he's possibly considering settling down and starting a family. In which case he'll need back seats, four doors and a bigger boot. He'll need a hardworking saloon, the sort of vehicle middle Britons use to hog the middle lanes of the nation's motorways. But the world's most famous bachelor is unlikely to feel comfortable behind the wheel of anything other than an Aston Martin, so it's fortunate that the legendary marque (now in the hands of Prodrive-owner Dave Richards, who bought it from Ford in 2007) has chosen this moment to launch a family saloon. Though it's not like any other you'll have seen.The Rapide is being billed by Aston as its first four-door, four-seat car. Like all new parents, carmakers love to claim firsts for their precious offspring. But the 1941 Aston Martin Atom had four doors and four seats, as did the 1976 Lagonda and the 1994 Lagonda Virage. The Rapide can, however, claim to be the fastest of the four, and it can also claim to be the only one built in Austria.I first encountered the Rapide in  a concrete carpark in central London, hidden three storeys below ground. It was the kind of location 007 would have approved of. The lift opened and there, in a curious shade of pale beige called "silver blonde", was the £139,950 saloon. From the front it looks like  a DB9. From the back it looks like a DB9. And from the side it looks like a DB9 that's been stretched a bit. But that's the whole point. Mr Bond wouldn't buy a saloon that looked like a saloon – he'll want one that looks like a fire-breathing, gravity-defying performance car.  A DB9, in other words.This means that the only reason to buy a Rapide is its back seats. If they are too small or cramped the car will fail to persuade potential customers (who, let's face it, are all going to be man racers in deep denial over their parental responsibilities). Aston Martin's chief designer is the imposing Marek Reichman. He says he feels comfortable in the back. But then he would.I (less imposing) gingerly opened the "swan-hinged" back door. The two sculpted leather seats, with their tapering headrests, are sunk deep  into the base of the car, divided by  a huge central armrest bristling with entertainment and air-conditioning controls. The headrests of the front seats have TV monitors embedded into the back of them. There is plentiful headroom. There is even knee room. Theyareproper seats!Round at the front, I slide the Perspex fob into the dashboard, let my foot hover over the brake and press the ignition button. A moment's silence and then the colossal V12 5,935cc engine bursts into life. The magnificent throaty roar bounces around the walls of the concrete bunker. I, too, have a moment's silence and then burst into laughter.Along with two friends who have enthusiastically agreed to be backseat lab rats, I drive the car up to ground level, through the city and then off up the M40 – 260 miles on a single tank and without a single whinge from the back.So, are you a family man? Should you buy one of these? Of course not. In no way is it a practical option. Besides, the visibility out the back isn't great, the boot has a fiddly catch, and the beast is so wide and long that parking anywhere other than your own stately home is a nightmare. But the Rapide istrulya joy to drive. And that's now a pleasure that you can share with all the family…Price£139,950Top speed188mph0-60mph5.1 secondsEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
It might sound like a Dostoevsky-baiting slice of interactive digital drama, butSin &amp; Punishmenteschews any kind of meaningful narrative to provide level after level of spectacular on-rails shooting. It's a game that feels old-fashioned in the best possible way, harking back to an era of classic, high-score-based arcade experiences.A direct sequel to the still-superb N64 original – available on the Wii's Virtual Console service –Successor to the Skiesbenefits hugely from the Wii remote's pointer capabilities, with much simpler targeting of enemies. Accordingly, developer Treasure ratchets up the number of onscreen foes to increase the challenge, filling the screen with lasers, bullets and missiles. There's more room to manoeuvre this time, but only players who stay grounded rather than taking to the air will be rewarded for their daring with the biggest scores.There's a staggering scale to the frequent boss encounters, while the level of visual detail and imagination make this easily one of the best-looking Wii games around. A marvellous showcase for a console often underrated by the hardcore gamer, and a star successor in every sense.
What's your favourite piece of technology and how has it improved your life?My cellphone, there is no question. I've got a BlackBerry Storm and I like it because the reception in the United States, especially where I live, is perfect. It's even better than the laptop computer because I get my emails on the phone as well. That and the texting is incredible.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I have it right here in my lap right now. I also checked my emails this morning. Being able to multitask is great – it's really my office.What additional features would you add if you could?Probably more speed. Having to wait to on it sometimes is like the old dial-up days. But it's getting quicker. Also being able to watch films on it would be good.Will it be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I don't think so. I can't even remember what life was like without a phone. They could build a chip that is implanted in the body, or something, but I wouldn't touch that.What always frustrates you about technology in general?That we sometimes depend on technology too much.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I don't know if hated is the right word, but let's say, for example, the phone. If you're out with your family, you can be somewhere else, instead of with your family and communicating with them. So that's where the resentment comes from. So I've got to know when to shut the thing off.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?When something new comes out, don't jump in and get it right away – wait and you'll save yourself some money. Things come out so quickly it's best to wait for them to iron all the bugs out.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'd say somewhere right of centre, so probably a bit more nerdish than luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably a Lamborghini, which I don't have any more. It was the last of the Diablo VT roadster models.Mac or PC and why?Both, for different reasons – Mac for art and PC for games. I like a lot of chess and strategy games.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do both. The last thing I bought was an Elvis Presley CD.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?No, I don't think so. There would probably be a privacy issue. Any technology can have a downside, if you know what I mean?What piece of technology would you most like to own?Something I can make a lot of money on, so maybe a satellite?•Jim Caviezel stars in The Prisoner, out now on Blu-ray and DVD
U.S. Lets Hollywood Disable Home TV Outputs to Prevent Piracy - Bloomberg - Business Week"The FCC order 'will allow the big firms for the first time to take control of a consumer's TV set or set-top box, blocking viewing of a TV program or motion picture,' Gigi Sohn, president of Washington-based Public Knowledge, said in a statement."Why Twitter looks like a social network but feels like news media &gt;&gt; Nieman Journalism Lab"Most follower-followed relationships on Twitter are more akin to traditional-media relationships between subscribers to information and distributors of that information, with subscribers consuming information but having little contact with distributors. A relatively small number of users are the primary sources of news, with others redistributing that news; most tweets are related to timely topics; and retweets typically come very quickly — 35% in the first 10 minutes."On Twitter, Followers Don't Equal Influence - Harvard Business Review"Popular users who have a high indegree [number of followers] are not necessarily influential in terms of spawning retweets or mentions". If you hadn't realised this before...'Crunch time for the web', says tech guru O'Reilly - dot.Maggie, BBC NewsTim tells Maggie Shiels about Apple (intent on world domination), Google, Microsoft, and Facebook.Encryption Can't Stop The Wiretapping Boom - Forbes.com"In an annual report published Friday by the U.S. judicial system on the number of wiretaps it granted over the past year (see full document below), the courts revealed that there were 2,376 wiretaps by law enforcement agencies in 2009, up 26% from 1,891 the year before, and up 76% from 1999." But only one used encryption.Yahoo CMO Steele On Ad Campaign: Word Of Mouth Isn't Enough For Us - PaidContentChief marketing officer Elisa Steele responds to some common criticisms of Yahoo's advertising strategy, and explains why Yahoo had chosen to specifically target Google in a marketing clip.Apple linksNokia sues Apple in Wisconsin for infringement of Nokia patents - Nokia press release"Nokia announced that it has today filed a complaint against Apple with the Federal District Court in the Western District of Wisconsin, alleging that Apple iPhone and iPad 3G products infringe five important Nokia patents."Apple is dead in the cloud - ComputerWorld"To be a player in the computer industry in 2015, Apple needs to be strong in cloud computing. And the company's cloud computing offerings today just plain stink."Apple Needs To Fix Its App Store Spam Problem - Business Insider"Even with Apple's ham-fisted control over the App Store, it's still filled with spammy applications."Apple iPad User Analysis - Yahoo Mobile BlogAccording to Yahoo visitor stats, iPad buyers are rich men (they outnumber women roughly 2:1) and the most likely age group is 35-44. The under-30s are less likely to buy in comparison to the Yahoo user base.
Your Old Crap WebsiteSlowly, we have begun to realise that anything we say or write on the internet may be used against us at some embarrassing future moment in time. However, we didn't know that in 1996 BBC News reporter Rajesh Mirchandani, when asked to describe himself in one word, replied "pisshead" in Radio 1's jokey Newsbeat pages. This site compares and contrasts (well, ridicules) corporate websites from now with their less technically impressive 90s versions, when – quite often, it seems – the websites of multinational corporations, or even political parties were left in the capable hands of the office junior with a budget of £15. Meanwhile, those worried about how the Catholic church spends its spare cash will be delighted to see that the Vatican's website of 1998 is identical to the website of 2010.Most Awesomest Thing EverThe Most Awesomest Thing Ever.This quest to discover the most awesomest thing ever pitches two things against one another (Thing one or Thing Two) and you have to decide which one is best. A Justin Hawkins-style squeal will accompany your choice. The verdicts are not easy and force you to decide what has contributed more to the wonderfulness of human existence, for instance: Stewie Griffin or time-lapse photography; Bruce Lee or Encyclopaedia Britannica. If you're undecided an info button will lead you to Wikipedia but the never-ending battle works best if you pick quickly. At the time of writing the list of 100 Awesomest was topped by the internet, lasers and chocolate, while the ranking of the "Inadequatest" suggests Akon and clowns.Blog roll: Doctor WhoHello, I'm The DoctorVintage footage and news cuttings, plus current trivia, tattooed fans and Tardis cake tins.Behind The SofaCollaborative reviews of every Doctor Who episode.Inside The TardisTardis-related info, images, sounds, videos and links, from the op art gallery 60s incarnation to the current steampunk makeover.Doctor Who Ate All The PiesCut-and-paste photo fun with David Tennant, Davros and a Mothercare product.Ancient And ForeverThe art of Doctor Who, from Manga versions of Amy Pond to cross-sections of Daleks.The Oncoming StormSpoilers, teasers, video clips and lists.What we learned on the web this weekFake Toy Story cuddly toys.Fake Toy Storycuddly toys have got their own fake TV adsThe returnof Socrates Wanderers versus Nietzsche AlbionIn the futuretrains won't have to stopHow to savea Baldwin brotherThe British economy'srelative size compared to TescoWhat Facebook knowsabout youStaring at artistMarina Abramovic will make you cryKeep upwith the latest mashed-up soundsHow tocategorise Justin BieberWhy we drinkmore in noisy restaurants than in quiet ones
Sin &amp; Punishment: Successor Of The Skies, Nintendo WiiSin &amp; Punishment is a hectic shooting gallery of starships, armed space soldiers and great big monsters. Playable with a bewildering array of Nintendo controllers, including the standard Wii-remote and nunchuk, strange plastic gun, the Zapper and an old GameCube joypad as options, you direct your fire with one hand, while avoiding incoming rounds with the other in a style reminiscent of ancient arcade and computer game Space Harrier. This process is complicated infinitely by the need to parry certain projectiles and the relentless onslaught of foe and hot plasma. Far from feeling overwhelming, it's riotously rewarding, although as you progress you'll find yourself having to hit continue more and more often as screen-filling bosses eventually start getting the better of you. Dizzyingly inventive at every turn, Sin &amp; Punishment is a fiery joy.Nintendo, £39.99BlazBlue: Calamity Trigger, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360BlazBlue: Calamity Trigger.Unaccountably released at the same time as Super Street Fighter IV, which may be the best beat-'em-up ever made, comes from the world's most famous fighting franchise and costs £20 less, BlazBlue: Calamity Trigger offers similarly-old school 2D face-punching action. It has way fewer fighters to choose from, a lesser variety in its online play and looks a lot less polished than the latest Street Fighter juggernaut. It's not without its charms, however, which range from a gentle learning curve and more accessible combination moves, to a truly offbeat story. Sample dialogue: "The parallel space time … No. Was it the complex space?" Look past a name that sounds like the utterance of toddlers and its impossible competition and you'll find a finely tuned and playable fighting game with completely lunatic plot and characterisation thrown in for your head-shaking wonder. Destined to be one of 2010's undiscovered gems.Zen United, £44.99Iron Man 2: The Video Game, Nintendo DS, Wii, PlayStation 3, PSP, Xbox 360Iron Man 2: The Video Game.Putting on a reinforced suit that lets you fly and blow things up sounds like a recipe for fun. In Iron Man 2: The Video Game you can do this as both Iron Man and War Machine, who comes with a gatling gun strapped to his shoulder. Add the voices of Don Cheadle and Samuel L Jackson and you've got a press release full of high explosive action. Reality is inevitably sadder and more tawdry. Without any online or multiplayer modes, there's only the single player campaign and, within five hours, you will have seen all eight of its stages, none of which amounts to more than flying around and pumping both triggers until it feels more like a experiment to see how quickly it can induce carpal tunnel syndrome. Whatever you may think of the film, this is a bitter little pill of joyless merchandising that you should avoid.SEGA, £34.99-£39.99
Last week I was lucky enough to be invited along to Bethesda's annual games preview event, this year held in a huge château just outside of Paris. The upcoming release of four high-calibre titles means 2010/11 looks to be an important period for the publisher, hoping to build on their recent capture of iD software and the opening of their first European offices.While the decadent setting may have been somewhat wasted on the bleary-eyed games journalists present, there was a lot to take in over the two days. I'll give you a brief rundown of the first two titles I looked at, Fallout: New Vegas and Hunted: The Demon's Forge today, with the second part, featuring Rage and Brink, to follow on Monday.Fallout: New VegasObsidian's Chris Avellone guided us through an hour of this much-anticipated follow-up to 2008's superlative post-apocalyptic sandbox adventure, Fallout 3, in a presentation that left the gaggle of gathered games writers with a somewhat mixed impression.In a neat reversal of the nascent opening sequences of its predecessor, New Vegas begins with your death – and, after being brought back to life by some mad-professor type, the story revolves around you piecing together how exactly it happened.There is a reason Bethesda haven't called this Fallout 4 – it looks very, very similar to 2008's release. You're back in a similarly arid wasteland, and controls and use of the Pip-Boy are also pretty much identical to what you'll already be used to.Screenshot from Fallout: New VegasDespite not being graphically impressive, with close-ups of faces in particular now looking rather haggard, New Vegas's use of real-life Nevada locations and kitsch US iconography knits together a captivating and cogent environment that  begs to be explored.Of the minor changes to gameplay itself, weapon upgrades look the most interesting, allowing sights, extended magazines and auxilliary weapons to be added to the standard array of shotguns, machine guns and rifles. Stealth has been tweaked, and the use of melee weapons has also been incentivised, with special 'finishing move'-like VATS option available.Also, for those who found their last jaunt around the wasteland a bit too easy, a new 'hardcore' difficulty mode will be available, which will make stimpaks work much more slowly, ammo count towards your carriage weight, and require you to carry water when traversing the desert.We were shown the first half hour of the game – showing a clever new character customisation system – and a few other sections displaying a few variations of the old super-mutant foes and a couple of new weapons, including the rather exciting-looking grenade-machine-gun (see main picture).The multitudinous plot-paths and moral dilemmas that made the last incarnation so compelling are still here, along with the simple pleasure of exploding a mutant's head from 50 yards.With a game engine that will be nearly two years old on its release, New Vegas at the moment feels a bit more like an very large expansion pack than a fully-fledged new release. Still, fans will be bursting to play it and if it can match the 40-plus hours of fun Fallout 3 offered I'm sure it's faults will be pretty easy to overlook.Fallout: New Vegas will be released on the PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 this autumnHunted: The Demon's ForgeStrange how warrior-women never seem to wear armour that covers up their cleavage, eh?Hunted, of the four games previewed, was easily the one about which the assembled journos knew, and, to be fair, cared, the least. Matt Findlay and Maxx Kaufmann of InXile entertainment were nevertheless brimming with enthusiasm for their new project, pitched as a sort of fantasy-based Gears of War.They spoke primarily of their desire to make an authentic feeling 'dungeon-crawl' a genre of game they felt hadn't really been done justice since the early 90s. And with skeleton soldiers, puzzles, spells and great big axes its clear this is a game that conforms to type, with all the action looking reassuringly familiar for gamers of a certain age.You control either shaven-headed warrior Caddic or elven archer Elara, and the section we were shown was a pretty breathless charge through the games gorgeous scenery, with buildings crumbling and enemies charging towards you from all angles. Using the two combatants you can dispatch your enemies either hand-to-hand or at distance, and you'll need to play to different strengths in different areas.In this section in particular the cover-based shooting using a single-shot bow-and-arrow did look a bit tedious, but it would be remiss of me to judge this too harshly without having actually tried it myself.AI, which will need to be pretty flawless, or preferably one of your friends, will take control of the other character to help solve puzzles and smash your way through the game's different locales. Exploration was one of the key elements of the game trumpeted by its developers, with many different side-quests and secrets on offer for those willing to look beyond the game's main path.Aesthetics seem to be the game's strongest suit. Colourful, bright and detailed, Hunted is visually leaps and bounds ahead of stable-mates Brink and Fallout: New Vegas. And while it's not going to win any awards for originality when it comes to its plot and characters, the idea of a fantasy cover-based shoot-em-up, that's also a formidable hack-n-slash puzzler, has never really been done before, so this could well be a title to keep an eye on.Hunted: The Demon's Forge will be released for PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 in the first quarter of 2011
US-based market research companyiSuppliis predicting that sales of netbooks and CULV (Consumer Ultra-Low Voltage) notebooks will do well this year.iSuppli expects netbook shipments to grow by 30% to 34.5 million units in 2010, and to reach 58.3 million units in 2014.Acer was the biggest netbook manufacturer in 2008 and 2009, and shipped 9.8 million units last year to take 37% of the market, it says. Asus was second, after shipping 5.5 million netbooks. The other Top 5 manufacturers for 2009 were Hewlett-Packard, Samsung and Dell, in that order. iSuppli says that: "Together, the Top 5 accounted for 90% of the market."The company reckons that CULV notebooks, which are thin and offer long battery life, "will ship nearly 14.5 million units in 2010, a staggering 93% increase from 7.5 million units last year." (CULV notebooks are a new category and start from a low base.)Acer was the biggest supplier of CULV notebooks last year, shipping about 5m units. Asus was second again, shipping about shipping about 700,000 units. Acer sells the Timeline range of CULV machines while Asus's models include the UL30 and UL50.iSuppli predicts that total notebook shipments, including netbooks and CULV ultraportables, "will hit 209.5 million units in 2010, up a robust 25.5% from 166.9 million last year."It predicts notebook shipments of 371.5 million units in 2014.
Owners of the 3G iPad in Britain will be able to buy mobile broadband access from Orange on a pay as you go, daily, weekly and monthly basis, the mobile phone network said today.Prices start at £2 for one day's 3G access and extend to £25 a month for 10GB of 3G browsing and 750MB of wi-fi usage, through BT Openzone hotspots. Vodafone and O2, whoannounced last month that they had also signed deals with Apple, are due to set out their pricing plans shortly.Earlier today, Apple said it willstart selling the iPad in the UK on 28 Maywith prices starting at £429. The cheapest 3G-enabled iPad, which also has wi-fi, will be a 16GB version at £529 including VAT; the 32GB 3G device will be £599 and the 64GB £699.Orange is launching the device in Britain, France, Spain and Switzerland. In the UK it is offering a pay-as-you-go option that costs 5p per MB. Users of this tariff – which entails registering a credit card with Orange – will be charged a maximum of £40 a month, but can carry on browsing after using £40 worth of capacity (800MB).Large data users, however, would be better off signing up to one of Orange's four individual pricing plans, which all require payment up front.For £2, customers can get a day's worth of browsing – capped at 200MB. For £7.50, customers can get a week's worth of browsing – up to 1GB. Beyond those usage caps, browsing is charged at 5p per MB.There are also two contract options. Both are monthly contracts but can be cancelled at any time. For £15 a month, users get 3GB of 3G access plus up to 750MB of wi-fi browsing through BT Openzone hotspots. For £25 a month, users get 10GB of 3G access and 750MB of wi-fi through BT Openzone.Consumers who want to use their iPad on a 3G network can pre-register for one of the micro-SIMs they will need in order to get online on the Orange website from Monday next week. The micro-SIMs can be obtained from Orange shops as well as directly from Apple.The mobile phone companies had hoped to be able to tie their iPad pricing plans in with existing mobile phone subscriptions – so that, for instance, an iPhone customer could get unlimited iPad browsing for a few extra pounds per month. But Apple is understood to have made it plain that it wanted iPad mobile phone pricing plans to stand alone.In the US, Apple's wireless partner AT&amp;T offers two contract-free options: $14.99 for 250MB per month and $29.99 for what it terms a month's worth of "unlimited" 3G access. Customers can sign up directly through their iPad and check how much of their allowance they have used.
Apple has revealed that the iPad, which will go on sale in the UK on 28 May, will cost £429 for the basic version. Prices go all the way up to £699 for the top of the range 64GB device with both Wi-Fi and 3G network access.The Californian technology company,which has already seen sales of the iPad sail past the 1m markafter just a month in the shops, will open its website for pre-orders of the device to British gadget fans from Monday next week. Alongside the UK, the tablet computer will also be available on 28 May in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain and Switzerland.Applepushed back the international launch of the device last month, citing "surprisingly strong US demand". More than 500,000 were delivered to American retailers and customers in its first week on sale.In the US, Apple has already sold more than 1m iPads and customers have downloaded more than 12m apps from the App Store, as well as more than 1.5m ebooks from the new iBookstore, Apple added.In the past, Apple has come in for criticism for thedifference between the prices of its productsin Europe compared with the US. In the US the basic iPad costs $499, which at the current pound-dollar exchange rate is £338. Apple points out that there are different, and higher, taxes in Europe – the prices it is quoting include VAT – as well as increased transport and other costs.Apple's price for the 16GB version of the Wi-Fi only iPad is £429 (including VAT) while the 32GB version is £499 and 64GB is £599. For the Wi-Fi and 3G version of the iPad, the 16GB device will be £529 (including VAT), the 32GB device £599 and the largest 64GB Wi-Fi and 3G iPad will be £699.The corresponding US prices are $499/$599/$699 and $629/$729/$829. There are also numerous peripherals to push up the price: case ($39), keyboard dock ($69), iPad dock ($29), camera connection kit ($29), USB power adapter ($29), VGA adaptor ($29), wireless keyboard ($69), Mobile Me ($69) and AppleCare ($99).O2, Orange and Vodafone will all be offering mobile data plans for UK consumers who buy the 3G-enabled iPad, but details have yet to be released.Apple plans to release iPad in Austria, Belgium, Hong Kong, Ireland, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand and Singapore in July and will announce availability, local pricing and pre-order plans for these nine additional countries at a later date.
Amid the chaos of today's results, there's one issue being flagrantly overlooked by the TV electo-pundits: what effect will all this have on the games business?I jest, of course – Jeremy Vine has more important issues to tackle with his bewildering array of CGI environments ("but how will this result look if I was on the surface of Mars and Westminster was an orbiting space cruiser? Let's see!"). However, industry news source MCVran a storythis afternoon, celebrating the fact that some of parliament's key Britsoft acolytes have retained their seats. Tom Watson, the Facebook games campaigner, has survived, albeit with a nine percent drop in support, while Tory MP for Wantage, Ed 'wewillsupport games industry tax incentives' Vaizey, saw his grip on the borough improve by nine percent. Elsewhere, the Liberal Democrats' Don Foster also performed well, which is – let's face it – more than can be said for his party in general.As MCV points out, those three all took part inELSPA's Question Time eventin March, and have openly backed the games industry, while some of their less enlightened colleagues simply use it as a convenient punchbag while trying to impress Daily Mail-reading Middle Englanders.It will be interesting to see, though, how opinions evolve in the dawning era of wobbly minority government.Meanwhile, video game news site Eurogamer has chosen today to launch the first part in its documentary series'Playing Politics', which looks at politicians' attitudes to games and game culture in the 21st century. Presenter, and Editor of Eurogamer TV, Johnny Minkley, spent several months gathering interviews with key MPs as well as industry bigbigs to map the relationship between the two sectors."It's a far bigger project than we've ever attempted before on Eurogamer TV," says Minkley. "I think it started around the launch of Modern Warfare 2 last year. Keith Vaz was doing his usual posturing about game violence and there wasthe piece in the Daily Mail. But then Tom Watson stood up and defended the games industry in the House, and challenged Vaz's views. That struck me as the first time any MP had seen the value in being a voice for gamers."We spoke to Tom Watson about that, and at the same time you had Tiga and Elspa campaigning for tax relief for the games industry... I just found it really interesting that the industry was having this dialogue with politicians of all parties, and with the election on the horizon, I felt it would be an interstsing thing to follow that campaign."Tellingly, what Minkley discovered was a sort of closet network of Westminster gamers, reaching out far beyond the vocal supporters. "The one thing I got from Tom that I found really disappointing was when he said that he knows of ministers who play videogames - as he put it, he has Guitar Hero nights with them, but he's been told that he's not allowed to name them in public, because they're terrified of being attacked by their local papers, as if it's some horrible habit they've got to keep secret!"The Video Game Election is an admirable endeavour, and it will be followed by two more programmes, one looking into age ratings, the other at how games are being used in education.Back to the election, industry trade body Tiga, must now know that with the confusion of the current situation, support for video game tax incentives, though seemingly backed by all three major parties, has just slipped waaaaay down the agenda. It looks like, in political terms, games will be confined to those furtive Guitar Hero sessions for some time to come.
TDK's Life on Record WR700 wireless headphones sounded much better than I expected, but I admit I'd feared the worst: wireless headphones are not generally known for high fidelity. TDK has got close by following Sennheiserand using the Kleer (PDF) wireless system, which can carry full CD-quality sound. This is impressive, and depressing.As with MP3 files, you need clever technology to get the sound quality back to the level that you could easily have started from.With the WR700 headphones, the benefit is that your movements are no longer encumbered by a physical wire from your MP3 player, hi-fi, laptop or whatever – basically, anything with a headphone socket. And in general, the greater the distance between you and your source, the nicer it is to be wireless.There are also drawbacks. The most obvious is that the transmitter must be plugged in to your MP3 player to send the signal to the headphones (or to several WR700 headphones). The transmitter is bigger than some low-end music players, does not lock into place and, annoyingly, has a rounded base so it doen't stand up. If you carry it around, it's one more thing to lose.Another disadvantage is that you become dependent on four AAA batteries: there are two in the transmitter and two in the headset. No power, no sound.Plug in the transmitter, turn on the headphones and the sound comes though in a second or two, but you can still run into problems. You can listen to music while roaming the house, but the sound drops out when the signal runs into the wrong arrangement of walls. Using the headphones walking around town, I suffered dropouts even with my Sony MP3 player in a shirt pocket.The WR700 headphones have a cushioned on-ear design: they don't enclose your ears to shut out external sounds, so you can still hear people talking. Also, there's no noise cancelling system to reduce tube or train sounds. This means you tend to turn the sound up (there's an up/down volume control on one earpiece), and find it sounds a bit too loud when the train stops.The sound quality will impress people who are used to the sort of earbuds shipped with Apple iPods and iPhones. The WR700s have good midrange definition, don't overemphasise the bass, and provide a moderate but acceptably realistic stereo soundstage. However, they're expensive at £129.99. You can get better sound quality from wired headphones that cost less, or you can get better sound quality plus noise cancelling for a similar price.In the end, it boils down to how much you value cordlessness. TDK's WR700 wireless headphones certainly do the job, but they're not a cheap option.Pros:wireless operation; comfortable to wear; smart appearance; good quality sound.Cons:large transmitter; need for AAA batteries; don't exclude external sounds; no noise cancelling for travel use; expensive relative to sound quality.TDK.comHard Data• Package includes: Wireless headphones; 2.4GHz transmitter; jack extension cord; cloth bag for headphones; four AAA batteries.• Stereo Sound: Kleer does not compress the audio prior to transmission Wireless: Uses the 2.4GHz band. Transmitter monitors interference and switches to another channel if necessary.• Transmitter Range: 10m Power Consumption: two AAA Batteries provide 30-40 hours of listening time.• Headphone specification Driver Diameter: 34 mm Frequency Response: 20-20,000 Hz Sensitivity at 1 kHz: 106 ± 5dB Input impedance: 32 ± 10% ohms
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Google Chrome Speed Tests - YouTubeAll sorts of crazy stuff as the Chrome browser is compared with fast things in real life, from a potato to lightning. Utterly pointless but very entertaining.Making the Google Chrome Speed Tests - YouTubeHow it was done, obv.Translate the real world with Google Goggles - Official Google Mobile BlogPhotograph something - a sign or a menu - and Goggles will translate it. "The first Goggles translation prototype was unveiled earlier this year at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona and could only recognize German text. Today Goggles can read English, French, Italian, German and Spanish and can translate to many more languages."Google Apps To Become More Connected — Adding Picasa, Reader, AdWords And More - TechCrunchToday, the integration between Google apps is poor (perhaps because so many were bought in). But that will change. "Currently, Apps works with Gmail, Docs, Chat, Groups, Video and Calendar. Later this year, Google will roll out functionality with Apps for Picasa, Google Reader, AdWords, News, Finance, and other products," says TechCrunch.The following email was sent to our employees today - DiggKevin Rose: "This morning we faced the difficult task of reducing our team by about 10%."Judge forces more delays in unsealing of iPhone raid documents - Los Angeles TimesThe law grinds slow but it grinds Gizmodogate exceedingly small.Twitter for Android: the best apps reviewed -- EngadgetRichard Lai runs through the options, with screen shots and tables.Three simple things that browser developers can do today to make HTML5 Apps real - Liminal Existence"The largest barrier to HTML5 as a viable platform is cross-domain AJAX. Full stop."What Happens When You Deactivate Your Facebook Account - ReadWriteWebEven if you try to kill your account, it will keep emailing you. It's a bit like the Terminator, but in reverse.Sorry, But the iPad is Not 'Killing' Netbook Sales - SuperSite BlogPaul Thurrott responds to a "stupid Apple 2.0 blog post" about netbook sales.HTML5 and the Web - Tim BrayNow at Google developing Android..stuff, web-architect-helper Tim Bray leads you through why Flash is part of the web (though he, personally, hates it) and what the best and worst outcomes of HTML5 adoption could be.Scribd CTO:"We Are Scrapping Flash And Betting The Company On HTML5" - TechCrunchFrom May 6, "online document sharing site Scribd will start to ditch Flash across its tens of millions of uploaded documents and convert them all to native HTML5 Web pages. Not only will these documents look great on the iPad's no-Flash browser (see screenshots), but it will bring the richness of fonts and graphics from documents to native Web pages."The New Yorker On Brand: Q&amp;A with Web Editor Blake Eskin - SparksheetThe New Yorker doesn't leap into the web. It sort of dabbles in it: "fundamentally, The New Yorker is something you want to sit with and not be distracted by. I don't mean this in a spiritual way, but it's a meditative experience. The Web is fundamentally a distracted experience."China players aggressively entering tablet PC market - Digitimes"China-based PC players including first-tier notebook brand Lenovo, e-book reader brand Hanwang and white-box brand Malata, have all expressed their interest in entering the tablet PC market, according to sources from notebook makers," says Taiwan's Digitimes.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
After yesterday'sXbox Live electionstory comes another topical gaming PR stunt. PS3 kart racing gameModNation Racersis "celebrating" the election by creating some in-game lookalikes. Actually, only Gordon Brown - Gordo - looks anything like the real person. The other two? Well, what do you think?Anyway, assuming we get some kind of result tomorrow this will - hopefully - be the last gaming meets politics PR stunt.In the meantime, feel free to comment on who you think would win the ModNation race.
In a move that is being billed as a historic achievement for one of the world's leading languages, web addresses will now be available in Arabic as part of a wider move to open up cyberspace to domain names in multiple, non-Latin scripts.Egypt, the most populous of Arab countries, announced today that it has begun registering names under the .misr domain. "Misr" is the Arabic name for Egypt. The first three companies to use it are TE Data, Vodafone Data and Link Registrar, said the country's communications minister, Tarek Kamel, hailing "a milestone in internet history".Instead of using the old .eg domain name, organisations in Egypt can use ."misr", written from right to left in Arabic script as the default country code for domestic websites. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are also introducing the new codes, respectively ".Al-Saudiah" and ".Emarat".One of the first of these "internationalised domain names" leads to the Egyptian communications ministry. If a browser has the correct fonts installed, the user should see an Arabic name. When you mouse-over or click on the link, what you see will depend on the browser. "Confusing for us, a relief for the Arab world," commented the specialist IT siteTHINQ.co.uk.The move comes six months after the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, Icann, approved the use of non-Latin domain names.The innovation is a significant moment for the internationalisation of the world wide web – half of whose users do not use a Latin script as their primary language.Arabic accounts for 1% of all web content – though its estimated 280 million speakers constitute 5% of the global population – but until now it has had to be hosted under Latin addresses, creating practical problems and conveying a sense of linguistic discrimination."This great step will open up new horizons for e-services in Egypt," said Kamel. "It will boost the number of online users in the country and will enable internet services to penetrate new market segments by eliminating language barriers."Internet access in Egypt is becoming cheaper and the use of internet on mobile devices is blossoming. The government is planning a $1bn (£673m) upgrade to its broadband capacity over four years to quadruple penetration to 20%.Announced on the Icann blog, the new system improves previous workaround solutions in Thailand and China, which are not recognised universally. Icann said it expects some teething troubles, but software updates for web browsers, such as downloading additional language packs, should help.Blogging is popular in many Arab countries. Arabic users on the internet have increased by more than 2,000% over the last decade. But content still punches below its weight and spending on advertising remains tiny.  Microsoft and Google include Arabic in their top 10 languages in need of prioritised attention and are working hard to increase access: one glaring example of its underdevelpoment is that the Arabic portal of online encyclopedia, Wikipedia, carries less words than its site in Catalan, which is spoken by 9 million people.
Like other people briefed by ARM, I really expected one or two dozen ARM-powered netbook-style systems or media tablets to appear at the Consumer Electronics Show in January.  They didn't, but why not? Why aren't there loads already in the shops?ZD Net's David Meyer reports that, according to ARM's marketing vice president, Ian Drew, "events have conspired to stall this plan". A story headlinedSmartbooks have been delayed by Flash issues, says ARM, quotes Drew as follows:"I think one reason is to do with software maturity. We've seen things like Adobe slip – we'd originally scheduled for something like 2009."ARM and Adobe signed a partnership in late 2008 that was intended to see Flash Player 10 and Air – both rich web platforms – optimised for ARM-based systems. That work is only likely to come to fruition in the second half of this year, when an optimised version of Flash comes out for Android smartphones. As Apple's Steve Jobs recently pointed out, Flash was originally supposed to ship for smartphones in early 2009.Shanzai.com's response is thatARM bashes Flash Unfairly for Lack of Smartbooks, and it points out that the media see "Flash as the new kid on the block to bully". Yes, the sudden shift of interest from netbook-style devices to tablet formats probably slowed things down. Still, lack of Flash for ARM chips can't have helped.Another factor is the failure of Linux on netbooks, because – to ARM's chagrin – ARM chips cannot run Microsoft Windows. Meyer writes:"Some of it is also related to there not being many Linux [netbooks] out there either," Drew added, pointing out that ARM's architecture cannot support x86-based applications from the PC. "We've only got Linux. If you look at forecasts for Linux netbook sales last year, not as many were sold."However, this shouldn't matter much to the nascent tablet market, where Apple's iPad has demonstrated that you can sell loads of machines without running Windows. And in ARM's case, as in Apple's case, Windows shouldn't matter. The iPad is basically a big iPod Touch (or a big iPhone without the phone part), and an ARM-based tablet is most likely to be a big Google Android phone. In other words, a system written to be driven by the end of your finger, rather than (like Windows) a stylus or a mouse.This kind of system should start to become widely available fairly soon. Indeed, Zedomax did a hands-on review of a prototype system this week at Web 2.0 Expo in San Francisco. You can get some idea of what it looks like from Zedomax videos on YouTube, with the second one (Android Multi-Touch Tablet Prototype Hands-on Video Review! Part 2- above) attracting particular attention. Apple fanboys and anti-Flash folks reckon it shows the browser crashing when running Flash, while Zedomax says it doesn't. On YouTube, he says:Hey if u dont believe me I will go take another video tomorrow and prove u it didnt crash and show u all the "hidden" button I was using, u can see clearly in the video, there's a slight moment of pause where i am fiddling with the back button and I accidentally hit the home button, geez, #idontlie folks.But really, a prototype crashes a browser: who cares? Apparently Steve Jobs reckons that Flash crashes on Macs running OS X all the time.People who support Google's Android and Chrome OS ventures – which are both based on Linux – will value the fact that they are open source, so users can do whatever they like with them. Android tablets and other devices provide freedoms that will never be officially available in the iPad's closed, proprietary system. The freedom to run Adobe Flash could be just one of them.
Due out later this month,Prince of Persia: The Forgotten Sandsis perhaps the most eagerly awaited PoP title for five years.Returning to the storyline begun in 2003's masterful Sands of Time, the prince must now save his brother's kingdom from an apocalyptic force. Ubisoft is promising epic battles, an intriguing new set of elemental powers and of course, lots more acrobatic mayhem – and here we have the brand new trailer...It is, quite frankly, staggering. Astonishingly detailed desert environments, intricate character modelling, utterly fluid animation. Jerry Bruckhiemer, producer of Disney's movie adaptation of Sands of Time (also due out at the end of May)said recently: "I really believe in the next 10 years you won't be able to tell the difference between movies and games. Games will be so realistic."Okay, so none of it is in-game (and naturally, earliergame footage trailersdon't impress quite as much, visually), but even as a piece of CGI it's incredible stuff, regularly tricking the eye into perceiving photographic realism. I'm not sure I believe Bruckhiemer – I'm not sure I even want to. But I know I want to see more of this game, and I thought I wouldn't be excited by this franchise again.How about you?
Facebook shut down its chat system yesterday after it emerged private conversations were visible to other users.Any user was able to view the live chats of their friends, as well as their pending friend requests, until the social media site was alerted to the problem and took Facebook chat offline.The glitch,reported by technology blog TechCrunch, meant that people clicking on the "Preview my profile" button – which enables users to see how their information is shown to certain friends – were given information from their friends' accounts.The world's biggest social media networkhas been under scrutinyover fears its new system, which opens up users' activity to other sites, makes it too difficult to keep information private."For a limited period of time, a bug permitted some users' chat messages and pending friend requests to be made visible to their friends by manipulating the 'preview my profile' feature of Facebook privacy settings," a company spokeswoman said."When we received reports of the problem, our engineers promptly diagnosed it and temporarily disabled the chat function. We also pushed out a fix to take care of the visible friend requests which is now complete. Chat will be turned back on across the site shortly."We worked quickly to resolve this matter, ensuring that once the bug was reported to us, a solution was quickly found and implemented."The company issued a statementon the Facebook fan pageexplaining the absence of the chat feature to users."Chat is unavailable as we work quickly to fix a bug reported to us," it said. "It should return to normal soon … We apologise for the inconvenience."This morning nearly 5,000 people had said they "liked" Facebook's comment.
Six months might not be a lifetime in game development, but it can certainly make a hell of a difference. At the end of last year,Blurwas practically finished. Liverpool-based studio Bizarre Creations could have handed the game over to its new publisher, Activision, and then watched as it hit the shelves for an always desirable Christmas release.But the development team wasn't happy. The game didn't feel right, the balance wasn't there. It looked to them like a seven out of 10. That wasn't going to be good enough.This isn't just PR puff – I know Bizarre Creations of old. I came here in 2000, while they were creating the agenda-setting Dreamcast driving sim, Metropolis Street Racer. I watched as the MD of the studio Martin Chudley, sat hunched over a PC keyboard late into the night, obsessively tweaking a minor element of the handling engine. The result was a benchmark title that would now be considered alongside Gran Turismo if it had been on PlayStation 2 rather than Sega's doomed console.So perhaps recognising this culture of perfectionism rather than panic, Activision gave the team a deadline extension. Six months later, it seems like this was a good call. Blur, as it stands today, could be one of the most enjoyable driving games of the year – it might even be to this generation what Burnout was in the PlayStation 2 era: a disruptive moment of off-message genius.On paper, it's an easy game to sum up. "Mario Kart meets Need for Speed" will do it, or the more catchy "Wipeout meets Burnout". Whatever, it's a slick urban racer with power-ups, more than 50 licensed vehicles and 30 worldwide locations, including glamorous cities like Barcelona, Tokyo, San Francisco and Los Angeles, as well as, well, not so glamorous settings. Like Hackney.And for the first few minutes, it is a rather weird experience – here are accurately modelled super cars like the Audi R8 and Mustang GTR Concept, racing over glowing pick-up icons and firing missiles. But then, very quickly, you remember that brilliant driving games don't have to adhere to slavish realism. The highways of California don't really look the way they do in Outrun, and nothing on this Earth resembles the world conjured into existence by Mario Kart. But they are among the greatest racers ever created, engineered during an era when driving games werethemainstream genre.And importantly, the power-ups aren't just there for the sake of it, as a USP to stick on the back of the box. They're there to enhance the racing experience. As lead designer Gareth Wilson explains: "In the beginning, we were just trying to identify what was good about racing games. And it's overtaking. So the first stage of the design was, well, lets push the number of cars on the track up to 20. It made a difference but it still wasn't exciting enough. And that's when the power ups came in. The goal with them is to make players change position more often, so you get that constant battling. That's really why they're there. It's not like we suddenly went, 'we must make a power-up racing game'."This sense of integration is clear from the selection on offer, and how they work in the game. There are eight items to pick up throughout a race, providing a range of defensive and offensive options. Shunt fires a homing projectile at the car immediately in front; Barge sends out a wave of energy that hits all the cars around you; Shock drops three domes of disruptive power right in front of the leading driver; and Bolt fires three projectiles along your line of sight, like a car-mounted railgun. Then you have mines to drop, a shield that protects you from damage for several seconds, and, of course, a nitro boost. Finally, when there's smoke pouring from your engine and shards of metal hanging off your chassis, the Repair power-up patches things up nicely.It's not an enormous range, but each power-up has a variety of uses, adding significant tactical depth. For example, Barge will knock-out incoming power-ups as well as repel nearby cars, whereas holding down on the left analogue stick while firing a nitro will put on the air brakes, crushing any car that hits you from behind. Importantly, none of the options provide an insta-kill like the shells in Mario Kart – they can all be avoided.Also, players can store up to three pick-ups in slots visible behind the car, toggling between them using the left bumper button, before hitting X to fire one off.  This opens up a frenzied duelling mechanic, with drivers trading attacks and parries as they scorch through the circuit.The instinctive scissor, paper, stone interplay feels a heck of a lot like Street Fighter – a reference that Wilson is more than happy to recognise: "I'm so glad you said that! This is an interesting one because Paul Kirby, the lead gameplay programmer, came back from GDC last year and was raving about this Street Fighter presentation that was all about counters. They showed a video of two Japanese guys fighting at a tournament and it was just counter, counter, counter – they virtually did no damage to each other. At the end, it timed out, and one of them had done one hit in the whole round!  That was one of the things that really pushed us with the power-ups – to make it feel like counters and strategy. The power-ups went through tons of iteration, but the thing that really changed was the evasion stuff – the idea that every power-up can be blocked or avoided. And that really came out after Kirbs returned from that Street Fighter talk."For a weapons-based road brawler, the handling model is sublime – a rakish combination of PGR's rigorous physics detailing, with an intuitive and forgiving arcade feel. When the Dodge Viper's wheels slip out from beneath you on the dirt roads of the Mojave Desert, it feels super-authentic. But at the same time, you can happily flick your back end off rails and other roadside objects without sending your car into a dramatic race-ending death spin. And of course, when you're hit from behind by an explosive charge, you car lifts into the air, somersaults, then lands and continues the race. We're not in Project Gotham anymore.Balancing all this will be the key to Blur's success. What they don't want is idiots using the track barriers to grind round every bend at top speed, never implementing a single skilful cornering manoeuvre. "We've fiddled the physics a bit," Wilson admits. "To make the game feel good, we make the cars bounce off things – it's the restitution value if you want to get technical – it's higher than it should be so they bounce more than they would in the real world. But if a player is grinding around the walls like a log flume, we turn down the restitution value, which effectively makes the wall become sticky. The longer you touch it, the more speed you lose."But at the same time, no penalty or slight misjudgement ever takes you out of the race for more than a few fleeting seconds, there's always a chance to catch up. "I think people get turned off by the unforgiving nature of most racing games," says Wilson. "Project Gotham was terrible for this – it was its curse and its blessing, but if you didn't do your first corner very well, that was it really. You'd pause and replay. It was a replay racer. Trials HD is a bit like that: it's great, but it's great for a certain group of people. Classics like Sega Rally, Daytona, Outrun, anyone could play those. My dad couldn't play PGR, but he could play Blur."Visually, the game is as slick, detailed and crammed with scenic props as you'd expect from a product arriving several years into the current hardware cycle. In urban areas, the intricately realised buildings crowd in on you, occasionally opening out to offer glimpses of familiar landmarks. Brighton's seafront is wonderfully recreated, all ornate Victorian architecture and wide open promenades, while Tokyo has its neon-drenched skyscrapers and the San Francisco "Sausalito" circuit takes in a jaunt along the beach with the Golden Gate Bridge glowing in the distance. On offroad tracks, meanwhile, the endless scrublands merge with the looming cloudy sky, creating an unexpectedly moody setting for a knockabout weapons-based racer.The single-player career mode pits you against a series of nine "bosses", each of whom offers a selection of driving events, ranging from straightforward street racers to arena-based destruction derbies. As Wilson explains: "Khan, one of the guys you met early on is a precise but quite cautious driver, so all of his chapter is structured around technically demanding tracks, which aren't as power-up based. Drake, however, drives around in a big Hummer and he's all about destruction and beating the crap out of other drivers. For all of those events, we tune the AI to be cautious or aggressive, to pick up certain power-ups, to take certain racing lines."Each chapter ends with a one-on-one race against the relevant boss – win this, and you get their car, plus a vehicle mod, which is exclusive to the single-player mode. The structure is deliberately sympathetic to non-petrol heads. You only have to come in the top three to complete a stage, and you can progress to the next chapter without taking on the boss character if you prefer. Compete stylishly and successfully and you also start to attract fans, which essentially work as the game's in-game currency: the more you get the more cars you unlock. You start with Class D models – the Focus RS or Chevrolet Camaro, for example – and work your way up to Class A, where you'll find the likes of the Koenigsegg CCX-R and Viper GTSR. It's also possible to upgrade and customise each model, as well as opening different versions depending on your allegiances to drift, tuner or other racing subcultures.Throughout the career mode, Bizarre Creations has retained a nice sense of social competition. Before each race, the menu screen shows a leaderboard of your friends' best times and, as in Need for Speed Shift, you're able to select one pal as a rival, who you then set out to beat in every event. More innovative, though, is the clever Friend Challenges option. If you perform spectacularly well in a career race, you can then use the Xbox Live messaging service to issue a challenge to a mate, letting them know the circuit, car and time, and giving them the chance to beat your performance – you can even add an insulting message to the challenge, though this may backfire if they ace the track and smash your record.Interestingly, you don't need a Gold account to deliver and receive these challenges, and you're also able to accept challenges based around vehicles and circuits that you haven't yet unlocked, giving you a sneak preview of what's to come. Players can even boast about achievements and issue challenges via Twitter and another soon-to-be-announced social networking partner, allowing some cross-platform rivalries to develop between Xbox 360, PC and PS3 owners.As you'd expect from the makers of PGR, one of the first racing games to get to grips with the Xbox Live era, the multiplayer functionality is, to say the least, epic. For a start there's a huge range of modes from basic circuit races, to the arena-based deathmatch-style mayhem of Motor Mash, to Team Racing, which lets you drop off power-ups for your stablemates adding yet more tactical range. Project Gotham fans may also appreciate the Hardcore Racing option, which turns off all the power-ups and ramps up the damage – "It's effectively PGR for free," says Wilson. And of course, players will be able to generate their own custom events, tweaking damage, respawn timings, handicaps, AI and power-up selection to their specific requirements. An online Community area will regularly take the most popular settings to create playlists of specialised events.There are also plenty of little extras, some of which owe a debt to Modern Warfare. Players are able to take on in-game challenges to attract extra fans, ranging from wrecking three cars to performing 10 nitro jumps or soaring over 120m through the air. Plus, at the end of every race, there's a variety of "awards" handed out to players based on their performance – stuff like fastest lap, most cars wrecked and one named "Squirrel", for the player who picks up and the most power-ups.Most significant though, is the massive Mod Shop, which can be gradually unlocked by earning fans and ranking up through the game. This section offers a range of cool perks classed into three categories: offensive, defensive and the more vague "game-changing". Players can carry three at any one time and there's stuff like fast re-spawns, Magnet, which pulls in power-ups from further away, and Decoy Drops – mines disguised as power-ups.More dramatic, are the likes of "Silent Running" which renders your car invisible (until you fire a power-up or take damage), and the amusing 'Last Gasp', which Wilson explains: "when you go to zero health, instead of dying, your car becomes this big bomb – it starts rattling and shaking and anytime up to ten seconds after reaching zero health, you can press A and the car explodes damaging everyone nearby. It's quite tactical in Motor Mash because you can wreck a lot of cars with it, but it's really just fun."Add in the fact that many tracks have multiple routes, as well as ramps, chasms and myriad obstacles, and you have an extraordinary combination of lighting fast tactical driving (and, my God, it's fast) and laugh-out-loud combat. It is, of course, going up against the similarly dynamic Split/Second, with its high concept environmental destruction, but at this stage Blur feels like the weightier, more lasting option. The team is already planning a wealth of DLC as well as fresh multiplayer tweaks and other extras, so we can expect a thriving online scene; little wonder the recent multiplayer beta attracted hundreds of thousands of gamers.In short, this game looks to be where the true joy of old skool arcade racing collides with the social, cross-platform functionality of the 21st century console. It is controlled insanity, it doesn't make any sense. But it doesn't matter. I think I've seen the future of mainstream racing games – it's blurry.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Video: Major Facebook security hole lets you view your friends' live chats - TechCrunchWhoops! Facebook says it has dealt with it….Gmail Ditched By Major University - Information WeekThe University of California-Davis "decided to end its Gmail pilot, which could have led to campus-wide deployment, because faculty members doubted Google's ability to keep their correspondences private."Adobe CTO Kevin Lynch: We're Going To Make The Best Tools In The World For HTML5 - TechCrunchSpeaking at the Web 2.0 Expo in San Francisco, Lynch said: "It's not about HTML 5 vs Flash. They're mutually beneficial. The more important question is the freedom of choice on the web."Ellen parody on Apple iPhone, then apologizes - YouTubeEllen DeGeneres made a spoof iPhone advert, only to find that Apple has no sense of humour.Is Google the ultimate UK political pollster? - EconsultancyInteresting point: do Google's search tips indicate what people are going to do in voting?dadahack: TAP3"TAP3 is a custom-made MP3 playing cassette. It can be used as a personal music player by plugging in your headphones to the device, and can be loaded with more music via a mini USB. Alternatively, it also functions as a cassette when played in a standard tape deck."HP Slate killed? Not so fast - CNet"Despite glaring headlines last week that the Hewlett-Packard Windows 7-based Slate was canceled, it may not be that cut and dried, according to analysts," says CNet.HTML5 and Same Markup: Second IE9 Platform Preview Available for Developers - IEBlogThe platform preview installs side by side with Internet Explorer 8 so you can try it against that and against Firefox and Chrome.A spring metamorphosis: Google's new look - Official Google BlogGoogle makes yet more pointless changes to its logo and some marginal improvements to search instead of doing useful stuff like fixing the "Resolving host" bug in Chrome, adding standard features to Gmail such as sort by subject or by size, trying to make Google Docs a bit more Office file compatible, or doing something about the wretched Buzz (eg taking it out and shooting it), etc.The Current State of Web Design: Trends 2010 - Smashing MagazineA look at current trends with plenty of examples and links to further readingMicrosoft Kin One and Two review - EngadgetIn-depth look at the forthcoming phones with "deep social networking integration" in what used to be the Danger/Sidekick line. Engadget finds it decidedly lacking....Android Multi-Touch Tablet Prototype Hands-on Review - ZedomaxReporting from Web 2.0 Expo: "The best part about the Google Android Tablet? It runs Adobe's Flash and Air apps flawlessly."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google is planning to launch its own ebook store this summer, setting the scene for an all-out war with Apple and Amazon over the future of the digital book market.Speaking at a panel discussion held by Random House today, Chris Palma, Google's manager for strategic partner development, said Google Editions would launch in June or July, offering digital versions of the titles on its book search service. The company says the ebooks will work across multiple devices, and, unlike the ebooks of iPad and Kindle, any device with a browser will be able to view the books. Customers with a Google account will be able to access the service.Readers will be able to buy digital copies they find through Google's book search function and book retailers will be able to sell Google Editions on their own sites, getting most of the revenue from sales. Google Editions will be browser based, offering the latest digital books without locking customers to a specific device.A Google spokesman said its plans had been in the pipeline for some time. "We've consistently maintained that we're committed to helping our partners find more ways to make their books accessible and available for purchase online, and we've been sharing details with our partner publishers for some time now. We hope to launch this to consumers in 2010."Google joins the fray as the ebook market looks set to be the latest to be transformed by the internet, following on from music and films. Wholesale revenues from ebook sales in the US tripled in the third quarter of 2009 to $46.4m (£30.6m), from $13.9m during the same period in the previous year.Google Books, formerly known as Google Print, was launched in 2004 but  put on hold a year later when the Authors Guild of America and Association of American Publishers sued over alleged "massive copyright infringement".Its attempt to create a vast digital library has raised anti-trust and copyright concerns. Earlier this year, the US justice department said the "plan still confers significant and possibly anti-competitive advantages on Google as a single entity".But analysts say the arrival of ebook reading devices has been a shot in the arm for the book industry. The Kindle has been a hit, selling 2.4m units, and has a market share of 55%, according to Forrester, the market research company.Apple said this week it has sold 1m iPads so far. Prices for the iPad begin at $499 and it is more expensive than a Kindle, which begins at $259. However, the iPad can also be used to surf the net, play films and store music.
We may not know what Nick Clegg's gamerscore is but Xbox 360 Live players appear to want the Liberal Democrat's to win tomorrow's UK election. 30% of respondents to an online poll held on Xbox Live are going for the Lib Dems. 20.7% voted for Cameron with 17.6% going for Brown. An unsurprisingly high 31.3% of Xbox Live users were undecided though. Will Cameron embark on an all-night session of Modern Warfare 2 to grab these undecided votes?What do Microsoft think then? Xbox Director Stephen McGill said:Whilst the Xbox 360 LIVE survey is in no way intended to be statistically representative, given the enormous number of votes cast online over the Bank Holiday weekend (416,882 in total), we believe our results provide a telling barometer of political attitudes amongst  18 - 30 year olds nationwide. Being a young, socially and technology aware group who certainly have their fingers on the pulse 24/7, Xbox 360 LIVE members are a vitally important demographic for UK parties. Like everyone else in the UK, we await the outcome of tomorrow's General Election with keen interest.Erm, indeed. Anyway, anyone here take part in this poll? I personally didn't see it.
If you weren't already excited enough about Red Dead Redemption, hitting UK shops on May 21, here's something to tip you over the edge of Anticipation Canyon.Rockstar has just announced the first piece of downloadable content to accompany the sprawling open-world Western adventure. Set to be available from June, with a simultaneous release on Xbox Live and the PlayStation Network,  'Outlaws To The End' is a co-op multiplayer quest, featuring six 'epic' missions as well as additional multiplayer XP rewards and brand new Achievements and Trophies to unlock. "With these missions, we wanted to create new ways for players to share in the experience of engaging with this amazing landscape," commented Rockstar founder, Sam Houser.The publisher has provided details on three of the stages...In Walton's Gold, you must raid a gold mine and steal its riches from under the noses of the Walton gang, who have rigged the place to explode. The River, meanwhile, takes the form of a rafting trip toward the rebel stronghold of Nosalida, where the town's massive weapons cache awaits your liberation. And in Ammunition, you must gain entry to the besieged town of Tesoro Azul, fending off rebel Gatling guns and sniper fire.Rockstar says the levels – designed for between 2-4 players – will add an 'entirely new dimension' to the game; certainly a structured co-op experience always looked to be a glaring ommission from the opening feature-set. Of course, there is the intriguing Free Roam mode, which gives up to 16 players access to the full singe-player environment, but there are no missions to play through, just lots of lawmen to take out and environmental challenges to attempt.The Gatling gun. Apparently, on the river mission you'll face Mexican rebels who have these mounted on rafts.Rockstar has also stated that 'Outlaws To The End' is the first of three DLC packages set to be released over the summer. The other two will be revealed shortly.
The spectre of crashing power grids, stalled air control towers, hospitals brought to a standstill and defences left wide open was raised at the first cyber-security world summit that ended today, when politicians, officials, military leaders and industrialists warned that the US and other countries were failing to protect computer networks and were vulnerable to attacks of catastrophic proportions.Harry Raduege, former director at the Pentagon agency responsible for the computer network, said cyber attacks were growing in intensity and sophistication. "We have experienced a number of attacks against the financial sector, on the power grid and against our defence capability," he told the meeting in Dallas.Raduege, chairman of the Deloitte Centre for Cyber Innovation, added: "What we are concerned about most is the vulnerability of the system and that potential attackers are gaining more skills. So it never ends. It demands constant attention."Patrick Pailloux, director-general of the French network and information security agency, said he had nightmares about attacks on the electricity system, transport, water supplies, the financial sector and hospitals, which are dependent on computers. "My biggest nightmare is not having enough time to prepare," he said.The EastWest Institute summit was attended by 400 representatives of 30 countries, including the US and Estonia, which claim to have been victims of cyber attacks, and the countries they blame for perpetrating them, China and Russia.Hundreds of thousands of attacks are launched round the world daily, with attackers including student hackers and criminal gangs, and these cost billions of dollars. But attacks launched by countries against other countries are causing the greatest concern. The biggest so far appears to have been on Estonia in 2007, when attacks on its computers brought parts of the country to a standstill, and Georgia in 2008. Both blamed Russia, which denies the charge.There was a cyber attack on the US last 4 July, which Washington suspects North Korea was behind and which it claims was aimed at closing down federal agencies. The US has also accused China of launching attacks, mainly aimed at espionage.A Republican congressman, Michael McCaul, who helped guide a bill through the House in February to improve the security of US networks against cyber attacks, said: "When you mention cyber security to most members of Congress, their eyes glaze over and yet it is one of the most serious threats this century. We are good at offensive capability but we are not good on defence."A Cyber Storm simulation exercise is scheduled to take place this year to test US readiness. The US will for the first time invite 15 other countries to participate.It is the most advanced country at conducting cyber warfare, followed by Russia, China and Israel.The attack on Estonia – in which millions of emails swamped the websites of the government, parliament, banks, and the media – was described at the summit as a wake-up call, offering a glimpse of the potential devastation that can be wreaked through targeting computer systems.The Estonian justice minister, Rein Lang, who was at the summit, said: "Everyone should be worried, not just Estonia."Lin Zhengrong, deputy director-general of China's internet affairs bureau of the state council information office, dismissed suggestions that China was the source of cyber attacks and said China was also a victim of such attacks.Michael Dell, chairman of the eponymous information technology company, hinted there might eventually have to be a two-tier web system, one that was secure and the other the current open and anonymous system that Americans often refer to as the Wild West. "We have an enormous number of bad actors who are able to act completely anonymously," said Dell.Asked if the threat was overblown, Dell replied: "I do not think it is, unfortunately."The second summit is to be held in London next year.
Intel has launched a new version of its Atom processor that uses far less power and "prepares the company to target a range of computing devices, including high-end smartphones, tablets and other mobile handheld products," said Intel.Belli Kuttanna, chief Intel Atom processor architect, said: "After we delivered the first-generation Intel Atom processor with 10x thermal power reduction, we challenged ourselves to achieve 50x power reduction at the platform level."The Z6xx system-on-chip (SoC), formerly codenamed Lincroft, includes 3-D graphics, video encoding/decoding and memory and display controllers. Intel says it can support "HD 1080p high-profile video decoding and 720p HD video recording", bringing "a rich, PC-like visual experience to powerful handheld computers".The mobile phone and smartphone markets are dominated by ARM designs, and it is expanding into tablets (such as the Apple iPad) and netbooks. ARM doesn't make chips: it designs processor cores that can be used to create system-on-a-chip designs such as Tegra and Snapdragon. This allows for lots of innovation and customisation.Intel, in contrast, has traditionally made all its own chips, but it has an SoC deal with TSC (Taiwan Semiconductor Company). I asked Jose Maiz, Intel's director of Logic Technology Quality and Reliability, about the scope for non-Intel sourcing and he told me: "We will give them as much flexibility as they like."It still seems unlikely that the new Z6xx Atom chip will have much impact on the ARM chip's dominance. However, Intel has made extraordinary progress in moving its x86 architecture from large power-hungry Pentium-type chips to very small low-power Atoms. It has narrowed the gap to ARM, and it's not stopping. Christian Morales, director of Intel Europe, says: "My view is that next year we will really see a breakthrough in the [smartphone] market."Today's Atom chips are more suitable for netbooks and media tablets than smartphones. The next design, code-named Medfield, could take the fight into ARM's home ground.
Yesterday we spoke toRemedy Entertainmentscreenwriter Sam Lake about his approach to storytelling. In the second part of our interview, we chat about characterisation and touch on future plans for the series...If you missed it, you can catch the first part of the interviewhere.You've mentioned Stephen King as an influence on Alan Wake, but more specifically I see parallels with The Shining and The Dark Half which both dealt with King's own role as a writer. Are there similarly autobiographical elements in your game?Well, it is definitely a work of fiction! But as a writer, you can't help but put a piece of yourself in the writing; if nothing else it's the way you look at life in general. I'm sure that in someway, it all ends up in the story. Naturally, you use bits and pieces from here and there, a snippet of dialogue or the background of a certain person as a starting point for what you're creating. It usually ends up being something completely different in the end, but it is the starting point.Can you think of specific examples where you've taken elements from your own life and put them into the game?There is a toy from Alan Wake's childhood – it turns up in the game and ends up being a rather important story element. That is an actual toy that I used to play with as a kid. You take small details like this to make the story, but at the same time, I wouldn't say that Alan Wake, as a whole, is autobiographical. I don't feel that, apart from our profession, Alan Wake and I have that much in common.You have quite a rich roster of characters – how were you able to bring such depth to these supporting roles?Some of the characters are, at least in part, inspired by people I have met or have known, but it's not the main point of the characters in general. I have to say that with the supporting cast in general, the long development time has helped a lot. There are different layers that have been built along the way and these have allowed the construction of deeper, more well-rounded characters than if we'd have rushed the project.It is intentional that there's more to these characters than you find out or see in the first game. From the beginning, we have built Alan Wake to be something larger than just the first game and we have definite plans for the story to continue – if players like the first game and are interested in seeing more. Quite a few of the characters are built in such a way that they do have a different side; they have layers to them that you only get a hint of in the first game. There are elements that will be revealed in more detail in the future.Will subsequent seasons take us to new locations and new characters, or will we be staying in the same area?There are of course, examples of both those approaches on TV. I don't want to go into any specific details other than that we have definite plans. There are hints here and there in the game and in the material that's coming out with the game: the collectors' edition comes with a book that gives you a different perspective to events. So we are hinting about where this is going. And there is going to be downloadable content in the near future as well; this being a story-driven and character-centric game, the DLC will always contain more story content.What do you think are some of the key set pieces in the game? Was there anything you especially enjoyed writing?I desperately want to avoid giving out any spoilers – as Alan Wake is a thriller, it's very important for the players to be able to experience the whole story on their own. But talking about the story on a higher level, I'm proud that we were able to make an action game in which the main couple do have these ordinary real-life problems with their relationship, with their work and with life in general. Even with all of this supernatural action in the game – and it does escalate dramatically toward the end of the game – we were still able to use TV series-style pacing to ensure the player is reminded of what are the stakes are, and what Alan is fighting for. Close to the end, we take the player back a couple of years to happier times in Alan's life and that allowed us to keep it grounded in reality all the way to the conclusion. I'm happy about that.I'm also very happy with the ending. There are many ways that you can go, but it's very important in a game like this to reach a satisfying conclusion. At the same time, it needs a certain type of thriller twist, it needs to open doors to further stories and I think we've managed to do that quite nicely.So the TV influence isn't just in the obvious narrative elements of the game, it's there in the very structure of the experience too – much more so than movies?There are different sides to it. With Alan Wake, we are looking at both movies and TV series', for different things. As I said, there is a clear escalation and the action gets quite epic, and for those particular elements, we are very much looking at movies for inspiration. But at the same time, I used the movie screenplay structure as a model for the Max Payne games, and I felt well, yes it works, but because by nature games are longer entities you need to stretch the plot points quite thin.At the beginning of Alan Wake I was looking for a better model, and these days you have TV seasons coming out in DVD box sets. I feel this is definitely the best way to experience a good TV show – to have it on DVD and watch several episodes in a row, then several more the next evening. I kind of felt that this kind of story model would be perfect for pacing the story in a game – that's where the idea came from.And it seems to have worked!I'm very happy with how it turned out and see no reason to change that structure for the games we will be doing in the future...
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Top 10 Luxury Brands' Sites Fail To Work On iPad - PSFKGuess why?Steve Jobs' Big New York Times Letdown - GawkerThe iPad launch gave the New York Times a lot of free promotion but its product has been a disappointment. Gawker says: "we hear it's related to the newspaper's existing agreement for the Amazon Kindle".What the Web Is Saying About Apple and Antitrust - GigaomMathew Wiener's handy print-out-and-keep guide to the possibility that Apple will face an antitrust inquiry over its exclusion of Adobe-written cross-compiled apps from the iPhone and iPad.How Wired.com Tracked the iPhone Finder - under the wire, Brian Chen"It was a combination of cyber sleuthing, old-school gumshoe reporting and persistent stalking." Starting with a lucky break by an intern noticing something on a Facebook wall.Q&amp;A: Potential Inquiries Into Apple's Rules - Wall Street JournalThe Journal asked Kenneth L. Glazer, a partner at K&amp;L Gates and the former deputy director of the Bureau of Competition at the Federal Trade Commission, what sort the things the FTC and DoJ might be looking for.Torture test: Is AT&amp;T's unlimited iPad 3G plan truly unlimited? - Know Your CellTurns out that yup, it is (so far): he did 30GB in 2 days. However, the month is young and AT&amp;T might notice...Mixed linksInside The Bulgarian BitTorrent Crackdown - TorrentFreakThere's a crackdown on P2P in Bulgaria. But who is it targeting?Facebook and Twitter Post Large Year over Year Gains in Unique Users - Nielsen"Compared to user activity on social networking sites last year, Facebook and Twitter posted gains of 69% and 45% respectively in the US," says Nielsen.Introducing Ning Pro, Ning Plus and Ning Mini - Ning BlogNing says it will roll out three new versions in July, and he prices are $2.95, $19.95 and $49.95 per month.HP's Next Task: Triple Palm's Revenues - AllThingsDAccording to a research note from Deutsche Bank, HP needs to work "some serious financial magic" to make that Palm acquisition pay off.Know Your Rights: H.264, patent licensing, and you - EngadgetYour print-out-and-keep guide to H.264 and licensing. Thorough.Color Survey Results - xkcdThe webcomic's blog reports on a colour survey where more than five million colors were named across 222,500 user sessions.Ignorance and Hubris at the FTC… - Wertago BlogA company that develops apps for Google Android has been contacted by the FTC about Google's takeover of AdMob, and isn't impressed* You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Intel showed photonics in action at its first European Research day in Brussels today: it used aLight Peakcable to connect a laptop computer to external displays. The main advantage over traditional electrical connections is the speed, which starts at 10 gigabits per second. (Intel reckons it can get much faster: probably 100Gbps.) Another is the range, of up to 100 metres.Light Peak uses optical modules feeding a router chip, but the assembly is small enough to fit on a PCI card. The modules talk to one another via fibre optic cables, but the rest of the design is optional. Rather than develop a new plug, Intel ran the demo using a USB-style cable with a module installed in a standard laptop PC. But remember it's a demo, not a product.Intel Labs's Jeff Demain told me that it wasn't about whether you could run 10Gbps optical connections in a lab. A system designed for consumers "has to be manufacturable, cost effective, reliable and repeatable. We're showing one way you could do it."Demain said Intel wasn't ready to announce the availability or price but that the component chips would be available late this year. After that, it was up to product manufacturers to find uses. High speed connections for servers is the most obvious, but home applications could include streaming high-definition video to one or more remote screens. Light Peak would also be fast enough to handle streams of different protocols at the same time, including DisplayPort, HDMI and USB connections. However, Intel hopes that some manufacturers will come up with new uses and new architectures to exploit its capabilities.Intel tends to use geographical features -- often in Oregon -- for its code names, and it's no surprise thatLight Peak is also a real 8,330-foot mountain.
Microsoft's market share in web browsers -- which used to be around 90% -- has now slipped below 60%, withNet Applications recording 59.95% for April. And with IE losing 0.7 percentage points over the month, Google's Chrome browser gained almost all of it: 0.6 percentage points. Firefox and Apple's Safari made negligible gains, while Opera actually lost market share.It wouldn't be sensible to put too much emphasis on Net Applications' monthly numbers, which are based on logging access to lots of websites. They're a good guide to the trends, but the details depend on which sites are monitored. However, in general, Chrome has grown rapidly while other independent alternatives have tended to plateau.Compared withApril last year, Chrome has gained 4.94 points of market share, while Firefox has only gained 0.75 points and Opera 0.26 points. Over the same period, IE has dropped 7.82 points, so Chrome has grabbed almost two-thirds of the share IE has lost.Google has the huge advantage of advertising its browser on the front of its market-dominating search engine. It's still hard to see any significant change due to the European Commission forcing Microsoft to provide local Windows users with a "browser choice" screen.When it comes tobrowser versions, Microsoft's IE8 remains top dog with 27.66% (including compatibility mode). IE8 is followed by IE6 (17.58%), Firefox 3.6 (15.33%) and IE7 (12.5%). IE7 is obviously in decline, but IE8 could hang on for a while because IE9 won't run on Windows XP.In theoperating system market, Net Applications reckons Windows XP leads with 63.41%, followed by Vista (15.60%), Windows 7 (11.68%), Mac OS X 10.6 (2.29%) and 10.5 (2.13%). Windows 7 looks likely to overtake Vista in the next three months, but again, XP won't be overhauled in a hurry.There are probably around 750,000,000 XP machines still in use. Replacing them at the rate of 150m a year would still take 5 years.
You're working in the office, but that vital file that you need to complete the PowerPoint presentation with which you're going to anaesthetise the board this afternoon is at home! Oh noes! What can you do? If you've hooked yourself up with Pogoplug, no problem: simplygo to its siteand you'll be able to log in and pull down the file directly from your home network.Always assuming, that is, that you took the trouble before you left home to hook the USB drive with that vital file to the Pogoplug itself. So actually the scenario might not work. Still, it shows you the principle of the device, which is a personal file server that works across your home firewall and router to offer password-protected access to files connected to it.There's more: you can choose to share files with other people – by file, by directory, among individuals, to any email-addressable group.Hmm, is this one of these cyberlocker thingsthat Lord Vold… Mandelson warned us about?Well, I suppose it could be: depending how fast your broadband upload is, you could share a stack of music with your friends entirely illicitly. That's not quite the purpose of Pogoplug, which is much more about creating a simple method of accessing your files from anywhere. All you have to do is click an icon and you can send them an email directly from the site to any or all of your friends.One security weakness: they can then share it with alltheirfriends.Setting it up is simplicity itself: power it up, plug it into your router, go to the Pogoplug web page, enter your details such as an email and press a button on the front of the device. You'll get an email with a link to confirm that it's your Pogoplug. Which has the advantage that if, as I did, you forget your password, you can click the link to log in again. Essentially, it's a little web server sitting there behind your firewall, and able to leap across it (via port 4365, rather than the standard web port 80).The Pogoplug then has two elements: its website, and the hardware. Note that they're co-dependent: if you're not using the right hardware, or if pogoplug.com should die (heavens forfend) then you're, to use the technical term, stuffed.Still, it has lots of clever wrinkles: there's an iPhone app, so you can access files while well away from your computer; you can publish data to social networking sites, or generate RSS feeds of what's available, or even a public URL of the files you've got there. You know, itdoessound like one of those cyberlocker things …On the design side, the machine is neat: done up in shocking pink (or possibly fuchsia), quiet (as it doesn't have to do much). It'll take up to four USB drives plugged into it. And of course, because it doesn't have any storage of its own, there's not much to go wrong.The question then is: do you want to pay £100 for a device that's basically an alternative to Google Docs? Sure, if you have some very important data, perhaps it's better left at home rather than entrusted to the cloud – the Pogoplug site offers SSL, though it's not the default; a VPN into your home might be better, though you'll need rather more technical expertise to set one up than you need with the Pogoplug.Pros:quiet; easy setup; pleasing design; flexible sharing.Cons:useless if Pogoplug flops; VPN would be cheaperfirebox.comHard data• Drive connection: USB 2.0• Drive Formats: NTFS, FAT32, Mac OS Extended Journaled and non-Journaled (HFS+), EXT-2/EXT-3• Network connection: Gigabit Ethernet• Operating Systems: MS Windows XP, Vista, Windows 7, Mac OSX 10.5 and above (Intel and PowerPC) 32bit kernel only, Linux• Web browsers: Safari, FireFox 3, IE 7, IE 8, Chrome• iPhone app available
FIFA 10 was the point where many Pro Evolution Soccer (PES) fans finally moved over to FIFA.  Despite some on-pitch flaws – PES still feels more intuitive to me – the overall package of FIFA 10 was way ahead what PES offered. Because of this today's unveiling of PES 11 is big news. PES 11 will see power bars introduced for each player – incuding a stamina meter for fitness mornitoring - while the assisted AI is moving to the subs bench. According to the press release:Central to its total freedom of play, PES 2011 introduces a power bar for each player that allows the user to determine the exact strength and placement of every pass and shot. Balls can now be spread absolutely anywhere with utter precision, with long balls into space, short passes to feet and intricate one-twos allowing the player to dictate play and control the tempo of a match.  This freedom of play is also extended via new AI routines designed to place every move and decision in the player's hands. No longer will assisted AI intervene during matches; users will now need to sense and react to threats; and passes will not automatically reach the nearest player. Instead, all-new routines facilitate complete control both of the player and their chosen actions in every respect to give the player sublime control over every movement.As you'd expect there is a graphical lick of paint too. More importantly the physicality of the game – historically one of the series strongpoints – has apparently been upped. Think jostling for position while waiting for corners to come in.For me one of the biggest potential improvements in PES 11 looks like being the speed of the game. PES 10 felt ridiculously fast most of the time. Maintaining possession and Italian style tactics were always less effective than rampaging down the wing or up the middle with your fastest player. PES 11, according to the release, promises to be different.The new level of control means that PES 2011 enjoys a more considered pace of play, which varies dependent on situations. The game will burst into life as counter-attacks come into play, but players can dictate the pace via slow build up or exploiting available space to surge forward. It is harder to make long runs from midfield, and successful play will depend on making quick passes to make room.Finally the news that will make PES fans very happy indeed – the Master league will finally be online. The release says:Master League will offer an all-new challenge, as users are invited to try their hand against other managers online. PES 2011 will mark the online debut for its much-loved Master League element, with players bidding against each other for the world's best players, and attempting to build a squad that can compete with the best against online peers all over the globe.Given the success of the various online modes in FIFA 10 you can see how crucial Master League Online could be the performance of PES 11.So what do you think then? Is this publisher Konami's last chance to keep PES as a mass market football game? Or has FIFA's success meant PES will go back to being the hardcore enthusiast game of yore? And more importantly, what do you think of the PES 11 announcements? Will it tempt any FIFA players back?
Can we do anything about cybercrime? That's the question being addressed in Dallas this week at the first Worldwide Security Summit (PDF) organised byEastWest Institute, a global a thinktank. EWI says: "Electronic attacks around the world have compromised confidential information, crippled official web sites and have exposed the vulnerability of financial data. They have heightened fears that criminals or terrorists could use cyberspace to paralyze communications infrastructure, international financial systems or critical government services."And if this sounds gloomy enough, it gets worse: countries deal with lawbreakers mainly on a national basis, whereas internet crime pays little or no attention to physical borders. People who are committing crimes in the UK or the US may be operating from Russia, China or any other country, with very little fear of getting caught. The risks are small: the rewards are great.Jim Stikeleather, from Dell's services division*, says: "It's easy for a criminal group to undertake criminal activities around the globe, and even if you catch them, it's very difficult to get them to trial or punishment. We have to rebalance the risk/reward equation across the internet."This could involve a reduction in privacy. At the summit's opening dinner, Dell Inc founder Michael Dell said: "We have an enormous number of bad actors who are able to act completely anonymously. Is it possible to have a secure system where people are anonymous? I don't think so."One problem is that different countries have different social, cultural and legal landscapes, which means they have different concerns. The summit involves at least forty countries (the G20 plus 20), "but you can see things they have in common," says Stikeleather. "Start with cybercriminals and cyberterrorists and you have at least two that everyone can agree on. The aim at Dallas is to get three or four areas, then we can start working our way up…."Is the aim to arrive at some sort of United Nations Bill of Cyberrights? A Law of Cyberspace like the Law of the Sea?Some organisations have made suggestions along those lines, says Stikeleather, and another group has suggested treaties and 'rules of engagement'. At the moment, however, it's a big challenge just to get the EC member states "on the same page," according to Udo Helmbrecht, executive director of the European Network and Information Security Agency. The idea of China and the US agreeing a common platform seems remote.In that context, global action seems unlikely, and cybercriminals can probably look forward to a relatively easy time, at least for the next few years.* Why Dell? Perot Systems -- an IT services corporation founded by Ross Perot, a former candidate for the US presidency -- was a long term supporter of the EastWest Institute. Dell acquired Perot Systems and has continued its sponsorship. Stikeleather was chief technology officer at Perot and is now becoming chief innovation officer for Dell Services. This division has roughly 40,000 staff (about half from Perot) and an annual turnover of about $8bn.
Today is Star Wars day (unless you're in the camp that chooses to celebrate on May 25, the date that the first movie premiered in Los Angeles). Okay, it's just because there's a sad pun to be had in 'May the Fourth be with you', but let's go with it anyway.I could ask, 'what have been your favourite Star Wars games of all time?' But then we'd get the usual suspects: the original 1983 arcade game, Dark Forces, Rogue Squadron, Super Star Wars: Empire Strikes Back, Knights of the Old Republic, Lego Star Wars, etc. I could even ask for the worst, but then I'd unleash a torrent of hate about Masters of Teras Kasi, Super Bombad Racing and Yoda Tales - and of course, hate leads to suffering.So instead, what facets of the Star Wars universe have been criminally overlooked by game developers? What types of tie-in have we yet to see?Obviously, I'd love Rockstar to have a crack at a GTA-style adventure set in Moss Eisley. You'd hang about in bars starting meaningless scuffles with wannabe Jedi, you'd bait the local Imperial law enforcement, customise androids and race land speeders. In a similar vein, it would be great to get a game based around the pre-Episode IV careers of Han and Chewie, blasting around the universe trading contraband materials and avoiding Star Destroyers.There's scope for a Tatooine-set Farmville sim, an action RPG set on Naboo, a physics-based puzzler in which you construct a series of workable ewok tree villages. And the clone wars are ripe for an epic Dynasty Warriors-style action stategy romp.What do you think?
Last week we invited you to put your Street Fighter questions and problems to European Street Fighter champion, Ryan Hart (who last week won Paddy Power's SFIV challenge). Here are his in-depth responses.If you have any queries that haven't been covered, especially about the newly releasedSuper Street Fighter IV, add them to the comments section, and we'll pass them on to Ryan!"I've been playing SF since the first arcade machine came out but only recently got my hands on the top of the range arcade stick. While the Xbox pad sucks for SF I'm still having trouble getting used to the stick - do you have any tips for those making the switch? I usually play as Chun-Li, Sakura and Ryu but look forward to getting back in to using Guy and Ibuki in SSFIV"djpray2kWhen making the switch from pad to stick, getting your movement up to scratch is important, so I'd say to work on this. Use the training mode to practice your combos, this will get your fingers used to reaching for the larger buttons in their respective locations on the stick face. The more you use it, the more you'll adjust.Try to choose a character that doesn't require complex commands frequently. Maybe start out with a charge character just to get used to the feeling of holding a stick. Then gradually advance from there. Later on, if you find you prefer the stick with some characters and the pad with others, try to look at what it is you find more comfortable on pad. If it's something that you find more demanding on the stick, use that as a way of improving your stick skills. The challenging aspects are what make it fun!"I have a question about combos. I main as E Honda. I know his sumo head butt can be cancelled into his super Onimusou. If I am *right next* to the opponent I can usually pull this triple head butt move off. But if there is any distance between Honda and the other character I can never seem to get the timing right but I can't work out if I am being too fast or too slow! Any tips on cancelling?"JenniferRuthSuper Onimusou? I think you mean Super Killer Head Ram? In any case, as this is a charge move, it can only be done close, as once you release the backwards charge in order to do the first sumo headbutt, you lose the charge for the super as well."Is there any way to make Abel a useful character instead of his usual overly slow, frustrating, French waste of space?"timthemonkeyYes, Abel is a very good character, but he requires patience as he does not have a projectile to fight a long distance game, and can't get in to play his close combat game easily. On the ground however, he does have a number of tools to help him get close. One of his best moves is his forward and medium kick then forward to dash, after which you have a few options. Two other moves which can help you get stuck in are his EX change of direction and his Marseilles Roll. The former can absorb one hit from an opponent and still continue moving forward, meaning if you predict a fireball, for example, you will be able to perform the EX change of direction, go through the fireball and then strike the opponent. After lots of practice this can be done on reaction.If your opponent uses a lot of pokes from a distance, you may be able to hit his attack with a standing light kick or a crouching medium punch or crouching medium kick which you can then link into a change of direction.Additionally his crouching hard kick has good range and can surprise opponents who are prioritising movement over a low guarding position as both cannot be done at the same time.His best strategy is to get the opponent down and try to keep them down. With Abel, this is best done by using his Marseilles roll and his crossup game with his air medium kick. When you get the opponent down, use the roll and time it in a way that it becomes difficult for your opponent to know which side you will end up on. This makes things difficult for their defence. In the crossup game, once you land a crossup medium kick, you can go into a combo from his crouching medium punch.If they block it, alternatively you have the tornado throw and the regular throw which isn't as demanding. A crouching light kick string will get an opponent who tries to stand guard or jump away. If they dash back then you have forward and medium which will catch some backdashes, and also a crouching medium punch into a combo will be useful here too. For anti-air, his good moves are jumping hard punch and crouching medium kick.Lastly, don't forget that his ultra (Soulless) can be used as a long range tool to go through projectiles, and his new ultra in Super Street Fighter IV (Breathless) covers over half the screen, can be cancelled at will, can be held for delayed execution, is extremely fast and cannot be blocked. So Abel will be even stronger with this new weapon."Now I'm a half decent SFIV player (shut up Umboros). I can hold my own online with most people, and I've beaten the game on the hardest mode, with most characters. So why oh why can't I do the trial challenges? Even on the easy level, I can only get most characters up to the 3rd challenge. Is then any special method to these?"JimBob78The trials are not easy and many of these combos could take many days of practice to complete. Some combinations here are designed to challenge even the most technical of players. My advice here would be to breakdown the exact part of the combo you find most difficult and work out what you are having trouble with. Maybe even just practice this section separately until you see improvements, then go back and retry the combo all together."What are the best options for playing a ground game and mixing up strategies to confuse opponents? It's always tempting to jump in to start a combo on Street Fighter, but if your opponent blocks it leaves vulnerable. Getting past Ken when he's throwing fireballs usually results in a dragon punch to the face, how can you deal with these tactics and keep the opponent off guard?"Umboros23In Street Fighter – and just about any fighting game – being safe is a key factor in survival, and it must be prioritised. This fact is not really focused on, but combos are often a case of how good your reactions are. For example, if you jump over Ryu as he does a fireball it's down to your reactions whether you can capitalise on this opening and pull off your combo.However, this also goes slightly deeper than simply jumping projectiles. Combos can also be used in block strings (which is a succession of moves that keep the opponent frozen in the block position after the first hit has been blocked). This is important as it applies pressure to the opponent, builds your super meter and helps to create openings.Now, if you notice that one of your attacks has hit, you may be able to link this to another move and create a combo, but as mentioned earlier, it's all down to your reflexes whether or not you are fast enough to capitalise on this opening or not. This usually takes practice and gets easier with experience.On the ground, it's important to understand your character's best tools to combat the opponent's ground tools. This is one thing that the training mode in Street Fighter IV is very good for. You can set the opponent to record and have him repeatedly perform moves you find tricky to get by. You can then playback your recording and then use your own character to see what beats the opponent's moves.For Ken's fireball, you can simply stay back, jump over them all and none of them will hit you. Another method is to use the focus attack dash forward to go through the fireball which will give you the advantage if done with the right timing. Also depending on your character, there are a number of moves you may be able to do go through fireballs, so test these out too."This is more a history question but, long ago in my formative years down the local arcade, all the best players used to play with Guile for their serious matches, I even seem to remember a combo that froze the opponent, but that's by the by, anyway, these days I see very few play with Guile. Has he been deliberately weakened or is it just that everyone else has been improved?"koolhercIn some areas Guile has stayed the same, and in others he has weakened. He is still a very good and playable character and shouldn't be underestimated in any version. In Super Street Fighter IV, he has new combos and a new ultra and is definitely stronger than in the predecessor.By the way, Guile's handcuffs, which I believe you were referring to, was so funny. If the handcuffs were not removed before the time ran out, resetting the machine was the only way to get things back to normal. I still remember a guy walking in to the local cab station where we played, putting his 20p in, doing handcuffs on someone then walking out while everyone's credits were in the machine and no one knew how to undo the cuffs."With Ken's buffs in Super, are you going to be breaking him back out in tournaments or chancing out a new character?"OwwmykneecapYes I will be keeping Ken in my arsenal of top characters and I will also be adding some new ones too."Where exactly do you look on the screen? Do you focus solely on the opponent or take in the screen as a whole?"sunsetbeachI focus on everything – but not all the time. There are just so many factors to account for. My attention is divided and everything is broken down based on priority. For example, on Super Street Fighter IV as the clock is relatively slow, the time clock does not need to be checked regularly. However, as your opponent is moving all the time, your eyes need live updates constantly to keep up with their movements and to judge spacing, movement, etc, on the screen. The super meter of both you and your opponent is also important, as this can determine the next move or even next few moves. In some cases, I even think about what the opponent will do in a few moves once he has the super. When you are planning ahead, you need to take the health and time into account as well. But generally, as long as you keep a good eye on the main things – your opponent and all gauges – it should be okay."I was hoping to pick up Ibuki because I loved her in 3rd strike and never really found a main in SFIV. I was looking for a good way to combo after her kunai vortex; I know you can hit the c.jab (c.jab, s.jab, s.mk spinkick or whatever) but more often than not, it seems very punishable, even on hit. Any advice on getting the combo or making it safe on block? And any other general advice on someone looking to pick her up?Also, are you planning on keeping Sagat as your main, or are you tempted by the new cast members?"KanpedAfter you land a combo with her spinkick, you have the advantage. Standing medium kick should beat most of the opponent's options bar the dragon punch or things which are invincible on startup. Another suggestion would be to end your combos with the neck breaker so that you floor the opponent and have a chance to set them up again. At least this way you won't have to feel like you're on a back foot even after landing a combo. Getting the opponent down and keeping them down is key so try out neck breaker combos and then see if that improves things.As for Sagat, I'm in a bit of a dilemma right now. I'm picking up other characters who appear to be more fun than Sagat, but I'm not sure if I will drop him as main just yet. We will have to see at a later stage but it is possible. The new cast are very fun, different and interesting."What's the best strategy for fighting against Sagat online? I always meet fireball spammers and when I try and jump to get close, I'm met with a flying knee or uppercut.Also, what type of controller do you use? Is the joystick really worth the money? I'm still on the PS3 pad."cameroon95When you fight against Sagat online it's important to take him out of his comfort zone, which is usually with you at the back of the screen. Try moving close to him (by blocking tiger shots then walking forward) but not right next to him: you need a range where, if he does a tiger shot, you can jump it and combo him. It's not to say that you will necessarily do that, but having that added as an extra option will make you more of a threat.When you are both at the back of the screen, he can throw tiger shots all day and even if you jump over them you're out of range to inflict any damage, so try getting close and this extra pressure will force Sagat to change his gameplay. If he continues to spam tiger shots even up close, take advantage and jump in for a combo and take the most you can. Once you get close, Sagat will get wary of your range, he may try a jump in on you so make sure you have a solid anti-air move you can use against him. If he tries to move back to make more space then move in once again until he is in the corner with nowhere to run, then you can get the party started.As for sticks, I'm currently using a number of option to try and find the best one, so this is to be continued. Generally, the most preferred sticks for Street Fighter IV are made byHoriandMadcatz."Can Ryan give us any tips about how and when to use the focus attack? I rarely if ever use it and it's clearly a major gap in my game at the moment, but I'm never sure when to whip one out. I mostly play Ken and Vega and I only ever do it as Ken to dash cancel through fireballs or cancel a bodged dragon punch. With Vega I only use it if I'm cornered and can't think of anything else to do, or to cancel a claw roll. I never actually hit anyone with it!"BeardOfBeesPeople generally want to attack before being attacked on fighting games, so if you use block strings on your opponent they will want to attack you once you leave an opening – here is when you can aim for a focus attack to eat up their attempted offence. When you play, keep a close eye on what your opponent uses. For example, against a shoto, if you notice that they use crouching medium sweep into fireball on the ground you can focus the crouching medium kick and then release the focus to attack them before their fireball is released. This will result as a counter hit on their attempted fireball. Try walking into their crouching medium kick fireball and go for it!
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
There are certain games you love from the very first moments. Half-Life was a classic example – its opening sequence was so assured and so immersive, it set you up perfectly for the grandstanding adventure to come. Super Mario 64 with its immediately captivating world was the same… For me,Red Dead Redemptionwill surely soon be on that list.I played the finished code for four hours last week and the first time I whistled for my horse and it galloped toward me, muscles rippling, utterly convincing animation (they motion captured a horse – on a treadmill) that was it, I was in. For the first ten minutes, I just trotted up and down the dusty streets of Armadillo, lapping up the perfectly replicated Western iconography; the lone rider slowly sauntering into town, the drunken gunmen lounging on the steps of the saloon, the prostitutes languidly promenading the balconies, the balls of tumbleweed blowing past…It's 1908 and the outlaw John Marston has been left for dead by his gang after a bloody shoot-out. For him, it's a chance to start again, to settle down with his wife and leave the criminal life way behind him. But as all fans of the Western genre know – no one gets out. Soon, a group of sinister government agents are beating down his door, demanding that he track down his old companions. To secure his services, they kidnap his wife. And the game begins.Red Dead Redemption is a vast, open-world adventure, featuring the largest landscape Rockstar has ever built, and around 450 individual characters. Alongside the main story missions, players will set off on dozens of minor side-tasks, encounters and objectives, all the time earning fame and – if they behave – honour. In a structural sense, perhaps, it's very much the Grand Theft Auto model, but within a dauntingly immense rural environment that features over 40 different types of animals, an active eco-system, and an astonishingly well-realised sense of history.Indeed, the early twentieth century setting is a masterstroke. This isn't the mythical heyday of the old west; that culture is in its death throes. Throughout the game, technology is encroaching on the area like a virus. At first, it's the railroads carving through the landscape, but as you travel north you encounter the first confused telephone users bellowing into handsets, and later, the first production line motorcars. John Marston is a man at odds with this coming era; he's a dinosaur. And this sense of growing displacement adds poignancy to the action,Yet, for the most part, this is a game about wide-open space, about freedom and discovery. One of the worries with a rural setting is that there will be nothing going on out there. But this is not the case. As Rockstar has promised, the landscape is filled with random encounters – you may pass sheriffs chasing down an outlaw, or some poor prospector being bullied by gunmen. Often, I just headed out onto a ridge and watched – in the distance you might pick up the wisps of smoke from gunfire, or dust flying up from a galloping horse; both could lead to profitable encounters. Help a distressed local and they may give you cash, equipment or a treasure map.The more you do this, the more your honour and fame ratings rise – and soon people will come to you with their troubles. You will, for example, often see a question mark icon on your radar map in the bottom left of the screen; head over and you'll find a civilian with a side-mission – it'll be some sob story about cattle rustlers or a missing family member, but it's another way to make some cash, and some of these will add intriguing long-running sub-plots to your adventure.But really, the pleasure is just being out there, galloping about, discovering the world. You see armadillos scuttling through the bushes, wolf packs pacing the plains, buffalo slowing trudging along bluffs and breaches. You can hunt animals if you like – shooting and then skinning them to sell their skins at the market. You can also just watch as the sun sets, sending orange rays across the scrublands, or stand out in the billowing rain as the lighting momentarily illuminates some abandoned outpost or hanging tree in the middle of nowhere. There are also numerous GTA-like mini-challenges out here, like shooting a set number of vultures, or blasting a series of items within a time limit. If you're an obsessive completist, you'll be in your element.Apologies, another quick GTA allusion. In GTA IV, your actions cleverly become part of the social and media landscape; that messy bank robbery you pulled will appear as salacious fodder on the in-game news channel. Here, it's the same. Kind of. You can pick up a newspaper for a dollar and read a report of your last gunfight – it'll be there amid humorous adverts for health-reviving chewing tobacco. Better yet, if you take a ride out into the wilderness at night, you may stumble across groups of travellers telling campfire yarns about your endeavours – a beautiful touch.The strong sense of characterisation is also hugely familiar: I've seen a fraction of the game, but have already encountered some memorable personalities. Marshal Johnson is a highlight, a laconic and reluctant lawman, just trying to keep his crappy town on the right side of hell. He's given immense gravitas by an excellent voice acting performance that makes a mockery of Heavy Rain's many travails into wooden lifeless recitation. I also loved the dandy New York reporter Jimmy Saint who's come down here to write about the West for the ladies back in NYC. "I'm gonna have some wild adventures!" he cries – and you just know it's going to go horribly wrong for him. And of course, this wouldn't be a Rockstar title without at least one knockabout stereotype – enter Irish, the whisky-swilling ne'er-do-well who'd double cross his grandma for a dram of liquor.The control mechanic is a successfully refined version of the GTA IV system, with some context-relevant additions. The left trigger draws and aims your gun, an action that's considered provocative by most of the population so it's best not to practice it in a crowded street. The amount of auto-aim is decided by the skill level you select at the beginning of the game. Go for Casual and hitting the button will lock onto a target and stay with them until you let go; in Normal, it'll lock on until you move the right analogue stick, providing some manual ability to re-target; and on Expert, there's no auto-aim at all, cowboy. It's a nice flexible set-up, and though it's easy to pinpoint enemies, these are crude weapons and they don't always fire exactly where you're aiming – a realistic touch that rarely frustrates (perhaps because sometimes my aim was off, but I still managed to clip my target thanks to the vagaries of firing an antiquated Colt pistol at a moving target 50 yards away.)The right shoulder tab locks you on to cover, from where you can comfortably shoot at enemies without too much exposure. Tapping it again releases you, and it's a really quick mechanic allowing you to build a nice rhythm as you approach an enemy stronghold, snaking in and out of barrels, outhouses and boulders (there's also a crouch mechanic, accessible by pressing the left analogue stick, which adds to your sneaking power.)The famed Dead Eye system is triggered by pressing the right stick. This slows time and allows you to place pinpoint shots on your target – as long as there's some juice in your gauge (easily charged by buying tonics at the local store, or simply by successfully killing people). Sure, bullet time systems have fallen out of fashion, but this one is awesome fun, bringing to mind Peckinpah's fabulous slow-mo shoot-outs. The system can be upgraded twice throughout the game – at first, you need to manually place your shots, but later the system will automatically pinpoint body areas, so you just have to point, shoot and go and loot the resulting carcass (which is a great way to come by extra cash, ammo and other goodies).The running mechanic is interesting. You repeatedly hit the A button until you get to the speed you want, then keep it pressed. This works on the horse too, allowing you to reach an impressive gallop – though the beast's stamina wears down quickly, especially when you venture off the dirt tracks and onto rough country terrain. If you're riding with another character, once you've reached the same speed as their horse, you can lock in to a sort of cruise control mode, which allows you to relax and listen to the dialogue – lots of vital mission information is often rattled out en route to the next bloody showdown.Shoot-outs are just gloriously entertaining. One minute you're pinned in behind a rocky outcrop, taking pot shots with your rifle, the next, you're whistling for your horse, then galloping in, blasting your scuttling enemies as they run for cover. You've probably seen the extravagant bullet impact animations - stricken enemies writhe with each entry, or, when on the wrong end of a shotgun blast, simply fly backwards in a grotesque somersault. It possibly shouldn't be utterly satisfying, but it is. At one point I used Dead Eye to shoot an enemy off his horse, then, as he span hopelessly in the air, plugged him once more before he hit the floor. I'm sorry, but it was beautiful.Naturally, there's a whole host of weapons to collect, including revolvers, shotguns, sniper rifles, knives and Gatling guns. As you venture toward the north of the map, you'll encounter the first automatic handguns, adding quite a sting to your fire-rate. And of course there's the lasso, for capturing bad guys. Bounty hunting missions are another nice way to earn cash, and you'll usually earn double for bringing the criminals back to the jail in one piece (though mine usually get returned with a few sundry bullet wounds to the legs – well, they run vast, these villains). Brilliantly, there's also a range of equine transport options from mules to thoroughbred stallions; players can even steal a stage coach and scorch through the wilderness with four horses under their command (for real fans, one challenge involves a stage coach race.)I haven't yet sampled the multiplayer, but it's an intriguing prospect. Alongside standard competitive deathmatch and team deathmatch options, you can go for the Free Roam mode, which will drop up to 16 players into a compete rendition of single-player landscape, complete with officers of the law. From here, you can form a posse, hunt animals or engage in challenges – it's essentially a glorified lobby system; but a lobby system in which you and your friends can attack a bear with a hunting knife.So yes, I'm four hours in, and I can't wait to return. Rockstar San Diego (aided by Rockstar's other studios – they've developed something of a hive mind approach these days) would seem to have created an incredible open-world experience that just oozes Western authenticity. Of course, Leone will be chucked about as a frame of reference, and he's definitely there in the visual poetry of the game, the vultures circling in the dying sunlight, the riders swooping into town through billowing dust clouds.But more than that, I see the raw brutality and grit, the sheer nihilism, of Peckinpah and Walter Hill. Red Dead Redemption is an existential drama – it's you alone in a chaotic world. You can add to that chaos (the temptation to just mosey into a saloon and shoot the place up is difficult to resist at times) or you can craft some dignity out of it. But there is always somebody out there waiting, somebody you need to kill.•Red Dead Redemption is released on PS3 and Xbox 360 on 18 May in the US and 21 May in the UK
Sam Lake clearly likes messed up characters. Well, that's not quite it – he likesintelligentlymessed up characters. Seven years ago, the writer at Finnish studioRemedy Entertainmentbrought a deeper, more intriguing incarnation of the loose cannon cop to third-person shooter,Max Payne. The character's life was a Shakespearean vortex of remorse and violence, his internal monologues littered with extended metaphors, his world awash with mythological references.For the last five years, Lake has been applying his dark imagination to the long-awaited Xbox 360 thriller,Alan Wake. Here, the eponymous hero is a bestselling author, struck by writer's block and desperate to re-ignite his creativity. So he and his wife head out to a remote town in Washington for some rest and relaxation, only to find that a dark presence has infected the community; and it seems Wake may have more to do with it than he knows.To create this story of paranoia and supernatural fear, Lake has taken inspiration from Stephen King, Twin Peaks and Lost, crafting a new take on the survival horror genre in the process. But how much can linear narrative influences help in the construction of an interactive experience? And if Alan Wake really is planned like a TV series, with the first title representing season one, where can we expect things to go next?Last week, we spoke to Sam about his approach to writing and his plans for Wake. Here's part one of that interview...Before joining Remedy you studied screenwriting at the Theater Academy of Finland. How much of that experience have you been able to apply to game design?Well, there are similarities, but there are also things you need to do in a completely different way. The storytelling process in general, and using visual and audio elements in storytelling, is very similar. Also, the way you write dialogue is the same whether you're writing for movies or TV or games. We use movie scriptwriting software to write the screenplays for our games, but naturally we have things in the script that you would never have in a movie script – different branches and optional dialogue, for example. But still, when it comes to storytelling and dialogue, they are very much the same.I'm not sure all writers feel such close synchronicity between TV, movie and game writing. Do you think your approach allowed you to do things with Max Payne that game narratives hadn't done before?Well, for me, with the Max Payne games, it was very important to have different levels in the story, both the external action and the internal struggles of the main character. I was looking at it from the perspective of Payne's character and kind of saw the whole gloomy version of New York as a projection of what was going on in his mind. It was very important to let the player step inside Max's head and see what was going on. With action games, I don't think that had really been done before.And that's kind of what's happening in Alan Wake isn't it? he's undergoing a crisis and the town he visits – Bright Falls – somehow comes to reflect that...Yes, definitely. It's the way I like to approach a story in general. In Alan Wake, the themes revolve around primitive fears – the fear of the dark, the fear of water, the fear of the unknown. Alan Wake journeys from a big city to this remote town and experiences all of these fears; and a dark forest felt like a very fitting setting to wrestle with those deeply rooted subconscious fears that are familiar to all of us. I feel that every single one of us has experienced the fear of the dark when we were children.So what brought you to this game, this character and these themes?I was involved from the very beginning of Alan Wake and different elements of the game came at different times early on. Here at Remedy we like to begin with the high concept, the vision, and we feel that the story and the main character are very much part of that initial phase. We build the whole thing around them. The theme of primal fear was part of the very first high level concept that we were talking about – and there were many elements in there already that I felt would be very important.With Alan Wake's character, I felt that he needs to be an everyman. I didn't want to have a professional action hero in this game, I wanted a character who needs to grow into that role to survive. I wanted to make a deeper and more realistic character than you have in action games generally, so Alan Wake is an ordinary man who struggles with ordinary problems, like difficulties in his relationship, problems with his work... He's not perfect, he does have flaws, he has a problem with his temper, he has difficulties dealing with the success he has garnered, he has partied too much. In some ways he is bored of writing the same things over and over again – he wants a change in his life, but can't find out how. For that reason, he's suffering from writer's block. All of these things piece by piece came together to create the character.And the setting?It was there from the very early stages. This kind of idyllic and slightly quirky All American small town is a very well-known concept from pop culture in general. But in games, we have not really seen a small town as it is portrayed in movies and TV series', so it felt like a good setting.But parallels could be drawn with Silent Hill 2 - an everyman returns to a favourite rural haunt only to find it infected by a supernatural presence that symbolises his distubed state of mind... Were you concerned about comparisons?I suppose it is inevitable that players draw comparisons between the set ups of the two games, but I'm confident that when players experience Alan Wake, they'll see that what's going on in there is something totally different than what's happening in Silent Hill.Having a writer as the lead character is interesting because it allows you to create a very literate internal monologue, but it also explores the whole notion of the video game player as a creative force. Were these the intentions?One of the reasons that Alan Wake ended up being a writer was that, with the Max Payne games, I had used the internal monologue if you will, the voice of narration, which is very common in hardboiled crime fiction, as a story telling tool and it was a very good tool. Narration in general is a very good tool, it works very well in a game, and I wanted to do that again with Alan Wake, but from a different angle. That's where the professional story teller element came in – it should behisstory that's coming true, he's the story teller in it.That was the first step to making him a writer. I also wanted to use the writing process in a way, the creative process of working on a large project like this. On one level of the story, it's almost a metaphor for what's happening to him, that he's struggling to create his work, and the difficulties he's facing. And naturally as a writer, to me it is familiar and something that I know a lot about. It felt like a very good way to bring additional depth into Alan Wake's story...Part two tomorrow.
Apple may face antitrust scrutiny for FTC, Justice - NYPOST.com"According to a person familiar with the matter, the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission are locked in negotiations over which of the watchdogs will begin an antitrust inquiry into Apple's new policy of requiring software developers who devise applications for devices such as the iPhone and iPad to use only Apple's programming tools," says the Post.Apple Sells One Million iPads - Press Release"One million iPads in 28 days — that's less than half of the 74 days it took to achieve this milestone with iPhone," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO.Apple Steps Up Pace of Deals in Race for Startups - BloombergApple is speeding up its acquisition rate: it has only bought three companies this year while Google has bought nine. And they may be competing for the same small mobile companies....How to Jailbreak the iPad - Read Write WebThis iPad/iPhone/iPod jailbreak exploits a vulnerability in the newest versions of the OS giving users "the ability to unlock their device and install unapproved, third-party applications".Not Apple linkage....The Oracle of Silicon Valley - Tim O'Reilly - IncTim O'Reilly is "Silicon Valley's leading intellectual and the founder of O'Reilly Media, a steadily growing $100 million company," says the story. Nice chap, actually….Sophos duo set to make $300m in buy-out - FT.com"The two co-founders of Sophos, an Oxfordshire-based anti-virus software maker, are set to make about $300m (£197m) after Apax Partners, the private equity group, agreed to buy a majority stake in the company they founded 25 years ago." That's Jan Hruska and Peter Lammer. Hope that Graham Cluley is going to get some payout too..Carol Bartz Bio - Quotes by Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz - EsquireFOOLS NOT SUFFERED LIGHTLY would be a good sign to have on her desk. Bartz is tough as her sharp nails. " What do I look for when hiring? Well, let's get past the assumption that they can do the job. There has to be a no-asshole rule."We'll go through the whole interview, and I'll say, 'I have one last question. I don't work with assholes. Are you one?'"Hacked US Treasury websites serve visitors malware - The Register"The infection buries an invisible iframe in bep.treas.gov, moneyfactory.gov, and bep.gov that invokes malicious scripts from grepad.com, Roger Thompson, chief research officer of AVG Technologies, told The Register. The code was discovered late Sunday night and was active at time of writing, about 12 hours later."Why Google's Open Handset Alliance Has Been A Disappointment - mocoNewsLeslie Grandy, a consultant formerly at T-Mobile and Apple, on why Google's Open Handset Alliance "has not materialised into any kind of global force for change". (OHA is related but different from the Android open source project.)Tweets are the new quotes - Twitter MediaSoon you'll be able to embed tweets in web pages using "just a snippet of code". Stand by...Realtimesink - Rough TypeNoting the experience of someone who is writing about life without the internet (it's not Carr), he notes "The Web often gives us the illusion of having an incredibly diverse set of pursuits when it's really narrowing the scope of our thoughts and activities. There is still a whole lot more that people can do offline than online - something that's easy to forget as we peer into our screens all day."Follow Up on HTML5 Video in IE9- IEBlogDean Hachamovitch responds to comments to his previous post, which shows that Microsoft actually has some idea about blogging, even if neither Apple nor Steve Jobs does.Microsoft fires back at critics of its HTML5 strategy- ZD NetZiff's Ed Bott responds to Dean Hachamovitch's response to comments and summarises the key issues involved in H.264 and IE9.Ogg versus the world: don't fall for open-source FUD- ZD NetZiff's Ed Bott takes the Free Software Foundation to task for claims in its PlayOgg campaign.Asustek prepares Wintel tablet PC; Acer Internet device expected to eye on iPad- DigitimesAsustek Computer is preparing a tablet PC adopting the Intel Atom and Windows 7 operating system in addition to its Google Android/Chrome tablet PC, while Acer's recently revealed Internet device is aiming for competition with with Apple's iPad.Something Is Brewing At BumpTop, Possible Google Acquisition (Confirmed)- TechCrunchTechCrunch says: "BumpTop has a 3D desktop interface, and recently added multi-touch capabilities (see video demo below). It would look great on a future Android or Chrome OS tablet, just sayin'."
Every man, woman and child on the planet using micro-blogging site Twitter for a century. For many people that may sound like a vision of hell, but for watchers of the tremendous growth of digital communications it is a neat way of presenting the sheer scale of the so-called digital universe. The explosion of social networking, online video services and digital photography, plus the continued popularity of mobile phones, email and web browsing, coupled with the growing desire of corporations and governments to know and store ever more data about everyone has created an unprecedented amount of digital information and introduced a new word to the nerd lexicon: a zettabyte.Researchpublished today estimates that the so-called digital universe grew by 62% last year to 800,000 petabytes - a petabyte is a million gigabytes – or 0.8 zettabytes. That is the equivalent of all the information that could be stored on 75bn Apple iPads, which would  equal the digital output from a century's worth of constant tweeting by all of Earth's inhabitants.By way of stark contrast between the output of present day humanity and its pre-digital predecessor, experts estimate that all human language used since the dawn of time would take up about 5,000 petabytes if stored in digital form, which is less than 1% of the digital content created since someone first switched on a computer.This year, the planet's digital content will blast through the zettabyte barrier to reach 1.2 ZB, according to the fourth annual survey of the world's bits and bytes conducted by technology consultancy IDC and sponsored by IT firm EMC. A zettabyte, incidentally, is roughly half a million times the entire collections of all the academic libraries in the United States.As an increasing number of "old media" stalwarts, such as book publishing, migrate to new online platforms the digital universe is set to expand further. The upgrading of existing digital content - such as the production of high definition television, Blu-Ray DVD and 3D films - will also expand the world's store of electronic information. Consumers, meanwhile, are expected to continue their love affair with social networking, video sharing and their host of devices that can create, store and share content, such as digital cameras and mobile phones."There has been mammoth growth in the types of media that make up the digital universe," according to Adrian McDonald, vice president and general manager for UK &amp; Ireland EMC. "A huge increase in video and digital photography – in the old days people would take one photograph, now they can knock off 20 photos and rather than store just one, people store all 20 and then they store all 20 many times across the web. Then there is the fact that the number of devices where information can be generated and stored has also increased."As a result, over the next decade, the information contained within the digital universe is forecast to expand by a factor of 44, according to the survey.Mobile phones have dramatically widened the range of people who can create, store and share digital information."China now has more visible devices out on the streets being used by individuals than the US does," said McDonald. "We are seeing the democratisation and commoditisation of the use and creation of information."But the expanding digital universe will present companies with a headache as the generation of content far outstrips the capacity of corporate storage and the world's IT professionals run to keep up with demand for their services. About 70% of the digital universe is generated by individuals, but its storage is then predominantly the job of corporations. From emails and blogs to mobile phone calls, it is corporations that are storing information on behalf of consumers.Then there are the actions in the offline world that individuals carry out which result in digital content being created by organisations – from cashpoint transactions which a bank must record to walking along the pavement, which is likely to result in CCTV footage.The vast majority of this information, meanwhile, is "unstructured", which means it has not been specifically created so it can easily be indexed, sorted, catalogued and retrieved.Corporations are spending increasing amounts of money on technology from companies such as Cambridge-based Autonomy, which allows them to search through such mounds of information. Individuals, however, are likely to rely ever more heavily on the large internet search engines, especially Google, as much of their own personal content will increasingly be stored and searched online.EMC and IDCfirst examined the digital universe back in 2007and estimated that it was equivalent to 161 exabytes, 161,000 petabytes or 161bn gigabytes. At the time they forecast the digital universe would grow to 988 exabytes, just under 1 zettabyte, by this year. The fact that growth has been faster than expected even in that short period of time comes as little surprise to a veteran of the rapidly changing IT industry such as McDonald."I'm not that old, but we used to sell memory boards in 16 kilobytes – not even megabytes. And that was a big board which you sold into a serious company. I used to sell systems that were 50 megabytes. Even USB flash memory sticks are larger than that now," he said."You talk to a kid these days and they have no idea what a kilobyte is. The speed things progress, we are going to need many words beyond zettabyte."
I seem to be forever allowing my computer to update both Java and QuickTime Player but I never (knowingly) use them! Does my computer use them 'behind the scenes', as it were, or should I just delete both?Robin UsherBoth Java and QuickTime can have vulnerabilities on Windows, so it is important to keep them updated. You could therefore get some (small) increase in security by uninstalling (not deleting) them, and any other inessential web-accessible software. But whether you actually need Java and QuickTime depends on the websites and applications you use, and the availability of altternatives.Apple's QuickTime is crapware, and you don't need it to play movies: I uninstalled it years ago. You should be able to play .mov video files in Windows by installing theQuickTime Alternativecodec. The full (not Lite) version of the download also includes Media Player Classic, which looks like the old non-bloated Windows Media Player but is non-Microsoft code.If you download theK-Lite Codec Pack, that also installs Media Player Classic along with codecs that will play almost anything except QuickTime and Real videos. You need to add the two Alternatives if you want to cover those. Media Player Classic only runs on Windows. The cross-platform alternative is the open source media playerVLC, which is also worth a look.However, uninstalling QuickTime does become a problem if you use iTunes to manage an iPod media player, because iTunes uses QuickTime. While there are plenty of alternatives to iTunes -- including WinAmp, Songbird, Amarok and SharePod -- they won't play music protected by Apple's proprietary FairPlay copy protection system. Also, iTunes is used to access Apple's online store, so if you really must do that, you're lumbered.Apple boss Steve Jobs has complained about developers not writing software for the platform because it"ultimately produces sub-standard apps". Well, iTunes and QuickTime are examples of sub-standard apps that have not been written for the Windows platform. Sadly, there's no chance of Jobs practising what he preaches.Sun's Java is used for developing small applets and online apps (including games), and again, if you don't need to use any, you can uninstall it. Unfortunately there's no simple way to find out, except to remove it and see which website features stop working.Well, you can try running Internet Explorer with no add-ons. If you can't see how to do this, you can create a desktop shortcut with the following Target line (including the quotes):"C:\Program Files\Internet Explorer\iexplore.exe" -extoffThe benefit of uninstalling Java is that you may be able to remove several versions. If you have to reinstall it, you should get a clean installation of just the latest code.Note that Sun's Java has nothing at all to do with JavaScript, which is very widely used across the web. JavaScript began life as Netscape's LiveScript, and Sun was stupid to agree the name-change. It would be better if we now called it ECMAScript, to reflect that it has been through the European Computer Manufacturers Association's standards process, but there's almost no chance of that.Remember to create a restore point before you do anything so you can backtrack. Also, if you do uninstall QuickTime and/or Java, runCCleanerto clean out any remaining registry entries or orphaned files. Finally, check the programs your PC is calling when it boots to make sure there are no entries for these or associated programs.CCleaner is free. If you're asked for money, you've got the wrong download.twitter.com/jackschofield
InFollow Up on HTML5 Video in IE9, Microsoft's Dean Hachamovitch, the general manager of Internet Explorer, hasresponded to commentsabout his previous post, covered here asMicrosoft says IE9 will only support H.264 for video.As is common with Microsoft posts, there was a lot of misguided comment, including people who claimed Microsoft was dropping support for Adobe Flash. Presumably they didn't know that previous versions of Internet Explorer didn't support Flash either, so no "dropping" was involved. In fact, IE9 will support Flash in exactly the same way as IE6, IE7 and IE8 -- via an Adobe Plug-in. As Hachamovitch explains:"Of course, IE9 will continue to support Flash and other plug-ins. Developers who want to use the same markup today across different browsers rely on plug-ins. Plug-ins are also important for delivering innovation and functionality ahead of the standards process; mainstream video on the web today works primarily because of plug-ins.  We're committed to plug-in support because developer choice and opportunity in authoring web pages are very important; ISVs on a platform are what make it great. We fully expect to support plug-ins (of all types, including video) along with HTML5."Nor does Microsoft's choice of H.264 support in HTML5 mean that IE9 will not support other video formats in other ways. Hachamovitch says:"For web browsers, developers can continue to offer plug-ins (using NPAPI or ActiveX; they are effectively equivalent in this scenario) so that webpages can play video using these codecs on Windows. For example, webpages will still be able to play VC-1 (Microsoft WMV) files in IE9.  A key motivator for improving the codec support in Windows 7 was to reduce the need that end-users might have to download additional codecs.  The security risks regarding downloadable codecs and associated malware are documented and significant."Dropping support for plug-ins would involve dropping support for Microsoft's Silverlight, which further illustrates the cluelessness of the "Microsoft drops Flash" brigade.As for not supporting the open source Ogg Theora codec, Hachamovitch notes that "whether one person's codec does or doesn't use someone else's intellectual property, the only opinion that ultimately matters is a court's". He adds:"Many people seem to assume that availability of source code under an open source license implies that there are no additional costs, or that the code has properly secured necessary intellectual property rights from all rightful owners.  Our experience and the experience of others indicate otherwise."Microsoft could add built-in support for other codecs in the future, and it isn't preventing anyone from using Theora. However, it doesn't want the extra engineering cost or the legal risk of shipping anything but H.264 in the launch version of IE9, which will probably attract hundreds of millions of users. And the legal risks are real when you consider that (a) the US software patent office is functionally incompetent and that (b) patent trolls have a good chance of winning cases in certain courts in Texas.As for the royalties issue, Hachamovitch claims that"Microsoft pays into MPEG-LA about twice as much as it receives back for rights to H.264. Much of what Microsoft pays in royalties is so that people who buy Windows (on a new PC from an OEM or as a packaged product) can just play H.264 video or DVD movies. [cut] Microsoft pledged its patent rights to this neutral organization in order to make its rights broadly available under clear terms, not because it thought this might be a good revenue stream."Finally, as I noted previously, both Microsoft and Apple stand to benefit financially from H.264, but I could have been wrong in thinking that Apple would benefit more than Microsoft. Ziff's Ed Bott actuallylooked into the AVC/H.264 patent pooland reports that "The PDF document goes on for 47 pages. By my count, it encompasses 1,137 patents. Only one of those patents is from Apple, and another 65 patents are from Microsoft (less than 6% of the total)."AVC is one of two video systems required for Blu-ray playback, the other one being VC-1, which is based on Windows Media Video. It's curious that Apple still doesn't support Blu-ray in Mac OS X, years after playback has become common on Windows machines. As with Adobe Flash's exclusion from the iPhone/iPad/iPod and Apple's failure to support the openly-licensed wmv, it may be a case of Apple doing what suits Apple, even if it drastically reduces the options available to its users.Footnote*: Developers can download the Internet Explorer 9 Platform Preview athttp://www.IETestDrive.com* Typo corrected
Why I Hate 3-D (And You Should Too)- Roger Ebert in NewsweekEbert outlines the heretic's case, saying: "I'm not opposed to 3-D as an option. I'm opposed to it as a way of life."Antisocial Networking?- The New York TimesSocial media sites like Facebook promote interaction, but are teens being diminished by a corresponding lack of real face-to-face interactions?Top Ten Reasons You Should Quit Facebook- rocket.lyDan Yoder says he's deleting his Facebook account for a variety of reasons such as privacy and it "doesn't (really) support the Open Web".A Lost iPhone Shows Apple's Churlish Side- The New York TimesApple normally gets an adoring press, but its recent actions over the lost iPhone, its "capricious" banning of iPad content, its "churlishness about Flash" etc etc "may lead us to think, um, differently about Apple's growing cultural dominance," warns David Carr.10 Ways to track what people are saying about you on Twitter- 10,000 WordsSome you will know, if you tweet, but a few may be new...Palm products through the years (photos)- CNET NewsA simple gallery that might bring back a few happy memories. Or not.More Apple controversies…Steve Jobs's email about going after Theora and other "open source" codecsApple boss Steve Jobs has responded to an open letter to say that "A patent pool is being assembled to go after Theora and other 'open source' codecs now." At least Jobs knows the difference between "open source" and "open standards".Lead OGG Dev Responds to Jobs' Jabs- I' Been to UbuntuQuotes the views of "Xiph's Gregory Maxwell, the designer and lead dev of the OGG container and the Vorbis audio and Theora video codecs," and in passing explains why video patents are even worse than you thought.Pot, meet kettle: a response to Steve Jobs' letter on Flash - Ars TechnicaJohn Sullivan, operations manager for the Free Software Foundation, agrees with Steve Jobs about the problems of being at the mercy of third parties, and thinks it would be better if users weren't at Apple's mercy because of it use of patents and proprietary technologies.Steve Jobs HTML5 web experience on the iPad- YouTubeiBrent says: "Here I showcase a number of HTML5 websites on the iPad. This is the web experience Steve Jobs wants us to have. Awesome!" I can't tell if he's being sarcastic or not, but can Flash apps written for the iPad be any worse than this?Platform Control- Mark Bernstein"This is the key to modern Apple. It's a big company, and it's now wildly successful. It assumes that it can write a successful software product in any niche. It's very talented and very confident. But always, at the back of its collective mind, is fear — the fear of depending on the kindness and competence of others.."'Let's give Steve a blog'- ex-Appler Chuq von Rospach on his brilliant idea"I was sitting in a conference room with a bunch of people — PR, marketing, legal, the usual suspects. We were hashing out ideas for creating new channels for marketing and how to get our message out into the public eye and seen. At one point I spoke up and I said I knew how to create a marketing system that the entire universe would read. The room shut up, of course. 'Let's give Steve a blog.'"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Sadly, there is no cure for megalomania. But venture capitalists ought to start funding the search for a cure, because it's costing  many of them a lot of money, and is likely to cost even more in the future.Here's how it works. A smart entrepreneur – a Harvard dropout, say, or some guy who made a lot of money by selling off his last venture to some clueless multinational – starts up a web business which grows like crazy by attracting millions of subscribers who use its services for free. Pretty soon, it's got 400 million of them and everyone is saying: "Wow! 400 million users! That must be good for something."Then several things happen. Firstly, the proprietor of the sensation du jour startsdrinking the Kool-Aidand contracts the aforementioned megalomania. He begins to fantasise that he could own the whole internet. Secondly, thousands of other entrepreneurs think "Wow! He could own the whole internet. We need to make sure our stuff has hooks into his stuff. Otherwise, we're toast." And then the mainstream media, whose insights into this could be written in 96-point Helvetica bold on the back of a postage stamp, are going around saying, "Jeez, this stuff is the real deal. How do we get onside?"The Facebook phenomenon provides a perfect illustration of this process. At the moment, it looks like an all-conquering monster, and is being reported accordingly. According to conventional wisdom, if the last decade was dominated by Google, this coming decade will belong to Facebook. And the company is beginning to behave as though it believed this.On 21 April, Facebook's CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, announced some moves aimed at consolidating Facebook's supposed grip on the web. From now on, for example, visitors to an increasing number of high-profile websites will find a "Like" button on the page. Click on it and the news that you approve of the site's content will automatically be integrated into your Facebook profile, for the delectation of your friends. (Interestingly, there's no "dislike" button, which tells you all you need to know about the motivation behind this technology).This move caused jaws to drop all over the blogosphere. "I think Facebook just seized control of the internet," wroteone excited commentator. And Slate's technology writer, as he listened to Zuckerberg's presentation,tweetedthat "Facebook is going to be everywhere. Facebook is basically going to be the web."Meanwhile, over at Spotify, the wildly successful music streaming service, they've also been making big changes. On 27 April they announced a major upgrade to their service. Among the new features is – yes, you guessed it – Facebook "connectivity". All your friends who are using Spotify will appear on your screen, and you can drag and drop playlists to them. So now all your Facebook buddies will know you're partial to Status Quo, the soppier end of Norah Jones or Classic FM compilation albums. Or worse.But that's just the cosying-up-to-Facebook end of it. Spotify's announcement also suggested that they, too, have been drinking the Kool-Aid. From now on, Spotify users will have a "library". This is a virtual container that holds any song in a Spotify playlist that you've saved, any MP3 files on your hard drive and any songs or albums that you've "starred" as favourites. Henceforth, Spotify can search any folder on your computer for audio content and play it just like a stream from the web, or like iTunes does with your offline library of songs.What that means, in the words ofone commentator"is that you can now use Spotify to entirely replace iTunes, Windows Media Player, Winamp or any other music playback software on your computer. It can even sync local files wirelessly to an iPhone, if you're a Spotify Premium subscriber, and support for Android handsets is promised soon". Translation: Spotify will be the Only Thing You'll Ever Need – the solution to all your problems. Megalomania rules OK.What's comical about this stuff is not so much its implicit arrogance – the assumption that we all want to share using Facebook – as its historical naivety. The history of the web is littered with the whitened bones of enterprises that once dreamed of total control. So until the cure for megalomania is invented, the only known antidote is a mantra. Repeat after me: the net is bigger than any single enterprise. And nobody owns it.
Ever since Sony's newest piece of hardware, the PlayStation Move, was unveiled at last year's E3 gaming conference there's been speculation around it – not least because of the zealous guarding of hands-on access to it since. No one was sure what it could really do, until it was actually in hand, with a real game. High time, then, to get to grips with it, and have an advance peek at the company's brand new 3D gaming development as well.Move is a motion-sensitive PlayStation 3 game controller that works something like Nintendo's Wiimote, replacing pressing buttons for interaction with real-world body movements that translate into on-screen activity. It is, at first, a peculiar plaything – immediately tactile and yet with a design that is almost otherworldly, an impression enhanced by being surmounted by a gently glowing ball.Detractors have already pointed to the Wii's controllers and dismissed the device as rather tardy bandwagoning from Sony. But that would be to miss a key point, and the one that makes it so exciting. Move is exceptionally precise. It comfortably trumps Nintendo's remote in terms of its fidelity, and in doing so has the potential to reinvigorate motion-controlled gaming.The first game to demonstrate this potential is mini-game compilationMove Party(although all names are still working titles), which presents a selection of competitive multiplayer challenges such as using a giant paintbrush to colour shapes against the clock. It's immediately apparent that the ineffectual arm-waving that defines most such games could soon be a thing of the past. The on-screen action may be excessive, but the interaction is nuanced.With that precision of control comes a gaming experience that feels rewarding and accessible. That's something demonstrated most poignantly by athletics compendiumSports Champions, where the controller makes real-world activities like table tennis into games that are easy to play, where previously the complexity of control limited them to hardcore gamers.Meanwhile, virtual pet-rearing rompEyePetand arcade blasterThe Shootalso confirm Move's capacity for variety. While the former works in conjunction with a camera to recreate your living room inside your television, the latter re-imagines Move as a simple pointer, offering up a shooting gallery set within the studios of Hollywood.Sony is also investing heavily in 3D gaming technology that uses special televisions in conjunction with "active" – or powered – glasses. Playing the game demos of racersMotorStormandWipEoutusing such equipment, it's immediately apparent that the illusion of 3D is crisper than that seen in the cinema, and far less prone to blur.Hands-on time with this technology suggests that the company seems to have gone a long way to overcoming its former shortcomings. Its impact on game designers and players is yet to be seen, but it clearly offers a bright future for PlayStation. You can see for yourself when Move is released this autumn.
The firstWarioWarewas a tour de force of gaming deconstruction; a Pavlovian training tool that barked quick-fire instructions at confused yet delighted players in its anarchic five-second micro-games. The titles that followed all focused on new control inputs, to gradually diminishing returns.DIYachieves a return to form by placing the construction of these reflex tests in the player's own hands.Initially, you're tasked with creating graphics for Wario's incomplete games, before the more involving – and time-consuming – process of making your own from scratch. A wealth of assets is provided for tweaking, or you can start afresh with a robust art package, before adding extra frames of animation, music, simple AI routines, and success and failure states for your mini-masterpiece.A brilliant touch sees each game pressed into virtual cartridge form, whereupon it can be shared with friends. Meanwhile, online contests allow users to download the very best creations, as carefully vetted by Nintendo. Ironically,DIY's limitations are one of its trump cards; like DSiWare animation packageFlipnote Studio, it's a wonderfully accessible way to get creative.
So you're an enthusiastic early adopter. You've got your brand new 3D HDTV all set up in the living room, and have hooked up the new 3D Blu-ray player. But what are you going to watch?It seems that unless you love kids' films, and enjoy watching the same thing over and over again, not much.As far as 3D movies go, the first cab off the rank is the DreamWorks animated comedy Monsters vs Aliens, which comes bundled with the Samsung 3D Blu-ray player that's on sale from this week.Sony has announced that its animated comedy Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs will get a UK 3D Blu-ray release on 14 June. Sony is also re-releasing the motion-capture 2006 film Monster House and the computer-animated adventure Open Season (which was made in 2D) in the 3D Blu-ray format this year And Disney's motion-captured 3D film A Christmas Carol is slated to get the 3D Blu-ray treatment in the fourth quarter of 2010.Meanwhile, 20th Century Fox will be bundling Ice Age 3D with the Panasonic Blu-ray player that is  in store now – but it will not be available to buy separately until March 2011. Universal's Coraline also comes bundled with the Panasonic player, but that will be available separately from September.What's surprising is the fact that 20th Century Fox – the studio behind James Cameron's Avatar, which has completely changed the 3D landscape for film – is holding back a 3D Blu-ray release of the film until 2011.Also surprising is Disney's decision not to release Tim Burton's recent big-screen hit Alice in Wonderland for the new format. Alice is getting a 2D DVD and Blu-ray release on 4 June, with no plans at this stage for a 3D release.The film companies are all keeping mum about their plans for future 3D Blu-ray releases.Simon Heller, the Blu-ray partners campaign director for the British Video Association, says the industry is taking a wait-and-see approach to the arrival of 3D television in the home.He believes it will take a while to penetrate, and it's difficult to guess how consumers will react."From the research I've seen, the consumer does enjoy the 3D experience and will enjoy replicating that experience at home. But like all new technology, it will take time to become massmarket, and we're right at the beginning of 3D in the home."But it's reasonably safe to assume that with the sudden rush by the Hollywood studios to get 3D films on to the big screen, we'll also see those films getting a 3D release on Blu-ray.So in the next 18 months or so, we should be seeing, among others: How to Train Your Dragon; Toy Story 3; Space Chimps 2; Shrek Forever After; Cats &amp; Dogs: The Revenge Of Kitty Galore; Step Up; Piranha; Resident Evil: Afterlife; The Hole; Legend Of The Guardians; Saw VII; Jackass; Tron: Legacy; Yogi Bear; The Cabin in the Woods; Tangled; Drive Angry; Gnomeo &amp; Juliet; Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part II; Cars 2; The Smurfs; and Alvin And The Chipmunks 3 sitting on the shelves at HMV and Best Buy.And yes, probably even a 3D version of Avatar.
