This week, a coroner in Manchester has expressed concerns about the first-person shooter game, Call of Duty.After recording a suicide verdict on William Menzies, 16, who was found asphyxiated in his bedroom in Hale, Greater Manchester,John Pollard stated: &quot;I have to say, and this is after three or four inquests into the deaths of teens, the Call of Duty game seems to be figuring in recent activity before death. It concerns me greatly.&quot;Menzies was described as a &quot;straight A&quot; student who had not, to the coroner&apos;s knowledge, expressed suicidal thoughts. In the inquest, Pollard referred to a previous suicide, that of 14-year-old Callum Green, who was found hanged in his bedroom in March 2011, and was known to have been a fan of Call of Duty. Pollard also linked the game to the deaths of two other unnamed teenagers he had investigated.Pollard is not explicitly imparting blame on the game series, but his concerns are ambiguous. &quot;I suspect but I don&apos;t know because I don&apos;t have enough evidence, that William may have been experimenting with something or deliberately intending to do something.&quot;The cases are incredibly sad and no doubt extremely worrying to parents of boys who are of a similar age and who perhaps play similar titles on their consoles or PC. But can a link be made between suicide and a video game?Many risk factorsCertainly, psychologists are unconvinced. &quot;There&apos;s absolutely no evidence that any video games have been associated with suicide,&quot; says Dr Mark Griffiths of Nottingham Trent University who has spent 25 years studying gambling and gaming addiction. &quot;If you look at the research, there are so many different risk factors - psychiatric disorders, various psychological states, cultural, family and social situations, even genetics. There are so many things that tend to contribute to suicide that blaming one particular game is almost impossible.&quot;It is not clear exactly how Pollard envisions a link – whether it is due to content or duration of play. The Call of Duty series of video games depicts graphic warfare and military violence, but it has not significantly featured suicide, aside from a harrowing scene in the 2010 title, Call of Duty: Black Ops, in which the lead character is forced to play &quot;Russian Roulette&quot; by enemy soldiers. The sequence ends with the player turning the gun on his captors.As for excessive or addictive gaming, there have been several studies looking into links with depression. In 2011, Jose Valadez and Christopher Ferguson of the University of Texas carried out research into the effects of games on both aggression and depression. They found that effects were, &quot;below levels for practical signiﬁcance.&quot; A study published in 2011 by Dr. Erick Messias of the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, found that teenagers who played video games for five hours or more every day were more likely to report feelings of sadness, but that those who played for less than two hours were less likely to report similar feelings than those who did not play games at all.&quot;The effects of video game violence in terms of aggression and depression are hotly debated in academia but there is no clear evidence of a link,&quot; says cyberpsychologist, Berni Good. &quot;There is actually a lot of critique around the study methodologies being used. Correlation is not causation - and nothing has been proven in the literature currently available.&quot;&apos;The research is lacking&apos;As Good argues, although a lot of research has been carried out in this areas, the methodologies have tended to provide inconclusive results. &quot;Psychologists do not yet fully understand the impact of playing video games,&quot; she says. &quot;There is zero evidence to suggest that people will engage in video games and then take that behaviour offline – the research is lacking. What would really be valuable in this area is a longitudinal study that factors in other elements - what is happening in the environment of the individual? What genetic predisposition might they have?&quot;Griffiths agrees that a problem with current research into the influence of video games is that much of it is based on short-term effects. &quot;There have been a number of studies into excessive playing, we find lots of different personality factors and psychological states associated with addiction, there are so many mediating factors,&quot; he says. &quot;But none of these studies are longitudinal – they never control for whether there is something in each individual that predisposes them toward seeking out violent games or toward spending a lot of time on the internet.&quot;&quot;Call of Duty has sold over 100m copies - the fact that four teenagers all played the game tells us very little; they may also have all watched the same film recently. At the very best you could suggest that a game may have a minor contributory role, but even that goes beyond the evidence, and there are usually so many other contributory factors.&quot;The agonising problem for parents is that discovering the factors that have contributed to suicide can be very difficult - especially with young men. Pollard stated that &quot;there was no note or indication [Menzies] was feeling down or distressed.&quot; However, in its recent report,Men and Suicide: Why It&apos;s a Social IssueThe Samaritans reiterate the fact that men are much less likely to talk about or seek help with their emotions. &quot;Men can experience a ‘big-build’&quot; the report states. &quot;They don’t recognise or deal with their distress, but let it build up to breaking point.&quot; The charity providesa guide for parentson spotting the signs that a young person may be at risk of suicide.It can be difficult to monitor what a teenager is playing or what they&apos;re looking at on a computer, but there are measures to protect them. Bringing the games console into a communal area of the house or setting up the parental controls in order to limit the time being spent on a games machine are good ideas if gaming is becoming a problem. All the main console manufacturers – Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo – publish online guides on how to set up parental controls on their systems. Sitting down with your child to play a favourite game will help you to understand it, and may also provide a safe space to discuss other issues.It&apos;s also worth keeping an eye on the age ratings of the games that children and teenagers are playing. Every game bought in shops or at sites like Amazon have to show aPEGI age rating, which are just like the BBFC ratings on movies – they tell you if the content is unsuitable for specific age groups. If a game is rated PEGI 18+, which most of the Call of Duty titles are, it means the title contains graphic violence, sex or drug use and is not suitable for those under 18.The deaths of these young boys are tragic, but suicide is a complex issue. It is often not something that can easily be attributed to one single cause. Parents should understand what their children are playing, but it is extremely unlikely that a single game, book, CD or film will, alone, prompt them toward suicidal thoughts.The Samaritans can be contacted on 08457 909090 or at jo@samaritans.org. Help is available 24 hours a day and all calls are anonymous.
Sydney&apos;s bomb squad was called to the offices of an Australian news website on Wednesday after a PR stunt to promote Ubisoft&apos;s Watch Dogs game went wrong.A reporter calledSydney police to Ninemsn&apos;s headquartersabout a suspicious package she had been sent.The package consisted of a black safe, like those found in hotel rooms, which was posted with a blacked-out note telling her to &quot;check her voicemail&quot;. She doesn&apos;t use voicemail – and when staff attempted to open the safe, it &quot;began to beep&quot;.After calling other newsrooms and finding that none had received similar packages, staff called police. Four police cars and a police rescue unit arrived, evacuated the office, and scanned the package before moving it to the basement for safety and then forcing it open.Inside they found a copy of Watch Dogs, a new game about hackers taking on a corrupt government in the city of Chicago.A spokesman for Ubisoft, the game&apos;s publisher, said &quot;as part of a themed promotion for Watch Dogs, our team in Australia sent voicemail messages to some local media alerting them that they’d receive a special package related to the game.&quot;Unfortunately, the delivery to Ninemsn didn&apos;t go as planned, and we unreservedly apologise to Ninemsn’s staff for the mistake and for any problems caused as a result.&quot;•Watch Dogs review roundup: can it live up to expectations?
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski, we talk to two innovative educators based in Lebanon who are using tech and coding to give hope to the hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugee children.James Cranwell Ward,Innovation officer for Unicef Lebanon, andEliane Metni, director of theInternational Education Association, both based in Beirut, talk about their plans to take the Raspberry Pi and simple DIY tech into the refugee camps, and discuss the role of coding and simple tech in offering educational advancement and hope for these children.Also: Aleks is joined by the Guardian tech team,Charles Arthur,Alex HernandSamuel Gibbs, to discuss the recent theft of user information from eBay and how to protect your passwords online, why the social app Foursquare is splitting in two and why Google thinks the future of advertising is on our fridge and washing machines.
Google&apos;s first purpose-built self-driving car has arrived. The dinky two-seater looks like a cross between a Smart Car and a Nissan Micra, has no steering wheel, accelerator or brakes, and just two physical controls: &quot;stop&quot; and &quot;go&quot;.It&apos;s been a long time coming, and there&apos;s a lot more work for the company to do in the future. But right now, Google walks a knife-edge between over- and under-promising. Its cars could change the world – if anyone lets them. But there&apos;s also a certain sleight of hand involved in what it has shown off so far.Are we nearly there yet?The immediate problems for Google remain technical. It has reached the stage where its car can drive through the streets surrounding its headquarters in Mountain View, California, without any human intervention. But it&apos;s not just because of secrecy that it hasn&apos;t gone any further than that.Google&apos;s cars use an array of sensors to map the world around them in real-time. On the roof, a spinning laser creates a 3D model of every major object surrounding it, be they fellow road users or potential hazards such as pedestrians and cyclists. Cameras on the front and sides supplement that model by looking out for important visual information such as road signs or traffic lights.But the car can&apos;t gather quite enough information in real time for it to be safe. Instead, asthe Atlantic&apos;s Alexis Madrigal explains, the company relies on ultra-precise maps of the area to help give it the information it needs.&quot;They&apos;re probably best thought of as ultra-precise digitisations of the physical world, all the way down to tiny details like the position and height of every single curb,&quot; Madrigal writes. &quot;A normal digital map would show a road intersection; these maps [for the self=-driving car] would have a precision measured in inches.&quot;With that model in place, all the car has to do is use its sensors to work out what&apos;s changed since then, comparing the real world to the model stored in its system.But Google has mapped a grand total of 2,000 road miles to the precision required by its cars. California hasover 170,000 miles of public road(PDF) and at least twice that if you include each lane as a separate &quot;road&quot;. The UK alone hasaround 250,000 miles of road, and the firm hasn&apos;t even started here.Laws and customsBut mapping the world is a project that Google&apos;s done before – twice. Its normal maps of the world have been around for the better part of a decade, and Street View, which requires driving physical cars through every road to be mapped, now covers 48 countries, including almost all of North America, Europe, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand, Japan and Taiwan.Nor has it stopped; the mapping continues every day, all over the world, because streets and roads keep changing. What it needs to do is capture that data in fine-grained detail good enough for its cars. How long that will take isn&apos;t known.The far trickier problem ahead is dealing with the changing social, political, and legal norms around driving.Take the question Google&apos;s tackling right now: If a self-driving car breaks the law, who is at fault: the &quot;driver&quot;, or the manufacturer?At the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV),Google has spent the past few monthstrying to argue that the fault should lie with the manufacturer. &quot;What we&apos;ve been saying to the folks in the DMV, even in public session, for unmanned vehicles, we think the ticket should go to the company. Because the decisions are not being made by the individual,&quot;said the safety director of the self-driving car programme.As for whether the car is even legal at all, the project&apos;s lead, Chris Urmson,argues that the law, in California at least, is already clear: &quot;The law that was passed almost a year and a half ago made it quite clear that effectively driverless operation of vehicles was permitted in California and in general we believe that’s true across much of the US. What will happen in the not-too-distant future is the California DMV will issue regulations about the operation of self-driving vehicles, and I believe in the law there will be a a clause requiring a six-month notification period before vehicles without drivers are allowed on the road.&quot;Trolley problemsBut more difficult questions will inevitably arise; and how Google answers them will shape the progression of the technology.Take a no-win situation for any driver: two children run out from behind a parked van, meaning there&apos;s no visible cue of their approach, and there isn&apos;t enough distance to brake.At the same time, their mother runs (from behind a van too) into the road on the other side - she saw the danger. You can swerve and hit the mother, or carry on and hit the children. What do you do?Such problems, and a class of others like it, areknown in philosophy as &quot;trolley problems&quot;. With tweaks, they can be used to draw out contradictions and paradoxes in our innate understanding of ethics, underscoring the fact that there seems to be no general answer to ethical problems which leaves everyone happy.And yet Google has to decide on an answer anyway.When a driver is faced with such decisions, we free them of responsibility whichever outcome they choose; the human mind just can&apos;t be expected to make difficult ethical decisions on a split-second basis.But Google isn&apos;t working on a split-second basis. As Patrick Lin, the director of the Ethics &amp; Emerging Sciences Group at California Polytechnic State University,wrote in Wired: &quot;while human drivers may be forgiven for making a poor split-second reaction – for instance, crashing into a Pinto that’s prone to explode, instead of a more stable object – robot cars won’t enjoy that freedom. Programmers have all the time in the world to get it right. It’s the difference between premeditated murder and involuntary manslaughter.&quot;These are questions that need answers. Without them, the first time a self-driving car is involved in a fatal collision – which is inevitable, no matter how much safer they are in aggregate than human-driven cars – the response could derail the whole project.Over-deliverAnd that would be unacceptable. Because a world where we&apos;ve fully cracked the problems of self-driving cars would be significantly better than our own, and not just in the obvious ways.The most immediate change would be safety. Google&apos;s cars have so far been involved in two incidents, neither of which was the fault of the software (one was rear-ended by a human driver; the other crashed while being driven manually).They haven&apos;t yet been driven enough miles to be fully certified as safer than humans –on average in the UK there is one &quot;slight casualty&quot; for every 1.7m miles driven(and you have to drive six times further per road death). Google&apos;s cars have only clocked 700,000. Even so, a car which can&apos;t be driven drunk, which can&apos;t speed, and can&apos;t get distracted presents immense possibilities for the future.But the bigger changes will come if the such cars overturn our entire idea of what &quot;driving&quot; is.For instance, a car that needs no driver is also, in short order, a car that needs no occupants at all. It can drop you off at your destination, then head off to find a parking space, even if that&apos;s a mile out of town; or it can act as a simple courier, taking a package from A to B without needing to bring a person along for the ride.In that world, though, why does anyone need to own a car at all? Google&apos;s Urmson touches on some of the possibilities inhis interview with Recode&apos;s Liz Gannes: &quot;My vision for this is eventually these vehicles will be shared, and it may be within a family, or it may be within a community, and that will result in less vehicles on the road, but they’ll be used much more efficiently, and that’s good for everyone.&quot;That would make the taxi provider Uber or car-sharing scheme Zipcar look like relics from the stone age. But it also requires courage from the trailblazers.Google isn&apos;t the only company working on self-driving cars: Volvo&apos;s 2014 model of its XC90 SUV can steer itself round corners, park at the tap of a button and automatically brake to avoid hitting pedestrians. But you can be certain that Vovlo isn&apos;t out to build a world where most people don&apos;t own a personal car. The easy way out would beto side with Elon Musk, and end up pushing for a system that is mostly the same as what we already have, because &quot;it&apos;s incredibly hard to get the last few percent&quot;.That would leave us still requiring driving tests, competent individuals behind the &quot;wheel&quot;, car parks, and all the rest.The alternative would be world-changing.•How does Google&apos;s self-driving car work – and when can we drive one?
Apple says iPhone and iPad users whose devices were remotely locked with a ransom demand were victims of a phishing attack, not a hack of its iCloud servers.A number of iPhone and iPad owners in Australia and the UK said on Tuesday that they had woken up to find their phones or tablets displaying a message saying that it had been hacked and that they should send AU$100 (£55) via PayPal to a Hotmail address, lock404@hotmail.com, to have it unlocked.But affected users were warned not to pay the ransom. PayPal said that there was no account connected to the account, but that it would refund anyone who had sent money.The hacker gained access to the owners&apos; iCloud accounts - which are linked to every iPhone and iPad - and turned on the &quot;Find my iPhone&quot; setting, which can be configured to remotely lock the device with a passcode if the owner hasn&apos;t already set it.David Emm, from the global research and analysis team at digital security firm Kaspersky Lab, said: &quot;It seems likely that cybercriminals gained access to Apple ID credentials, for example by using phishing emails targeting Apple IDs.&quot;Such scams have been around for years,&quot; Emm said. &quot;By using the credentials to access an Apple iCloud account, the attackers can enable the &apos;Find My iPhone&apos; service - this is not only able to locate a lost or stolen device, but also to set a passcode preventing third parties from accessing the personal data stored on the smartphone.&quot;This is clearly a form of ransomware, previously only seen on PC and, recently, on Android devices – although in those cases malware was used to trigger this behaviour. This campaign is further proof that cybercriminals are adopting criminal business models developed for the PC, applying them to new areas and fine-tuning their methods.&quot;But while the hacker was able to lock the devices via the iCloud interface, anyone who had already set a security passcode to prevent access to it was able to unlock it using that passcode. Those who had not set a passcode could reset their device by connecting it to a computer and restoring it from an iCloud backup.Nor could the hacker change their iCloud passwords, which requires answering a number of security questions that only the user would know.Apple said in a statement: “Apple takes security very seriously and iCloud was not compromised during this incident. Impacted users should change their Apple ID password as soon as possible and avoid using the same user name and password for multiple services. Any users who need additional help can contact AppleCare or visit their local Apple Retail Store.&quot;The company did not say how many people were thought to be affected.The fact that almost all of the affected users were in Australia - with only a handful reported outside it - points to a phishing scam, in which people are led to a fake site by an email or web link, and encouraged to enter their details in the belief that they are logging in to the real site.Adiscussion thread on Apple&apos;s support forumsabout the attack found no obvious common source of the attack between affected users. Not all had eBay accounts - ruling out the possibility that theattack on the auction site earlier this yearhad somehow been used for the exploit.•Apple plans to ramp up smart home competition with Google
Minecraft is coming to Xbox One and PlayStation 4 in August, and the good news for fans is, there will be a lot more of it. Ina blogpost on 22 May, Mojang confirmed that the game would be available for download in the summer, with both versions priced at $19.99, or $4.99 if you already own the Xbox 360 or PS3 instalments. Saves from these consoles will also work on the new machines.Tantilisingly, Mojang&apos;s post also mentioned that the new console versions would feature, &quot;significantly bigger worlds and a greater draw distance.&quot; But exactly how much bigger than the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions? We know that the infinite worlds of the PC version are impossible due to the limited size of game save files on the Sony and Microsoft machines. But are we talking about twice the size? More?&quot;The worlds in the PS4 and Xbox One versions will be 36 times the area,&quot; says Paddy Burns, co-founder of Scottish studio 4J Studios, which handles the console conversions. He also hinted that his team is working on increasing that figure for future updates. &quot;I don&apos;t know if we can go much bigger than that, but we&apos;re looking into it,&quot; he said.The edge of the worldThe challenge isn&apos;t just about save file sizes, it&apos;s also about the way the game handles the online multiplayer mode, which allows groups of players to cooperate in the same Minecraft map. &quot;There&apos;s a knock in terms of how much memory it uses,&quot; says Burns. &quot;The game runs a local host on the machine so it has to handle the network traffic for all the players. The issue we run into is, if that data is stored on the hard drive rather than in memory and other players around the world are in different positions, retrieving the data is too slow – we need to be sure that all the player data is held in memory. It&apos;s a bit of a headache. We&apos;ve always had the experience to do that kind of work but we&apos;ve had to bring in new staff because doing it across five platforms is adding quite a bit of work.&quot;Another challenge has been creating parity across the consoles. Work on the Xbox One and PS4 conversions of Minecraft began over a year ago, but instead of creating separate versions, the team is unifying them. &quot;We&apos;ve been trying to build a common code base across all the platforms so that when we do an update to the game, all the platforms get it,&quot; says Burns. &quot;We&apos;ve had to change all the architecture of the code to deal with that. The PlayStation 3 version was the first one to take advantage of it.&quot;Minecraft on VitaAlso set to arrive in August is a PlayStation Vita version. &quot;I&apos;m loving it, which I didn&apos;t think I would,&quot; says Burns. &quot;It&apos;s looking very nice. We&apos;ve had to cut back a bit on render distance and how much of the world we&apos;re processing, but then there are benefits – we don&apos;t have split screen to worry about so there are things we can avoid.&quot; Despite the lack of local single-screen multiplayer, however, Burns did confirm that the Vita version will feature a multiplayer mode, taking advantage of Vita&apos;s Wi-Fi connectvity.Although the code base is unified across the machines, 4J is also looking into supporting some of the unique features of each platform. The PlayStation 4 version, for example, uses the DualShock touch pad for browsing menus, including the in-game Creative menu. It&apos;s likely the PS Vita touchscreen will also be employed in a similar way, though the back touch panel won&apos;t be. According to Burns, further features may well appear in later iterations: &quot;The approach we’re taking is to first get the game out on all the target platforms, and then look at what we can add to each in the future. We will be looking to take advantage of each platform, where it makes sense for the game.&quot;Keeping up with the PCSo when the PS4 and Xbox One versions are released in August, how will they compare with the PC original? So far the latter is around a year ahead in terms of updates (Mojang has continually added new features since the game&apos;s pre-alpha launch in 2009). Can we expect a refresh on console? According to burns, the version that will be available in august will be the same as that currently on PlayStation 3, effectively 1.3.2, &quot;plus a few features brought forward from later PC versions,&quot; says Burns.As for what&apos;s next, the studio won&apos;t be drawn on which newer PC features will be making it over to console. Much. &quot;We’ll be continuing to add new features across all platforms once we’ve released PS4, PSVita and Xbox One,&quot; says Burns. &quot;We get daily requests for pretty much all the current PC features we don’t have in yet.&quot;There are a lot of people asking for horses though, so that’s a key one for a future addition...&quot;• Me, my son and Minecraft• Minecraft: how a game with no rules changed the rules of the game for ever• Minecraft at 33 million users – a personal story
Amazon has advised readers to buy from other retailers after breaking its silence over ahigh-profile dispute with the publisher Hachette, which has drawn in the British authors Ian Rankin and JK Rowling.In a post on the Kindle website, Amazon told customers: "If you do need one of the affected titles quickly, we regret the inconvenience and encourage you to purchase a new or used version from one of our third-party sellers or from one of our competitors."The world's largest distributor of bookstold customers it did not expect a resolution soon. Amazon acknowledged for the first time that on its US shopfront,Amazon.com, it was no longer taking pre-orders for Hachette titles and that deliveries would take longer than usual.On Friday, Amazon provoked a wave of protest from authors and publishers after its American website stopped taking advance sales of JK Rowling's forthcoming detective novel The Silkworm, which will appear on 19 June under her alias Robert Galbraith.Pre-orders play a big part in boosting new releases into the bestseller lists, which in turn help fuel more sales.Amazon has also reduced Hachette stock in its warehouses, so that new orders have to be sent to its warehouses by the publisher before being posted on to customers, delaying the time it takes for physical books to reach the reader.Hachette confirmed that Amazon had also removed its usual discounts from the publisher's books in the US, meaning Ian Rankin's latest inspector Rebus mystery costs twice as much on Amazon.com as it does on Amazon.co.uk."Unfortunately, despite much work from both sides, we have been unable to reach mutually acceptable agreement on terms," Amazon said. "Hachette has operated in good faith and we admire the company and its executives. Nevertheless, the two companies have so far failed to find a solution. Even more unfortunate, though we remain hopeful and are working hard to come to a resolution as soon as possible, we are not optimistic that this will be resolved soon."The levers Amazon is pulling with Hachette are similar to those used in its last big public showdown with a publisher. Pre-orders were removed from Macmillan titles when the two companies fell out in 2010.The negotiations with Hachette are understood to centre on the extent to which the French-owned publisher shares ebook profits, which can be sizeable. Ebooks cost little to produce and distribute compared with physical books, because there are no expenses for paper, printing, distribution, warehousing and returns.It is unusual for Amazon to comment in response to media reports, but the company has come under fire across Europe over tax and the treatment of its workforce in Germany, and is now under pressure from shareholders.After years of gains, Amazon's share price has begun to fall, and is down 20% so far this year. The company does not pay a dividend, preferring to reinvest profits, but some investors now want the founder, Jeff Bezos, to begin sharing more cash.In a move designed to placate authors, the company said it had offered to help top up royalties for any writers affected by the dispute."We've offered to Hachette to fund 50% of an author pool – to be allocated by Hachette – to mitigate the impact of this dispute on author royalties, if Hachette funds the other 50%. We did this with the publisher Macmillan some years ago. We hope Hachette takes us up on it."
Google has demonstrated its own driverless car, a design that does away with all conventional controls including the steering wheel, and says it will build 100 of the vehicles for testing with the eventual aim of &quot;bringing this technology to the world safely&quot;.The company had for several years been testing everyday cars equipped with sensors, navigation equipment and computers to drive themselves but in the meantime it has secretly developed a prototype from scratch that will have no facility for a human to take control, other than an emergency stop button.An initial 100 testbed versions would retain manual controls, Google said as it unveiled the car on Tuesday. The controls are needed to comply with the law in California which along with Nevada and Florida allows autonomous vehicles but only if a driver can take charge.Google's driverless car in action.Chris Urmson, director of Google&apos;s self-driving car project, said the aim was to run extended tests in California where Google is based. Urmson argued driverless cars would improve road safety, calling the development &quot;an important step toward improving road safety and transforming mobility for millions of people&quot;.Google said its testing had suggested it was safer to remove conventional controls altogether because the results of a human having to take over suddenly and unexpectedly were unpredictable and potentially dangerous. “We saw stuff that made us a little nervous,” Urmsontold the New York Times.The toy-like concept vehicle has two seats, a screen displaying the route and a top speed of 25mph (40km/h). An array of sensors allows the vehicle&apos;s computer to determine its location and surroundings and it can &quot;see&quot; several hundred metres, according to Google.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe internet with a human face - Beyond Tellerrand 2014 conference Talk &gt;&gt; IdlewordsMaciej Ceglowski (who also runs Pinboard.in):Marc [Thiele] emailed me a few weeks ago to ask if I thought my talk would be appropriate to close the conference."Marc," I told him, "my talk is perfect for closing the conference! The first half is this incredibly dark rant about how the Internet is alienating and inhuman, how it's turning us all into lonely monsters.""But in the second half, I'll turn it around and present my vision of an alternative future. I'll get the audience fired up like a proper American motivational speaker. After the big finish, we'll burst out of the conference hall into the streets of Düsseldorf, hoist the black flag, and change the world."Marc said that sounded fine.As I was preparing this talk, however, I found it getting longer and longer. In the interests of time, I'm afraid I'm only going to be able to present the first half of it today.Long, but very worthwhile.2014 Internet Trends &gt;&gt; Kleiner Perkins Caufield ByersHolding page for Mary Meeker's annual presentation, to be given today in California, so you might have to wait a few hours for it to come live. Also contains links to the previous reports, which are worth browsing. Try 2001's.United States of America v Hector Monsegur (aka "Sabu")The PDF docket in which the FBI explains what Monsegur did. Notable passage on page 6: he had "contemporaneous knowledge" of hacking by co-conspirators including the Sony Playstation Network. That's never been directly pinned on LulzSec or Anonymous before.Researchers find a global botnet of infected PoS systems &gt;&gt; ComputerworldSecurity researchers uncovered a global cybercriminal operation that infected with malware almost 1,500 point-of-sale (POS) terminals, accounting systems and other retail back-office platforms from businesses in 36 countries.The infected systems were joined together in a botnet that researchers from cybercrime intelligence firm IntelCrawler dubbed Nemanja. The researchers believe the attackers behind the operation might be from Serbia.The size of the botnet and the worldwide distribution of infected systems brings into perspective the security problems faced by retailers from around the world, problems that were also highlighted by the recent PoS breaches at several large US retailers.Important Notice to Our Users &gt;&gt; Spotify BlogWe've become aware of some unauthorized access to our systems and internal company data and we wanted to let you know the steps we're taking in response. As soon as we were aware of this issue we immediately launched an investigation. Information security and data protection are of great importance to us at Spotify and that is why I'm posting today.Our evidence shows that only one Spotify user's data has been accessed and this did not include any password, financial or payment information. We have contacted this one individual. Based on our findings, we are not aware of any increased risk to users as a result of this incident.We take these matters very seriously and as a general precaution will be asking certain Spotify users to re-enter their username and password to log in over the coming days.This is now getting like the episode of The Simpsons where the names of celebrities who have been arrested scrolls past at speed - except it's web services and hacking.Samsung to retire Music Hub streaming service &gt;&gt; CNETEstablished as a dedicated music streaming service specifically for Samsung devices, Samsung Music Hub will be discontinued after less than three years of operation.The service allows users to browse through a catalogue of millions of songs from major and "key independent" record labels, and listen to song previews before purchasing individual tracks and albums.Users create playlists of up to 200 songs, which can then be cached offline. There is also a Music Hub web interface that can be used to scan a PC for existing music files and match them to files in Music Hub, while Smart TV can also access music video playback at 720p.The service runs on a tiered subscription model, offering a monthly access fee for single devices or a premium model that provides access for up to four devices as well as a web interface.Available across the Samsung ecosystem and promoted with specific device launches such as the Galaxy S5, the rollout of the service was largely enabled by Samsung's purchase of cloud content service provider mSpot in 2012. Since first launching, Music Hub is currently available in a number of regions globally, including the UK, Europe, North America and Australia.However Samsung Milk, the streaming service available only in the US, will continue.Google Glass - a fascinating failure? &gt;&gt; BBC NewsRory Cellan-Jones used Glass for six weeks continuously:Right now, Glass just doesn't have enough functions. I have found it mildly useful to hear a ping and look up and see a tweet or an email without getting my phone out. The simple digital clock on the main menu is also helpful when you're rushing to get somewhere.But getting directions, especially given Glass's inability to understand me, is nearly always not worth the bother, and as for reading recipes from the All Of The Cooks app or using the instant translation tool Word Lens, both have proved too fiddly for this impatient user.The concern is that this product has been in the hands of developers for a year now but on the Glassware store, there are still only around 60 apps. I have seen various demos of what look like exciting augmented reality apps - services that overlay information on what you see through Glass - but so far these have not appeared in the store.I have also come across organisations, from museums to hospitals to oil companies, which are exploring exciting ways to use Glass to improve the work they do.But what is lacking in this project right now is momentum. When the device was unveiled at Google I/O in 2012 with an extraordinary live skydiving demo, there was justifiable excitement. But two years on Glass does not appear to have made much progress. Indeed some functions - notably the ability to make live video calls - have even been removed during software updates.Google's new logo: before and afterYou may find this shocking and stunning. Please make sure you're sitting down before you view this (completely real) comparison of how Google's logo used to look, and how it does now.Electrostatic theory of metal whiskers &gt;&gt; American Physical SocietyVarious metals widely used in electronics, such as tin and zinc, often show hairlike protrusions on their surfaces. These "whiskers" can be responsible for current leakage and short circuits in electronic equipment, causing billion-dollar losses in the auto, aviation, and space industries. But the formation mechanism of whiskers has remained a mystery for over 60 years and researchers have been unable to provide even order-of-magnitude predictions of whisker parameters.Previous theories offered a qualitative explanation of the growth of a whisker, based on the gain in energy due to the whisker's needlelike structure. Now, Victor Karpov at the University of Toledo, Ohio, has proposed a theory that provides, for the first time, quantitative estimates of whisker nucleation, growth rates, and length distributions."Whiskers" are a key problem with lead-free solder- which is now mandatory.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Having put millions of wristwatches into retirement with its smartphones, Google is now hoping to persuade consumers to strap them back on this summer.The company is to release the first watches running a version of its Android software designed for what it calls "wearable screens".Google's thinking is that the new devices will give customers the information they need – such as traffic alerts or weather forecasts – without their having to ask for it.On Tuesday, the Korean manufacturer LG gave a sneak preview of its version of the new Google smartwatch at an event held at Battersea power station in London. The device is expected to be available in July, on sale for an estimated £180.Called theG Watch, the device has a square format, with sides measuring about 5cm (2in), and as a bonus is being marketed as waterproof for beach outings.The price tag is less than the £250 which Samsung wanted for the second edition of its poorly received Galaxy Gear watch but a little more than the most popular watch computer released to date, made by the Californian start-up firm Pebble.The expectation is that the G Watch will be one of several similar products that some industry analysts confidently believe could replace smartphones made by the likes of Apple."We are still at an experimental stage," said Ronan de Renesse, an expert on mobiles, working at Analysis Mason. "There are a few glitches; there aren't many applications yet. But eventually there will be a strong move towards wearables. There may even be a day where we won't have a smartphone any more, it will all be wearables."The G Watch will be followed by versions fromMotorola, which has already released teaser videos showing the round-faced Moto 360 device, and others are planned from Samsung and the fashion watchmaker Fossil.Google will unveil more details of theWearsoftware, the operating system for the G Watch and its Glass spectacles, at a conference on 25 June.Teaser videos released by Google suggest that digital watches will do more than just replicate the functions already available on smartphones.The G watch will be based on a notification system being developed by Google, which automatically delivers timely alerts. According to LG's UK head, Andy Coughlin, who spoke briefly about the new gadget at Tuesday's launch of the company's G3 smartphone, it can be paired with any recent Android phone, even those by other manufacturers. Its job, said Coughlin, will be to ensure we "receive useful information when [we] need it most".With traffic updates on the device, commuters should be able to see how long the journey to their workplace will take. People who have booked a taxi could get an alert when the car is nearby. More exotically, the surfer unloading a board from the back of the camper van might get an alert on the local jellyfish.LG is also reported to be working on a version that will incorporate a phone sim card so the watch will be able to make and receive calls when the smartphone is lost down the back of the sofa.Companies hope that the emerging smartwatch field will mark the beginning of a period when consumers adopt "wearable" computing, whether on the wrist or as a pair of glasses."This is the summer of wearables," said Francisco Jeronimo, IDC research director. "And this Christmas will be the first time consumers start looking at this category as interesting enough to give it a go."Motorola will release its Moto 360 watch, also running on Android Wear, this summer. The speculation is that it will arrive in June with a $250 price tag. With a large round face about 46mm in diameter and leather straps, Motorola's device will look more like the traditional watch, although keeping it on in the bath might not be an option.Motorola is keeping the charging mechanism under wraps. The speculation is that the battery will be powered wirelessly while on a charging stand.Google is hoping to make its mark ahead of Apple, whose iWatch could come on to the market as early as this autumn. Crucial to its success will be persuading developers to produce applications for its wearable gadgets, some of which will make these new products a must-have.The market will start small, but could eventually be lucrative for manufacturers starting to experience a slowdown in smartphone sales, particularly when Apple wades in.Katy Huberty, a Morgan Stanley analyst, forecast in February that the company could sell almost 60m wearable devices, at $299 each in the first year, netting $18bn in revenue.A crucial part of the sales pitch could focus on the desire to get fit and healthy, and LG is already promising what it calls heart phones – headphones that monitor heart rate via the blood flow to your ears.But Nike, which dominated the sports wearables category with its Fuel band, is laying off staff and has refused to commit to future launches of the device.The ability  to screen calls and messages without grabbing the phone may prove the most compelling application."When I went back to a normal watch it was like going back to the middle ages," said Jeronimo, who has a Galaxy Gear and uses it to answer calls at home. "I'm quite addicted. I have 10 watches in my drawer in my bedroom which I don't use anymore, because I prefer my smartwatch."
"Oh, you've got a Pebble," said the security researcher, Mikko Hypponen, looking at the smartwatch on my wrist. "Me too. But mine" – he pressed a button on the black device on his wrist, and the small black-and-white screen washed over until a familar shape appeared – "mine has Flappy Bird."He proceeded to demonstrate how he could play the maddening smartphone game on a wrist-sized screen, pressing the two buttons at its side to make the frequently ill-fated bird avoid the deadly pipes. Hypponen's quirky use of his Pebble is at least one answer to the question: what are smartwatches for? As sales of smartphones slacken, because almost everyone who wants one has one, hardware companies are looking around for other gadgets to sell us. And the smartwatch is their latest idea. If they can sell us one each they're in the money. And if they can get us using apps on them, that would be even better.It is hotly anticipated that LG will join the select group, which includes its South Korean rival Samsung, the US-based Pebble, Japan's Sony and a host of smaller players with names like Meta, Cuckoo and I'm Watch (sic). Motorola, which Google is selling to China's Lenovo, is also expected to introduce a smartwatch – the Moto 360 – this&nbsp;summer.Although Google's Android software runs about three-quarters of the smartphones on sale outside China, there is more of a battle to see who will dominate the supposedly emerging smartwatch business. There were about 1.1m Android smartwatches shipped in 2013, according to the research company Strategy Analytics, compared to 190,000 Pebbles. But Samsung's new Gear 2 watch, released in April alongside its Galaxy S5 smartphone) uses Samsung's own software, not Google's; Pebble too continues to push ahead.That could all change imminently: Google is releasing the Android Wear operating system software for LG's G-Watch and Moto 360 – both of which have only been glimpsed so far as Photoshopped mockups. Experience suggests that the real things will probably be less pretty, significantly heavier and have less battery life. But Android Wear will bring information about transport delays, weather and so on via the Google Now software presently found on Android phones.Two questions about smartwatches. First: what are we really going to do with them? The answer, according to their makers, is see notifications from your smartphone, but without having to take it out of your pocket or bag. Using a low-power Bluetooth wireless connection, your watch can know about the emails, tweets and Facebook updates your phone has received, and show them on its screen. And, perhaps, play Flappy Bird.Alternatively, the watch can control a phone, answering or rejecting calls, changing the music that's playing, or changing the volume. And with suitable apps on board, the watch becomes a tiny computer in its own right.But perhaps the most important question is: if smartwatches are so great, why hasn't Apple made one? The answer may be that it just doesn't feel the time is right. Senior Apple executives have expressed interest in my Pebble (they've already bought their own, for experimentation) but Apple tends not to do anything until it judges that a market is ready. However it has registered the "iWatch" trademark in Europe and&nbsp;Japan.Fewer people will want a smartwatch than a smartphone. A wander through eBay soon turns up people selling their first-generation Samsung Gear ("used once" is a common refrain). No one has yet figured out how to make a wearable computer desirable. Will Android Wear – or an Apple iWatch – change that?It may be a problem with this whole generation of wearable devices. After six weeks wearing Google's Glass – which has a camera and small screen fitted just above the right eye – the BBC's technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones hasregretfully decidedthat "in its present form with its current software, Google Glass is a failure".It's too early to say that about smartwatches. But there is the risk that like Google Glass, their manufacturers will promise much and find the devices fly no longer than the average Flappy Bird.
Hector Xavier Monsegur, who by the US government’s calculations participated in computer hacker attacks on more than 250 public and private entities at a cost of up to $50m in damages, was released from a Manhattan courtroom on Tuesday after the judge saluted his“extraordinary cooperation”with the FBI.Monsegur, or “Sabu” as the celebrated hacker was known, was sentenced to time served – equivalent to the seven months he spent in prison last year – plus a year’s supervised release, in reward for having spent much of the past three years working as a federal informant. He had been facing a maximum sentence according to official guidelines of more than 26 years.His lenient sentence seals his reputation as one of the hacker world’s most hated figures, a skilled technician who turned from having been a leading figure of the Anonymous and LulzSec collectives into what was in effect an undercover FBI agent. Dressed in grey trousers and a loose black shirt, Monsegur told the court: “I’m not the same person I was three years ago. I’ve come a long way. I’ve had to do a lot of thinking and soul-searching.”As she announced her decision, Loretta Preska, the chief judge of the federal district court for the southern district of New York, repeatedly praised what she called his “truly extraordinary cooperation”. She said he had provided “sophisticated and complex assistance to the government allowing them to pierce the secrecy surrounding LulzSec and successfully prosecute its members”.Preska added that his work as an informant was all the more exceptional because it was carried out at considerable personal risk, federal officials having revealed that Monsegur was working for them early on in the operation. “There is no question that Mr Monsegur and his family were subject to threats and assaults,” she said.But condemnation from those who Monsegur had betrayed was swift and strong. A spokesperson for Anonymous told the Guardian that “Monsegur is, first and foremost, a criminal; the FBI’s cyber crime task force are his co-conspirators. While operating under their supervision, Monsegur committed numerous felonies which should in no way be excused due to his protected informant status.”Anonymous told the Guardian the FBI uses informants 'with the hope of pacifying online dissent and snuffing out journalistic investigations into the US government's misconduct'. Photograph: Janos Marjai/APAnonymous added: “The FBI continues to use captured informants, who commit egregious crimes in pursuit of reduced sentences, for the sole purpose of creating ‘examples’ to frighten the public. They do this with the hope of pacifying online dissent and snuffing out journalistic investigations into the US government’s misconduct.”In asentencing memorandumreleased by Preet Bharara, the US attorney for the southern district of New York, on Friday the governmentrevealed that Monsegurhad directly helped toidentify and convicteight of his peers in the Anonymous and LulzSec hacker collectives. Most notably, he was seminal in nailing Jeremy Hammond, who at the time was the FBI’s number one most wanted cybercriminal in the world, for his role in hacking into the private intelligence firm Stratfor.Hammond wassentenced to 10 yearsin prison last November for his role in the computer breach. What was not discussed during Monsegur’s sentencing on Tuesday was that when he was convicted, Hammond claimed that Monsegur himself had directed much of his criminal activity, including attempts to break into the websites of foreign governments.Hammond said that Monsegur, operating as “Sabu”, had supplied him with lists of foreign countries vulnerable to attack including Brazil, Iran and Turkey. Hammand went so far as to suggest that the FBI had been using him to launch cyber-attacks around the world, with Monsegur acting as the coordinator.Hammond told Preska – the same judge who let Monsegur walk free on Tuesday – as she sentenced him to 10 years: “The government celebrates my conviction and imprisonment, hoping that it will close the door on the full story. I took responsibility for my actions, by pleading guilty, but when will the government be made to answer for its crimes?”In addition to Hammond, Monsegur was also key to the convictions of other LulzSec members, including in the UK Jake Davis, who went by the internet handle “Topiary”, who was sentenced to two years in a young offender institution; Ryan Ackroyd, aka “Kayla”, sentenced to 30 months’ imprisonment; Ryan Cleary, sentenced to 32 months in prison; and Mustafa Al-Bassam, aka “T-Flow”, sentenced to 20 months suspended for two years. LulzSec members in Ireland, Darren Martyn and Donncha O’Cearrbhail, were also caught in the Sabu net.One defendant,Matthew Keys, a former Reuters journalist, isawaiting trialin the US on charges that he permitted unauthorized access to the computer systems of an old employer, the Tribune Company.Hector Xavier Monsegur,outside the US district court for the southern district of New York. Photograph: Brendan McDermid/ReutersThe sentencing hearing and memorandum have opened a window into the extent that the FBI will go in turning prominent hackers into informants. Monsegur’s defence attorney, Peggy Cross-Goldenberg, told the court that a camera had been installed in his apartment in a public housing project in Manhattan so that his computer activities could be monitored 24 hours a day. “For nine months, he gave everything he had,” she said.The memorandum discloses that in order to catch Hammond, Monsegur had been put at the hub of a vast web of surveillance. During the Hammond investigation, it says, Monsegur in New York “engaged in online chats with Hammond (who was then in Chicago), while coordinating with FBI agents in New York, physical surveillance teams deployed in Chicago, and an electronic surveillance unit in Washington DC.”Monsegur began hacking computers in 2003, and by 2006, the government says, he was engaged in criminal hacking for his own personal gain. His first act of political “hacktivism” appears to have been with Anonymous when he took part in distributed denial of service DDoS attacks on PayPal, Mastercard and Visa in protest at the companies’ refusal to handle donations to the free information group WikiLeaks.In May 2011 he became a founder member of LulzSec, a splinter of Anonymous, that operated as a tight team of highly skilled hackers in the US, UK and Ireland. Together they went on an audacious spree of attacks, ranging from the internet security firm HB Gary, the website of X-Factor on Fox Television, Nintendo’s computer system and the website of the US senate. An FBI affiliate in Atlanta, Infragard/Unveillance, was also breached.On 7 June 2011, FBI agents knocked on Monsegur’s door in Manhattan. His transformation from a hacker legend into an informant was instantaneous – he agreed to cooperate with the government immediately. The speed of his conversion was significant, and praised by Preska during her sentencing on Tuesday, as it prevented a security mechanism kicking in among LulzSec members who had agreed to destroy all their files should any of them go offline for any length of time.As Monsegur begins his year’s supervised release, including close monitoring of his computer use, questions are likely to remain over the nature of his lenient sentence, and particularly his alleged role in spearheading attacks on foreign governments while acting on behalf of the FBI.Professor Ahmed Ghappour of UC Hastings college of the law, an expert in computer law, said it was one thing to help the FBI in a sting operation on perpetrators of a crime already in motion, another “when you contribute to the creation, inducement and execution of a crime that never was. Particularly when those crimes may very well affect our foreign policy.”
London-based gig-finder service Songkick has reached 10 million monthly users as it aims to help match fans with events and provide another important revenue stream for artists.Songkick’s ticket finder app is available across the web, iPhone and Android and has grown from8.5 million users in Novemberlast year to 10 million in April primarily through word of mouth, according to Ian Hogarth, co-founder and chief executive of Songkick.Helping artists make more moneyBeyond the app the service has generated $100m of ticket revenue since launch across its app and partnerships with all the major music streaming services, including Spotify, Soundcloud, Deezer and YouTube, and is on track to hit that figure alone in 2014 – an important revenue stream for artists struggling with declining sales and small royalty payments.“If we can help someone who’s listening to music on YouTube or Spotify also discover a gig that they want to go buy tickets for, it provides another way for those platforms to support artists and help them make more money,” said Hogarth talking to the Guardian.“Before streaming services it wasn’t really possible to be listening to some music and within a couple of clicks find and buy some gig tickets. It provides an adjacent revenue stream to the royalty payments that have been much discussed recently,” he said.Artists typically make 70% of their revenue from live performances, where they can often make 80 to 90% of the ticket sales through Songkick, depending on the promoter’s deal with artists, according to Hogarth.Low royalty payments putting on the squeezeRoyalty payments from streaming services have been thrust back into the spotlight by the leaked royalty statement from Beats Music – the streaming music service operated by Dr. Dre’s Beats brand which is said to subject to an acquisition by Apple – showed some royalties as low as $0.000126 per play. Spotify pays somethingbetween $0.006 and $0.0084per play for comparison.Google has also ruffled the feathers of independent artists recently over contracts for its upcoming music streaming service. The Worldwide Independent Network (Win), which represents indie music labels, claimed that YouTubehas been approaching labels directlyattempting to strong-arm them into non-negotiable contracts with the threat of being removed from YouTube.Win claimed that the contracts undervalue the music of its labels in comparison to other music streaming services such as Spotify, Rdio and Deezer.Songkick has more than 100,000 event listings across the globe at any one time, featuring about 1 million artists. The company, which is based in London’s Tech City and was one of the first startups in the area, aims to have 15 million users by year end, according to Hogarth.• Songkick started selling tickets within its iPhone app in November, reaching 8.5m users
Without fanfare, Google has changed its logo for only the third time in a decade – by just two pixels.The search firm updated the logo on its front page at some point over the bank holiday weekend, having moved the &quot;g&quot; to the right by a single pixel, and the &quot;l&quot; down and to the right by one pixel each.Google is tight-lipped on why it made the change to the kerning – the typographical term for adjustments to the spacing between characters – but the posters on Reddit&apos;s Mildly Interesting subforum,where it was spotted,note thatthe alteration finally makes the baseline of the &quot;l&quot; and the rightmost &quot;e&quot; in the logo match up.From the company which famously a/b tested which shade of blue to use in adverts –and made $200m in the process– you can be sure the decision wasn&apos;t made lightly.
LG is set to launch the new LG G3 smartphone with a 5.5in “2K” screen, beating its Korean rival Samsung to the highest resolution screen.The device is due to be unveiled at 6pm BST on Tuesday, but LG’s Dutch websiteprematurely publishedand then pulled full details of the new flagship phone, revealing that it would support a 2560×14402K high definitionscreen – something Samsung has long been expected to unveil.But there was no sign of the much-rumoured LG smartwatch, expected to be powered by Google&apos;s Android Wear software, in the detail on the site.Most smartphones, including the latest flagship smartphones from Samsung, Sony and HTC, have screens with a full HD 1920x1200 resolution or lower. Critics are sceptical about the potential benefits of 2K screens, however.&quot;The 2K screen is just part of the arms race that&apos;s taking place in smartphones, as manufacturers desperately try to differentiate from each other in what has essentially become a ubiquitous form factor of a black rectangle with a screen,&quot; Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight, told the Guardian.&quot;Is it something you need on a small screen? It&apos;s a point of differentiation, and I&apos;m sure it looks stunning if you have the appropriate content to display on it, but I don&apos;t think it&apos;ll make as much difference as a the rapid rise of megapixels did for cameras, back in the day,&quot; explained Wood.Big, bigger, biggestLeaked photo shows a metal back. Photograph: LGThe LG G3 will be the biggest in a gaggle of new flagship Android smartphones released in the past three months, including the5.1in Samsung Galaxy S5and5.2in Sony Xperia Z2. The new releases question the definition of what is a “phablet” previously said to be any smartphone with a screen over 5in measured diagonally.Smartphones such as the Samsung Galaxy Note and the Sony Xperia Z Ultra have been marketed as an alternative to owning both a smartphone and tablet, and instead as a large-screened hybrid device that may (or may not) fit into a trouser pocket.A third of the 279.4m smartphone shipped in the first quarter of 2014had screens larger than 5in on the diagonal, according to data from research firm Canalys. Phablets are particularly popular in the Asia-Pacific region, where they made up 43% of all shipments and China where the figure was 39%. Phablets made up 32% of phones shipped in the US, while they claimed 27% of shipments in the UK.Samsung is expected to release an update to itsGalaxy Note line of phabletsthis year, with a screen at least 5.7in on the diagonal, while Apple is also rumoured to be considering a smartphone over 5in.LG G3 smartphone Photograph: LGLasers and trailblazersThe smartphone also sports a 13-megapixel camera with a new “laser” autofocus system that is expected to function in a similar manner toHTC One M8’s DuoCamera, capturing depth information and quickening focus time.The G3 will also have metal body and use Qualcomm’s quad-core Snapdragon 801 processor, which other flagship phones from Samsung, Sony and HTC have used to produce fast smartphones with at least one full day&apos;s battery life.LG is one of the world&apos;s biggest suppliers of LCD and OLED screens, and has been pioneering so-called &quot;edge-to-edge&quot; smartphone screens that have very little in the way of bezel or body either side or surrounding the screen.&quot;We&apos;re seeing all this cutting-edge screen and camera technology appearing in mobile phones when it isn&apos;t making it into televisions and cameras that the man on the street can afford,&quot; said Wood. &quot;The mobile phone is now the technology trailblazer, over everything else.&quot;Samsung and LG vied to be first in January to release a curved TV screen - in the end both released theirs on the same day - and last autumn to release a curved phone screen, a race that Samsung won by a matter of days.There were also rumours that LG is set to release its Android Wear-powered smartwatch, but the Dutch site contained no mention of the “G Watch”.•Which is the must-have smartphone of 2014 so far?
Apple is planning to launch a platform for &quot;smart home&quot; devices at its Worldwide Developer Conference next week that will ramp up its competition with Google, which has bought the Nest thermostat company and is considering buying another home business, according to reports.The FTreportsthat Apple will announce a &quot;big play&quot; into the world of the &quot;internet of things&quot; in its annual conference for developers, turning the iPhone and iPad into a remote control for lighting, alarms and other home appliances in a keynote with chief executive Tim Cook and other company executives.It would mark a fresh foray by the company into a field that is growing rapidly, and will beworth $41bn this year according to Juniper Research, and $71bn by 2018. Demand for &quot;smart&quot; devices such as light bulbs and heating systems that can be controlled remotely is booming as smartphones and apps combine to produce systems capable of reaching inside homes via mobile data and internet-connected systems in homes and offices.Apple declined to comment on the report, saying that it &quot;does not comment on rumours and speculation&quot;.A number of different companies are trying to capitalise on the so-called &quot;internet of things&quot;, with South Korea&apos;s Samsung and LG notably releasing internet-connected washing machines, fridges and TVs. But neither has so far made the breakthrough in terms of brand to make a persuasive case to control homes in the west, despite their smartphones being widely used.The FT report also suggests that Apple try to differentiate itself from other efforts in the field, such as Google&apos;s purchase of the Nest thermostat and smoke detector company for $3.2bn, by promising not to collect user-identifiable data or offer advertising on devices. Apple executives increasingly see this as a way to attract users who have been shocked at the extent of data collection revealed by the Snowden revelations in the past year.By contrastGoogle said in a newly published filingwith the US Securities and Exchange Commission that it expected in the future to see advertising &quot;on refrigerators, car dashboards, thermostats, glasses, and watches, to name just a few possibilities&quot;.Nest&apos;s founder Tony Fadell denied however that his company&apos;s products would show ads. Nowa story in online news outlet The Informationsuggests that Nest has been considering buying Dropcam, which makes a camera that streams pictures to phones or computers, as part of an effort to broaden its base in home automation. Neither company would comment.An Apple patent filingpublished in November 2013hinted at an application where someone arriving home with their iPhone would trigger the lights, and provide methods to control systems around the home.The FT reports that it would partner with hardware companies making devices for homes so that they could get an official imprimatur that they would be both compatible and secure for Apple&apos;s new system.Ben Thompson of the Stratechery consultancy, who has worked for both Apple and Microsoft, told the Guardian: &quot;Apple has the reputation of being &apos;closed&apos;, but that mostly applies to things that are software-related. When it comes to the accessory market, on the other hand, Apple has long had the largest and most expensive ecosystem.&quot;I think it&apos;s the latter that fits much more closely with Apple&apos;s long-term vision for the connected home. It&apos;s not that there won&apos;t be software in things like refrigerators and toasters – everything will have software soon enough – but rather, in Apple&apos;s world they will function as iOS accessories, as opposed to being their own entities.&quot;Benedict Evans, a partner at the venture capital company Andreessen Horowitz,commented on his blogthat &quot;There’s an interesting Apple/Google dynamic here, of course - if most of these &apos;things&apos; are some combination of smartphone satellite and cloud end-point, where is the value and control? Apple’s hardware/software integration means it’s best-placed to make things work well (especially with BTLE) but Google is better placed to do much of the cloud stuff.&quot; He suggested that &quot;there will probably be lots of ‘internet things’ that never speak to each other. A connected TV and an alarm system can probably work just fine without ever knowing about each other.&quot;But Apple may face an uphill battle in persuading would-be users that their systems would be sufficiently secure. Over the weekend, it first forgot to renew the web security certificate for its online servers - thereby making it impossible for computers and phones to be updated.Then on Monday a number of iPhone and iPad users in Australia found themselves locked out of their devices, after a hacker apparently guessed or learnt the login details for their iCloud accounts..The hacker logged on to victims&apos; iCloud accounts and thenactivated &quot;lost mode&quot;, which can lock users who have not set a passcode for their device out of it.The hacker could not lock people out of their iCloud accounts, because he could not change their password. Users who plug their device into a computer can bypass the &quot;locked mode&quot;, and also change their own iCloud password.The hacker was demanding that A$100 be send to a PayPal account,reported The Age in Australia. The source of the logins was not revealed, but its limitation to Australian users suggests it came from a specific hack in that country.Apple declined to comment on the situation.•Your smartphone&apos;s best app? Battery life, according to 89% of Britons
The co-founder of RapGenius has resigned after making &quot;gleefully insensitive and misogynist&quot; comments about Friday&apos;s Isla Vista shootings.In a series of comments on the site, now deleted, Mahbod Moghadam called accused shooter Elliot Rodger&apos;s 141-page manifesto &quot;beautifully written&quot; multiple times, guessed that Rodger&apos;s 18-year-old sister was &quot;smokin hot&quot;, and described an acquaintance of Rodger&apos;s as going &quot;on to attend USC and turn into a spoiled hottie&quot;.Six peoplewere killed in the Isla Vista attack. Rodger also died.RapGeniusbegan as a lyric sitewith a twist, offering users the ability to provide annotations to songs and explain the rivalries and references behind the music. But it recently branched out, allowing users to employ the same framework to collectively elaborate on news sources.Moghadam apologised for his comments,telling Valleywag&apos;s Nitasha Tikuthat he &quot;got carried away with making the annotations and making any comment about his sister was in horrible taste. Thankfully the rap genius community edits out my poor judgment, I am very sorry for writing it.&quot;But it wasn&apos;t enough for him to save his job. The company&apos;s CEO, Tom Lehman,announced on Tuesdaythat Modhadam has resigned as an employee, and from the board of directors.Modhadam, Lehman said, &quot;annotated the piece with annotations that not only didn’t attempt to enhance anyone’s understanding of the text, but went beyond that into gleeful insensitivity and misogyny. All of which is contrary to everything we’re trying to accomplish at Rap Genius …&quot;Were Mahbod’s annotations posted by a Rap Genius moderator, that person would cease to be an effective community leader and would have to step down. And Mahbod, our original community leader, is no exception. In light of this, Mahbod has resigned – both in his capacity as an employee of the company, and as a member of our board of directors, effective immediately.&quot;While RapGenius&apos;s unique selling point is its annotation system, the majority of the company&apos;s traffic comes from users Googling to find the lyrics to popular songs. As a result, the company suffered a massive hit in traffic in December after the search engine penalised it for its approach to search engine optimisation.&quot;We messed up,&quot; the company&apos;s founderswrote in an open letter to Googleat the time. &quot;We do not want to break Google’s rules, and will do whatever it takes to learn them inside out and comply with them.&quot; Ten days later, the company&apos;s position on the search engine was restored.•Rap Genius website back in Google&apos;s good books after search punishment
At the E3 video game event in Los Angeles two years ago, one new announcement stole the show. It was Watch Dogs, a seemingly ambitious cyber thriller all about data security, surveillance and hacking – it couldn&apos;t have been more timely.What Ubisoft promised went beyond the technological considerations of our online culture. Watch Dogs would consider the moral implications of centralised computer systems, CCTV observation and trusting our personal data to corporations. And it would build these into a story. Vigilante hero Aiden Pearce was once a hacker-for-hire, happy to jack in for anyone if the price was right – but then he uncovered a little too much info on a rich client and a family member was murdered. So Pearce sets out for revenge, using his PDA to hack into everything from the city&apos;s sewer system to the phones of passers-by. How you use this information is a key element of the action.It seems some reviewers have really connected with the idea of hacker as a moral agent. &quot;Occasionally, I would hesitate to put a bullet in a guard&apos;s head if I knew his wife was expecting a child, but I rarely had reservations about murdering a prison escapee,&quot; writes GameSpot&apos;s, Kevin VanOrd. &quot;I was deciding whose life had greater value, and I&apos;m grateful that Watch Dogs, in its own subtle way, led me to ponder why I would prize one man over another&quot;Games rarely make us think of enemies as functioning human beings with lives beyond the three-seconds their head is in our rifle sights, so this is compelling stuff.Far Cry + Assassin&apos;s Creed + GTA ≠ innovationBut while all this was interesting, others saw in Watch Dogs an amalgamation of other big open-world blockbusters – at least two by Ubisoft itself. From the Eurogamer review:Aside from the inevitable debt owed to Grand Theft Auto - over 10 years on from GTA 3, we&apos;re still carjacking and stunt-jumping around virtual cities - the echoes of other games are loud. The way Aiden jogs and clambers as he navigates back alleys and rooftops, with you holding down the shoulder button to seamlessly vault and climb, is reminiscent of Assassin&apos;s Creed, for example - though without that game&apos;s nimble verticality and vertiginous parkour.You won&apos;t be scaling any sheer walls or taking flying leaps here, but you will be barging through crowds and working your way around CtOS towers, each of which unlocks more map icons and side missions. That&apos;s much the same as the lookout towers from Assassin&apos;s Creed but also identical in function to the enemy outposts of Far Cry 3. Call it Ubisoft&apos;s house style, if you like, but it leaves Watch Dogs feeling more like a greatest hits compilation than a distinct title.And that&apos;s fine in a lot of ways. The great thing about Ubisoft&apos;s triforce of open-world brands is that player experimentation is always encouraged. &quot;Watch Dogs is, if you’ll pardon the cliche, a thinking-person’s open-world game,&quot; says Arthur Gies on Polygon. &quot;In the first half of the game, I scrounged what gear I could, making do to find solutions to the situations I was presented. Maybe an IED would have worked to take out a cluster of troops, but there were none to be found — instead I triggered a forklift and, when enemies went to investigate, detonated a junction box, which cleared up my problem nicely.&quot;The sense of beingThere&apos;s an intriguing lack of consistency on the subject of Chicago as a sandbox though. Jim Sterling on Escapist writes that&quot;Watch Dogs&apos; ultimate triumph is in just how alive it makes Chicago feel. More than Saints Row, more than even Grand Theft Auto V, Ubisoft&apos;s Chicago feels populated, thriving, buzzing with life. There&apos;s an ambience to it, a sense of belonging to the world that no other city-based game has managed to capture as well. From the amount of civilians on display, to the random snippets of conversation and the bundles of optional content and dialogue, Watch Dogs&apos; world is satisfying to simply be a part of.&quot;But while Polygon concedes that there are a lot of people to interact with and side-quests to get lost in, for the most part the extraneous activities feel like less interesting riffs on the main narrative missions. Which sounds like pretty much every open-world adventure, but there you go.What everyone seems to agree on, is that Watch Dogs isn&apos;t so lost in its hacking culture dynamic that it forgets the basics: the shooting system is slick and fun, the cover system works and the vehicle handling is exciting. What&apos;s more, all of this elements are enhanced by the player&apos;s ability to set up traps and blocks with the PDA, like lifting a draw bridge during a car case, for example.You&apos;re a hero not a hackerUltimately though, all the stuff Ubisoft was originally pushing – the idea of exploring the data state; the personal ramifications of observation – seem to be underexplored. Hacking itself is, as in most other games that feature it, just a locked door puzzle. &quot;When you do get to actually hack into things at a system level, it&apos;s via a tired old PipeMania-style puzzle where you rotate pieces to guide a blue power line to a goal,&quot; yawns Eurogamer.As for morality - it&apos;s hinted at when you hack into the phones of potential victims or just people passing in the street and realising how much power you have other the lives of others. But the wider questions may well be left unanswered. Eurogamer again:I kept waiting for the game to offer some shift in perspective, some commentary, that made Aiden&apos;s insufferable nature more palatable or interesting, but it never came. By the end, he is all but positioned as a superhero. Nor does Watch Dogs have anything to say about the surveillance state, or about questions of privacy and identity in a data-driven world, despite using these topics to drive so much of its gameplay and story.Meanwhile, the game&apos;s array of fairly standard multiplayer modes are faintly praised. The standout of course is the &quot;Invasion&quot; mode which lets players storm into the games of others setting up mini-head-to-head challenges. From Destructoid:Much like aSoulsgame, players can invade your playthrough (you&apos;ll show up as an NPC on their screen) and choose to &quot;hack you&quot; for fun and profit.The victim will then have to find and identify the invader alongside of all the innocent NPCs before the hack is complete, which makes for some interesting gameplay reminiscent ofAssassin&apos;s Creedmultiplayer modes. This can lead to a ton of really cool shootouts or chases, and the intimate one-on-one nature leads to some fun moments.This is intriguing stuff, and is perhaps the one aspect of Watch Dogs that really reaches and even surpasses what the marketing hype was tempting us with two years ago.So, the consensus is that Watch Dogs is a very solid, extremely well-produced open-world adventure, with some neat ideas and a few nods toward information age paranoia. But it isn&apos;t as clever or philosophical as it thinks it is, and in its world, hacking is often just another button to press to kill the enemy in an interesting way. Hacking as smart bomb. Most players will be happy with that – as long as they weren&apos;t watching the coverage from E3 2012 and looking forward to a game that asked deep questions about identity, privacy and responsibility in the digital era.•Destructoid – 8/10•Escapist – 4.5/5•Eurogamer – 7/10•GameSpot – 8/10•Polygon – 8/10• Our review of Watch Dogs will arrive later in the week as we required longer with the game, and want to test the multiplayer component on public servers.• Watch Dogs – freedom and morality in open-world games• Watch Dogs is a wake-up call on internet security
Are you a UK-based app developer, or do you work at one? VisionMobile would like to hear from you: it has launched a survey commissioned by Google UK aiming to find out what people are doing.You can enter the survey athttp://www.vmob.me/UKC14Press(note: the survey is not run by The Guardian, and VisionMobile is not affiliated with The Guardian).It should only take three minutes to complete, and the findings will be presented as a free report in late June. Itcloses on Friday 30 May.This Census study is intended to track• the demographics of UK developers, as well as their experiences and expectations.• the role of apps in the UK app economy, as well as opportunities for UK developers.We&apos;ll aim to report on the findings here when we have them.
In the third chapter of his History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Edward Gibbon gave two reasons why the slavery into which the Romans had tumbled under Augustus and his successors left them more wretched than any previous human slavery. In the first place, Gibbon said, the Romans had carried with them into slavery the culture of a free people: their language and their conception of themselves as human beings presupposed freedom. And thus, says Gibbon, for a long time the Romans preserved the sentiments – or at least the ideas – of a freeborn people. In the second place, the empire of the Romans filled all the world, and when that empire fell into the hands of a single person, the world was a safe and dreary prison for his enemies. As Gibbon wrote, to resist was fatal, and it was impossible to fly.The power of that Roman empire rested in its leaders&apos; control of communications. The Mediterranean was their lake. Across their European empire, from Scotland to Syria, they pushed roads that 15 centuries later were still primary arteries of European transportation. Down those roads the emperor marched his armies. Up those roads he gathered his intelligence. The emperors invented the posts to move couriers and messages at the fastest possible speed.Using that infrastructure, with respect to everything that involved the administration of power, the emperor made himself the best-informed person in the history of the world.That power eradicated human freedom. &quot;Remember,&quot; said Cicero to Marcellus in exile, &quot;wherever you are, you are equally within the power of the conqueror.&quot;The empire of theUnited Statesafter the second world war also depended upon control of communications. This was more evident when, a mere 20 years later, the United States was locked in a confrontation of nuclear annihilation with the Soviet Union. In a war of submarines hidden in the dark below the continents, capable of eradicating human civilisation in less than an hour, the rule of engagement was &quot;launch on warning&quot;. Thus the United States valued control of communications as highly as the Emperor Augustus. Its listeners too aspired to know everything.We all know that the United States has for decades spent as much on its military might as all other powers in the world combined. Americans are now realising what it means that we applied to the stealing of signals and the breaking of codes a similar proportion of our resources in relation to the rest of the world.The US system of listening comprises a military command controlling a large civilian workforce. That structure presupposes the foreign intelligence nature of listening activities. Military control was a symbol and guarantee of the nature of the activity being pursued. Wide-scale domesticsurveillanceunder military command would have violated the fundamental principle of civilian control.Instead what it had was a foreign intelligence service responsible to the president as military commander-in-chief. The chain of military command absolutely ensured respect for the fundamental principle &quot;no listening here&quot;. The boundary between home and away distinguished the permissible from the unconstitutional.The distinction between home and away was at least technically credible, given the reality of 20th-century communications media, which were hierarchically organised and very often state-controlled.When the US government chose to listen to other governments abroad – to their militaries, to their diplomatic communications, to their policymakers where possible – they were listening in a world of defined targets. The basic principle was: hack, tap, steal. We listened, we hacked in, we traded, we stole.In the beginning we listened to militaries and their governments. Later we monitored the flow of international trade as far as it engaged American national security interests.Last century we desperately fought and died against systems in which the state listened to every telephone conversationThe regime that we built to defend ourselves against nuclear annihilation was restructured at the end of the 20th century. In the first place, the cold war ended and the Soviet Union dissolved. An entire establishment of national security repurposed itself. We no longer needed to spy upon an empire with 25,000 nuclear weapons pointed at us. Now we spied on the entire population of the world, in order to locate a few thousand people intent on various kinds of mass murder. Hence, we are told, spying on entire societies is the new normal.In the second place, the nature of human communication changed. We built a system for attacking fixed targets: a circuit, a phone number, a licence plate, a locale. The 20th-century question was how many targets could be simultaneously followed in a world where each of them required hack, tap, steal. But we then started to build a new form of human communication. From the moment we created the internet, two of the basic assumptions began to fail: the simplicity of &quot;one target, one circuit&quot; went away, and the difference between home and abroad vanished too.That distinction vanished in the United States because so much of the network and associated services, for better and worse, resided there. The question &quot;Do we listen inside our borders?&quot; was seemingly reduced to &quot;Are we going to listen at all?&quot;At this point, a vastly imprudent US administration intervened. Their defining characteristic was that they didn&apos;t think long before acting. Presented with a national calamity that also constituted a political opportunity, nothing stood between them and all the mistakes that haste can make for their children&apos;s children to repent at leisure. What they did – in secret, with the assistance of judges appointed by a single man operating in secrecy, and with the connivance of many decent people who believed themselves to be acting to save the society – was to unchain the listeners from law.Not only had circumstances destroyed the simplicity of &quot;no listening inside&quot;, not only had fudging with the foreign intelligence surveillance act carried them where law no longer provided useful landmarks, but they actually wanted to do it. Their view of the nature of human power was Augustan, if not august. They wanted what it is forbidden to wise people to take unto themselves. And so they fell, and we fell with them.Our journalists failed. The New York Times allowed the 2004 election not to be informed by what it knew about the listening. Its decision to censor itself was, like all censorship and self-censorship, a mortal wound inflicted on democracy. We the people did not demand the end at the beginning. And now we&apos;re a long way in.Women working on the Manhattan Project at a secret plant in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, during the second world war – when the enemy was clear. Photograph: Ed WestcottOur military listeners have invaded the centre of an evolving net, where conscriptable digital superbrains gather intelligence on the human race for purposes of bagatelle and capitalism. In the US, the telecommunications companies have legal immunity for their complicity, thus easing the way further.The invasion of our net was secret, and we did not know that we should resist. But resistance developed as a fifth column among the listeners themselves.In Hong Kong,Edward Snowdensaid something straightforward and useful: analysts, he said, are not bad people, and they don&apos;t want to think of themselves that way. But they came to calculate that if a programme produced anything useful, it was justified.It was not the analysts&apos; job to weigh the fundamental morality for us.In a democracy, that task is given by the people to the leaders they elect. These leaders fell – and we fell with them – because they refused to adhere to the morality of freedom. The civilian workers in their agencies felt their failure first. From the middle of last decade, people began to blow whistles all over the field. These courageous workers sacrificed their careers, frightened their families, sometimes suffered personal destruction, to say that there was something deeply wrong.The response was rule by fear. Two successive US administrations sought to deal with the whistleblowers among the listeners by meting out the harshest possible treatment.Snowden said in Hong Kong that he was sacrificing himself in order to save the world from a system like this one, which is &quot;constrained only by policy documents&quot;. The political ideas of Snowden are worthy of our respect and our deep consideration. But for now it is sufficient to say that he was not exaggerating the nature of the difficulty.Because of Snowden, we now know that the listeners undertook to do what they repeatedly promised respectable expert opinion they would never do. They always said they would not attempt to break the crypto that secures the global financial system.That was false.When Snowden disclosed the existence of theNSA&apos;s Bullrun programmewe learned thatNSAhad lied for years to the financiers who believe themselves entitled to the truth from the government they own. The NSA had not only subverted technical standards, attempting to break the encryption that holds the global financial industry together, it had also stolen the keys to as many vaults as possible. With this disclosure the NSA forfeited respectable opinion around the world. Their reckless endangerment of those who don&apos;t accept danger from the United States government was breathtaking.The empire of the United States was the empire of exported liberty. What it had to offer all around the world was liberty and freedom. After colonisation, after European theft, after forms of state-created horror, it promised a world free from state oppression.Last century we were prepared to sacrifice many of the world&apos;s great cities and tens of millions of human lives. We bore those costs in order to smash regimes we called &quot;totalitarian&quot;, in which the state grew so powerful and so invasive that it no longer recognised any border of private life. We desperately fought and died against systems in which the state listened to every telephone conversation and kept a list of everybody every troublemaker knew.Snowden spied on behalf of the human race. As he said, only the American people could decide if his sacrifice was worth it.But in the past 10 years, after the morality of freedom was withdrawn, the state has begun fastening the procedures of totalitarianism on the substance of democratic society.There is no historical precedent for the proposition that the procedures of totalitarianism are compatible with the system of enlightened, individual and democratic self-governance. Such an argument would be doomed to failure. It is enough to say in opposition that omnipresent invasive listening creates fear. And that fear is the enemy of reasoned, ordered liberty.It is utterly inconsistent with the American ideal to attempt to fasten procedures of totalitarianism on American constitutional self-governance. But there is an even deeper inconsistency between those ideals and the subjection of every other society on earth to mass surveillance.Some of the system&apos;s servants came to understand that it was being sustained not with, but against, democratic order. They knew their vessel had come unmoored in the dark, and was sailing without a flag. When they blew the whistle, the system blew back at them. In the end – at least so far, until tomorrow – there was Snowden, who saw everything that happened and watched the fate of others who spoke up.He understood, as Chelsea Manning also always understood, that when you wear the uniform you consent to the power. He knew his business very well. Young as he was, as he said in Hong Kong, &quot;I&apos;ve been a spy all my life.&quot; So he did what it takes great courage to do in the presence of what you believe to be radical injustice. He wasn&apos;t first, he won&apos;t be last, but he sacrificed his life as he knew it to tell us things we needed to know. Snowden committed espionage on behalf of the human race. He knew the price, he knew the reason. But as he said, only the American people could decide, by their response, whether sacrificing his life was worth it.Listening devices used at Bletchley Park during the second world war. Photograph: Martin ArglesSo our most important effort is to understand the message: to understand its context, purpose, and meaning, and to experience the consequences of having received the communication.Even once we have understood, it will be difficult to judge Snowden, because there is always much to say on both sides when someone is greatly right too soon.In the United States, those who were &quot;premature anti-fascists&quot; suffered. It was right to be right only when all others were right. It was wrong to be right when only people we disagreed with held the views that we were later to adopt ourselves.Snowden has been quite precise. He understands his business. He has spied on injustice for us and has told us what we require in order to do the job and get it right. And if we have a responsibility, then it is to learn, now, before somebody concludes that learning should be prohibited.In considering the political meaning of Snowden&apos;s message and its consequences, we must begin by discarding for immediate purposes pretty much everything said by the presidents, the premiers, the chancellors and the senators. Public discussion by these &quot;leaders&quot; has provided a remarkable display of misdirection, misleading and outright lying. We need instead to focus on the thinking behind Snowden&apos;s activities. What matters most is how deeply the whole of the human race has been ensnared in this system of pervasive surveillance.We begin where the leaders are determined not to end, with the question of whether any form of democratic self-government, anywhere, is consistent with the kind of massive, pervasive surveillance into which the United States government has led not only its people but the world.This should not actually be a complicated inquiry.For almost everyone who lived through the 20th century – at least its middle half – the idea that freedom was consistent with the procedures of totalitarianism was self-evidently false. Hence, as we watch responses to Snowden&apos;s revelations we see that massive invasion ofprivacytriggers justified anxiety among the survivors of totalitarianism about the fate of liberty. To understand why, we need to understand more closely what our conception of &quot;privacy&quot; really contains.Our concept of &quot;privacy&quot; combines three things: first is secrecy, or our ability to keep the content of our messages known only to those we intend to receive them. Second is anonymity, or secrecy aboutwhois sending and receiving messages, where the content of the messages may not be secret at all. It is very important that anonymity is an interest we can have both in our publishing and in our reading. Third is autonomy, or our ability to make our own life decisions free from any force that has violated our secrecy or our anonymity. These three – secrecy, anonymity and autonomy – are the principal components of a mixture we call &quot;privacy&quot;.Edward Snowden during an online Q&amp;A. Photograph: ITAR-TASS/Barcroft MediaWithout secrecy, democratic self-government is impossible. Without secrecy, people may not discuss public affairs with those they choose, excluding those with whom they do not wish to converse.Anonymity is necessary for the conduct of democratic politics. Not only must we be able to choose with whom we discuss politics, we must also be able to protect ourselves against retaliation for our expressions of political ideas. Autonomy is vitiated by the wholesale invasion of secrecy and privacy. Free decision-making is impossible in a society where every move is monitored, as a moment&apos;s consideration of the state of North Korea will show, as would any conversation with those who lived through 20th-century totalitarianisms, or any historical study of the daily realities of American chattel slavery before our civil war.In other words, privacy is a requirement of democratic self-government. The effort to fasten the procedures of pervasive surveillance on human society is the antithesis of liberty. This is the conversation that all the &quot;don&apos;t listen to my mobile phone!&quot; misdirection has not been about. If it were up to national governments, the conversation would remain at this phoney level forever.The US government and its listeners have not advanced any convincing argument that what they do is compatible with the morality of freedom, US constitutional law or international human rights. They will instead attempt, as much as possible, to change the subject, and, whenever they cannot change the subject, to blame the messenger.One does not need access to classified documents to see how the military and strategic thinkers in the United States adapted to the end of the cold war by planning pervasive surveillance of the world&apos;s societies. From the early 1990s, the public literature of US defence policy shows, strategic and military planners foresaw a world in which the United States had no significant state adversary. Thus, we would be forced to engage in a series of &quot;asymmetric conflicts&quot;, meaning &quot;guerrilla wars&quot; with &quot;non-state actors&quot;.In the course of that redefinition of US strategic posture, the military strategists and their intelligence community colleagues came to regard US rights to communications privacy as the equivalent of sanctuary for guerrillas. They conceived that it would be necessary for the US military, the listeners, to go after the &quot;sanctuaries&quot;.Then, at the opening of the 21st century, a US administration that will go down in history for its tendency to think last and shoot first bought – hook, line and sinker – the entire &quot;denying sanctuary&quot;, pervasive surveillance, &quot;total information awareness&quot; scheme. Within a very short time after January 2002, mostly in secret, they put it all together.The consequences around the world were remarkably uncontroversial. By and large, states approved or accepted. After September 2001, the United States government used quite extraordinary muscle around the world: you were either with us or against us. Moreover, many other governments had come to base their national security systems crucially on cooperation with American listening.By the time the present US administration had settled into office, senior policymakers thought there was multilateral consensus on listening to other societies: it could not be stopped and therefore it shouldn&apos;t be limited. The Chinese agreed. The US agreed. The Europeans agreed; their position was somewhat reluctant, but they were dependent on US listening and hadn&apos;t a lot of power to object.Teenagers during their induction to the Korean People's Army in Pyongyang, North Korea. Photograph: Eric Lafforgue/Barcroft MediaNobody told the people of the world. By the end of the first decade of the 21st century, a gap opened between what the people of the world thought their rights were and what their governments had given away in return for intelligence useful only to the governments themselves. This gap was so wide, so fundamental to the meaning of democracy, that those who operated the system began to disbelieve in its legitimacy. As they should have done.Snowden saw what happened to other whistleblowers, and behaved accordingly. His political theory has been quite exact and entirely consistent. He says the existence of these programmes, undisclosed to the American people, is a fundamental violation of American democratic values. Surely there can be no argument with that.Snowden&apos;s position is that efforts so comprehensive, so overwhelmingly powerful, and so conducive to abuse, should not be undertaken save with democratic consent. He has expressed recurrently his belief that the American people are entitled to give or withhold thatinformedconsent. But Snowden has also identified the fastening of those programmes on the global population as a problematic act, which deserves a form of moral and ethical analysis that goes beyond mereraison d&apos;état.Hopelessness is merely the condition they want you to catch, not one you have to haveI think Snowden means that we should make those decisions not in the narrow, national self-interest, but with some heightened moral sense of what is appropriate for a nation that holds itself out as a beacon of liberty to humanity.We can speak, of course, about American constitutional law and about the importance of American legal phenomena – rules, protections, rights, duties – with respect to all of this. But we should be clear that, when we talk about the American constitutional tradition with respect to freedom and slavery, we&apos;re talking about more than what is written in the law books.We face two claims – you meet them everywhere you turn – that summarise the politics against which we are working. One argument says: &quot;It&apos;s hopeless, privacy is gone, why struggle?&quot; The other says: &quot;I&apos;m not doing anything wrong, why should I care?&quot;These are actually the most significant forms of opposition that we face in doing what we know we ought to do.In the first place, our struggle to retain our privacy is far from hopeless. Snowden has described to us what armour still works. His purpose was to distinguish between those forms of network communication that are hopelessly corrupted and no longer usable, those that are endangered by a continuing assault on the part of an agency gone rogue, and those that, even with their vast power, all their wealth, and all their misplaced ambition, conscientiousness and effort, they still cannot break.Hopelessness is merely the condition they want you to catch, not one you have to have.So far as the other argument is concerned, we owe it to ourselves to be quite clear in response: &quot;If we are not doing anything wrong, then we have a right to resist.&quot;If we are not doing anything wrong, then we have a right to do everything we can to maintain the traditional balance between us and power that is listening. We have a right to be obscure. We have a right to mumble. We have a right to speak languages they do not get. We have a right to meet when and where and how we please.We have an American constitutional tradition against general warrants. It was formed in the 18th century for good reason. We limit the state&apos;s ability to search and seize to specific places and things that a neutral magistrate believes it is reasonable to allow.That principle was dear to the First Congress, which put it in our bill of rights, because it was dear to British North Americans; because in the course of the 18th century they learned what executive government could do with general warrants to search everything, everywhere, for anything they didn&apos;t like, while forcing local officials to help them do it. That was a problem in Massachusetts in 1761 and it remained a problem until the end of British rule in North America. Even then, it was a problem, because the presidents, senators and chancellors were also unprincipled in their behaviour. Thomas Jefferson, too, like the president now, talked a better game than he played.This principle is clear enough. But there are only nine votes on theUS supreme court, and only they count right now. We must wait to see how many of them are prepared to face the simple unconstitutionality of a rogue system much too big to fail. But because those nine votes are the only votes that matter, the rest of us must go about our business in other ways.The American constitutional tradition we admire was made mostly by people who had fled Europe and come to North America in order to be free. It is their activity, politically and intellectually, that we find deposited in the documents that made the republic.But there is a second constitutional tradition. It was made by people who were brought here against their will, or who were born into slavery, and who had to run away, here, in order to be free. This second constitutional tradition is slightly different in its nature from the first, although it conduces, eventually, to similar conclusions.We face two claims. One says: &apos;It&apos;s hopeless, privacy is gone, why struggle?&apos; The other: &apos;I&apos;m not doing anything wrong, why should I care?&apos;. These are actually the most significant forms of opposition we face.Running away from slavery is a group activity. Running away from slavery requires the assistance of those who believe that slavery is wrong. People in the United States have forgotten how much of our constitutional tradition was made in the contact between people who needed to run away in order to be free and people who knew that they needed to help, because slavery is wrong.We have now forgotten that in the summer of 1854, when Anthony Burns – who had run away from slavery in Richmond, Virginia – was returned to slavery by a state judge acting as a federal commissioner under the second fugitive slave act, Boston itself had to be placed under martial law for three whole days. Federal troops lined the streets, as Burns was marched down to Boston Harbor and put aboard a ship to be sent back to slavery. If Boston had not been held down by force, it would have risen.WhenFrederick Douglassran away from slavery in 1838, he had the help of his beloved Anna Murray, who sent him part of her savings and the sailor&apos;s clothing that he wore. He had the help of a free black seaman who gave him identity papers. Many dedicated people risked much to help him reach New York.Our constitutional tradition is not merely contained in the negative rights found in the bill of rights. It is also contained in the history of a communal, often formally illegal, struggle for liberty against slavery. This part of our tradition says that liberty from oppressive control must be accorded people everywhere, as a right. It says that slavery is simply wrong, that it cannot be tolerated or justified by the master&apos;s fear or need for security.So the constitutional tradition Americans should be defending now is a tradition that extends far beyond whatever boundary the fourth amendment has in space, place, or time. Americans should be defending not merely a right to be free from the oppressive attentions of the national government, not merely fighting for something embodied in the due process clause of the 14th amendment. We should rather be fighting against the procedures of totalitarianism because slavery is wrong. Because fastening the surveillance of the master on the whole human race is wrong. Because providing the energy, the money, the technology, the system for subduing everybody&apos;s privacy around the world – for destroying sanctuary in American freedom of speech – is wrong.Snowden has provided the most valuable thing that democratic self-governing people can have, namely information about what is going on. If we are to exercise our rights as self-governing people, using the information he has given us, we should have clear in our minds the political ideas upon which we act. They are not parochial, or national, or found in the records of supreme court decisions alone.A nation conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal, enslaved millions of people. It washed away that sin in a terrible war. Americans should learn from that, and are called upon now to do so.Knowing what we know, thanks to Snowden, citizens everywhere must demand two things of their governments: &quot;In the first place,&quot; we must say to our rulers, &quot;you have a responsibility, a duty, to protect our rights by guarding us against the spying of outsiders.&quot; Every government has that responsibility.It must protect the rights of its citizens to be free from intrusive mass surveillance by other states. No government can pretend to sovereignty and responsibility unless it makes every effort within its power and its means to ensure that outcome.In the second place, every government must subject its domestic listening to the rule of law. The overwhelming arrogance of the listeners and the foolishness of the last administration has left the US government in an unnecessary hole. Until the last administration unchained the listeners from law, the US government could have held up its head before the world, proclaiming that only its listeners were subject to the rule of law. It would have been an accurate boast.For almost nothing, history will record, they threw that away.Card indexes of the former East German Stasi secret service are seen in Berlin. Photograph: Jan Bauer/APTo the citizens of the United States, a greater responsibility is given. The government is projecting immensities of power into the destruction of privacy in the world&apos;s other societies. It is doing so without any democratic check or control, and its people must stop it. Americans&apos; role as the beacon of liberty in the world requires no less of us.Freedom has been hunted round the globe. Asia and Africa have long expelled her. Europe has been bullied into treating her like a stranger and Britain would arrest her at Heathrow if she arrived. The president of the United States has demanded that no one shall receive the fugitive, and maybe only the Brazilian president, Dilma Rousseff, wants to prepare in time an asylum for mankind.Political leaders around the world have had much to say since Snowden began his revelations, but not one statement that consisted of &quot;I regret subjecting my own people to these procedures&quot;. The German chancellor, though triumphantly re-elected with not a cloud in her political sky, is in no position to say, &quot;I agreed with the Americans to allow 40m telephone calls a day to be intercepted in Germany; I just want them to stop listening to my phone!&quot;The US listeners are having a political crisis beyond their previous imagining. They do not like to appear in the spotlight, or indeed to be visible at all. Now they have lost their credibility with the cybersecurity industry, which has realised that they have broken their implicit promises about what they would not hack. The global financial industry is overwhelmed with fear at what they&apos;ve done. The other US government agencies they usually count on for support are fleeing them.We will never again have a similar moment of political disarray on the side that works against freedom. Not only have they made the issue clear to everybody – not only have they created martyrs in our comrades at Fort Leavenworth, at the Ecuadorian embassy in London and at an undisclosed location in Moscow – not only have they lit this fire beyond the point where they can piss it out, but they have lost their armour. They stand before us in the fullness of who they really are. It is up to us to show that we recognise them.What they have done is to build a state of permanent war into the net. Twelve years into a war that never seems to end, they are making the net a wartime place forever. We must reimagine what a net at peace would look like: cyberpeace. Young people around the world now working on the theory of cyberpeace are doing the most important political work of our time. We will now have to provide what democracies provide best, which is peace. We have to be willing to declare victory and go home. When we do, we have to leave behind a net that is no longer in a state of war, a net which no longer uses surveillance to destroy the privacy that founds democracy.This is a matter of international public law. In the end this is about something like prohibiting chemical weapons, or landmines. A matter of disarmament treaties. A matter of peace enforcement.What if every book for the past 500 years had been reporting its readers at headquarters?The difficulty is that we have not only our good and patriotic fellow citizens to deal with, for whom an election is a sufficient remedy, but we have also an immense structure of private surveillance that has come into existence. This structure has every right to exist in a free market, but is now creating ecological disaster from which governments alone have benefited.We have to consider not only, therefore, what our politics are with respect to the states, but also with respect to the enterprises.Instead we are still at a puppet show in which the people who are the legitimate objects of international surveillance – namely politicians, heads of state, military officers, and diplomats – are screaming about howtheyshould not be listened to. As though they wereusand had a right to be left alone.And that, of course, is what they want. They want to confuse us. They want us to think that theyareus – that they&apos;re not the people who allowed this to happen, who cheered it on, who went into business with it.We must cope with the problems their deceptions created. Our listeners have destroyed the internet freedom policy of the US government. They had a good game so long as they could play both sides. But now we have comrades and colleagues around the world who are working for the freedom of the net in dangerous societies; they have depended upon material support and assistance from the United States government, and they now have every reason to be frightened.What if the underground railroad had been constantly under efforts of penetration by the United States government on behalf of slavery?What if every book for the past 500 years had been reporting its readers at headquarters?The bad news for the people of the world is we were lied to thoroughly by everybody for nearly 20 years. The good news is that Snowden has told us the truth.Our secrets in their hands: one of four server rooms at the Facebook data centre in North Carolina.   Photograph: Rainier Ehrhardt/GettyEdward Snowden has revealed problems for which we need solutions. The vast surveillance-industrial state that has grown up since 2001 could not have been constructed without government contractors and the data-mining industry. Both are part of a larger ecological crisis brought on by industrial overreaching. We have failed to grasp the nature of this crisis because we have misunderstood the nature ofprivacy. Businesses have sought to profit from our confusion, and governments have taken further advantage of it, threatening the survival of democracy itself.In this context, we must remember that privacy is about our social environment, not about isolated transactions we individually make with others. When we decide to give away our personal information, we are also undermining the privacy of other people. Privacy is therefore always a relation among many people, rather than a transaction between two.Many people take money from you by concealing this distinction. They offer you free email service, for example. In return, they want you to let them read all the mail. Their stated purpose is advertising to you. It&apos;s just a transaction between two parties. Or, they offer you free web hosting for your social communications, and then they watch everybody looking at everything.This is convenient, for them, but fraudulent. If you accept this supposedly bilateral offer, to provide email service to you for free as long as it can all be read, then everybody who corresponds with you is subjected to this bargain. If your family contains somebody who receives mail at Gmail, then Google gets a copy of all correspondence in your family. If another member of your family receives mail at Yahoo, then Yahoo receives a copy of all the correspondence in your family as well.If someone in your family uses Gmail, then Google gets a copy of all your correspondence. Photograph: Boris Roessler/EPAPerhaps even this degree of corporate surveillance of your family&apos;s email is too much for you. But as Snowden&apos;s revelations showed, to the discomfiture of governments and companies alike, the companies are also sharing all that mail with power – which is buying it, getting courts to order it turned over, or stealing it – whether the companies like it or not.The same will be true if you decide to live your social life on a website where the creep who runs it monitors every social interaction, keeping a copy of everything said, and also watching everybody watch everybody else. If you bring new &quot;friends&quot; to the service, you are attracting them to the creepy inspection, forcing them to undergo it with you.This is anecologicalproblem, because our individual choices worsen the condition of the group as a whole. The service companies&apos; interest, but not ours, is to hide this view of the problem, and concentrate on getting individual consent. From a legal perspective, the essence of transacting is consent. If privacy is transactional, your consent to surveillance is all the commercial spy needs. But if privacy is correctly understood, consent is usually irrelevant, and focusing on it is fundamentally inappropriate.We do not, with respect to clean air and clean water, set the limits of tolerable pollution by consent. We have socially established standard of cleanliness, which everybody has to meet.Environmental law is not law about consent. But with respect to privacy we have been allowed to fool ourselves.We&apos;ve lost the ability to read anonymously. Without anonymity in reading there is no freedom of mind, there&apos;s literally slaveryWhat is actually a subject of environmental regulation has been sold to us as a mere matter of bilateral bargaining. The facts show this is completely untrue.An environmental devastation has been produced by the ceaseless pursuit of profit from data-mining in every legal way imaginable. Restraints that should have existed in the interest of protection against environmental degradation have never been imposed.There is a tendency to blame oversharing. We are often told that the real problem of privacy is that kids are just sharing too darn much. When you democratise media, which is what we are doing with the net, ordinary people will naturally say more than they ever said before. This is not the problem. In a free society people should be protected in their right to say as much or as little as they want.The real problem is that we are losing the anonymity of reading, for which nobody has contracted at all.We have lost the ability to read anonymously, but the loss is concealed from us because of the way we built the web. We gave people programs called &quot;browsers&quot; that everyone could use, but we made programs called &quot;web servers&quot; that only geeks could use – very few people have ever read a web server log. This is a great failing in our social education about technology. It&apos;s equivalent to not showing children what happens if cars collide and people aren&apos;t wearing seat belts.We don&apos;t explain to people how a web server log captures in detail the activity of readers, nor how much you can learn about people, because of what and how theyread. From the logs, you can learn how long each reader spends on each page, how she reads it, where she goes next, what she does or searches for on the basis of what she&apos;s just read. If you can collect all that information in the logs, then you are beginning to possess what you ought not to have.Frederick Douglass, the abolitionist who said reading was the pathway from slavery to freedom. Photograph: J R Eyerman/Time &amp; Life Pictures/GettyWithout anonymity in reading there is no freedom of the mind. Indeed, there is literally slavery. Reading was the pathway, the abolitionist Frederick Douglass wrote, from slavery to freedom. Writing his memoir of his own journey, Douglass recalled that when one of his owners tried to prevent him from reading, &quot;I now understood what had been to me a most perplexing difficulty – to wit, the white man&apos;s power to enslave the black man.&quot;But what if every book and newspaper he touched had reported him?If you have a Facebook account, Facebook is surveilling every single moment you spend there. Moreover, much more importantly, every web page you touch that has a Facebook &quot;like&quot; button on it which, whether you click the button or not, will report your reading of that page to Facebook.If the newspaper you read every day has Facebook &quot;like&quot; buttons or similar services&apos; buttons on those pages, then Facebook or the other service watches you read the newspaper: it knows which stories you read and how long you spent on them.Every time you tweet a URL, Twitter is shortening the URL for you. But it is also arranging that anybody who clicks on that URL will be monitored by Twitter as they read. You are not only helping people know what&apos;s on the web, but also helping Twitter read over everybody&apos;s shoulder everything you recommend.This isn&apos;t transactional, this is ecological. This is an environmental destruction of other people&apos;s freedom to read.Youractivity is designed to help them find things they want to read. Twitter&apos;s activity is to disguise the surveillance of the resulting reading from everybody.We allowed this system to grow up so quickly around us that we had no time to understand its implications. By the time the implications have been thought about, the people who understand are not interested in talking, because they have got an edge, and that edge is directed at you.Commercial surveillance then attracts government attention, with two results that Snowden has documented for us: complicity and outright thievery.The data-mining companies believed, they say, that they were merely in a situation of complicity with government. Having created unsafe technological structures that mined you, they thought they were merely engaged in undisclosed bargaining over how much of what they had on you they should deliver. This was, of course, a mingled game of greed and fear.What the US data-mining companies basically believed, or wanted us to believe they believed until Snowden woke them, was that by complicity they had gained immunity from actual thievery. But we have now learned their complicity bought them nothing. They sold us out halfway, and government stole the rest.The headquarters of the US National Security Agency. Photograph: Trevor Paglen/RexThey discovered that what they had expected by way of honesty from the US listeners, theNSAand other agencies, they hadn&apos;t got at all. The US listeners&apos; attitude evidently was: &quot;What&apos;s ours is ours, and what&apos;s yours is negotiable. Unless we steal it first.&quot;Like the world financial industry, the great data-mining companies took the promises of the US military listeners too seriously. That, at any rate, is the charitable interpretation of their conduct. They thought there were limits to what power would do.Thanks to Snowden, for the data-miners, as for the US listeners, the situation is no longer politically controllable. They have lost their credibility, their trustworthiness, before the world. If they fail to regain their customers&apos; trust, notwithstanding how convenient, even necessary, their services may seem to us, they are finished.Environmental problems – such as climate change, water pollution, slavery, or the destruction of privacy – are not solved transactionally by individuals.It takes a union to destroy slavery. The essence of our difficulty, too, is union.Another characteristic of the great data-miners is that there is no union within or around them.They are now public corporations, but the union of shareholders is ineffective in controlling their environmental misdoing. These companies are remarkably opaque with respect to all that they actually do, and they are so valuable that shareholders will not kill the goose that lays the golden egg by inquiring whether their business methods are ethical. A few powerful individuals control all the real votes in these companies. Their workforces do not have a collective voice.Snowden has been clear all along that the remedy for this environmental destruction is democracy. But he has also repeatedly pointed out that, where workers cannot speak up and there is no collective voice, there is no protection for the public&apos;s right to know.When there is no collective voice for those who are within structures that deceive and oppress, then somebody has to act courageously on his own. Before Augustus, the Romans of the late republic knew the secrecy of the ballot was essential to the people&apos;s right.In every country in the world that holds meaningful elections, Google knows how you are going to vote. It&apos;s already shaping your political coverage for you, in your customised news feed, based upon what you want to read, and who you are, and what you like. Not only does it know how you&apos;re going to vote, it&apos;s helping to confirm you in your decision to vote that way – unless some other message has been purchased by a sponsor.Without the anonymity of reading there is no democracy. I mean of course that there aren&apos;t fair and free elections, but much more deeply than that I mean there is no such thing as free self-governance.And we are still very ill-informed, because there are no unions seeking to raise ethical issues inside the data-miners, and we have too few Snowdens.The futures of the data-miners are not all the same. Google as an organisation has concerned itself with the ethical issues of what it does from the very beginning. Larry Page and Sergey Brin [the founders of Google] did not stumble randomly on the idea that they had a special obligation not to be evil. They understood the dangerous possibilities implicit in the situation they were creating.It is technically feasible for Google to make Gmail into a system that is truly secure and secret, though not anonymous, for its users.Mail could be encrypted – using public keys in a web of trust – within users&apos; own computers, in their browsers; email at rest at Gmail could be encrypted using algorithms to which the user, rather than Google, has the relevant keys.Google would be forgoing Gmail&apos;s scant profit, but its actions would be consistent with the idea that the net belongs to its users throughout the world. In the long run it is good for Google to be seen not only to believe, but to act upon, this idea, for it is the only way for it to regain those users&apos; trust. There are many thoughtful, dedicated people at Google who must choose between doing what is right and blowing the whistle on what is wrong.Mark Zuckerberg wants privacy for his family. Photograph: Kristoffer Tripplaar/Sipa US/RexThe situation at Facebook is different. Facebook is strip-mining human society. Watching everyone share everything in their social lives and instrumenting the web to surveil everything they read outside the system is inherently unethical.But we need no more from Facebook than truth in labelling. We need no rules, no punishments, no guidelines. We need nothing but the truth. Facebook should lean in and tell its users what it does.It should say: &quot;We watch you every minute that you&apos;re here. We watch every detail of what you do. We have wired the web with &apos;like&apos; buttons that inform on your reading automatically.&quot;To every parent Facebook should say: &quot;Your children spend hours every day with us. We spy upon them much more efficiently than you will ever be able to. And we won&apos;t tell you what we know about them.&quot;Only that, just the truth. That will be enough. But the crowd that runs Facebook, that small bunch of rich and powerful people, will never lean in close enough to tell you the truth.Mark Zuckerberg recently spent $30m (£18m) buying up all the houses around his own in Palo Alto, California. Because he needs more privacy.So do we. We need to make demands for that privacy on both governments and companies alike. Governments, as I have said, must protect us against spying by other governments, and must subject their own domestic listening to the rule of law. Companies, to regain our trust, must be truthful about their practices and their relations with governments. We must know what they really do, so we can decide whether to give them our data.The president must end this war in the net, which deprives us of civil liberties under the guise of depriving foreign bad people of sanctuaryA great deal of confusion has been created by the distinction between data and metadata, as though there were a difference and spying on metadata were less serious.Illegal interception of the content of a message breaks your secrecy. Illegal interception of the metadata of a message breaks your anonymity. It isn&apos;t less, it&apos;s just different. Most of the time it isn&apos;t less, it&apos;s more.In particular, the anonymity of reading is broken by the collection of metadata. It wasn&apos;t the content of the newspaper Douglass was reading that was the problem – it was that he, a slave, dared to read it.The president can apologise to people for the cancellation of their health insurance policies, but he cannot merely apologise to the people for the cancellation of the constitution. When you are president of theUnited States, you cannot apologise for not being on Frederick Douglass&apos;s side.Barack Obama: the president has the only vote that matters concerning the end of the war on privacy. Photograph: Sipa USA/RexNine votes in the US supreme court can straighten out what has happened to our law. But the US president has the only vote that matters concerning the ending of the war. All the governmental destruction of privacy that has been placed atop the larger ecological disaster created by industry, all of thisspyingis wartime stuff. The president must end this war in the net, which deprives us of civil liberties under the guise of depriving foreign bad people of sanctuary.A man who brings evidence to democracy of crimes against freedom is a hero. A man who steals the privacy of societies for his profit is a villain. We have sufficient villainy and not enough heroism. We have to name that difference strongly enough to encourage others to do right.We have seen that, with the relentlessness of military operation, the listeners in the US have embarked on a campaign against the privacy of the human race. They have compromised secrecy, destroyed anonymity, and adversely affected the autonomy of billions of people.They are doing this because they have been presented with a mission by an extraordinarily imprudent US administration, which – having failed to prevent a very serious attack on civilians at home, largely by ignoring warnings – decreed that it would never again be put in a position where it &quot;should have known&quot;.The UK government must cease to vitiate the civil liberties of its people. It must cease to deny the freedom of the pressThe fundamental problem was the political, not the military, judgment involved. When military leaders are given objectives, they achieve them at whatever collateral cost they are not explicitly prohibited from incurring. That is why we regard civilian control of the military as asine qua nonof democracy. Democracy also requires an informed citizenry.About this, Snowden agrees with Thomas Jefferson [the chief author of America&apos;s Declaration of Independence], and pretty much everybody else who has ever seriously thought about the problem. Snowden has shown us the immense complicity of all governments. He has shown, in other words, that everywhere the policies the people want have been deliberately frustrated by their governments. They want to be protected against the spying of outsiders. They want their own government&apos;s national security surveillance activities to be conducted under the independent scrutiny that characterises the rule of law.In addition, the people of the United States are not ready to abandon our role as a beacon of liberty to the world. We are not prepared to go instead into the business of spreading the procedures of totalitarianism. We never voted for that. The people of the US do not want to become the secret police of the world. If we have drifted there because an incautious administration empowered the military, it is time for the people of the United States to register their conclusive democratic opinion.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, should focus less on her mobile phone and more on whether it is right to deliver all German calls and text messages to the US. Photograph: Fabrizio Bensch/ReutersWe are not the only people in the world to have exigent political responsibilities. The government of the UK must cease to vitiate the civil liberties of its people, it must cease to use its territory and its transport facilities as an auxiliary to American military misbehaviour. And it must cease to deny freedom of the press. It must stop pressuring publishers who seek to inform the world about threats to democracy, while it goes relatively easy on publishers who spy on the families of murdered girls.The chancellor of Germany must stop talking abouthermobile phone and start talking about whether it is OK to deliver all the telephone calls and text messages in Germany to the US. Governments that operate under constitutions protecting freedom of expression have to inquire, urgently, whether that freedom exists when everything is spied on, monitored, listened to.In addition to politics, we do have lawyering to do. Defending the rule of law is always lawyers&apos; work. In some places those lawyers will need to be extremely courageous; everywhere they will need to be well trained; everywhere they will need our support and our concern. But it is also clear that subjecting government listening to the rule of law is not the only lawyers&apos; work involved.As we have seen, the relations between the military listeners of the United States, listeners elsewhere in the world, and the big data-mining businesses are too complex to be safe for us. Snowden&apos;s revelations have shown that the US data-mining giants were intimidated, seduced, and also betrayed by the listeners. This should not have surprised them, but it apparently did. Many companies manage our data; most of them have no enforceable legal responsibility to us. There is lawyers&apos; work to do there too.In the US, for example, we should end the immunity given to the telecommunications operators for assisting illegal listening. Immunity was extended by legislation in 2008. When he was running for president, Barack Obama said that he was going to filibuster that legislation. Then, in August 2008, when it became clear that he was going to become the next president, he changed his mind. Not only did he drop his threat to filibuster the legislation, he interrupted his campaigning in order to vote for immunity.We need not argue about whether immunity should have been extended. We should establish a date – perhaps 21 January 2017 – after which any telecommunications operator doing business in the US and facilitating illegal listening should be subject to ordinary civil liability. An interesting coalition between the human rights lawyers and commercial class action litigators would grow up immediately with very positive consequences.The people of the United States are not ready to abandon our role as a beacon of liberty to the world. We are not prepared to go instead into the business of spreading the procedures of totalitarianismIf non-immunisation extended to non-US network operators that do business in the United States, such as Deutsche Telekom, it would have enormous positive consequences for citizens of other countries as well. In any country where de facto immunity presently exists and can be withdrawn, it should be lifted.The legal issues presented by the enormous pile of our data in other people&apos;s hands are well-known to all systems of law. The necessary principles are invoked every time you take your clothes to the cleaners. English-speaking lawyers refer to these principles as the law of &quot;bailment&quot;. What they mean is, if you entrust people with your stuff, they have to take care of it as least as well as they take care of their own. If they fail, they are liable for their negligence.We need to apply the principle of trust in bailment, or whatever the local legal vocabulary is, to all that data we have entrusted to other people. This makes them legally responsible to us for the way they take care of it. There would be an enormous advantage in treating personal data under the rules of bailment or its equivalent.Such rules are governed by the law where the trust is made. If the dry cleaner chooses to move your clothes to another place where a fire breaks out, it doesn&apos;t matter where that fire happened: the relevant law is the law of the place where they took the clothes from you. The big data-mining companies play this game oflex lociserver all the time: &quot;Oh we are not really in country X, we&apos;re in California, that&apos;s where our computers are.&quot; This is a bad legal habit. We would not be doing them a grave disservice if we helped them out of it.Nuclear testing on Bikini Atoll: the US and USSR eventually agreed to ban such tests. Photograph: US air forceThen there is lawyering to be done in international public law. We must hold governments responsible to one another for remedying current environmental devastation.The two most powerful governments in the world, the US and China, now fundamentally agree about their policy with respect to threats in the net. The basic principle is: &quot;Anywhere in the net there is a threat to our national security, we&apos;re going to attack it.&quot;The US and the Soviet Union were in danger of poisoning the world in the 1950s through atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons. To their credit, they were able to make a bilateral agreement prohibiting it.The US and the government of China could agree not to turn the human race into a free-fire zone for espionage. But they won&apos;t.In any country where de facto immunity presently exists and can be withdrawn, it should be liftedWe must pursue legal and political redress for what has been done to us. But politics and law are too slow and too uncertain. Without technical solutions we are not going to succeed, just as there is no way to clean up the air and the water or positively affect global climate without technological change.Everywhere, businesses use software that secures their communications and much of that software is written by us. The &quot;us&quot; I mean here is those communities sharing free or open source software, with whom I have worked for decades.Protocols that implement secure communications used by businesses between themselves and with consumers (HTTPS, SSL, SSH, TLS, OpenVPN etc) have all been the target of the listeners&apos; interference.Snowden has documented their efforts to break our cryptography.The US listeners are courting global financial disaster. If they ever succeed in compromising the fundamental technical methods by which businesses communicate securely, we would be one catastrophic failure away from global financial chaos. Their conduct will appear to the future to be as economically irresponsible as the debasing of the Roman coinage. It is a basic threat to the economic security of the world.The bad news is that they have made some progress towards irremediable catastrophe. First, they corrupted the science. They covertly affected the making of technical standards, weakening everyone&apos;s security everywhere in order to make their own stealing easier.Edward Snowden in Moscow after revealing the scale of state surveillance. Photograph: APSecond, they have stolen keys, as only the best-financed thieves in the world can do. Everywhere encryption keys are baked into hardware, they have been at the bakery.At the beginning of September when Snowden&apos;s documents on this subject first became public, the shock waves reverberated around the industry. But the documents released also showed that the listeners are still compelled to steal keys instead of breaking our locks. They have not yet gained enough technical sophistication to break the fundamental cryptography holding the global economy together.Making public what crypto NSA can&apos;t break is the most inflammatory of Snowden&apos;s disclosures from the listeners&apos; perspective. As long as nobody knows what the listeners cannot read, they have an aura of omniscience. Once it is known what they cannot read, everyone will use that crypto and soon they cannot read anything any more.Snowden has disclosed that their advances on our fundamental cryptography were good but not excellent. He is also showing us that we have very little time to improve our own cryptography. We must hurry to recover from the harm done to us by technical standards corruption. From now on, the communities that make free software crypto for everyone else must assume that they are up against &quot;national means of intelligence&quot;. In this trade, that is bad news for developers, because that&apos;s the big leagues. When you play against their opposition, even the tiniest mistake is fatal.It&apos;s as though every factory in our society had an advanced fire safety system - while everybody&apos;s home had nothingSecond, we must change the technical environment so it is safer for ordinary people and small businesses. This is largely about spreading technologies big businesses have been using for a decade and a half. Far too little has so far happened along these lines. It&apos;s as though every factory in our society had an advanced fire safety system – smoke detectors, carbon monoxide detectors, sprinklers, high pressure hoses, fancy fire extinguishers – while everybody&apos;s home had nothing.We must commoditise personal uses of the communication security and privacy technologies that businesses have already adopted. This has to be as simple as installing a smoke detector, hanging a fire extinguisher on the wall, talking to your kids about which door to use if the stairs are burning, or even putting a rope ladder in a second-floor window. None of this solves the problem of fire. But if a blaze breaks out, these simple measures will save your child&apos;s life.There are many software projects and startup companies working on these measures. My FreedomBox is one such non-profit project. But I am particularly delighted to see we are beginning to have commercial competition. Businesses are now aware: the people of the world have not agreed that the technology of totalitarianism should be fastened on every household. If the market offers them good products that make this spying harder, they will buy and use them.We must commoditise personal uses of the communication security and privacy technologies that businesses have already adopted. If the market offers them good products that make this spying harder, they will buy and use them.Snowden&apos;s courage is exemplary. But he ended his effort because we needed to knownow. We have to inherit his understanding of that fierce urgency.Our politics can&apos;t wait. Not in the US, where the war must end. Not around the world, where people must demand that governments fulfil the basic obligation to protect their security.We need to decentralise the data. If we keep it all in one great big pile – if there&apos;s one guy who keeps all the email and another guy who manages all the social sharing – then there isn&apos;t really any way to be any safer than the weakest link in the fence around those piles.But if everyone is keeping her and his own, then the weak links on the outside of any fence get the attacker exactly one person&apos;s stuff. Which, in a world governed by the rule of law, might be optimal: one person is the person youcanspy on because you&apos;ve got probable cause.Email scales beautifully without anybody at the centre keeping all of it. We need to make a mail server for people that costs five bucks and sits on the kitchen counter where the telephone answering machine used to be. If it breaks, you throw it away.Decentralised social sharing is harder, but not so hard that we can&apos;t do it. For the technologically gifted and engaged around the world this is the big moment, because if we do our work correctly freedom will survive and our grandkids will say: &quot;So what did you do back then?&quot; The answer could be: &quot;I made SSL better.&quot;Snowden has nobly advanced our effort to save democracy. In doing so he stood on the shoulders of others. The honour will be his and theirs, but the responsibility is ours.It is for us to finish the work that they have begun.We must see to it that their sacrifices have meaning. That this nation, and all the nations, shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, for the people shall not perish from the Earth.• This essay is built from the &quot;Snowden and the Future&quot; talk seriesdelivered at Columbia Law School, which is available atsnowdenandthefuture.info.Itis released under theCC-BY-SAlicence.
Microsoft has warned against using a hack that allows Windows XP to continue to receive important security updates after Microsoft withdrew support in April.The hack tricks Microsoft’s update servers into applying security patches to Microsoft’s 13-year-old Windows XP. A small change within Windows XP makes it appear as other versions of Windows that are still supported until 2019.Microsoft warned that Windows XP customers may face problems if they install the updates. “The security updates that could be installed are intended for Windows Embedded and Windows Server 2003 customers and do not fully protect Windows XP customers,” Microsoft said in astatement released to ZDnet. “Windows XP customers also run a significant risk of functionality issues with their machines if they install these updates, as they are not tested against Windows XP.”Switch browsers at the very leastThe UK governmentpaid £5.5m to extend support for Windows XPfor one year to allow the public sector more time to migrate to Windows 7 or other supported software. Other countries including the Netherlands also negotiated similar deals with Microsoft.An Internet Explorer security bug that wasactively being used by hackersto gain control of Windows computers came just days after Microsoft ceased security support updates for Windows XP, emphasising the importance of continued security updates for crucial software.Microsoft later reneged on its support withdrawal and fixed the bug in Internet Explorer on Windows XP. Security experts warned that this would just be the start and that Windows XP users should upgrade their software to a currently supported system like Windows 7, but at the very least shouldswitch to a browser like Google’s Chrome or Firefoxthat is actively supported.An estimated 430m PCs were still running some version of Windows XP at the point at which Microsoft withdrew support. In the UK, Windows XP was still used on 17% of computers four weeks later according to data from security firm Secunia.•Are Windows ‘XPocalypse’ reports overblown?•How can I use Windows XP safely not it’s no longer supported?
One of the web&apos;s largest search engines for downloads on file-sharing websites has been taken offline by the City of London police for linking to pirated content.Torrentz.eu was already blocked in the UK by a number of British ISPs, having been blacklisted in October 2013 alongside 20 other file-sharing sites, but the side&apos;s domain name was removed entirely on Monday. By Tuesday, however, the site was back up following legal complaints from the owners.The City of London police had contacted Torrentz&apos;s domain name registrar, and asked it to suspend the site for linking to content which infringes copyright.A City of London Police spokesperson said, “The Police Intellectual Property Crime Unit (PIPCU) has recently contacted a number of domain registrars hosting copyright infringing as part of Operation Creative, and as a result several major copyright infringing websites, including Torrentz.eu, have closed down.&quot;However, the site is still live at other domain names. The force&apos;s request has no legal force, but many registrars follow such requests anyway. &quot;At the first instance of a website being confirmed as providing copyright infringing content, the site owner is contacted by officers at PIPCU and offered the opportunity to engage with the police, to correct their behaviour and to begin to operate legitimately,&quot; the City of London police spokesperson said.“If a website fails to comply and engage with the police, then a variety of other tactical options may be used including; contacting the domain registrar informing them of the criminality and seeking suspension of the site and disrupting advertising revenue through the use of an Infringing Website List (IWL) available to those involved in the sale and trading of digital advertising.&quot;Torrentz is one of the largest search engines for bitorrent files. The site lets users search for content to download using the bitorrent file-sharing protocol. Typically, this is unlicensed copies of TV shows and movies such as Game of Thrones and the upcoming X Men: Days of Future Past, both linked to from one of the remaining versions of the Torrentz site.But the site also contains legal content, such as installers for free open source software and books released under &quot;copyleft&quot; licenses, which pre-emptively grants permission for them to be shared.A day after the initial suspention,TorrentFreak reported that the site&apos;s Polish host, registrar, apparently changed its mind about complying with the police request after Torrentz&apos;s lawyer contacted them to complain. The registrar hasn&apos;t officially responded, but has restored the domain.In the Netherlands,a court lifted a banon notorious file-sharing site The Pirate Bay in January, labelling the practice &quot;ineffective&quot;. The ruling, which applied European law, was based on the principle that internet service providers should not have to take measures, such as blocking the Pirate Bay, which are disproportionate or ineffective.•Pirate Bay ban lifted in Netherlands as blocking torrent sites ruled ‘ineffective’Full City of London Police statement“The Police Intellectual Property Crime Unit (PIPCU) has recently contacted a number of domain registrars hosting copyright infringing as part of Operation Creative, and as a result several major copyright infringing websites, including Torrentz.eu, have closed down.“Operation Creative is a ground-breaking initiative is designed to disrupt and prevent websites from providing unauthorised access to copyrighted content, in partnership with the creative and advertising industries.“As part of Operation Creative, rights holders in the creative industries identify and report copyright infringing websites to PIPCU, providing a detailed package of evidence indicating how the site is involved in illegal copyright infringement. Officers from PIPCU then evaluate the websites and verify whether they are infringing copyright. At the first instance of a website being confirmed as providing copyright infringing content, the site owner is contacted by officers at PIPCU and offered the opportunity to engage with the police, to correct their behaviour and to begin to operate legitimately.“If a website fails to comply and engage with the police, then a variety of other tactical options may be used including; contacting the domain registrar informing them of the criminality and seeking suspension of the site and disrupting advertising revenue through the use of an Infringing Website List (IWL) available to those involved in the sale and trading of digital advertising.“The IWL, the first of its kind to be developed, is an online portal providing the digital advertising sector with an up-to-date list of copyright infringing sites, identified and evidenced by the creative industries and verified by the City of London Police unit. The aim of the IWL is that advertisers, agencies and other intermediaries will use it as a brand safety tool and cease advert placement on these illegal websites.”
A group of flagship smartphones – said to be the best of the best – have just been released, brimming with new technology, so it&apos;s time to ask: is the iPhone 5S still the best smartphone? And which is 2014&apos;s must-have?When looking for a new phone, there are a dizzying number to choose from, and all worth a pretty penny. A fight is raging between Apple and Samsung, but premium contenders from Sony and HTC could steal the show, and Nokia&apos;s photography prowess still can&apos;t be matched.There has never been a better time to buy a phone, so here&apos;s a quick guide to where to put your money.Sony Xperia Z2Great big screen, just watch out for fingerprints. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianBig screen, big camera, big phone, £550 without contractSony&apos;s latest and greatest has the largest screen of the top five here – a whopping 5.2in on the diagonal. Thankfully, it&apos;s big and beautiful, with rich colours and terrific viewing angles, which, paired with stereo front-facing speakers bracketing the screen, makes watching movies with friends a great experience.The phone is waterproof down to 1.5m, which means you can go paddling with it, if you must, while the battery will last all day on a charge or much longer with power-saving activated.The Xperia Z2 packs arguably the second-best camera in this group, with a 20.7-megapixel shooter on the back capable of fancy tricks such as placing animated dinosaurs into your photos and video. Happily, the point-and-shoot mode is fantastic and will make you look like a pro.The only issue with the Xperia Z2 is that it really is just a tad too big for average hands, so this is one to try before you buy.Verdict:fast, feature-packed and waterproof, but a bit big to hold in one hand.•Sony Xperia Z2 full review: a great phone, just a bit too bigNokia Lumia 1020It's all about the camera with the Nokia Lumia 1020. Photograph: Timothy Clary/AFP/Getty Images41-megapixels of camera at your disposal, £360 without contractClad in a bright plastic case with a sizeable bulge on the back, Nokia&apos;s top-of-the-line Windows phone is all about the camera. The Lumia 1020 packs a monster 41-megapixel camera, co-developed with the photography masters at Zeiss.While pure megapixel count means nothing, the &quot;PureView&quot; camera system gives photographers access to a 3x lossless digital zoom while maintaining crystal-clear images using some fancy &quot;supersampling&quot; image-processing technology.As a byproduct, the 41-megapixel super-sized images give life to that silly &quot;enhance&quot; thing people in American crime dramas always do, turning that tiny CCTV image into an immaculate close-up of a person&apos;s face or licence plate number. You can keep zooming in and the image is still pin-sharp.The Windows phone software powering the 1020 is decent, but lacks a few apps and may not be everyone&apos;s cup of tea. This is one for people who want the best mobile phone camera on the market, or something different from Android or Apple.Verdict:powerful camera and a solid alternative to Android or the iPhone.•Nokia Lumia 1020 full review: it&apos;s a phone, it&apos;s a camera – what a cameraSamsung Galaxy S5Fingerprint scanner certainly leads to on-screen smudges. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianMarket-leading Android wrapped in plastic, £560 without contractSamsung&apos;s Galaxy S5 is the latest flagship Android phone from Korea. Packing a brilliant camera that can refocus a photo after capture, a vibrant 5.1in high-definition screen and enough battery life to see it comfortably through the day – maybe even two – the S5 is a great all-rounder.The star of the show is a fingerprint scanner under the home button that unlocks the phone with a swipe of the thumb. It can also be used to authenticate payments through PayPal with your fingerprints preventing some little tike trying to buy something on eBay with your money.The Galaxy S5 is waterproof too, so a quick dunk down the loo won&apos;t stop it.Not everyone is a fan of Samsung&apos;s plastic design or cutesy take on Android software, but the S5&apos;s good balance between large screen and manageable device size makes it easy to handle for a big phone.Verdict:fast, feature-packed and waterproof, but plastic feels less premium.•Samsung Galaxy S5 full review: bigger, faster – but still plasticApple iPhone 5SThe best fingerprint sensor out there. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesA modern classic that&apos;s looking a little long in the tooth, £550 without contractApple&apos;s latest and greatest iPhone 5S is actually seven months old, but is still the king of iOS for at least another three months. Its TouchID fingerprint sensor under the home button is unparalleled in ease of use and accuracy (despite other phones having something similar), while its speed and features are on a par with the best of the rest. It has a decent, if not spectacular camera, and Apple&apos;s iOS 7 is refined and colourful.Its one differentiator is size; the iPhone is over an inch smaller than most of the competition, making it easier to handle, but more fiddly to type on.The iPhone&apos;s small screen size makes it slightly less capable as a video screen, while people with less than delicate fingers might find it cramped to operate. Apple&apos;s iOS 7 makes full advantage of the small screen, though, while the slim, lightweight frame means the iPhone isn&apos;t a bulging behemoth in your pocket.Verdict: great fingerprint sensor, but a bit on the small side.•Apple iPhone 5S full review: Apple shows its touchHTC One M8Beautiful front and back. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAll-metal and simply beautiful design, £550 without contractHTC has achieved something no one else can do right now; its new One M8 Android phone is almost all metal.The smooth, curved, aluminium back is both gorgeous to look at and beautiful to hold, fitting nicely in the palm with a pleasingly warm feeling – premium design at its finest.The One M8&apos;s screen is one of the best ever fitted to a smartphone too, while its front-facing &quot;BoomSound&quot; speakers are impressively loud, making watching videos with friends a joy.A five-megapixel selfie-camera can capture every nick and wrinkle. But the HTC One M8&apos;s party piece has to be its Duo Camera, which puts a depth sensor on the back, making fancy photo effects seamless and after-the-fact focus possible, even if the photos aren&apos;t always pin-sharp at just 4.1-megapixels (yes, the selfie-cam is higher resolution).With enough power to handle anything you throw at it, the One M8 will last all day on a single charge, stretching way beyond two days&apos; battery life with some power-saving features activated.Verdict:beautiful design, gorgeous screen and Impressive speakers, interesting camera, great battery life.•HTC One M8 full review: a lighting-quick, five-star smartphoneBest of the restNot everyone has £500 to spend on a smartphone, but luckily there are many good options costing a significant chunk of change less.TheGoogle Nexus 5, which costs just £300 for a true flagship smartphone experience, is a worthy contender. It&apos;s fast with a great 5in screen in a device that&apos;s actually quite compact, while it runs Google&apos;s Android software with none of the tweaks or bloatware other manufacturers put on their phones.•Google Nexus 5 full review: the best Android smartphone going for under £300Also worth looking at is theMotorola Moto G– a mid-range smartphone costing a bargain basement £135 or less. While it&apos;s not as powerful as the rest, nor is the camera as good, the experience is similar for less than half the price.•Motorola Moto G full review: the best budget smartphone is just £135
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple readying new software platform for the 'Smart Home' &gt;&gt; FT.comTim Bradshaw:Apple is readying a new software platform that would turn the iPhone into a remote control for lights, security systems and other household appliances, as part of a move into the "internet of things".…The scheme will be similar to Apple's existing "Made for iPhone" label, given to compatible headphones, speakers and other accessories, but with a new brand and logo. Apple may also provide additional checks and assurances that certified products are not vulnerable to hackers.The Cupertino-based company was likely to emphasise the privacy protections built into its smart home system, one person familiar with Apple's plans told the FT, given heightened sensitivity about technology companies' access to personal information amid revelations about US intelligence agencies' online surveillance programmes.Apple considers privacy a key advantage over Google, the person said, since Google relies on targeted advertising as its main source of income.If that's right, it makes Google's December SEC filing - where it talked about getting adverts everywhere - look like a sort of advert for Apple's approach.The Science of Bruce Lee's One-Inch Punch - Popular MechanicsFrom a single inch away, Lee was able to muster an explosive blow that could knock opponents clean off the ground. Lee mastered it, fans worldwide adored it, and Kill Bill "borrowed" it. But if you're like us, you want to know how it works.The technology angle? Um.. they used slow-motion cameras. Includes video - which is amazing.Apple forgets to renew SSL certificate, breaking OS X software update [fixed] &gt;&gt; Mac RumorsSwscan.apple.com is one of several servers that Software Update uses to communicate with Apple. The apparent problem is that the security certificate for the server appears to have expired. The certificate was originally valid from May 22, 2012 to May 24, 2014.Putting UK flooding alerts onto Twitter #UKBLC14 &gt;&gt; BlueLightCampSasha Taylor:As part of BlueLightCamp '14, a group of civil servants, hackers, and emergency service workers got together for a weekend of furious creation.I decided to look at flooding data. The recent floods in the UK are a brutal remember of the realities of climate change and our poor stewardship of the nation's waterways.The UK Government has a large collection of flooding data online - including some very detailed river-by-river data.Great blow-by-blow account of the difficulties of data wrangling.[Weekend Poll] How often do you use Google Voice commands on your Android devices? &gt;&gt; Android PoliceOver the past week, Google's exposed a handful of new and useful voice-activated features on the Now app for Android. Whether it be figuring out information about your booked car rentals, setting reminders, or finally handling timer queries properly, Google really seems to want you to talk to your phone more. Our question today, though, is just how much do you talk to your phone or tablet?From the topics the site covers (and the depth it covers them in) you'd expect that this would be quite a technical readership. In the poll, 36% chose "basically never", and 13% "once a week or less" - so 49% never or barely use voice. Add the other 16% who use it "a few times a week" and you have two-thirds of those who voted hardly using voice.Evidence emerges that Google's quantum computer may not be quantum after all &gt;&gt; The Physics arXiv Blog on MediumWhat this entire episode exposes is the tension between D-Wave's claim that it is selling a commercial quantum computer and many other physicists' belief that the device is just a quantum experiment, the outcome of which has yet to be properly determined. Most physicists fully expect a useful quantum computer to eventually emerge, just not in the way D-Wave proposes.At the moment, the weight of evidence is tipping dangerously against D-Wave, leaving its customers in a precarious position. Could it be that Google, NASA and Lockheed Martin have shelled out tens of millions for a cryogenically-cooled calculator of the classical variety?According to the IBM and UC Berkeley team: just possibly, yes.NSA engineer: 'I made Obama's BlackBerry' &gt;&gt; CNN MoneyIn response to Obama's request, the NSA set up a lab where dozens of experts performed surgery for several months on a high-profile patient: the soon-to-be presidential BlackBerry. The course of treatment was to manipulate the device's innards to weed out potential threats to secure communication.In the end, that meant taking most of the fun out of the phone: the president can't play Angry Birds, for example."You try to get rid of any functionality that's not really required. Every piece of functionality is an opportunity for the adversary," [former NSA technical director Richard] George says.According to George, the president simply wanted a phone that enabled him to communicate with his advisers. Though the president was a well known BlackBerry addict at the time, the choice of smartphone model was the NSA's, not Obama's, George explained.Man behind the first computer password: it's become a nightmare &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogIn the early 1960s, Fernando Corbató helped deploy the first known computer password.He acknowledges the password's flaws — there seems to be a major breach each month — and the public's frustrations, having to remember strings of code for dozens of digital accounts. "Unfortunately it's become kind of a nightmare," he says.But at 87 years old today, he isn't sorry.Then again, think how many timeshe'shad to change his passwords.Nest Labs' Smart Thermostat Now Does Business with Utilities | MIT Technology ReviewPeter Fairley:more interesting is what Nest has been up to since last May in Texas, where an Austin utility is paying Nest to remotely turn down people's air conditioners in order to conserve power on hot summer days — just when electricity is most expensive.For utilities, this kind of "demand response" has long been seen as a killer app for a smart electrical grid, because if electricity use can be lowered just enough at peak times, utilities can avoid firing up costly (and dirty) backup plants.Demand response is a neat trick. The Nest thermostat manages it by combining two things that are typically separate—price information and control over demand. It's consumers who control the air conditioners, electric heaters, and furnaces that dominate a home's energy diet. But the actual cost of energy can vary widely, in ways that consumers only dimly appreciate and can't influence.While utilities frequently carry out demand response with commercial customers, consumers until now have shown little interest. Nest Labs' breakthrough was to make a device that has popular appeal."Popular appeal" might be overstating it. Nest has reportedly sold about 1m thermostats ; there are around 114m US household by the 2012 US Census. There are 5,500 thermostats in the scheme; customers opt in to the service and get a $85 rebate from the energy company. But it's a way to get the "negawatts" idea moving.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Facebook has taken down a page describing Elliot Rodger, the Isla Vista killer, as an &quot;American hero&quot;, after refusing to for more than a day.The page, which described the murderer as making &quot;the ultimate sacrifice in the struggle against feminazi ideology&quot;, had been the subject of numerous complaints from Facebook users.All reported it for violating the site&apos;s community standards, accusing it of breaking rules against harassment, hate speech, and threats of violence. The site initially refused to take action, telling users includingIan Miles Cheong,Tim Simmonsand Australian campaign groupDestroy the Jointthat the page didn&apos;t violate their standards.But on Monday afternoon, after being contacted by the Guardian, it relented, saying that the page violated itsStatement of Rights and Responsibilities. While the company wouldn&apos;t comment specifically on the reasons the page had been removed, it pointed out that registering under a false identity, improperly collecting personal information, infringing intellectual property rights and violating community standards are all reasons content can be removed from the site.The page itself may have been created specifically to provoke. Its header image featured a picture of the killer with a stereotypical fedora-wearing nerd photoshopped into the background, apparently mocking the association with him blaming his virginity for the murders; while much of the content is in the vernacular of sites such as 4chan, notorious for trolling victims of tragedies.
For too many people, Foursquare is the irritating app which slightly-too-geeky friends use to spam their location on Facebook and Twitter.The company has become synonymous with the concept of &quot;checking in&quot; to a place, marking your location on the internet for all to see. Even after the idea was shamelessly nicked by Facebook and incorporated into its newsfeed, it&apos;s Foursquare which remains the best-known implementation.But the world has changed since it launched in 2009, and the idea of letting all your friends know where you are doesn&apos;t have quite the same cachet in 2014. Which is a problem for Foursquare, because even though the public&apos;s image of the company has stayed the same, what it makes has come a long way.The flagship product is no longer the check-in function, but an app which uses that half-decade of data to present information about what&apos;s going on around you.&quot;I think the search tools and technology we&apos;ve built are some of the best that have ever been built for local search,&quot; says Foursquare&apos;s CEO, Dennis Crowley, when we meet in the company&apos;s office just up Broadway from the Guardian&apos;s New York HQ.&quot;I think we&apos;re better than Google in a lot of cases,&quot; Crowley continues. &quot;I think we&apos;re better than Yelp almost always.&quot;From my own experience using the company&apos;s app, that boast may not be far from the truth. Foursquare&apos;s collection of data, built over five years of users reporting their position back to the company, now covers 60m locations frommuseumstomausoleums.It uses an individual&apos;s history to build a profile of the sort of places they are likely to enjoy visiting, and employs location-awareness to offer suggestions even when the app isn&apos;t open. Those can be disabled, but are smartly-applied enough that you won&apos;t want to.So if the product is so good, why is the company struggling?Telling the right storyThe early Foursquare was a victim of its own success. The app was a spiritual successor to Dodgeball, a service Crowley and fellow NYU student Alex Rainert developed in 2003. Before it was acquired by Google in 2005, and eventually succeeded by Google Latitude, Dodgeball allowed users to use text messages to share their location with each other. At its best, it allowed for a sort of proprioception of friendship: users always knew where they could go to find the people who they knew and liked, and were free to hang out.Dennis Crowley, Foursquare's founder and CEO. Photograph: Anna GordonFoursquare launched in 2009 with a similar idea. Users would check-in to a location, and then the app would share that info with friends. A layer of gamification on top ensured that users would be even more likely to share their location, awarding points for checking in, and giving the title of &quot;mayor&quot; to the person who had checked in most in a single location.&quot;I think our intent back then was, &quot;hey, these game mechanics will be interesting for 4-6 weeks for people, and then we&apos;ll retire them&quot;. And it turns out they were interesting for, like, 4-6 years instead of months or weeks,&quot; Crowley says.But while the app continued to evolve, public perception didn&apos;t. &quot;As the company has moved from being about check-ins, to being about local recommendations based off of all those check-ins, to being about proactive recommendations based on our understanding of the world,&quot; he says, &quot;I think our version of the story is disconnected from the public version.&quot;SwarmIn an effort to fix that disjunction, Foursquare is making its boldest move yet: splitting the product in half. The location-aware city guide will continue to be the main app, and will receive a major update in the summer. But the checking-in mechanic, and all the corresponding social activity, is being hived off to a whole new app, called Swarm.&quot;The simple story with Swarm is that this is an app that has just four basic screens in it, and it&apos;s the fastest and easiest way to keep up and meet up with your friends,&quot; Crowley says. The app benefits from technology enhancements that were impossible in the early days of Foursquare, making checking-in a breeze (Swarm &quot;is probably what foursquare would have been if it was invented in 2014 instead of 2009,&quot; Crowley adds), but just as importantly, it removes that mechanic from the main Foursquare app.&quot;We found that it&apos;s very difficult to tell two stories at the same time, with the same weight, in one app,&quot; Crowley says.Split focusWhile Foursquare&apos;s decision to split the firm&apos;s flagship product may be one the most drastic, it&apos;s by no means the first tech firm to come out with a slimmed-down, focused version of its core competency.Facebook&apos;s Paper appis one example, aiming to restore readability to the company&apos;s cluttered news feed.Dropbox&apos;s Carouselis another, taking the image-handling capabilities of the main app and expanding and refining them for a stand-alone product. Neither of those companies have – yet – followedFoursquare in removing the functionality from their main product, but it may only be a matter of time.&quot;I think what we&apos;re starting to see is that the best apps tend to be the simplest, the easiest to use and the fastest to use,&quot; says Crowley. &quot;Sometimes you have an app that has a lot of stuff baked in to it, and it confuses the story a bit.&quot;It&apos;s easy to keep adding things to an app. The real hard part is editing. I think there&apos;s a lot of other companies that are struggling with similar challenges. How do you tell multiple stories from a complicated app to a consumer that&apos;s used to really simple apps?&quot;But even while it fights to get customers to focus in the right place, Foursquare is financially on the right track. It&apos;s making &quot;significant revenue&quot; through six different products – four are varies forms of adverts shown through the service, while the other two, data licensing and merchant services, use it&apos;s technical backbone.&quot;There are a lot of people who are like, &apos;how is this thing ever going to work?&apos; And I tell them it&apos;s been working for two years. We&apos;re doing pretty well over here.&quot;Its cache of data alone is enough to stop Foursquare being written off entirely. Even if its public profile were to carry on shrinking, developers of apps such as Moves, Citymapper, and – until Facebook forced it to move in-house – Instagram know it as the best source of location data available.But to carry on &quot;doing pretty well&quot; will rely on Foursquare pulling off one of the most public changes of direction in years. Can it say goodbye to the check-in for good?•Why data science matters to Foursquare
Animal Crossing (Nintendo, 2001–):Originally released on the N64 before finding its way onto every subsequent Nintendo platform, this ridiculously charming life sim places you in a town filled with anthropomorphic animals and lets you do pretty much as you please. It is cute, charming and loveable, but it also teaches players about debt (you have to pay off the mortgage on your home) and about how to thrive in, and be a part of, a disparate community. Right now, it seems there are plenty of us who need to learn about that.Bishi Bashi Special (Konami, 2000):The Bish Bashi series of frantic minigame collections was a hit in Japan, but this crazed compilation brought the madness to Europe in one bargain package. One minute you're dancing to grow your afro, the next you're trying to stay on a pogo stick. And with 78 other one-minute challenges called things like Juggler Panic, Burger Girl and Hyper Pie Fight, this was never going to be an austere and downbeat experience.Dizzy – The Ultimate Cartoon Adventure (Codemasters, 1987):The Dizzy games were a highlight of the 8bit era with their surreal humour, abstract puzzles and effortless likeability. Designers Andrew and Philip Oliver were determined to create a character with a friendly, expressive face, but due to the graphical limitations of the ZX Spectrum, could only display that big friendly visage on the body of an egg. In short, Dizzy is defined by happiness. He is a walking smile.Katamari Damacy (Namco, 2004):Created for the PlayStation 2 by burgeoning artist and designer Keita Takahashi, Katamari involves rolling a ball around a series of richly coloured environments collecting objects. The story is ridiculous (the King of All Cosmos has accidentally destroyed the galaxy during a drinking binge – now you have to rebuild it), but the visuals, music and collecting mechanic are utterly compulsive. Some say the whole thing is an allegory on conspicuous consumption, but you can just have fun rolling a giant ball around.LittleBigPlanet (Sony, 2008):the hero is a sack doll, the world is a handicraft universe designed to resemble an Oliver Postgate animation and the narration is by Stephen Fry at his charming best – this was only ever heading in one direction: planet joy. Created by Guildford-based studio Media Molecule and designed to encourage user-creativity, LBP started a whole trend for bright paper craft visuals that contrasted beautifully with the pervasive browns, greys and blacks of the mainstream video game palette.OutRun (Sega, 1986):conceived by legendary designer Yu Suzuki as a sort of idealised Californian lifestyle simulator, OutRun involves racing your Ferrari-inspired sports car along the sun-drenched coastline, listening to cool music and just posing it up. The selectable soundtrack and multiple route design was innovative in the eighties, but for most of us this was about pure escapism.PaRappa the Rappa (Sony, 1996):The PlayStation was all about cool and edgy games like WipEout and Tekken until designer Masaya Matsuura and artist Rodney Greenblat conceived this formative "rhythm action" game in which a paper-thin dog raps his way through a series of "Simon Says" challenges – all to capture the heart of love interest, Sunny Funny. The songs are brilliant, the graphics are filled with joy and colour, and the central motto of the whole thing is – all together now – "I gotta believe!". Life-affirming.Rainbow Islands (Taito, 1987):Sequel to the arcade hit Bubble Bobble, Rainbow Islands is a game in which the player's main weapon is a rainbow. Yes, a rainbow. Also, the sky is a deep cobalt blue, the levels are bright and silly, and your enemies are cutesy insects that are so loveable you don't really want to crush them with your super rainbow power. Also, the Amiga conversion was one of the computer's finest moments.Secret of Monkey Island (LucasArts, 1990):among the greatest point-and-click adventures of all time, the Secret of Monkey Island (along with its sequel, LeChuck's Revenge) was also one of the funniest games ever made. Brilliant characters, deft one-liners and a combat system based entirely around insults, it is essentially an interactive comedy movie, as wise and artful as a Pixar animation, but with better puzzles and much, much more grog.Super Mario Sunshine (Nintendo, 2002):well, of course, we could have picked any Super Mario adventure from the last twenty years, but this GameCube classic actually has "sunshine" in the title, and with its tropical resort setting, it turns the usual Nintendo warmth up to eleven. There is superlative level design, endless visual imagination and fine-tuned controls – and there is more light than a double supernova. Super Mario is a reliable source of joy and pleasure, and we need as many of those as we can get.
Late on Friday, a 22-year-old man killed six people and injured 13 more in the college town ofIsla Vista in California.Police confirmed British-born Elliot Rodger stabbed three people and shot three others before taking his own life. Over the weekend, videos emerged showing Rodger, the son of film director, railing about his hatred of women and claiming he would &quot;slaughter every single spoiled, stuck-up, blonde slut I see&quot;.As a result of these shocking details, the case has raised questions about not only America&apos;s gun culture and mental healthcare system, but also about the role ofmisogynyin this mass-murder. Twitter reacted with the hashtag #YesAllWomen as women all over the world took to the social network to share their experiences.An inversion of &quot;Not All Men&quot;, a response used so often when women share their experiences of sexism it has spawnedits own meme, women used the hashtag to share examples of why they often don&apos;t feel safe.Actress Felicia Day was one of the thousands who got involved:When a woman makes a video, most comments are about tearing apart her looks. Or if they&#39;d &quot;do&quot; her. With a man, almost none.#YesAllWomen&mdash; Felicia Day (@feliciaday)May 26, 2014In 24 hours, more than 250,000 tweets were sent using the hashtag.Because every single woman I know has a story about a man feeling entitled to access to her body. Every. Single. One.#YesAllWomen&mdash; Emily (@emilyhughes)May 24, 2014In college, a police officer told us to scream FIRE if we were in danger of being assaulted otherwise people won&#39;t get involved#YesAllWomen&mdash; Carrie K. (@OneBookishMom)May 24, 2014#yesallwomenbecause when someone writes threats about us online, Twitter says it is &#39;not abuse&#39;, not a warning sign, not even unusual&mdash; Leigh Alexander (@leighalexander)May 25, 2014I&#39;ve spent 19 yrs teaching my daughter how not to be raped. How long have you spent teaching your son not to rape?#yesallwomen&mdash; Deanna Raybourn (@deannaraybourn)May 24, 2014Because I shouldn&#39;t have to wonder how posting my experiences to#YesAllWomenwill affect my job. And it will.&mdash; Amber Naslund (@AmberCadabra)May 25, 2014Men joined in on the hashtag in solidarity and to raise awareness about violence against women. Amongst them was the writer Neil Gaiman:The#yesallwomenhashtag is filled with hard, true, sad and angry things. I can empathise &amp; try to understand &amp; know I never entirely will.&mdash; Neil Gaiman (@neilhimself)May 25, 2014If, as a man, you&#39;re offended by#YesAllWomen,you might have bigger problems than a hashtag.&mdash; J Robertson (@A_robots_sun)May 26, 2014A number of users complained they were being targeted by internet trolls as a result of sharing their experiences, while others attempted to kickstart an alternative hashtag #YesAllPeople.#YesAllWomenbecause we can&#39;t talk about our fears and our experiences in even a HASHTAG without men coming to turn it into#YesAllPeople&mdash; priya  (@thewordy)May 25, 2014On Monday morning, #YesAllWomen is still among the top UK trends on Twitter.
The latest HTC smartphone is not exactly “mini”, but condenses the best bits of the 5-star flagship One M8 into a smaller, more manageable package.Despite its questionable name, the HTC One mini 2 replaces last year’s One mini and continues the Taiwanese company’s focus on metal phone bodies with solid build quality, which won it a GSMA Global Mobile award for best smartphone in 2013, andcritical acclaim for the larger HTC One M8.The One mini 2 is designed to fill the demand for a smaller premium phone. It&apos;s a good looking Android smartphone, but not as big as the current crop of 5in-plus flagship smartphones like the One M8, Samsung Galaxy S5 and Sony Xperia Z2.The One, just shrunkHTC One mini 2 review - the HTC One mini 2's curved metal back. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianWhen HTC calls this the “mini” HTC One it’s not kidding. It looks like a slightly smaller version of the Taiwanese manufacturer’s new One M8 smartphone, which is definitely a good thing.It may look the same, but it doesn’t quite feel the same. HTC has had to use cheaper manufacturing processes to produce the body, which although it is clad in metal, isn’t one solid piece of aluminium and therefore doesn’t feel quite as nice. It still feels premium, though, which marks it above quite a few of its mid-range competition.The curved back fits in the hand nicely, and it is still very solidly built with no flex or give in the body. It weighs 137g, and is 10.6mm thick, which makes it thicker than and slightly heavierthan the iPhone 5CorSony Xperia Z1 Compact– two of its rivals.The 4.5in screen is hardly “mini” but it does mean the device is significantly smaller than the larger 5in HTC One M8. The One mini 2 is 9mm shorter and over 5mm narrower which makes it much easier to hold and use with one hand.The screen is bright and pin sharp despite being only 720p (compared to the 1080p of the One M8), which makes it matchApple’s iPhone 5Con pixel density, with good viewing angles making sharing video and photos with others easier.HTC’s signature BoomSound speakers bracket the screen, and while slightly smaller than those fitted on the One M8 are much louder and clearer than most other smartphones and make watching YouTube videos a joy.SpecificationsScreen:4.5in 720p LCDProcessor:1.2 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 400RAM:1GB of RAMStorage:16GB with a microSD card slot for expansionOperating system:Android 4.4.2 “KitKat”Camera:13-megapixel rear camera, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi (n/ac), NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE and GPSDimensions:137.4 x 65 x 10.6mmWeight:137gFast and responsiveHTC One mini 2 review - BoomSound speakers bracket the screen. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe One mini 2 is a smaller, lower cost phone than its bigger brother, but that doesn’t mean its slow or sluggish.Its quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 processor is a step down in raw horsepower from the One M8’s beefier Snapdragon 801, but in general use you simply won’t notice the difference.The phone feels fast and responsive, with apps launching quickly, simple games running smoothly and with enough power to handle everyday tasks like emailing, browsing and watching Netflix without a hiccup.Some graphically intensive games will not run quite as well on the One mini 2 as they would on some of the more powerful phones, but gaming is generally not the focus for smaller Android phones.It is significantly faster and smoother than almost any phone from two years ago, making it an upgrade you really will notice.The One mini 2 has a plastic top and bottom, while the sides are metal. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe One mini 2 has 16GB of storage built in with a microSD card slot for adding up to an extra 128GB, although that space cannot be used to store apps.HTC like to pride itself on solid battery life for its smartphones and the One mini 2 is no exception. The company claims the same all-day battery life as the One M8; my testing saw the phone last over a day and half of heavy usage with emails arriving all the time, about 20 texts sent and received, 2 hours of browsing, a bit of mapping and listening to music over Bluetooth.Most people should get two days of useful usage out of the One mini 2 between charges, and that’s without activating any of the power saving features, which can add days of standby time – a very useful feature if you need a phone to last on extended trips away from a power source.Small useful tweaksHTC creates a version of Android called “Sense”, customising experience on top of the core Android software. For the most part the changes are minor cosmetic differences, which will still be familiar to anyone who has used Android in the past.The One mini 2 uses exactly the same version of Android as the One M8. HTC’s quick settings buttons under the notification draw are particularly useful, with many more than normally available on standard Android and covering almost any most-used setting.Among the small tweaks, the most obvious addition is HTC’s social news aggregator app, BlinkFeed. It is stored on the very left pane of the homescreen, and pulls posts from your social media accounts, information from your calendar and some of the built-in apps, as well as news and entertainment from a plethora of sources of your choosing.BlinkFeed is essentially a slick version of Flipboard that isn’t available across multiple devices; one of those features users will either take to and find useful, or instantly find a burden. Thankfully users can remove BlinkFeed from their homescreens entirely.HTC One mini 2 review - a traditional 13-megapixel camera replaces that of the 4 Ultrapixel Duo Camera of the One M8, and should produce sharper pictures. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianCameraThe One mini 2 has a decent, traditional 13-megapixel main camera, instead of the HTC One M8’s 4 Ultrapixel DuoCamera. It is capable of producing solid but not outstanding photos with good detail and colour.They images are arguably clearer than those produced by the One M8’s DuoCamera, but the low light performance is not quite as good and it cannot perform any fancy focus-after-capture effects.HTC One mini 2 review – picture perfect. Photograph: Yui Mok/PASelfie-camA 5-megapixel “selfie” camera is mounted on the front of the phone with a wide aperture lens that is capable of capturing great shots. Even if they aren’t that great on shooting, HTC’s built a load of fancy photo editing effects into its gallery app that can do automatic “make up” modes or enlarge and enhance a subject’s eyes, narrow their chin and smooth their skin. They’re easy to use and often things that would take the average user quite a bit of time in front of an image editor like Photoshop to achieve.HTC One mini 2 review - a 5-megapixel 'selfie' camera is mounted above the screen. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe impressive front-facing camera also makes Android’s built-in Face Unlock feature work very well, unlocking the smartphone by recognising the user’s face and handling the difficult lighting conditions generally found while trying to use the phone on the move or outdoors.Price - not yet revealedHTC One mini 2 review - three colours will be available, gunmetal grey, glacial silver and rose gold, which will be exclusive to EE. Photograph: HTCThe One mini 2 won’t be available until the end of May and official pricing wasn’t available. It is expected to cost around £300 without a contract, and should be free on most contracts with mobile phone operators. It will be available in three colours.VerdictThe HTC One mini 2 takes the best features of the top rated One M8 and condenses it into a smaller, more manageable frame.The metal body feels great in the hand, while the screen looks just as crisp and the speakers are just as loud. It is easy to fit in the pocket and use one-handed, while the all-day battery life means you don’t have to worry about recharging it during the day.The battery saving features mean the One mini 2 will easily last a long weekend away, and the camera is good enough to mean you can leave the point-and-shoot camera at home. The selfie camera is impressive, and the wide-angle and high resolution pics make it easier to take better group pictures of friends and family.The only small down side is that its slower processor and only 1GB of RAM (where most premium smartphones have at least 2GB), may hamper its performance in graphically intensive games and makes it less future proofed over two years.If you’re looking for a well made, smaller Android phone then the HTC One mini 2 is arguably one of the best. It would make a solid upgrade from smartphones bought around two years ago, while not being truly hand stretching like most of the other premium smartphones with 5in or larger screens.Pros:Metal body, decent camera, solid battery life, pocketable size, good screenCons:Slower processor, 1GB of RAM, relatively thick, screen may be a bit small for someMore reviews•Sony Xperia Z1 compact review: small, premium – and a great phone• iPhone 5C review: cheerful if not cheap, but built for the future•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star smartphone•Motorola Moto G review: the best budget smartphone is just £135
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMobile broadband uptake continues to grow at double-digit rates &gt;&gt; ITUGlobally, mobile-broadband penetration will reach 32% by end 2014 – almost double the penetration rate just three years earlier (2011) and four times as high as five years earlier (2009).In developed countries, mobile-broadband penetration will reach 84%, a level four times as high as in developing countries (21%).Mobile broadband remains the fastest growing market segment, with continuous double-digit growth rates in 2014. Mobile broadband is growing fastest in developing countries, where 2013/2014 growth rates are expected to be twice as high as in developed countries (26% compared with 11.5%).By end 2014, the number of mobile-broadband subscriptions will reach 2.3 billion globally, almost 5 times as many as just six years earlier (in 2008).PDF, with fascinating detail. In 2005 there were 1bn total internet users worldwide; by the end of this year it will be 3bn total.Reports of Apple-Samsung settlement talks were bogus &gt;&gt; Fortune TechOn Tuesday, theKorea Timestook it all back. Samsung was agreeable to settlement talks, itreported, but not Apple. "Apple resists settlement with Samsung" was the headline on an early version of the story.The final version went further: "Apple rejects deal with Samsung."Only trouble is, there never was a deal.Nor were there any settlement talks, as the two companies'joint submissionto U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh court makes clear.They couldn't even agree on the preconditions to begin talks (called ADR, or "alternative dispute resolution" - alternative to court cases, that is.)Dubai Police to use Google Glass &gt;&gt; GulfNews.comColonel Khalid Nasser Al Razooqi, General Director of Smart Services at Dubai Police, gave Gulf News a demonstration of how Google Glass would be used by the force.Dubai Police's Smart Services teams have created two applications to be used by their officers. "One will allow them to take photos of traffic violations from the Glass, which will go instantly into our system, and the other application helps identify wanted cars."Taking photos using Dubai Police's Google Glass' program is simple. The officer just needs to tap the side of the glass and the photo, in addition to the exact location, time and date is automatically sent to the system.As for determining whether a car is wanted or not, Col Al Razooqi said that all the officer needs to do is look at number plates and the Glass will cross-reference the plates with the traffic department's wanted vehicles database and alert him if any vehicle is wanted.Both programs were developed by an in-house team from the Dubai Police smart services.What 10m Spotify subscribers actually means &gt;&gt; Music Industry BlogMark Mulligan:Right now Spotify's paid subscriber count looks firmly locked in that early adopter segment.  If growth rates sustain at this level it will be late 2016 before we see the 20 million mark hit.Free however is booming: Spotify's free user count though is showing dynamic growth.  In fact it is following the right trajectory for a technology breaking through.  What's more the growth is uncannily similar to that of Pandora during the same stage of its growth (see figure below).  In fact by its 66th month Pandora had 39m active users, while Spotify now has 40m, also after 66 months.  If Spotify's free and paid user bases continue to grow at their current rates the currently impressive 3-to-1 free-to-paid ratio will widen markedly.  Free is where the action is.  Just ask potential Twitter suitor Soundcloud with its 250m active users or YouTube with its 1 billion active users.Can Microsoft create a new market with Surface Pro 3? &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley:The external competitor on which [VP of Surface Computing Panos] Panay and his team have their sights set is Apple, as the premium prices and specs for the Pro 3 made clear. Microsoft is gunning to replace the MacBook Air and the iPad with the Surface Pro 3. But I'd argue there's another competitor at which Microsoft is taking aim with the new devices: High-end Windows ultrabooks like the Acer Aspire S-7 I purchased recently.The intended audience for the new Surfaces are "consumer first, and premium," Panay stressed. He said Microsoft expects the product to do well with students and others interested in notetaking, but that the company isn't positioning the Pro 3 as a business device. (Update: That's because Microsoft is making the assumption that consumers increasingly are bringing devices to work. Of course, if a business wanted to order thousands of Surface Pro 3s for its users, Microsoft would be happy to fulfill that order.)A Google Glass Feast &gt;&gt; EV Grieve…when [another] diner came in [to Feast, a restaurant on Third Avenue, NY] wearing Google Glass, management asked her to take them off before dining. She refused, and left the restaurant."We try to give everyone the best experience possible and she didn't get that," Feast management admitted to us.On April 20, the dinerwrote a post about what happened, which apparently angered some of her 3,000-plus Google+ followers.Around this time the spate of reviews arrived on Google. Feast looked into this, and discovered that all of the one stars are from people who commented on the diner's original Google+ post. The negative reviews include lines such as: "Ignorant bigots and hateful. Perhaps being illegally discriminate too. The food is irrelevant as the service is less than poor." The reviewer lives in Phoenix.Anonymous Google.com search on Feast Third Avenue: top result shows Google reviews, average 3.1/5 (300 reviews). Second result: Yelp review: 4.0/5 (145 reviews). Note though thatscoresof five-star reviews were added after the Grieve blogpost appeared last week, specifically to hit back at the one-star ones. Before that Glassing, there had been 8 reviews, average 4.75. That seems more reasonable in all senses.For comparison: Bing search on "feast third avenue review": first result has no review, second result Urbanspoon with 89%; third result Opentable (4.2/5).Of course, most people will see the Google+ reviews - which have top position because they're on Google+, not because of the number of reviews. (They were top when there were fewer than Yelp, on Friday.)Amazon escalates its battle against Hachette &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAmazon, under fire in much of the literary community for energetically discouraging customers from buying books from the publisher Hachette, has abruptly escalated the battle.The retailer began refusing orders late Thursday for coming Hachette books, including J.K. Rowling's new novel. The paperback edition of Brad Stone's "The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon" — a book Amazon disliked so much it denounced it — is suddenly listed as "unavailable."In some cases, even the pages promoting the books have disappeared. Anne Rivers Siddons's new novel, "The Girls of August," coming in July, no longer has a page for the physical book or even the Kindle edition. Only the audio edition is still being sold (for more than $60). Otherwise it is as if it did not exist.Thank goodness the US has an ebooks antitrust monitor in place to take firm action. Doesn't it?A third of men on Tinder will swipe right to anything &gt;&gt; ampp3dJames is Ampp3d's new Tinder profile. We used him to log onto the app so we could browse through 1,000 pictures from 200 Tinderers. Here's what we found.Men will say yes to anything. A third of men swiped "right" or "LIKE" to James, our cookie monster profile picture. Even though he was called James. And they were looking for women.Women are much more picky. ZERO women "swiped right". 100% NOPE. Sorry James.Bad news for the survival of the cookie monster species. Unless they have their own dating app.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's the Bank Holiday! You have my permission to stay in and play video games.
Thank you for taking part in the Guardian and Observer Privilege Card promotion at WHSmith. We hope you&apos;ve enjoyed saving money on your newspapers. We are also offering you the chance to win a 32GB iPad Air in space grey*.Keep a look out in store for future promotions.How to enterEnter your name and number in the form below to be in with a chance of winning the stunning 32GB iPad Air.Click on the "sign in" button to register if you can't see the form.Click here to open the form.Terms and conditions – iPad Air1. The iPad Air competition (the &quot;Competition&quot;) is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.2. Employees or agencies of Guardian News &amp;amp; Media Limited(&quot;GNM&quot;, &quot;We&quot;), WH Smith PLC, their group companies or family members, freelance contributors to GNM, or anyone else connected with the Competition may not enter the Competition.3. Entrants into the Competition shall be deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions.4. To enter the Competition you must complete your details in the form above, answer the question correctly and submit the form as instructed. If you have any questions about how to enter or in connection with the Competition, please e-mail us at promotions@guardian.co.uk with &quot;WHSmith iPad Air&quot; in the subject line.5. Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Competition entry to us.6. By entering this Competition, you agree to be contacted occasionally by GNM using the details submitted (including via email) in relation to goods and services that they believe may be of interest to you.7. GNM accepts no responsibility for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt.8. The Competition closes at 23:59 on 29th June 2014. Entries received after that date and time will not be considered.9. The winner will be selected by way of a random draw from all entries received in accordance with these Terms and Conditions. The draw will take place on or before 6th July 201410. One winner will receive an iPad Air (Wi-Fi only model, 32GB, Space Grey colour). GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize that are not expressly included in the prize. In particular, the winner is responsible for arranging and paying for their own internet/Wi-Fi access and for any other charges incurred in using the prize.11. The winner will be notified by email on or before 13th July 2014 and given details of how to claim their prize. If a winner does not respond to GNM within 14 days of being notified of their win, then the winner&apos;s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner in accordance with the process described above (and that winner will have to respond to notification of their win within 14 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If a winner rejects their prize or the entry is invalid or in breach of these terms, then the winner&apos;s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.12. The prize will be sent to the winner by GNM by 28th July 2014.13. The name and county of the winner can be obtained by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Marketing Department, Guardian News &amp;amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU.14. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or any other prize.15. GNM reserves the right to substitute the prize with another prize of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.16. The winner may be required to take part in promotional activity related to the Competition and the winner shall participate in such activity on GNM&apos;s reasonable request. The winner consents to the use by GNM and its related companies, both before and after the closing date of the Competition for an unlimited time, of the winner&apos;s voice image, photograph and name for publicity purposes (in any medium, including still photographs and films, and on the internet, including any websites hosted by GNM and its related companies) and in advertising, marketing or promotional material without additional compensation or prior notice and, in entering the Competition, all entrants consent to the same.17. GNM shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.guardian.co.uk/help/privacy-policy, and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the Competition, you agree to the collection, retention, usage and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your Competition entry, and for the purposes outlined in these terms and conditions.18. No purchase necessary.19. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for death or personal injury resulting from its negligence, or for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation.20. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person&apos;s computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Competition.21. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its reasonable control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters relating to the Competition is final and binding and no correspondence will be entered into.22. GNM shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations relating to the Competition where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other circumstances amounting to force majeure.23. The Competition and these Terms and Conditions will be governed by English law and entrants submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.24. Promoter: Guardian News &amp;amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.
Labor has signalled that it will pursue the Coalition government over its appointment of Bill Morrow to run Australia’s largest national infrastructure project, given that the new NBNCo chief executive is named in current legal proceedings in the United States.Guardian Australia has previously revealed that Morrow, appointed by the government in December 2013 to run NBNCo, isnamed in a shareholder actionconnected to his management of an American gas company that was subsequently responsible for one of the largest utility disasters in Californian history.Morrow joined the San Francisco-based Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&amp;E) in 2006 as chief operating officer and became chief executive a year later. He left the gas utility in September 2008.The new NBNCo chief is named alongside 21 other PG&amp;E executives in aconsolidated shareholder derivative lawsuitlaunched against the company, its directors and management.The suit filed in the San Mateo county court alleges that Morrow, as president and chief operating officer, was in a leadership role at PG&amp;E a time when the company was “grossly underspending on operational and process safety, creating a situation where a catastrophic incident was not only possible but highly likely”.It alleges Morrow was responsible for implementing a risk-management system for critical infrastructure but, with the “support and approval” of other PG&amp;E executives, he had allowed the company to “make safety a low priority in comparison to profits”.On Sunday, the shadow communications minister, Jason Clare, signalled via a spokesman that Labor would be pursuing particulars about Morrow’s appointment. “There are clearly questions as to what [the communications minister, Malcolm] Turnbull knew and when he knew it”.“Given the vicious attacks launched by Mr Turnbull against previous NBNCo CEO Mike Quigley it will be interesting to see what assurances he sought and received from Mr Morrow that the allegations would not hinder his work at NBNCo,” the spokesman said.NBNCo representatives are due to appear before a Senate estimates hearing in Canberra this week.Both a spokesman for NBNCo and a spokesman for Turnbull have told Guardian Australia that Morrow’s history with PG&amp;E was fully disclosed to the government at the time of his appointment.The NBNCo spokesman described the suit in which Morrow is named as “civil proceedings for shareholder compensation directed against both PG&amp;E and a large number of former officers and directors of the company”.The shareholder suit concerns pipeline disasters in California in 2008 and 2010. On 24 December 2008, a man was killed in Rancho Cordova, California, when a teenage girl lit a cigarette, triggering a massive pipeline explosion that injured five others. In 2010, another pipeline explosion in San Bruno killed eight people and destroyed, or damaged, more than 100 homes.Morrow had already left PG&amp;E at the time of both incidents but several investigations have been critical of management practices and priorities at the company over a period spanning 15 years, including the two years he was at the helm.In April 2014, a federal grand jury for the northern district of California returned an indictmentcharging PG&amp;E with 12 violationsof the gas pipeline safety act. A statement by the FBI says: “The indictment alleges that PG&amp;E knowingly and willfully violated the PSA [Pipeline Safety Act] and its regulations between 2003 and 2010.“According to the indictment, the charges stem from PG&amp;E’s record-keeping and pipeline integrity management practices. The indictment alleges that PG&amp;E failed to address record-keeping deficiencies concerning its larger natural gas pipelines, knowing that their records were inaccurate or incomplete.”NBNCo said last week that Morrow had not been called to give evidence in the grand jury proceedings and “whether or not this occurs is a matter for the US courts”.The remark by Clare’s spokesman concerning the Coalition’s sustained criticism of Quigley relates to questions that the Labor appointee was asked about his former corporate history at Alcatel Lucent.Quigley, who was appointed by Labor to run the NBN rollout, had to answer regular questions about his actions and responsibilities as a former senior executive when it was revealed there had been corruption at Alcatel Lucent in Costa Rica. Quigley repeatedly denied any wrongdoing.With additional reporting by Dominic Rushe in New York
The telecommunications sector has never been known as the most entertaining in the City – the products are technical and so are the jokes – but there has always been something mildly intriguing about MegaFon, Russia's second largest telecoms group, which counts Arsenal investor Alisher Usmanov as a top shareholder.You'll recall it's the firm that caused a bit of a fuss 18 months ago by floating on the London stock exchange – an offer that proved too sensational for the investment bank Goldman Sachs, which withdrew as an adviser after supposedly feeling rushed over its due diligence. Simultaneously, Usmanov assuaged investor concerns by stressing it would be the giant oligarch himself – rather than his partners Vladimir Skoch and Farhad Moshiri – who would control MegaFon votes.Anyway, the company announces numbers this week, before again meeting shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting in early June, when it is asking for permission to do a deal with Usmanov.That will be the sixth MegaFon EGM in nine months, so they're not wildly extraordinary. Meanwhile, it also provides MegaFon non-exec Lord Myners with a fresh challenge, now he's concluded his musings on the Co-op's unorthodox governance. Who says these people don't have a sense of humour?Nuts and bolts of housing marketAnother week, another unavoidable of debate about the UK's housing market which – after the weather and debating which A-road to take to avoid the traffic on some gyratory – seems to be the favoured conversation topic of one corner of England.We will get the Nationwide house prices survey, data from the Bank of England on the funding for lending scheme and – in perhaps slightly less trailed news – there is also Wednesday's AGM at Travis Perkins, the building materials group that sounds more like a pair of butlers.Strangely, after all the talk of a boom and a stellar 2013 for Travis shares, investors have suffered 11% losses this year. Still, analysts at Westhouse reckon the company is less susceptible than housebuilders to two big risks: the timing and speed of interest-rate rises and any change to the Help to Buy scheme should Labour win power.Meanwhile, there is also plenty of sympathy that – for the moment – talk of corrective action in the housing market may be premature and that the so-called bubble is a problem only in the south-east. That's in terms of prices and constantly talking about it.Tricky call for GlencoreSwiss Toni, the appalling car salesman from comedy sketch programmeTheFast Show, used to love comparing everything to sex. "Having therapy is very much like making love to a beautiful woman," he would say. "You get on the couch, string 'em along with some half-lies and evasions … and then hand over all your money."He was deliberately a dinosaur even when the show first aired, 20 years ago, but the corporate world insists on persevering with real-life versions, such as the executives inhabiting the boardroom at commodity trader Glencore – the last FTSE company to maintain an all-male board.Last week, at its base in Zug, Switzerland, the company held its annual general meeting, at which new chairman "Swiss" Tony Hayward reiterated the company's previous pledges to hire a female director (although not necessarily much before the end of the year).The excuse for its inactionso far has been that there are not many female candidates suitable for a company like Glencore – and it is certainly tricky to name many women who can boast a CV comparable to those of the current directors, who have presided over a 38% decline in share price and a £5bn writedown. Still, the search for that elusive beast continues this week.
One evening a few years ago, I found myself at a Christmas party in London. The event took place on the eighth floor of a building in the heart of the City and, at one point, seeking an escape from the chatter, I took my drink and ventured out on to the balcony.It was a clear, windless night. All around was a wonderful panorama crowned by the glorious dome of St Paul's in the distance. Then I started to look at the tall, glass-walled office blocks in my immediate vicinity. Although it was after 10pm, the lights were on in every building, enabling me to see into hundreds of offices. These offices varied in size and decor, but they all had one thing in common. Somewhere in every one of them was a desk on – or under – which stood a PC.What then came to mind was the memory of a tousle-haired young entrepreneur named Bill Gates, who once articulated a vision of "a computer on every desk, each one running Microsoft software". What I was looking at that December night was the realisation of that vision. Every one of the machines I could seewasrunning Microsoft software: a software monoculture, if you like.Microsoft's dominance was a testimony to the power of network effects and of technological lock-in. It led to a world in which nobody ever got fired for buying Microsoft products and no software innovation gained traction unless it was designed to run under Windows.For a time, Microsoft was the winner that took all. It would be churlish to pretend that this was all bad news, because the de facto standardisation that Microsoft brought to personal computer technology enabled the vast expansion of the PC industry and accelerated the adoption of computers in offices and homes.But accompanying these substantial benefits there were some significant downsides. The Microsoft monoculture presented hackers and other malefactors with a colossal and lucrative target. They exploited it with a torrent of malware – worms, viruses, trojans, etc – that continues to plague us, or those of us who still use Microsoft stuff. More insidiously – and perhaps more significantly – Microsoft's dominance left us with an exceedingly problematic legacy.The most prominent item in that legacy is Windows XP, now 13-years-old and still the world's second most popular operating system. It currentlyruns nearly 28% of the world's PCs. Market research firm Gartner reckons up to a quarter of business systems and 10% of large organisations are still running XP.That means SMEs, corporations, multinationals, utility companies, retailers, government – both local and national – and hospitals are all XP addicts. Oh, andmost ATM machines are still running XP.Why is this a big deal? Well, first there's the aforementioned monoculture problem: a significant proportion of the world's computers – in both businesses and homes – are running an elderly operating system that is vulnerable to hacking.Even more significant, however, is the fact that on 8 April this year Microsoft released its final free security patch for XP. From now on, anyone wishing to obtain security upgrades for the system will either have to enter into an expensive ($200 a desktop) deal with Microsoft. And customers who sign up for this have to sign a so-called "migration plan" with Microsoft, which is basically a schedule for upgrading their machines to Windows 8, with all the attendant costs. It's like buying one-year insurance against flooding for your home while signing an agreement that in two years' time you will put the building on stilts.This isn't just about companies, by the way. In this country, the government has hundreds of thousands of PCs running XP. And of the 800,000 PCs in the NHS aboutthree-quartersare running it. In those circumstances, the news thatHer Majesty's government has forked out £5.5m for one year's coverlooks like a rare example of government doing the prudent thing. But in reality it has just bought time: the awful moment whenthe public sector has to upgradeits computers is approaching inexorably. Think of it as technology's equivalent to the Scottish referendum.All of which puts current media commentary about Microsoft into perspective. The company is widely ridiculed for the way it has been left standing by Apple and the mobile revolution. And all that's true. But guess what? Microsoft is still fabulously profitable and the XP story explains why it will continue to be.The folks who didn't get fired for buying Microsoft will have long retired while their successors are still forking out for it.
Joining the ranks of post-apocalyptic survival games such asDayZ,Netherpits humanity against genetic monsters. But the biggest threat will be other players – as an early access game (playable while developers build it) there's little incentive to do anything but maul others for supplies. There are many hints of greatness though, from the gorgeous visuals to the open city structure, providing plenty of areas to explore and hide. Combat and shooting are surprisingly impressive too, feeling similar to theBattlefieldseries. This could evolve into something spectacular, but at present it's too unforgiving to fully enjoy.
To make aWolfensteingame in today's landscape of varied first-person shooters is to embrace a pulp simplicity that the genre has by and large abandoned. It's also, to a lesser extent, an acknowledgement of brand awareness and the evergreen moral certainty that accompanies shooting Nazis, although in both cases it's not something that can be done with a straight face or much hope of sophistication.WhatWolfensteinoffers instead is a blood-splashed grimace and thunderous hardware. The closest it gets to nuance is an alternate-history storyline that sees the Nazis winning the second world war – not so we might better ponder our own culture, as with Philip K Dick'sThe Man in the High Castle, but to give us a new reason for hating the Nazis all over again. They're meaner than ever, their philosophical perversions manifested in robotic augmentations and steampunk guard dogs. Super nasty super-Nazis.All of which is meaty fun, but littered with cliches of plotting, dialogue and mechanics that the game has no interest in sidestepping. Despite the name there's nothing new here, just an urgent blast of movement and fire – in other words, a decent refit of the originalWolfenstein 3Dfor today's tech.
Instagrammay be all the rage, but it was Hipstamatic that first hit upon the idea of adding interesting, amusing or simply aesthetically pleasing filters to photos taken on mobile phones. With the popularity ofVine's six second videos, the developers are now seeking to take that idea into the motion picture sphere withCinamatic(iOS, Hipstamatic, £1.49).Losing the stylish interface that made their other app stand out is a shame, with the standard iOS 7 design now in place, but it functions competently, and the recording controls will be familiar to Vine users. The glitzy effects are fun to play with – Darwin's dirty old-school projector filter a particular favourite - and the results sure to enliven feeds with the app seamlessly connecting to Twitter, Instagram and Facebook.Extra filters can be purchased in-app, but there isn't the diversity of Instagram's still offerings. Whether this will come, or the medium doesn't lend itself to such variety, remains to be seen – meanwhile, it's an easily affordable route to spicing up your bitesize home videos.
Foodo Kitchenbrings an unusually intriguing premise to the iPad, that of encouraging empathy in children by presenting a queue of monsters, each of whom's well-being depends on being fed the cake of their desires.It all takes place in a bakery frequented by the kinds of beasts Maurice Sendak made lovable, allowing children to scatter flour and crack eggs via simple touch controls, while interpreting the beasts' orders before choosing whether to delight or upset their customers.A concoction of sugar and spice with equal parts slime and snails,Foodo Kitchen's great strengths are its artwork and characters, and it may delight parents as much as kids.
I likedthe last Honda Civic. It was a pleasing shape, cohesive and neat, with nice little design touches – triangular exhausts, for example – to lift it above the mundane. The current model, in many ways a very sensible and able car, is less successful looks-wise.They've gone a bit crazy with these design touches, too many curves and edges, simply too much design, in fact. As if it's pretending it's from somewhere interesting like maybe Italy, when it's really – and clearly – from an ugly town off the M4. (The Civic might have Japanese roots, but it's made in Swindon.)This new estate is no different – sorry, tourer; car manufacturers seem to be avoiding the E word, possibly because it sounds too Swindon. Anyway, it's more of the same, it just goes on for longer: 235mm longer to be precise. It's more striking than a Golf estate or a&nbsp;Mondeo, but striking isn't always a&nbsp;good thing; I'd rather remain unstruck by an understated Ford or VW than be beaten aesthetically about the head by one of these.Otherwise, like the hatchback that gave birth to it, it's a practical, capable car. Inside it's very comfortable, plus there's the added advantage that when you're in it, you can forget how ugly it is. Just avoid reflective shop windows. Obviously you wouldn't get a Honda Civic estate – sorry, tourer – for driving thrills, and this one, with a 1.8-litre petrol engine, isn't going to spice up your life, but it's well mannered, enjoyable even, to drive. The diesel looks like a much better idea – with way better fuel economy and CO2emissions.The real joy of the Civic Tourer is the size of the boot. It's big. And then there's more, underneath the floor (drug smugglers, take note, this could be the one for you, though customs men might be on to this one). It's because they've cleverly put the fuel tank under the front seats, so you get 624 litres of luggage space.Forget drugs, think Swindon, and its other famous sons and daughters. As it happens, 624 litres is pretty much exactly the collected volume ofMelinda Messenger's brain,Mark Lamarr's quiff, 70s prog rockersSupertramp's entire back catalogue, one ofJames Dyson's Dual Cyclone bagless vacuum cleaners, andManwatching by Desmond Morris. It'll all go in, no dramas.And if you fold the back seats down, you're up to a whopping 1,668 litres. Which… you've already done the maths, haven't you? In goes Mark Lamarr's ego, too, explorerDavid Hempleman-Adams' oxygen cylinder,Diana Dors' boobs,Billie Piper's lips and the whole ofNick HeweroffThe Apprentice, should you wish to take him. You might even sneak those drugs in, too, under the floor. The car might look better after them.Honda Civic Tourer 1.8 i-VTEC SR ManualPrice£24,355Top speed130mphAcceleration0-60mph in 9.6 secondsCombined fuel consumption44.1mpgCO2emissions149g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating3/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWolfenstein 3D was the original first-person shooter, evolving into Doom and spewing a generation of carnage, occluded only by a floating hand and gun. Wolfenstein: The New Order inherits the original's Nazi-blasting credentials, taking place in an alternate 1960s where Germany won the second world war and now rules the world using advanced technology stolen from a secret society. Despite the preponderance of giant robots and exploding high-tech-meets-second world war hardware, both plot and characters are treated with utter solemnity, the square-jawed, schoolboy joke-named BJ Blazcowicz a real person whose touching relationships with fellow resistance fighters are genuine and unsentimental. It's also beautifully paced, the story catapulting you from mini-sub infiltration to Croatian forced-labour camp to the moon. Wolfenstein: The New Order marries the sublime and the absurd with such confidence you don't question it, the game's brutal, loud weaponry and gorgeously designed scenery absorbing you in a story that revels in its characters' emotional vulnerability.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKThomas Was Alone, iPadAlthough Thomas is a small red rectangle, his pathos and loneliness are palpable. Chris, a yellow square he meets, hates him because Thomas can jump further. So begins a story that's part graphically minimalist platform game, part existential treatise. First released as a Flash game in 2010, its recreation for iPad is no mean feat, given how reliant it is on split-second timing and perfect jumps, something  touch-screen controls are almost always terrible at delivering. The fact it feels just as solid as its button-and-joystick older brothers is testament to the skill of its developer, leaving you to enjoy the tale of Thomas the daring rectangular AI, who needs to cooperate with the quadrilaterals he meets, risking death and betrayal. Wry, elegiac and deeply engaging, you will find yourself caring more for your four-sided buddies than you do for any number of immaculately rendered but ultimately vacuous characters in mainstream videogames; and the plot's bittersweet conclusion provides more to think about than your average game involving coloured blocks.Mike Bithell, £5.99
In one of the leanest announcements in history,Halo 5: Guardianshas been confirmed for the end of next year, but at this stage details are practically non-existent. With E3, the videogame industry's annual reveal-fest, taking place next month, more information is likely to arrive shortly. Games out this week includeEuro Truck Simulator 2 Special Edition(PC), which its publisher says will include "several exclusive paint jobs" for you to admire as you drive extremely slowly across swathes of the continent;Formula 1 2013 Complete Edition(Xbox 360, PS3, PC) comes with all the game's downloadable content in case you were pining for a taste of last year's Formula One season; andLegends Of Oz: Dorothy's Return(3DS) has you matching sets of three or more icons in a grid, in a game so loosely related to the feature-length cartoon that it could be about almost anything.
Stray punches in a corporate slugfest knocked spectacles from authors’ noses and left readers with black eyes this week, after Amazon, the online retailer, stopped selling certain titles published by Hachette, the multinational publisher. The move came after weeks of lesser measures by Amazon to put pressure on Hachette.Amazon has been fighting with the publisher over undisclosed aspects of a deal under which Amazon brings Hachette’s books to market.Amazon stopped selling certain Hachette books on Friday, including JK Rowling’slatest detective noveland anew thriller offeringby Adam Brookes. Other Hachette books, such as Joshua Ferris’ new novel, appeared to be for sale as usual, although under a large banner advertising “similar items at a lower price.” Still others were being sold at non-competitive prices. A hardcover edition of bestselling author Jeffery Deaver’s new novel, The Skin Collector, cost $17.99 onbarnesandnoble.comon Friday – and $25.20 onamazon.com.“Because of a dispute with Hachette Book Group, which publishes The Skin Collector, Amazon has chosen to attempt to intimidate publisher, authors and readers alike by significantly reducing purchase price discounts of my books and those written by other Hachette authors,” Deaver wroteon his Facebook pageearlier this month.Amazon also appeared to be slowing the delivery of some Hachette titles. Book of Jezebel editor Anna Holmescalled out Amazonon Twitter for “shameful behavior” after the retailerslapped a noticeon the book’s sales page advising it “usually ships in one to three weeks.”“I find it very irritating, because the Amazonbuying pagefor TheBook of Jezebelis the one that we have pushed the most since the book came out last October,” Holmes said. “We were always sending people to Amazon, more than any other retailer.”Amazon, which has declined to comment in the matter, did not return calls for comment Friday morning. A Hachette spokesperson did not immediately return a call seeking comment.Amazon controls about 65% of the US ebook market and accounts for one-third of all sales for one major publisher, according to aNew Yorker investigationpublished in February. Book sales make up a relatively small share of the company’s revenue – 7%,by one estimate, of$74.5bn in revenuesin 2013. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos bought the Washington Post last year for $250m.Hachette, a multinational conglomerate with headquarters in Paris, is a major player in its own right. The company acquired Time Warner Book Group in 2006 forhalf a billion dollars. In 2013 Hachette bought Disney’s adult trade publishing imprint, Hyperion. Hachette’s parent company, Lagardère Group, a publisher, broadcaster and retailer whose magazine titles include French Elle and Paris Match, recorded $7.37bn in net sales in 2012, according to itsannual report.Amazon’s current tactics represent the biggest flexing of muscle in the book world by the retailer since it removed buy buttons from books published by Macmillan in 2010, David Streitfeldpointed outin the New York Times. The publisherwon that round.“There are many sources for the book, both online and in brick-and-mortar stores, and I hope you’ll find an alternative,” Deaver, the bestselling author, wrote on Facebook. “As someone who labors hard to make reading my books an enjoyable experience, I’m sorry that some of you will have a less-than-happy time acquiring them.”
Talks have broken down between independent music labels and YouTube over licensing terms for its upcoming streaming music subscription service.The Worldwide Independent Network (Win), which represents indie music labels, claims YouTube is approaching labels directly attempting to strong-arm them into non-negotiable contracts with the threat of being removed from YouTube.Win claims the contracts undervalue the music of its labels in comparison to other music streaming services such as Spotify, Rdio and Deezer.YouTube has already negotiated separate deals with the three major labels – Sony, Warner and Universal – according to Win.&apos;Unnecessary and indefensible&apos;“We believe that these actions are unnecessary and indefensible, not to mention commercially questionable and potentially damaging to YouTube itself, given the harm likely to result from this approach,” said Alison Wenham, chief executive of Win and chairman of the Association of Independent Music, UK, in a statement.Extensive talks between YouTube and Win wereprompted by news stories on Wednesday and Thursdayreporting the negotiation tactics, with Win giving YouTube 24 hours to rescind the “indefensible” letters sent to its members.However, Win reports that no progress has been made in discussions.“Rather than moving from the &apos;disrupter&apos; to the &apos;destroyer&apos;, the real challenge for Google should be to use its muscle to develop a disruptive remuneration system which recognises that 80% of all new releases, which are so important in YouTube&apos;s offer, are generated by independents,” Helen Smith, executive chairman of Impala said.“For a company that has arranged its structure to pay minimal tax in our market, to now see YouTube&apos;s treatment of independent Australian labels who provide so much of its Australian music content so as to further improve their profitability at the sake of local content creators is deeply concerning,” said David Vodicka from AIR in Australia.&apos;A global mastodon like YouTube further undermining the value of music&apos;Others are worried that should labels give into the renumeration levels below current streaming standards, those could then become the standard and erode the independent music industry’s bottom line below sustainable levels.“For a global mastodon like YouTube to further undermine the value of music to a level well below existing streaming services can spread like a virus and destroy the independent recording industry, labels and artists alike,” said Kristoffer Rom, co-chairman of DUP in Denmark.“Spain&apos;s parliament is considering a law which begins to adapt copyright for creators to the new landscape. We couldn&apos;t hope for a better illustration of the problems that need solving than Google&apos;s behaviour at this negotiating table. It&apos;s a reminder that they need to be shown how not to be evil,” said Mark Kitkatt from UFI in Spain.YouTube has allegedly not contacted independent labels in some countries, with representatives from Austria and Finland for example, reporting no negotiations with the Google-owned company.YouTube is an important platformDespite objections to YouTube’s negotiating tactics over the anticipated new streaming service, its current online video offering is an important platform for indie labels, helping musicians build their fanbases.A panel of indie labels talking about how they break new artists at the industry conference Music Connected all agreed that YouTube as well as free music service SoundCloud, were crucial to their efforts.&quot;We’ve paid out to the music industry over the last several years over a billion dollars,&quot; vice president of YouTube content Tom Pickett said at the Midem music industry conference in February.&quot;YouTube provides a global platform for artists to connect with fans and generate revenue for their music,&quot; said a YouTube spokesperson in response to the Win statements. &quot;We have successful deals in place with hundreds of independent and major labels around the world, however we don&apos;t comment on ongoing negotiations.&quot;•Why is the music industry so cross with Google?
I have a six-year-old HP DX2250 running Windows Vista Home Basic, which I tend to keep on all the time, just putting it in sleep mode when I&apos;m not using it. Of late, if the machine has to shut down (eg to complete the installation of Windows updates), it won&apos;t get past the blue &quot;HP Invent&quot; screen. Pressing the function keys has no effect. The only solution is to switch off, leave the computer for a bit and try again. Eventually it does fire up.The man at the computer shop reckoned I needed a new hard drive, which I doubt as the present one is only a couple of years old.I hope you can advise me as the prospect of the computer packing up is deeply worrying.BruceIt&apos;s impossible to tell what&apos;s wrong with your PC, because almost anything can be responsible for a failure to boot up. Most PCs eventually fail to boot for one reason or another. Hard drive failures become increasingly common after five years, and are not that unusual after three years. However, it&apos;s worrying that you find this deeply worrying. PCs are usually repairable, so the main concern is preserving data. It&apos;s very important to back it up to an external hard drive, CD/DVD discs, an online (cloud storage) account, or all three. You get bonus points for backing up the whole PC in a format that can easily be restored, but the primary directive is: don&apos;t lose any data you can&apos;t replace.The hard drive is so important that it&apos;s the first thing to check, even though neither of us thinks it&apos;s causing the problem. There are at least a dozen free programs that will do the job in Windows. I guess all of them use the Smart (Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology) that&apos;s built into modern hard drives. The most popular programs includeCrystalDiskInfo,HDDScan, andHD Tune. I&apos;d start with CrystalDiskInfo.Of course, you should be able to hear the hard drive start up. If the hard drive starts and it isn&apos;t making a clicking noise, then it&apos;s probably not going to fail immediately.The fact that the PC boots after it has been left for a while makes me think it&apos;s more likely to be an electrical problem. It could, for example, be a faulty power supply, or a capacitor on the motherboard going bad. It might be one of the cable connections that is flaky enough to prevent the PC from enumerating all its devices before it starts, in which case it will wait before trying again. It could also be a memory or expansion card connection, or even a clogged fan.The good news is that theHP Support Centresays &quot;There are no top issues reported for this product.&quot; In other words, there haven&apos;t been any systemic failures with the HP Compaq DX2250 Microtower that have caused large numbers to fail.A good clean-upYour PC is six years old so it&apos;s probably accumulated quite a lot of dust and fluff, which gets sucked in with cooling air. This gunge could be causing the reboot problem, so it would be a good idea to give the insides a good clean. You must back up before you open the case. You must unplug the PC from the mains and leave it for a bit before removing the case lid: you definitely don&apos;t want to get a shock. Also unplug any external hard drives, the mouse and keyboard, monitor, printer and anything else that&apos;s connected to your PC.If you are going to touch any electrical components, it&apos;s advisable to wear anantistatic wrist strapor &quot;ground bracelet&quot; so that your body is not carrying a static charge that could zap the electronics. I know most of us don&apos;t bother for quick jobs, but if you know that your home furnishings and/or clothing lead to static building up then a wrist strap is essential.HP&apos;s support section has a page of instructions onCleaning your Desktop PCbut, disappointingly, it doesn&apos;t involve opening the case. Instead, readHow To Thoroughly Clean Your Dirty Desktop Computer. I generally use a vacuum cleaner nozzle at a safe distance to suck away dust and fluff, and a soft paintbrush to brush dust out of accessible fans. (Brushes can create static so keep them away from the electronics.) If there&apos;s any remaining fluff or dust, blow it out using a spray can of compressed air. The main point is to blow muck away from the electronics, not into them.While you have the case open, make sure all the connecting cables are firmly seated. In fact, you can ease them out of their sockets then push them back in.When you have finished this quick cleanup -- it takes about 20 minutes -- put the case lid back on, and plug in the mains cable, keyboard, mouse and screen, but not other devices such as external hard drives and printers. With luck, your PC will boot correctly, and you can reconnect external devices one at a time. (One of them could be causing the problem.) If not, it&apos;s off with the lid again….Cleaning cardsPC memory modules and expansion cards have edge connectors of the sort that used to be familiar from video game cartridges. These can become dirty or oxidised, creating imperfect contacts that can lead to boot-up failures. One way to &quot;renew&quot; these contacts is to lift out the part and then plug it back in. If your PC has two memory modules, you could swap them over, and you can often move an expansion card to a different slot in the motherboard.If the contacts look dirty, you can clean them using a very soft eraser of the sort sold for artists. Remember, the metal contacts will be very thin, especially if they&apos;re gold. Sorry to disappoint old-time gamers, but blowing on them does nothing useful.An antistatic wrist strap is more important when handling components like this. At least make sure you are well grounded and not carrying a charge.Again, put the lid back on the PC and see if it works….Replace parts or the PC?If a clean-up doesn&apos;t do the job, then one of the parts is probably faulty. You could solve this problem using diagnostic equipment that you probably don&apos;t have (eg multimeters), or by replacing each part until you find the one that doesn&apos;t work properly. This isn&apos;t practical unless you&apos;re a computer hobbyist. Given the symptoms you describe, I&apos;d replace the power supply first, then the motherboard. HP&apos;s support site has an impressive collection of documents on how to perform many such tasks. Alternatively, you could take your PC to a good computer shop or call in a repair specialist.But is it worth it? By today&apos;s standards, the HP DX2250 has a slow processor, a maximum of 2GB of memory, and a small, slow hard drive (60GB to 250GB). You can buy second-hand HP DX2250 PCs on eBay.co.uk for as little as £22.99 including postage, and quite a decent 2GB system with an AMD Athlon 64+ 3500+ for£39.99 including delivery(&quot;27 available&quot;). If you are on a low income (housing benefit etc), the supplier will throw in Microsoft Windows 7 and Office 2010 as well.If you really want to keep using an HP DX2250, then the simplest option would be to buy one on eBay and use it for spares, or switch over and keep your old PC for spares.Better still, you could upgrade to a similar HP tower with an Intel Core 2 Duo processor, 4GB of memory and Microsoft Windows 7 for £100 to £150. Or you could get an HP Elite 8300 with an Intel Core i3/i5/i7 processor and 4GB or 8GB of memory for around £250 to £300. The Elite 8300 range came out in the third quarter of 2012 so it sports third-generation Core iX chips and Windows 7, which will be supported until 2020. Your DX2250 isn&apos;t going to last that long, so you may as well switch sooner rather than later. This is probably a good time to buy, because companies are moving out thousands of HP and Dell desktops as they upgrade from Windows XP.You could, of course, buy a new PC for £250 to £500. PC World is currently offering theAsus K30AD-UK003Sdesktop PC with an Intel Core i3-4130T processor, 4GB of memory, 500GB hard drive and Windows 8 for £329.99, and a better-lookingLenovo H530swith a Core i3-4130, 6GB and a 1TB hard drive for £349.99. One of these would provide a dramatic increase in performance, saving you time while also reducing your electricity bill (though not by a huge amount). Yes, it&apos;s good to keep old PCs running, but plenty of people are spending bigger sums on smartphones and tablets that can&apos;t do as much and won&apos;t last half as long.
It was always an ambitious sell. A PlayStation 4 launch-ready racing game built around its own global social network where people could form teams and, through collaborative effort, unlock new virtual cars, liveries and other assorted motorsport trinkets. So the news that it wouldn’t be ready to accompany the new console on to store shelves last Christmas came as no real surprise.Less expected, however, was the revelation that developer Evolution Studios would need an entire year to finish what it had started. This is an important game by an important developer: Evolution created the million-selling Motorstorm series – a racing brand so vital to the early success of PS3 that Sony purchased the studio. But a 12-month delay in the modern business is so costly, the news immediately raised questions about the state of the project. Then the game’s director, Col Rodgers, left the project earlier this year and many began to doubt Shigeru Miyamoto’s oft-repeated maxim that &quot;a delayed game is eventually good&quot;.Paul Rustchynsky (known to his team by the thematically appropriate nickname &quot;Rushy&quot;) is apologetic but defiant about the delay. “The quality wasn’t there,” he says, on a rainswept Monday at Evolution’s office in Runcorn. “The social aspect to the game wasn’t seamless; the game didn’t run smoothly.”Rustchynsky, who took over from Rodgers (who later revealed that he left to spend more time with his ill son) explains that the menu system was the heart of the decision to delay. “Any network of this variety has to display persistent, relevant activities and information that’s important for you,” he says. “In DriveClub, being connected matters. The game is structured in such a way that it’s not always about coming first, and that fact needed to be communicated effectively.”Building a better worldBut if the menu system was the catalyst for the game’s delay, this area forms only a small part of the renovation the team has performed across all areas. The engine, which has been created to serve Evolution’s games throughout the lifetime of the PlayStation 4, is extraordinary. The system’s power allows it to render every detail in play, from each strand of confetti set off when you streak through a crowd-attended checkpoint to the fine-detail stitching on the cars’ seats.Each stage is far more detailed than you’d ever be able to take in at 80mph from the track. One boasts no fewer than 1.2 million trees dotted about its hills. There’s no baked lighting: every shadow is delivered from a true light source. The star constellations in the sky are correctly placed according to Nasa data; there’s even a chance that you’ll see the Northern lights every now and again. Alex Perkins, the game’s art director, claims the game has a draw distance of 190km; during some replays you can pick out the curvature of the earth. The sun and moon wheel in the sky, lighting up fully volumetric clouds (uniquely seeded each time you visit a location and therefore different in formation) above each of the games locations.Those environments (all of which were visited by the team for reference) include Scotland, with its peaty, overcast gloom, India, all hyper-colour foliage (the team modelled the vegetation from samples taken in situ in India, and from Kew Gardens) and Norway, where the sun reflects so brightly off the snow you have to squint while driving. This approach to detail is carried over to the sound of the car’s engines, each of which was recorded with exacting attention, both inside and outside the vehicle. Of course, there is plenty of competition in the high-end driving sim market, with the Forza Motorsports and Gran Turismo teams setting a peculiarly high bar. And yet, Evolution’s work has been so impressive that the car manufacturers BMW and Mercedes have both replaced their internal sound-bank data with that captured by the Runcorn team.Capturing the sensation of speedThese technical accomplishments are more than mere adornments: they pay off in play. The dense vegetation, fluttering banners and animated particles not only bring the courses to life, they also contribute to the sense of speed, something which is always challenging for a video game to communicate without the benefits of g-forces and peripheral vision.Scenery passes by in a blur, but the detail adds to the sense of speedIn play, the emphasis is not only on time trials and winning. Challenges pop-up midway through races. You might be called upon to see for how long you can drift around a corner, for example, or see how quickly you can complete this 50-metre stretch of road – and each time you’re presented with the scores of your friends and rivals to compete against. We’ve seen these tricks in other games, from Geometry Wars 2 through to EA’s much-vaunted Autolog system, but their appeal is undiminished here.The social systemThe social aspect remains core to the game. You can form a club with up to six other players and, thereafter, everything you do in the game earns points for your group. Once the aggregate score passes set rank thresholds, you unlock new cars and so on (of the fifty cars in the game, five can only be accessed through a club, and these are lost as soon as you leave it). There’s no waiting around in lobbies for races to start either. Evolution borrows a trick from MMOs and allows you to book a slot in an online race. You&apos;re then free to take part in other activities and, when the race is ready, you can jump straight in. Offline, the AI provides able and aggressive competition. It brakes deep into corners and drafts wherever possible to overtake.Any delay of a key blockbuster video game title is a double-edged sword for the development team. While they gain months to improve and polish, the increased costs that such a decision incurs heighten the expectations of the publisher, who must foot the bill. Sony’s recent announcement that DriveClub has made “spectacular progress” since the delay appears true. But the spectral question of how well the game must perform at launch in order to secure the studio’s future must loom large in the thoughts of staff.Rustchynsky denies this is an issue. “We are completely confident in the future of the studio,” he says. “And when people play the game, I believe they will be too.”• DriveClub, PlayStation 4 and the future of social gaming• DriveClub and PS4: setting the look and feel of next-gen driving games
It emerged this week auction site eBay had suffered potentiallytheir biggest-ever cyber attack, leaving a database holding its 233m customers&apos; data vulnerable.Users were urged to change their passwords after the breach was detected. While hackers did not gain access to customers’ financial information, it did affect a database holding encrypted passwords as well as unencrypted data including customer names, email addresses, physical addresses, phone numbers and dates of birth. As a result, three US stateshave begun investigating the e-commerce company&apos;s security practices.As we conduct more and more of our lives online, the security of our personal data has become increasingly important. We would like to hear from people who have experienced what happens when personal data is stolen. How did it come about? What was your reaction? Were you able to resolve it quickly? And what lessons have you learnt from your experience?Share your stories with GuardianWitness and we may feature the best on the site.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
