The long-drawn-out and ultimately abortive takeover battle between Microsoft and Yahoo! was lowered into the grave of history last week. But the saga is far from over. Shareholders in both companies are unhappy, while questions about the viability of Jerry Yang, the Yahoo! chief executive, and Steve Ballmer, his Microsoft counterpart, are growing louder by the day.Now that the dust has started to settle, a growing number of Yahoo! and Microsoft investors are beginning to realise that there was much amiss with the performances of both leading men.Ballmer might have seemed like the more decisive and aggressive player as he stuck firm and refused to increase the $45.7bn, $33-a-share offer for Yahoo! by the $4 a share demanded by Yang. But all that really happened is that Microsoft did not end up buying Yahoo! - which, seeing as Ballmer implied just a few weeks ago that the deal was crucial to the software giant's future, is a bit lame.Ballmer's bid was badly executed from the start. First, the Microsoft chief executive failed to gauge shareholder support for the move. So when he launched the bid at $31 a share in cash and stock on 1 February, at a massive 62 per cent premium to Yahoo!'s share price at the time, his own shareholders ran for the hills, sending Microsoft's price down almost $25bn in a show of disgust.Thus the paper portion of the deal was devalued so substantially that Ballmer had no choice but to increase his offer to $33 a share. The move made him look weak in the face of Yang's defiance. When Yang upped the ante still further and asked for an extra four dollars a share, Ballmer had two choices: he could have accepted the challenge, thus admitting that when you are already paying a price 70 per cent above the stock market valuation, an extra couple of billion amounts to a mere hill of beans, or launched a hostile bid and forced the issue, saving his shareholders a few billion but opening the door to a long legal tussle.He did neither, instead opting to pack up his toys and go home in a huff. But no matter how foolish Ballmer may have looked in fumbling the bid of a lifetime, he is in a far safer position than Yang.As co-founder of Yahoo!, Yang is considered by many investors and analysts to be too complacent. 'As the founder, he knows he isn't going anywhere,' says Eric Jackson, an activist hedge fund manager who is trying to build a shareholder revolt to oust the Yahoo! board, Yang included. 'But that doesn't mean we can't get rid of him as CEO.'Investors are angry that Yang and Roy Bostock, Yahoo!'s new chairman, claimed that their demand for an extra $4 a share was somehow representative of shareholders' wishes, which, by all accounts, it was not. Bill Miller at Legg Mason, which is one of Yahoo!'s biggest investors, says he would have been happy with a deal at around $35 a share.Analysts, too, are putting up a flurry of 'sell' recommendations in a sign that they have run out of patience with Yang. '[Investors will] be calling for his head if, by the end of the year, there haven't been some substantial improvements,' says Brian Bolan of Jackson Securities in Chicago. 'Certainly he should be concerned about his job, and the shareholders are going to revolt at some point.'Yang's post-Microsoft strategy, meanwhile, amounts to 'if you can't beat 'em, join 'em'. He is in talks to outsource Yahoo!'s search-results advertising arm to Google. Shareholders don't like that very much either. Most would rather have a share buyback to increase the value of their stock rather than a half-hearted deal that is more a show of capitulation than an example of confident management executing sound strategy.But no matter how invincible Yang may feel as a founder, he is aware of his shareholders' concerns and their plans to oust him. Late last Monday, obviously rattled by the growing revolt, he  announced that Yahoo! would hold its annual board meeting on 3 July. Company bylaws dictate that any investor wishing to propose an alternative slate of directors must do so within 10 days of the announcement of the meeting - barely giving anyone time to do so. Jackson, who owns only 96 Yahoo! shares but has built a coalition of investors holding  3 million, is trying to draw up a slate by Thursday, but he faces an uphill struggle to meet the deadline. 'We know who we want but it is a question of having the time to talk to them and get them to agree in just a few days,'  he says.Even if he fails to call for the board's dismissal in July, Jackson is planning to make his views heard. 'I have yet to hear any shareholder say that Jerry Yang was representing investors' wishes when he demanded another $4 a share,' he says. 'What I have heard, though, universally, is disbelief and anger at his arrogance and disconnection from reality. Bostock too. They are out of touch with the will of the shareholders.'With many similar voices preparing to be raised at the meeting - which will be held the day before the Independence Day holiday - it looks as though Jerry Yang could be in for some fireworks a little earlier than usual this year.
A Midlands man, I was a student in Glasgow in the Sixties. On my last night (isn't it always the way?) I met an interesting girl but had to leave the next morning. I returned to work and acquired a second-hand Morris 1000 Traveller.I decided to drive up for a weekend to see this girl. Bad weather was forecast and the AA said not to go, but being young and foolish, I put a sleeping bag and a spade in the Traveller and set off.On the A6, I drove behind a snowplough on a clear, starry evening, my Pirelli Cinturato tyres rumbling over the compacted snow. It was spectacular, and I was singing loudly as we went over the north side of Shap Fell in mini-convoy.Sadly, Edith and I drifted apart, as did the Traveller's nearside front suspension struts and chassis, about a year later.
Ferrari F430 Spider F1&pound;137,852Miles per gallon: 15.4Top speed: 193 mphGood for: thrillsBad for: billsMy friend Lairy Jon stands in the garage of deluxe car club Ecurie25, surrounded by supercars. He's in a right tizzy. There are Bentleys and Ferraris and Aston Martins and a Lamborghini, which he calls a 'Lambo' in the cod-casual manner of a Premiership footballer. He's allowed to choose one to test, and I haven't seen him as happy or as anxious in our 15-year friendship. He's delighted that one of these will temporarily be his, but sad about a) the fact he'll have to give it back, and b) the thought of those he must leave behind. He looks under bonnets, sits in cockpits, tweaks rubber. He settles on the Ferrari F430 Spider F1. 'I was drawn towards the Lambo,' he says, 'but it's so wide, it'd be like driving a lorry round town.'We drop down into the low-slung leather bowels of the Ferrari, and I notice a couple of things are missing. 'F1 means it doesn't have a gear stick,' Lairy explains, 'and Spider means it doesn't have a roof.' I can't follow the logic (why does a spider denote rooflessness more than other insects?), but Lairy has fired up the engine and is nosing past the &pound;2m worth of supercar he rejected on to the mean streets of east London.Lairy's uncharacteristically nervy at first. Though skinnier than the Lambo, the Ferrari's still wide; plus 'supercars are an unforgiving drive, on account of the driving position, wide track, heavy steering and even heavier clutch'. He settles into it quickly, though. 'It's an easier drive than I thought!' he says. 'Hmmm?' I say, checking out the interior, which is basic in terms of stereo and air con but chic in terms of Crema leather trim.'Stop it!' says Lairy, 'and pay attention to the noisy metal confection behind us. That is a V8 engine that will do 8,500rpm, the gearbox will change gear in 150 milliseconds, and the wheel has a "manettino commutator switch", which wouldn't be out of place in an F1 car!' I have no idea what he means, but it doesn't matter, as he's about to stop speaking. We've reached an unfettered stretch of tarmac and Lairy's accelerating. The car is now making the most preposterous noise I have ever heard. Neither Lairy nor I do anything for a few minutes, other than submit to something close to G-force, grin matching huge, shit-eating grin.A day later and we're over the speediness. Because the coolest, weirdest thing about a Ferrari is the attention it commands. It's like whizzing through town on the back of an A-list celebrity. When Lairy and I took a Porsche out in our first joint Wheels column, we inspired sneering and feigned disinterest. I'd expected a similar response to the Ferrari. But not a bit of it. Everyone is delighted to see our car. They are gobsmacked, glad to be in its presence. At lights, another driver tells Lairy: 'I don't know if you earned that, mate, or won the lottery. Either way, good on you.' We find we can park pretty much anywhere, the law overlooked by traffic wardens, policemen and London Zoo employees. It's surreal but heart-warming - when else are you the object of so very much (reflected) goodwill and excitement? It even goes some way toward consoling Lairy Jon when we're required to give the Ferrari back.ecurie25.co.uk
Spanish health authorities launched a virtual portal through the Second Life website yesterday designed to help young people too embarrassed to speak to a doctor about sexually transmitted disease or a drug problem.Real doctors will log on and offer advice to their anonymous patients. What both will see is an image of a consulting room with a doctor and a typical patient.Dr Rosario Jim&egrave;nez, of the Adolescent Attention Working Group, is one of the doctors who will spend up to four hours a week answering their virtual patients' questions.She said: "Teenagers do not often go to see the doctor but this is an efficient and amusing tool to reach them because we can both use the same route. Even though they do not often suffer serious illnesses, they often expose themselves to risks which can develop into problems in the future."This is a way to talk about their doubts about taking drugs or sexual relations which they cannot do in a traditional consultation."The Second Life health portal was set up by the Spanish Society for Family and Community Medicine (FYC) and the Coalition for Citizens with Chronic Illnesses.Dr Luis Aguillera, FYC president, said: "This idea started as a way to connect health professionals and adolescents and to give internet users a reliable space to get health advice."The Spanish-language isla de salud (health island) on Second Life will also include detailed information on health matters and a meeting room for website users.The FYC plans to open other Second Life portals for chronic conditions in six months.Aguillera said: "Even though a virtual consultation can never substitute for a real face-to-face one, we will be able to deal with problems of dermatology and psychology through a webcam."
Following the pre-announcements from MySpace and Facebook (below), it seems Google wants to get in on the act. According to Michael Arrington atTechCrunch:Like Data Availability and Facebook Connect, Google's Friend Connect will be a way to securely send personal profile data, including friend lists, presence/status information, etc., to third party applications, say our sources. The primary benefit of these services is to allow users to maintain a single friends list and to coordinate social activities across different sites that perform different services.However, the services may not work the same way. The story says:If what we hear is correct, Google's offering may not be as attractive as MySpace's and Facebook's. Google may be keeping a tighter reign on data, requiring third parties to show it directly from Google's servers in an iframe. By contract [sic], MySpace and Facebook are sending data via an API and trusting third parties not to abuse it (with strict terms of service in case they violate that trust). That flexibility also allows those third parties to do more with the data, including combining it with their own data before displaying it.Well, Google already has a record of all your searches (some of them probably incriminating), probably reads your email and therefore has a list of your contacts, and maybe it even keeps your calendar. It could probably write software to dig out all the info you might put in a Facebook or MySpace profile, though you willingly handing it over might make it simpler to profile you for advertising purposes.And although Google hasn't managed to create a widely-successful social networking platform (it launched Orkut in January 2004), it would be a simple matter to tie your profile toiGoogleand outflank both Facebook and MySpace.Meanwhile, Yahoo and Microsoft have failed to launch "connect" systems (Microsoft Connectis a different kind of thing). And you obviously won't expect a joint announcement from those two....
The Journal Newsreports that: "A tech-savvy White Plains woman whose apartment was burglarized solved the crime herself after she was able to log on to her stolen laptop, photograph one of the suspects with it and get photos of another, police said."The alleged burglars, Edmon Shahikian and Ian Frias, went online with the stolen laptop. One of the victims, who works at The Apple Store in The Westchester mall, went online with another computerand used the "Back to My Mac" program to determine that her stolen MacIntosh laptop indeed was signed onto the Web and that someone was using it to shop online. She then activated the stolen computer's camera, allowing her to "see" what was in front of the laptop. . At first, police said, she saw only an empty chair. But a short time later, they said, she was able to photograph a man, Shahikian, sitting in front of her stolen laptop. The victim then was able to find photos of Frias using the computer after it had been stolen, police said.The Journal News is a Gannett newspaper serving Westchester, Rockland and Putnam counties in New York.Update: The New York Times has now picked up the story,Stolen Laptop Helps Turn Tables on Suspects, and it's also onSlashdot. The New York Times says:"Back to My Mac" is part of an online service that costs $99 per year* and allows users to gain access to their personal computer from any connected Macintosh computer with the operating system Leopard. The software that Ms. Duplaga used to take a picture of the thief, called PhotoBooth, is standard on all newer Apple laptop models.* It's .Mac that costs $99 per year.It quotes Daniel Jackson, the deputy commissioner of public safety in White Plains, saying:"When you take a picture with that computer, it shows a countdown, and when it does, this guy figures out what's going on," Mr. Jackson said. "It all clicks for him, and he puts his hand up to cover the lens, but it was too late. She had already taken the picture."
Grand Theft Auto 4PS3 & Xbox360You are Niko Bellic, immigrant from an unspecified East European country, emerging fresh off the boat into Liberty City - Rockstar Games' take on New York - a city of both fabulous opportunity and grinding poverty. The first thing you'll notice in this instalment of GTA is how staggeringly warm and realistic the characters are; the second is how much more detailed and alive the city feels. Missions take a familiar, if less brutally protracted, format; driving makes it easier to powerslide and - generously - harder to destroy your car; while the frequent gunfights are noticeably steadier, less random affairs.But it's the little details which make the biggest impact: there are dozens of beautifully scripted radio channels to tune into, hours of TV to watch, internet cafes (where you can collect your email and surf a surprisingly vast array of delightfully satirical mock websites), bowling alleys, burlesque bars and a million tiny diversions. It's a work of overwhelming and surprisingly human complexity.&#183;Rockstar, &pound;45Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas 2PCIts anaemically thin plot can be summarised thus: terrorists. Which makes you leader of a three-man Special Forces team, undertaking a series of daring raids to free hostages and dispose of "tangos" in Las Vegas, heroically getting your team to do most of the work. Charging in while opening fire with everything you have whenever you see bad people will get you and the innocents slaughtered with minimum delay, making a considered, mildly tactical, approach a much more rewarding way to go about the job of selective bloodletting. Far more accessible than past outings, although still featuring sections where checkpoints are spaced far enough apart to punish incaution with an, at times, unsporting lack of mercy, Vegas 2 is another polished shooter from Ubisoft, even if it isn't up to the standard of its fabulously awesome stablemate, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 and also, oddly, not as good as the console versions.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;35Bishi Bashi SpecialPS3This is the official year of the PlayStation 3. After an appallingly lacklustre launch year and Christmas (which should have belonged in its entirety to Xbox 360, but was rather inconveniently hijacked by the unstoppable Nintendo Wii) this is the year PS3 owners will finally be vindicated in their purchase. Far away from blockbusters like Metal Gear Solid 4, Gran Turismo 5 and certain other very large recent releases, comes mental PS1 classic, Bishi Bashi Special, in which players take on more than 80 mini-games with edifying titles like Me Make Mistake, Mechanical Pencil Basher and Uncle Launcher; a game that has you firing little men (presumably those with nieces and nephews) out of a cannon on to a plate suspended in the sky. Surreal to a quite startling degree, this under-acknowledged masterpiece is now available to a new generation of PlayStation owners. Konami: we salute you.&#183;Konami, &pound;3.49 via PlayStation Network
Anyone making a BBC programme about the recent past, and needing to watch a video from the archive, has to find one of a group of special offices containing what's called "heritage technology": ie, a VCR. The possibility of the next generation of broadcast researchers having to seek out these cubbyholes that technology forgot if they need to watch a DVD will depend on the impact of enhanced digital versatile disc technology: Blu-ray.The progress of mobile phones has conditioned us to expect that the next big thing will be smaller and more expensive. But the Sharp BDHP50H Blu-ray Player (&pound;399,sharp.co.uk) only half obeys this rule: the discs sell for somewhere in the 20s, which would make replacement of a movie collection prohibitive, but the machine looks thick and lumbering, a shock in comparison with the clipboard-thin DVD players that are now routine.To test the equipment, my three tenners went on a Blu-ray disc of Danny Boyle's underrated space exploration dramaSunshine- because the movie attempts ambitious spectacle, and because this story of astronauts exploring the sun is directly concerned with the limits of optical experience. A typical line of dialogue runs: "Another 4% will result in irreversible damage to the retinas."Loading seemed slow, allowing my retinas time to note how bossy instruction booklets have become because of legal caution and, presumably, customer precedent: "No objects filled with liquids, such as vases, shall be placed on top of the machine." Are cutting-edge movie-viewers really the type for fresh flowers?Eventually, our journey to the sun began and was worth the wait. The images have a depth of detail not far from 3D cinema, although actors are going to have the problem given to TV presenters by the arrival of high-definition television: every pimple, wrinkle and bristle resembles a lunar crater. If this way of seeing films takes off, you suspect that cosmetic surgeons in Beverly Hills will not have to worry about the cost of Blu-ray discs.The pricing of films seems to be dictated by games rather than by DVDs, and so you would notice the differential less if planning to watch Blu-ray movies on a SonyPlayStation 3(&pound;299/40GB, available nationwide), which offers the screening room as an alternative to games. Those of us who grew up at a time when one machine washed clothes and another dried them tend to be suspicious of technical versatility: maintaining, for example, a separate laptop, mobile and iPod in preference to a combined device. We fear the all-purpose solution will be not bad at everything but not very good at anything, like county cricketers described as "bits and pieces" players.In fact, the PS3 averaged in the 50s as a Blu-ray player. The picture was less vivid than it was on the specialist equipment but a visible advance on the technology it hopes to make old-fashioned. As the crew neared their destination, I feared that, if picture clarity increased by 4%, my retinas might melt.Halfway to such sunniness for film viewers lies the Samsung 1080P8, fully HDTV-compliant DVD player (around &pound;60, 0870 242 0303,samsung.com/uk). This failed to play the first two movies picked from my shelves of DVDs - The Parallax View and Moulin Rouge - because of that stupid trading restriction that regionalises DVDs and threatens the intervention of the FBI if you watch in England a disc intended for America. This was the first time in years that I'd used a DVD player that wasn't multi-region.It probably wouldn't take a grunting teenager long to fix this problem but, finding a rare Region 1 DVD (Bend It Like Beckham), I rigged the Samsung to a new HD TV and tried it out. The picture was crisp and the machine sleek, but the real choice, surely, is between Blu-ray and dear old heritage DVDs. For the moment, I'd stick with the latter, because the increased cost of the alternative doesn't justify the hike in price.&#183;Stephen Fry returns in July
Even within the context of the first-class magical realism that tends to inform mission statements in the automotive industry, Mazda's desire to "challenge everything you thought you knew about motor cars" is an advance into new territory. I'm not sure what the car that "challenged everything you thought you knew" about cars would look like, but my suspicion is that it may turn out like a boat. Or an elephant. Or a boat crossed with an elephant.Either way, such a car probably wouldn't, if we're being honest, come out looking like the Mazda 6 TS hatchback. Don't get me wrong: this is a handsome, highly desirable and rather cool car, with an energetic, feline crouch to it. But at the same time: four tyres, one in each corner; bumper on the front; doors on the sides; wing mirrors on the wings ... A lot of what I thought I knew about cars before I met the Mazda 6 turned out to be confirmed by it, rather than tossed aside in a breathtaking top-to-bottom rethink of the basics.Still, it's like they say: you can't reinvent the steering wheel. And who wants a car that looks like bits of a boat welded to bits of an elephant in any case?Better to go for the Mazda 6, I'd say, especially at the relatively enticing price and for other reasons, including, but not limited to, the cracking standard fitted hi-fi. Some may say this is a trivial concern, given the man-hours Mazda engineers must have spent getting right other, more involved technical aspects of the car, such as its taut suspension, its impeccable noise-absorption systems and its steady aerodynamics. Yet, of course, for the average would-be car buyer, a decent stereo is right up there at the top of the checklist of must-haves, alongside properly functioning cup-holders. (Petrol consumption? Emissions? They come soon after, I'm sure.) And Mazda scores high by sourcing hi-fi parts from those legendary big-sounds-from-small-places experts and tireless junk-mailers, Bose. Creaming along in the Mazda 6, with the wind barely troubling the outer surfaces, and with the speakers effortlessly simulating concert hall conditions, you could almost forget that you weren't driving something more authoritative, such as an Audi.As for the cup-holders, Mazda has gone for the conventional plastic console, mounted between the front seats behind the gear stick. I'm prepared to say they did the job. Sloppage was still a possibility under extreme driving conditions, but you can never eradicate that. It's another one of those "things we thought we knew about motor cars" and, once again, we were right.You get a generous cabin for your money, too, in terms of both fittings and room. Moreover, if you buy the hatch or estate version, rather than the traditionally booted saloon, and things start getting on top of you, you can pop round to the back and commit Karakuri. (Less painful than it sounds, this is Mazda's name for its quick-release, seat-folding system that flattens the floor to create a loadspace only slightly smaller than a basketball court.)Away, then, with big claims about challenging everything. Have we seen the like of the Mazda 6 before? All things considered, and in a high number of areas, yes. But in the words of that other, and more easily understood, Mazda mission statement, "Zoom zoom."Mazda 6 1.8 TSPrice:£16,100Top speed:123mphAcceleration:0-62 in 11.6 secondsAverage consumption:40.9mpgCO2 emissions:162g/kmEco rating:6/10At the wheel:Leona LewisBound for:RomfordIn a word:Challenging
I bought a Noxon iRadio to listen to the BBC over the internet while in  France. Unfortunately, it didn't work - apparently national BBC stations are broadcast only in Real Media format outside the UK, and the iRadio can't handle it.You could use a proxy server to make it appear as if you're in Britain, but that won't solve the problem with the awkward Real Media format. Decent sets that can cope with Real include the Revo Pico (about &pound;150) and the Roberts WM-201 (about &pound;200). And always check the small print first.I want to combine my Wi-Fi router and printer server into one Inenergy-efficient box, but it is difficult finding out their efficiency.Your dedication to greener gadgets is commendable, but compared with most of the electronics that will use your Wi-Fi connection, the router uses only a sliver of energy. You'll make far greater energy savings by turning everything off when not in use.Our advice on digital writing gadgets brought more suggestions from readers. Duncan recommends the Digiscribble pen (&pound;65) and Lee the Nokia digital pen (&pound;140), which uses the same technology as the Leapfrog LeapPen, and is easier to find in the UK.&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
The Facebook developers blog has announcedFacebook Connect, which "allows users to 'connect' their Facebook identity, friends and privacy to any site". It says:Facebook users represent themselves with their real names and real identities. With Facebook Connect, users can bring their real identity information with them wherever they go on the Web, including: basic profile information, profile picture, name, friends, photos, events, groups, and more.Facebook's illustrations suggest connecting your Facebook account to Digg, which would then be able to locate your friends who have Digg accounts and show you which stories they've dugg. Also, when you change your profile or friends on Facebook, this would update the information used on your linked sites.It's not clear why anyone would want their real identity to be used on a site like Digg: I'd have thought that just the reverse was the case. Indeed, it's hard to think of many public sites where you'd want your "real identity" exposed. Any suggestions?Apart from anything else, it seems to imply that Facebook could become the central repository for identity on the web. And it's even worse than Microsoft's Passport, because Passport didn't care what name you used, and didn't drag your friends along too.Rival social networking site MySpace made what looks like a similar announcement about Data Availability yesterday. Itspress releasesaid:Data Availability pioneers a new way for users to dynamically share their user generated content and data with websites of their choosing. The Data Availability initiative is founded first and foremost on the simple and comprehensive user control of their own content and data--users will have control over what information they share and who they share it with. Additionally, rather than updating information across the Web (eg. default photo, favorite movies or music) for each site where a user spends time, now a user can update their profile in one place and dynamically share that information with the other sites they care about. MySpace will be rolling out a centralized location within the site that allows users to manage how their content and data is made available to third party sites they have chosen to engage with. . Inside this opt-in framework, they will be offered the opportunity to share their MySpace profiles with the site they are visiting. MySpace, and its landmark launch partners, will be allowing users to dynamically share the content and data of their choosing including: (1) Publicly available basic profile information, (2) MySpace photos, (3) MySpaceTV videos, and (4) friend networks. Integration of the Data Availability project will roll to MySpace users and participating Websites in the coming weeks.But neither Facebook nor MySpace yet offers a service that someone could use.I can see the appeal of something likeMove My Data, but am I the only person who thinks this could turn out to be a really bad idea?Update: In a comment, MrProject says: "Passport/Windows Live ID already does exactly the same thing. Take a look atWindows Live ID Delegated Authorization" (my link). Anyone know this area well enough to confirm/deny/explain, please?
TuesdayGameCamp08 redux: taking inspiration from unlikely placesPS3 outselling Xbox 360 in Europe?GTA IV outsells everything everWednesdayFuturesonic08: Playing games with urban &amp; social mediaPSP comes of ageDino RunThursdayPost GTA lull hits reviewsFuturesonic08Pandemic does Middle EarthFridayThe game that got you in the endPuzzles of yesteryear
They wouldn't be games without problems to solve, and with the sheer man-hours most gamers spend inside gaming worlds, you must all be experts at the puzzles that work and the ones that don't.Flipping switches, moving boxes, typing in random numbers, solving riddles; which puzzles do you think go beyond the humdrum and into legend?For fame and possible Wikigame developer uberstatus, what-are your all-time favourite puzzles in a game?
It isMay 9 1996, and you are a Senior Executive at a Very Big Record Label, in charge of Future Developments. This "internet" thing is being talked about a lot, and people are wondering whether it could be the start of some sort of revolution - in years to come, might people actually download music, in the way that they do software, directly over the net? Rather than buying on the CDs that have made you rich - and paid for that second home on the beach up the coast from Los Angeles - might people move to downloading music instead? And would it be bad news if they do?As (imaginary) Senior Executive for Future Developments, you have asked your technical people, and they've explained that this isn't going to be an issue for years and years yet. Why? Simple: audio files are just too big.As they explain, the average CD is 650 megabytes of high-quality sound. Every singlesecondtakes up 1.4 megabits of data. But everywhere you look, your potential consumers - home internet users, the same people who buy CDs now - are on dialup internet, chugging along at 36 kilobits per second. At that speed, it would take 45 hours to download a CD. In that time, you could walk to the nearest store and buy the record. Even the few people who had broadband at work, with T1 connections running at an amazing 1.5 megabit per second - in some really net-aware placed, 10Mbps - would have to wait 58 minutes (call it an hour) to get a CD. Even a single song, at an average of 65MB, will take the dialup user 4 hours 30 minutes, and the broadband one 6 minutes. And even with these new "56kbps" modem for home users, it'll take 27 hours - more than a day! - to download a CD. And during that time, they can't use their phone, because they're downloading.What's more, connection speeds aren't really changing that fast. Even if you do the maths and assume that half of people will be on home broadband by, say, 2002, it's still going to take them an hour to download an album, 6 minutes to get a single song. Nowhere near enough people are that patient, in a world that's moving towards instant gratification. And even though hard disk space is doubling for the same price every year - the technical folk say - that will still mean that downloaded albums will eat up their hard drives. Imagine a world where people have 250gigabytedrives in theirlaptops(you almost faint; this is 1996, and the average laptop has less than a gigabyte of hard drive space; but you pay these tech people to be future thinkers). If they put (or download) 100 albums on their machine, that's 65 gigabytes of storage - almost a quarter of their machine soaked up. And don't even think about films.So, being the Senior Executive you are, you thank your technical people, and turn your mind to more pressing matters, such as whether that nice-looking new secretary would like to come and see that new band with you, and then see the dawn from your second home.Now, in retrospect we know the Senior Exec was wrong, yet reasonable in being so. In May 1996 MP3 hadn't crossed into the mainstream; its underground explosion (by a warez crew calledCompress Da Audio, apparently) was to come a few months later. And with that, music files could be squeezed into a tenth or less of their original size, with no copyright restrictions. The record industry's firm belief that it was safe was destroyed. Events that the technical people could calculate were years away were suddenly imminent. If MP3s had never happened, we'd probably only now be thinking about file-sharing: even today, 12 years after our (imaginary) Senior Exec has that meeting with his technical people, most home users on the UK average 3Mb/s broadband would pause before clicking "download" on a 650MB file, as it'll take about 20 minutes to download.All in all, there's a lot of hostility towards the record industry, but if you put yourself in the comfortable position of that record exec - whichJohn Lanchester, at the London Review of Books in 2002 described as being "reluctant to move from this [CD sales] model in the same way, and for the same reason, a python is reluctant to move when it has swallowed a goat" - then you can understand why. Some technical change is overwhelming. You can be rude about the record industry for not reacting fast enough to downloads, but the fact is that that overwhelming change happened years before it expected.If you want the same sensation, try imagining how you'd cope if the price of petrol rose by a factor of 10 tomorrow. For a lot of people, it would destroy the economics of travel to work; you'd even start thinking hard about whether walking to the supermarket wasn't a good idea. And the price of food would go up dramatically too, because tractors that plough and harvest don't run on air, and nor do the aircraft and ships that ferry food. IF you want to experience that same hyperventilation the record execs probably felt, try imagining petrol at £15 per gallon.And give it time. It'll get there. As for our record exec, he's probably put that second home on the market by now. Times are tough, and getting tougher.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Experts are warning internet users to be on their guard after more than half a million computers were infected with a single piece of malicious software.In just seven days more than 530,000 instances of a single booby-trapped file have been spotted by analysts at internet security company McAfee, leading them to claim it is the biggest outbreak for several years.The program works by posing as an ordinary media download, piggybacking on the draw of movies such as the recent St Trinian's film or pop acts such as Girls Aloud. Instead of finding the video or song they are expecting, however, victims are fooled into infecting their computers with a secret program which then bombards them with adverts.Toralv Dirro, a security strategist at McAfee's Avert Labs, said it was the most successful piece of malicious code in three years - but that things could have been much worse. "We're lucky that this is relatively benign," he said. "We're worried that other people might use the same system to seed a more damaging piece of malware - it may be a precedent that is used by somebody else."The technique, known as a Trojan horse, is common, but the latest variant appears to have been more successful than many of its counterparts. This could be because it was first planted on huge filesharing networks such as eDonkey and Limewire, which are used by millions of people to share music, movies and video files."It's pretty much impossible for us to find out where it was injected into the system, or track it back to find out who is benefiting," admitted Dirro. "At the moment we have no idea who is responsible, and this is data we cannot easily get."Filesharing sites are a regular haunt for the writers of malicious software, but have also been used by some media companies to catch illegal downloaders in the act.Last year a US company, MediaDefender, was discovered to be deliberately seeding popular networks with poor-quality videos and decoy music files in an attempt to reduce the popularity of peer-to-peer systems. But Dirro said that there was no indication the latest outbreak was the result of such action. "Most likely it is somebody involved in the advertiser's affiliate programme, and they make some small amount of money every time the software is installed," he said.
The World Wide Web recently celebrated a birthday of sorts. It has been15 years since CERN released the codeinto the public domain.Sir Tim Berners-Lee said:What's exciting is that people are building new social systems, new systems of review, new systems of governance. My hope is that those will produce... new ways of working together effectively and fairly which we can use globally to manage ourselves as a planet.Sir Tim said that the web is still in its infancy, and it's easy to agree with him when you look back at the rapid pace of change in the last 15 years. When I first usedthe Mosaic browserin August of 1993, I knew the web was a game changer, but it was hard to envisage YouTube when you had to wait a half hour to download large images, even on the university's then fast network. And it's not just download speed that has changed in the last 15 years. The economic and socio-political impact of the internet in general and the web in particular has been revolutionary.But not all of the changes have been positive. Cyber-law expert Jonathan Zittrain has great hopes for the future of the internet but not without caveats.His worst fearis "that everything becomes like a press conference" with cameras everywhere, uploading constantly - basically a crowd-sourced, networked version of CCTV.But if you were the king/queen of the future for a day, what do you want from the next generation of the internet? Beyond just a fatter pipe to the world wide web, what do you want the future internet to look like? C'mon, it's Friday. Dream a little.These video blogs are produced by Current TV in association with the Guardian. You can find Current TV on the web, Sky channel 193 and Virgin Media channel 155.
What's your favourite piece of technology?I just bought a Sony Vaio microcomputer, a new laptop computer. I love the new Macbook Air but I need a built-in DVD player.How has it improved your life?Anybody who's carried around a full-sized notebook computer will tell you that after years of back pain, this one is super-light and that makes a huge difference. And there's still room in my backpack for everything else I need when travelling the globe.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it this morning at the flat I'm staying at in London, where I read my email and checked on the budget for my next movie — I'm going to be one of the directors of the movie adaptation ofFreakonomics.What additional features would you add if you could?I'm also a bit of a gaming freak, so if there's any way I could make my Vaio and my PSP one, I'd be rapt.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Definitely. In 10 years' time, shouldn't I just have a chip in my head that I can plug into my toaster so that I can eat, play games and watch TV whenever and wherever I want?What one tip would you give to non-Vaio users?A lot of people are afraid to give the Vaio a try because they don't believe that Sony computers are on a par with Dell or other mainstream brands. But this is my third Vaio notebook, and I'm totally sold on them.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I'm such a nerd.  I read comic books in bed — what more do you need to hear?What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Before I started shooting my latest film, I bought a nice, professional digital Canon camera. It was a really expensive investment, but it looks like you're shooting on film. It makes a real novice like me look good.Mac or PC?PC for now, but I feel the pull of the creative dark side.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?There's always Metallica somewhere near the top.Will robots rule the world?I saw that movie. It all ends terribly. We'll see what happens in the season finale of Battlestar Galactica!What piece of technology would you most like to own?I wanna get one of those cassette decks that can digitise all your old cassettes and convert them to MP3 files to put on your iPod.When was the last time you ate at McDonalds?March 2, 2003Morgan Spurlock wrote, directed and starred inSuper Size Me. His new film,Where in the World is Osama bin Laden?, opens today across the UK
If you're over the age of 40, you'll be slightly disappointed by this title because it's not based on the classic Jay Ward cartoon series from the 1960s. Nor is it based on the Brendan Fraser live-action film from 1997. It's actually based on a new Canadian cartoon series that hasn't even been shown in the UK yet.But not to worry, everyone's reasonably familiar with this Tarzan spoof about George, the king of the jungle who's actually dumber than his best friend, Ape (who really is an ape). George is so thick he thinks his pet elephant, Shep, is a dog (a "great big peanut-lovin' poochie").The game itself is an old-skool 2D platformer (although the background environment itself is 3D), which may be a new experience for the age group this game is aimed at because they didn't have the good fortune to grow up playing with the SNES or Mega-Drive.As 2D platformers go, GOTJ is not all that bad. You play as George, on a quest to find some research papers that have been lost in the jungle. Cue lots of running, jumping, climbing, swinging from trees, collecting bananas, beating up monkeys and battling bosses.The animation is cute, but the gameplay is sometimes clunky and the control is not as concise or as accurate as you'd wish. There are also no save points, which means that when you die you have to start the game all over again.Kids might enjoy it, but the novelty will soon wear off and they'll be running back to their Mario Karts.
Most big search companies are experimenting with the idea of comprehensive search pages that show lots of different results -- text, images, video etc -- instead of just text. Google calls it Universal Search. Yahoo's is Glue, and a beta version has just been launched inIndia.Glue doesn't just get results from different parts of the search engine (text, images etc), it can also pull in hits from Yahoo Groups, Yahoo Answers and Yahoo News, plus outside sources such as Flickr, Last FM, Google Blog Search and How Stuff Works.There are, of course, some limitations. The obvious one is that it takes much longer to load a Glue page. Another is that it only works for limited number of queries in certain areas, typically sports, travel, entertainment, and health. The Beatles example above, fromSearch Engine Land, is dead easy. If your query is more along the lines ofwindows database extract IPTC metadatathen it's not going to work too well.At the moment, Google's "one box" idea (surfacing some related materials at the top of the search, eg news) seems to work best, and is also used, to a limited extent, by Microsoft's Live Search.Why India? According to the report inBusiness Standard:Announcing the launch, here today, Pranesh Anthapur, chief operating officer, Yahoo India R&amp;D said, "The new concept has been developed by the company's software engineers at the Bangalore campus and the Beta version is launched here for the first time ahead of other global markets."
You resisted for months - maybe even years. Perhaps you were put off by a poor review or, conversely, too much gushingly positive coverage. Perhaps you just didn't like the sound of it. But in the end you relented, and loved it, and wondered what you were doing all those years.Yep, this week's question - what are the games you came to late? It could be a series (did you only discover Final Fantasy at VII? Or even X?) or a single game. Whatever the circumstances, what was the game, and what made you change your mind about it?
It's official: the guys who founded Google are grown up.That was the pronouncement on Thursday from Google chief executive Eric Schmidt, who was hired in 2001 to provide mature, traditional business savvy to the internet search company founded by whiz kids Larry Page and Sergey Brin."The boys have grown up," Schmidt told a news conference ahead of the company's annual meeting.Now billionaires, the two who formed the company, which has the motto "Don't Be Evil," were seen as "brilliant young founders," Schmidt said."They now function in the company as the senior executives with the kind of skills and experience ...""We wish he had five years ago," Page said, finishing Schmidt's thought.Page, 35, and Brin, who was born in the Soviet Union 34 years ago, made history in their 20s when they set up the Google search engine."Now we don't have to have the same kind of arguments," said Schmidt, who at 53 qualifies as an old man by the standards of the youthful Google campus."In fact, they really are running the companies that they founded at the scale and with the insights that you would expect of people who are no longer young founders but are mature business leaders," he offered.Brin and Page ranked as number 32 and 33 on Forbes' 2008 list of billionaires, with more than $18bn (£9bn) each, but on Thursday they downplayed the effects of overwhelming wealth."I don't think at a certain scale it matters, but I do have a pretty good toy budget now," Brin said when asked about how vast wealth had changed his life. "I just got a new monitor."Page mentioned an even more modest benefit: "I don't have to do laundry."To which Schmidt, who favors a more traditional coat and tie to the founders' more casual dress, replied: "I think the clothes are pretty much the same."Brin wore a black pullover shirt. Page wore a black jacket over a grey pullover shirt."Those aspects of their personalities have not changed," Schmidt said. "They care a lot about the principles of the company. They don't care a lot about the other things."Both Page and Brin got married over the past year but closely guard their personal lives. At the news conference, both said their work lives had certainly changed."One thing is that we have 10 or 20,000 people to help us," Brin said. "Certainly I am not pulling all-nighters all the time like we were when we were in the garage, when we were only three or four people doing everything.""So now I have vastly more help and I think concern about using our time efficiently, having good judgment, making good decisions. That's kind of a welcome change to me."Page highlighted the responsibilities they now carried. "Our opportunity and responsibility has continued to expand," Page said. "It doesn't feel all that different to me than it did a few years ago."
Google expects to launch new products for its YouTube web video service in the next few months and sees reason for closer cooperation with Yahoo, Google chief executive Eric Schmidt said on Thursday.Schmidt has said getting the video sharing site to make money is the web search company's top priority for the year. He did not give details of the products, however, and they are not even in initial, or beta, testing.At the company's annual shareholder meeting, Google co- founder Sergey Brin said YouTube and DoubleClick, an online advertising company bought by Google earlier this year for $3.1bn (£1.55bn), are still small businesses compared with its core search and advertising business."They both have potential, but for it to be a sizable part of our revenue, you're going to have to wait at least a couple of years," said Brin in response to a question about when those acquisitions would make a significant contribution to the company's bottom line.Google bought YouTube for $1.6bn in 2006.The web search leader played a large role in the takeover battle between Microsoft and Yahoo. During a two-week test, it sold search advertisements on rival Yahoo last month as part of Yahoo's attempt to find an alternative option to Microsoft's offer.Schmidt said the trial run provided good reason for the companies to discuss cooperation, but there was no deal yet."We view the test as successful," he told reporters before the web company's annual meeting. "That's a good basis to talk to Yahoo some more."The Google CEO, speaking later at the shareholder meeting, said the company will continue to growth faster outside of its home market. Google generated 51% of its revenue outside the United States in the March quarter, but Schmidt said he expects that figure to grow over time.Without giving a specific time frame, Schmidt said he expects 65% of Google's revenue to come from abroad. Eventually, non-US revenue could be even higher.Google co-founders Brin and Larry Page also fielded a request from one shareholder who asked the pair not to split the company's stock, which closed at $583 on the Nasdaq."I think that's the first time we've had that request," Page said with a chuckle.Brin played the straight man: "We have had no problem honoring that thus far and I don't expect that anything will change in that respect."
EA has officially announced a new title in its decent Lord of the Rings series.LotR: Conquestis in development at Pandemic for Xbox 360, PS3, PC and DS. Due out this autumn it is, of course, an epic battle sim, with one interesting slant:In addition to crusading as the heroic forces of good, for the first time ever in a 'The Lord of the Rings' action title they'll conquer Middle-earth while playing as the legions of Sauron's evil army, including Cave-trolls, Oliphaunts, the Balrog and Sauron himself.Being currently obsessed with a certain Rockstar game, I've been trying to remember any fantasy titles that have let you play as an evil character. You could be naughty in Fable, I suppose, but Thief was a bit of a cop out. Why has there been no GTA-style experience in a D&amp;D setting? This won't be it of course - on the battlefield, it doesn't really matter which side of the fictional divide you are on. But it would be fun to control an orc or dark elf free to roam the cities of Middle Earth, stealing horses and robbing hobbits.
Post GTA lull anyone? Yes, this week's reviews are dominated by low key stuff that is unlikely to drag you out of Liberty City. The best of the bunch seems to beThe World Ends With Youfor the DS - "a sharp, stylish game full of variety and customisation" - which gets 4/5. I've yet to play but am imagining it's more original than game-of-the-film Iron Man. Actually,Iron Man the gamewas better than I expected, especially considering the poor reviews. Don't expect perfection but mindless action always has a place. Last up isNBA Ballers: Chosen One, which gets a grudging 2/5. To be honest my knowledge of basketball videogames begins and ends with the classic - for the time -International Basketballon the C64. Happy days.
The Conservative Party's commitment to free data in the name of more accountable public services is to receive its first large-scale test.Newly elected London mayor Boris Johnson says he will require the Metropolitan Police to create Britain's most detailed map of reported crimes. He also promised to make data available to groups such as local Neighbourhood Watches to create their own crime maps.One entrepreneur in the US has already offered to develop a Google-based system for free. Geographical information and crime researchers at the University of London are also hoping to interest the mayor in a system.Presenting crime reports in map form is not a new idea. The Home Office has been interested for at least six years. Several local authorities and police forces have tried out limited schemes, both as a tool both for identifying "hot spots" and for reassuring the public."Perceptions of crime levels are often 10 to 100 times greater than actual levels, so maps can have a positive reassuring message," says Spencer Chainey of the Jill Dando Institute of Crime Science at University College London.Johnson's manifesto cites two examples of police forces making crime maps available - West Yorkshire Police Authority'sbeatcrime.infoand West Midlands'myneighbourhood.info. However these sites map only a limited number of offences, and not at high geographical detail. The London scheme would "map a large number of offences at street level". The exact location mapped would depend on the sensitivity of the crime: an assault or theft would have the exact location, a burglary a location within 300 metres, while a sexual assault would be identified only by street.Chainey says the technology is available to present crime data in an intuitive educational way. He hopes the mayor will consider UCL's London Profiler 3D maplondonprofiler.org. However one obstacle will be to change the mindset of police forces, which have been cautious about releasing data. "I don't think they've really sat down and thought through the power of this information."Johnson also cites some US cities as the model to follow. However, according to Colin Drane, founder ofSpotcrime.com, the picture is patchy. The free commercial site maps crimes in the US's 100 largest cities. While some cities such as Dallas and Washington DC release constantly updated data, in others Drane says he has to rely on media reports. "Most cities believe they own the data, there is a hesitancy to share it with the public."However Drane says that more cities are seeing the benefits. "When we started mapping crimes in Baltimore, it coincided with a 30% decline in crimes, the first for many years." Drane, a British citizen, has written to Johnson offering to set up a crime mapping site for free. So far, there has been no reply.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Dr Faiz Rahman is putting millions of holes into light emitting diodes to make them brighter. He's not, as you might imagine, trying to increase their surface area. Instead, he's overcoming the physical properties that keep most light trapped inside. And when he's managed to scale up his hole-making process, it'll mean bright low-energy LED lightbulbs for the home.As a nanoelectronics researcher in the University of Glasgow, Rahman knows that LEDs are very energy-efficient. But there's a catch. Although 70% of the energy is converted to light, just 20% of that light escapes. Why? A high refractive index at the LED-air interface means the light is reflected straight back inside. Some LEDs are made from gallium nitride, perhaps the most optically-awkward  semiconductor material of all.Trapping the light fantastic"It's transparent and has a high refractive index. It traps light very effectively," says Rahman. "But LEDs have the potential to be as bright as ordinary bulbs." To realise this potential, Rahman is working on a BERR (DTI)-funded technology project with the Institute of Photonics, University of Strathclyde, Mesophotonics Ltd, and Sharp Laboratories of Europe. "We know how to extract light out of LEDs and that's by making a series of holes on the surface of the LED," says Rahman, the project's lead researcher. He's already made several hole-patterned prototype LEDs, the precise details of which are secret.These holes are extremely small indeed. At 200 nanometres (nm) in diameter, they're 400 times narrower than a human hair but only penetrate 100nm into the LED's surface. Spaced 300nm apart, 160 holes would fit across a hair's width. Although a single LED chip may be around one third of a square millimetre (0.3mm by 0.3mm), that's enough space for hundreds of thousands of holes.So how do these holes work? At such incredibly small scales, structuring the top of the LED semiconductor material with a periodic repeating pattern, or lattice, changes the refractive index (a measure of how light slows inside the medium).This change also reduces the internal reflections from the material's surface which would otherwise trap emitted light inside. Rahman refers to this as a "photonic crystal" - an optical nanostructure that manipulates light. "In a photonic-lattice patterned LED around 80% of the generated light can be extracted. More, probably, would be possible by future design improvements," he says.Put aside any ideas of a nano-sized drill; Rahman first used a converted electron microscope - electron beam lithography - to pattern the holes. "It works fine, but it's a very slow process for production," he says. "As yet, LEDs have not been introduced as the standard lighting in homes because the process of making the holes is time-consuming and expensive."To create holes in LED chips using an electron beam - it takes Rahman about 30 minutes to process just a few LEDs - they're first covered with "resist" material. The electron beam rapidly marks the position of the individual holes, which are later etched out using a dry gas mixture of hydrogen and methane - safer than handling liquid acids or solvents. These holes need barely penetrate the active surface of a typical half-millimetre thick LED chip to have the desired optical effect.While the silicon chip industry has mastered expensive ways of making ultra-small features using photolithography and etching, it's the wrong approach for quickly patterning LEDs on a production line. Many individual finished LEDs are necessary for a household lightbulb - so high-volume manufacturing is essential."That was the challenge - what would be a cheaper way of doing this very intricate patterning?" says Rahman. "We have found a way of imprinting the holes into LEDs at a far greater speed, but at a much lower cost."Intricate patternsHe's now turned to nanoimprint lithography. Put simply, he first makes a stamp with nanoscale protrusions where the holes will be. When pressed down onto an LED chip - or, more likely, an entire 6-inch wafer of LED devices in the future - these deform the imprint "resist" on the LED surface, leaving a pattern with dry etching techniques later forming the holes as before."The basic process works but there are a few tweaks needed," says Rahman. Encouraged by several prototype LEDs, he hopes to tackle small-scale production trials in 18 to 24 months' time. But will he succeed?Aimin Song, professor of nanoelectronics at the University of Manchester, believes there doesn't seem to be a huge challenge in integrating such methods into LED production lines economically."Nanoimprint [lithography] seems to be the most practically suitable technology for this. One could use e-beam to make an array of holes over a small area and then recombine into a millimetre-sized nanoimprint stamp which is a relatively easy process," says Song. "Unless very deep holes are needed, it should not be a big problem to produce them over a large area."Rahman's first LED devices are intended for use in backlights within LCD TVs, replacing cold cathode tubes and helping make thin TVs even thinner. As for those bright, money-saving LED lightbulbs for the home, there may not be a long wait. "You should be able to buy them in two to three years' time," Rahman says.
An American student is arrested in Egypt, and manages to send a brief text with a single word - "ARRESTED" - which is picked up around the world, and leads quickly to his release, helped by a lawyer hired by his university back in the US. In Britain, the prime minister's office decides people should be able to find out what their premier is doing; as of today, more than 2,000 people do. During an interview at the SXSW festival in March, audience dissatisfaction with Sarah Lacy's interviewing style with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg spills over into silent but powerful discourse among the audience: one calls it a "train wreck". People fleeing from fires in California say where they are; that proves more useful and timely than official goverment information.The common factor? Twitter, the free (at present) service which lets you send a 140-character message, or "tweet", to a site where anyone can read it, though it will only be sent directly to those who have chosen to "follow" you (though if you want, you can pick and choose who you allow to follow you). Twitter's first prototype was built in two weeks in March 2006 and launched publicly that August. It has only been a company since May 2007, but its growth has been explosive - so much so that it constantly struggles to keep running as a growing number of people sign on, sending more and more tweets.One of the first questions people ask is "what is Twitter for?" As with any social network, the answer is the same: whatever you make of it. Some think that its immediacy makes it ideal for spreading news. Others find it useful to ask questions of their peers; still others, for following what people or topics they're interested in. The BBC and the Guardian, for example, already offer Twitter services for breaking news (check out theGuardian Technology Twitter feed). It will be surprising if IBM does not offer a Twitter service with results from the All-England Tennis Club Championships in July.Hitwise, the web measurement company, notes that traffic to Twitter has risen eightfold in the past year, more than doubled in the past three months and up 60% in the past month. By Hitwise's measure, it's only ranked 439th in social networks - outside the mainstream - butHeather Hopkins, senior Hitwise analyst, adds quickly that: "Twitter's size is notoriously difficult to measure as there are so many access points (mobile phones in particular)."That is a key point. Measurement companies like Hitwise tend to rely on browser-based metrics to see where samples of people are going. But whereas Facebook, MySpace, Bebo and Habbo Hotel are only usable through a web browser, Twitter has broken free of the web; its text message-length "tweets" can be received on a mobile phone or other device. You don't have to visit the web page to use Twitter; in fact, doing so may be one of the slowest ways of using the service. And many of the systems that are built around Twitter use web pages to interface directly to its database (via a published API). Twitter didn't respond to a request asking how many active users and how many tweets are sent each day; but it's a safe guess that both are in the millions. TwitDir, a Twitter directory, suggests there are now 1.05 million Twitter users - up from 518,000 in October.With Twitter thus poised to enter the mainstream, we offer here our list of the best tools presently available on, and built on, Twitter. As ever, this is a moving target: within months we expect there will be even better ones. And we will watch our Twitter feeds for your responses and suggestions.First stepsTwitter.comobviously. You don't need to sign up; you can watch the flow of messages from a particular user at their username (eg Guardian Technology's, which is attwitter.com/guardiantech). However, Twitter only becomes useful once you can sift through the huge volume of posts. Signing up is free and you're not obliged to follow anyone, or post anything, or let anyone follow you.Next stepsYou can follow Twitter at the website, but that's inefficient. Smartest moves: get a program for your PC, Mac or Linux box to watch the flow.WindowsMadtwitter;Twitteroo;TwitterliciousMac OS XTwitterifficLinuxDeskbar;TwituxMobile phonesTwittter for iPhone;Twitterberry(for BlackBerries);hahlo.com(iPhone and others)FirefoxTweetbarFinding peopleWhoshouldifollow.comanswers that simple question. Given your username, it will look for other users with some overlap with the people you follow, and suggest them as people for you to follow. Add some of the names there and then repeat the process, and you'll quickly build up a large network.Twitdir.com, a directory. Find people, and quickly see the top 100 most-followed and busiest twitterers.Twitterholic.com, the top users and accounts: choose, then repeat as above.Searching and organisingSummize.com, search for a word or phrase across the entire Twitter feed. Interested in Scotland? Explosions? Burma? Plug the search in and view the results; or take an RSS feed, which will automatically update when new tweets match your search.Quotably.comcreates threads of discussions between people.Terraminds.com, another search engine, for users or phrases.Tweetscan.com, search by user and time.Twitterlocal.netfinds twitterers near you.SharingTwitthis.com, lets people looking at your site or blog share the URL via Twitter.Twitturly.com, what's being most linked-to and talked about?Tweetmeme.com, what sort of topics are being discussed?VisualiseTwittervision.com,  real-time Google Maps mashup showing where the latest tweets are being posted.Twitterverse, tag clouds based on the messages flowing through twitter.Twistori.com, love, hate, think, believe, feel, wish: what people are saying where the tweets use those words.Twittearth.com, processor-heavy, but fascinating, visualisation of tweets, put onto a spiralling globe.Tweetwheel.com, which of your friends are already following each other?MiscellaneousTweetspeech, Yahoo Pipes module that converts (incoming) tweets to speech, playable via RSS.Tweeterboard, a "leaderboard" of who the busiest, most popular, most chatty users are.Twitter fan wiki,  lots more Twitter information and applications.Twittersnooze.com, hit the "snooze button", briefly, on verbose friends.Twitter balloon,  your tweets superimposed on an image of your choosing.Latest Scores, latest football scores, as tweets.twerpscan.com, avoid followers who befriend everyone: may be spammers.
A nasty little story from the US, where some prankstershacked into the website of the Epilepsy Foundationand caused some mayhem.Hey, this is the net, right? It's all to be expected. Except what first looks like a frat house stunt suddenly turns into something more malicious.Hackers recently bombarded the Epilepsy Foundation's Web site with hundreds of pictures and links to pages with rapidly flashing images.The breach triggered severe migraines and near-seizure reactions in some site visitors who viewed the images. People with photosensitive epilepsy can get seizures when they're exposed to flickering images, a response also caused by some video games and cartoons.This gets me really angry.I understand that the sheer volume of people online makes this sort of idiocy more likely to happen. But I can't shake an underlying feeling of distaste at the internet morons who create a disproportionate amount of havoc online and - largely through their addiction to malice - ruin it for everyone else.Griefers are something we've all learned to deal with online, whether it's the attention-seeking mob calledAnonymous, comment thread trolls or theflying penises of Second Life. But even those who have helped bring this culture about disavow it: atROFLCona couple of weeks ago it was interesting to hear moot, the owner and creator of4Chan, say that he was far from proud of a lot of what happens on the site.My problem isn't that griefers exist. That's life. What does make me angry is thatthese are the people who represent us in the world.Every time a griefer or troll lashes out, somebody else thinks anyone into internet culture must be brain dead or anti-social. Just now I opened my mail and found a copy of Lee Siegel's paperback "Against the Machine(subtitle: "Being human in the age of the electronic mob". I haven't looked further inside yet (I try to avoid trolls in any medium), but from past form I suspect that he may end up picking out the worst instances of behaviour to describe the entire culture.This is what happens when griefers become so visible. But how do we stop it?
You have to be a basketball fan to appreciate all the licensed players, strips and jargon, but fans will also feel the most disappointed by Midway's latest take on the NBA franchise. Yes, there's 80+ current players as well as former greats like Larry Bird to play with, but there's little innovation other than a Story mode where you can create your own player from hundreds of options and take him through six mainly one-on-one challenges against better known players. It does look great, with top graphics, sound and presentation. However, sluggish controls, repetitive gameplay, over-complicated trick shots and a frustrating scoring system makes you wish EA's Street series didn't have to share the NBA license with Midway. Ballers is definitely propping up this particular league.
The Motion Picture Association of America is trumpeting a victory against the TorrentSpy search site, and has issued a press release (PDF) that says:In a significant victory for the major Hollywood studios, a federal judge in Los Angeles has issued a $110 million judgment for the infringement of thousands of popular copyrighted motion pictures and television shows. The court also issued a permanent injunction prohibiting defendant from further infringing any of the studios' copyrighted works.In Los Angeles, District Judge Florence-Marie Cooper fined TorrentSpy an amazing $30,000 per copyright infringement. Over 3,699 films and shows, that comes to almost $111 million. Not that it seems likely to collect. According toReuters: "Court records show that Valence [the parent company] and TorrentSpy principles Justin Bunnell and Wes Parker have filed for bankruptcy."Nonethelss, TorrentSpy's lawyer, Ira Rothken,has told CNethe plans to appeal."What is really going on here is a Hollywood public-relations stunt," Rothken said. "The reason for the size of the judgment was so a bunch of news organizations would write that 'a $100 million judgment was issued against a bunch of pirates' when, in fact, it was declared against a company with no appreciable assets that has already declared bankruptcy."Also, because Cooper terminated the case, Rothken says "the case has no precedent-setting value because TorrentSpy never got its day in court. This may come as good news to IsoHunt, one of TorrentSpy's former competitors, which has also been sued by the MPAA for allegedly violating copyright," adds CNet.Whether the TorrentSpy case will make any other difference remains to be seen. A quick Google finds pages of BitTorrent listings. It will be interesting to see if any sites now close down voluntarily.
While the generals in Burma are still setting their faces against the amount ofaid that people are trying to offer, at least overflying satellites are giving the world an idea of how widespread the problems are, and how deep they go.The Google Earth blog has alisting of visualisations(including aGoogle Earth flythroughof the storm's path); you can also seehi-res pictures, free, at Unosat("satellite solutions for all" - someone tell Private Eye).Obviously, pictures don't help - but they do make it clear that the initial estimates of the scale of the problem were underestimated. Burma is home to about 47m people, and at least 1m have been displaced by this storm.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
It does seem appropriate that an Italian company calledWEThas created what it calls the first "musical" washbasin, theX-Light™ Surround. It features a "build in amplified speakersystem for MP3 or portable CD-player". The speakers are underneath, pointing downwards.WET already has aMeltdown sinkwith a built-in sound system. This multimedia sink has internal lighting, and you can add "an internal projection-shield that can project images from inside to its surface". So when you wash your face, you could have it show your company logo, coat of arms, thought for the day, or whatever.You'd obviously use it to playWet Wet Wetor Handel's Water Music and a bit ofSchubert, but what other bands/tracks would be appropriate. Any ideas? (I seeBob Dylanhas already done it.)
At last week'sFuturesonic08Social Media Summit in Manchester, I was asked to piece together something for a session on Urban &amp; Social Media about play. And so I threw together an impromptu web-based overview of some of the location-based gaming experiments that have come to my attention over the past few years. It follows a trajectory from adaptations through uses of new media in a game-like way to fully-fledged new forms of gaming dependent upon social technology. Keep reading for a primer on the key events of location-based games.The Age of AdaptationThe first games are more like homages to games, creating something in reality from something in virtuality.First up isa simple adaptation of the classic Gameboy title Tetris, performed by the residents of a student hall at Tampere University. It's a classic - performing the puzzle drops for an audience of onlookers and interacting between one another (and audience-players) using mobile phones. But this episode didn't incorporate social media (unless you count phones as social); it was an homage using the facilities to hand.PacManhattanis a similar extension of a transformation of a game from one medium to another. Using the city streets of Manhattan, the performance occurred within the social environment, but external to it. The players were only those who were dressed up in silly costumes trying to achieve their goals. No one else had the opportunity to have a go.Still, the game of chase did break up the monotony of the daily commute for some city slickers.And then there are the artists who use urban landscapes as the settings for adaptations of old faithful game mechanics; the first-person-shooter-inspiredCruel 2 B Kindinvites players to blast their ways around real-life locations using words of kindness rather than bullets. More examples arehere, from the BFI's Hide and Seek programme.One-sided gamingThe next series of games focussed more on the urban and rural spaces they took place in, creating game goals to fit, rather than fitting a game into the locations.Geocachingis a popular treasure hunt facilitated by GPS technology. Players locate an object somewhere in the country, take a small bit and leave something behind for the next person. It's an analog adaptation of social media using the technology to support the play.Similarly, players of the Japanese gameSuperstarused a variety of technologies to identify hidden gems in the urban Tokyo landscape - Puri Kura sticker machines, mobile phones, websites - and competed to generate the most connections between players. Interaction between players was sparse, and social media was used as just another pawn in the overall goal.InteractionandinteractivityIncreasingly, artists and game developers are using social media and technology to connect players within the urban space. Blast Theory'sUncle Roy All Around You, andRider Spoke(I have an extra ticket for the event happening on Sunday in Brighton - email gamesblog +at+ gmail.com if you'd like to come along) establish mutual goals for distributed people who interact via technologies.On the other hand,We Tell Stories, a join initiative between Penguin and ARG developers Six to Start, situates participants in new technologies which document real-life landscapes as settings for interactive storytelling.The Age of Mixed RealityBut the current front-runner in the integration of landscape and gaming has been the initiatives propelled forward by ARG developers like Jane McGonigal, Six to Start and 42 Entertainment. Inspired by books likeMasqueradeor ongoing broadcast projects likeLa Chouette D'Or(both the products of previous technologies), these game designers use new media to bring people together in order to identify real-world locations which are part of the games. The famousI Love Beesphone box puzzle, which brought players together in a real-world location to hear garbled information at the other end of a public telephone line, or Mind Candy's Perplex City puzzles likeFind Satoshi, or 41 Entertainment'sVanishing Pointwhichused landscapesas its clues, are integrating technologies and urban space in ways which herald a new generation of location-based gaming.Which is nice, because when it's sunny, I want to play outside.
"Making the most of Twitter" is the front page oftoday's Technology supplement(helped out, of course, by those of you who contributed to anearlier post). From it have come some useful suggestions for tools to use on the system that could be best described as micro-blogging (you're limited to 140 characters, but what you say is world-viewable) mixed with social networking (you choose whose microblogs you see) plus a sprinkling of instant messaging (you can send public or private messages to people).There are some examples at the top of the piece about how some have used Twitter to great effect - an arrested student, even Gordon Brown's office, and people fleeing fires. Twitter also has the advantage, in an emergency, that if you're Twittering from a mobile, you're using data, which is more tolerant of low connectivity speeds than voice.But here's the question: do you remain unconvinced? I'd admit I was until a couple of weeks ago when I decided to pitch in and started using Twitterific (one of the many desktop clients). Since then, I've found it an interesting source of buzz and URLs and things that are going on which has the advantage of being geographically dispersed, yet up-to-the-minute. (Once, of course, you sort the chaff.)Are you using it? Can you envisage ways that it could be commercially useful?Oh, and already a new service that we didn't come across while preparing the article:Twitter Blacklist, which shows the people who "follow" improbable numbers of people - and therefore look suspiciously like spammers. (Seems ourearlier article about why there's no spam on Twitterwas premature.)In the light of which, does anyone care to take a stab at the arc that Twitter will follow - given the examples of LinkedIn, Facebook, Friends Reunited, and so on?Update:as we should have mentioned,Twitterfeed(which lets blog or page output be sent directly to a Twitter feed) is behind lots of organisations - such as Downing Street's, the BBC's and indeed our own. Tip o'the hat (and we hope assuaged ire) toMario. (I didn't mention it explicitly because I wasn't certain the BBC, Downing Street and indeed ourselves were using it; looking at the API it's clear that an RSS-to-Twitter tool could be the sort of thing that any of those organisations might choose to write in-house. Anyhow, happy to set that straight.)
A kinder,gentler GTAJust what the readers of the Daily Mail ordered: Conan O'Brien with a version of Grand Theft Auto IV where the people are nice and law-abiding (even if their clothes are kinda scuzzy).Facebook IRL - ROTFLMAOYou have probably wondered how you would know when Facebook had jumped the shark. The answer: when it's being skewered, beautifully, by parodies like this, from BBC3's The Wall.Space kangaroos, bewareProof: boomerangs work in space and microgravity (as long as you have air). If we meet any aliens, Crocodile Dundee can protect us!Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us about it in the comments...
This year, the big event in Facebookland will be the launch of a wider and smartertabbedProfile page. It's "aimed at making things simpler, cleaner, and more relevant, while still giving you control over your own profile," says theofficial preview page.It seems the main change will be to move application profile boxes off the user's main profile page, by default. With thousands of apps around, this will immediately decrease clutter and improve load times, but also make it harder for developers to get their apps to "go viral". This seems to me a Good Thing. Users will also get more control over feeds via a newFeed Wall; ditto.Facebook trailed the changes back inFebruary, and yesterday publisheddetails for developers. The Developers blog said:Now we're ready to start giving you as many details on the new features as we can so you can prepare to fully integrate your applications into the new design. Along with the new profiles, we are also launching improvements to Feed and Wall, as well as making some changes to streamline the application installation flow.It also promised a beta test site later this month.Inside Facebook, an independent blog, has talked to "Ruchi Sanghvi and Josh Elman, Product Managers of the Facebook Platform and leads on the profile redesign effort" to provide more details.Any thoughts? Or is Facebook last year's news?
How long is the lifetime of DVDs, and what options are there to back up documentaries and films?Chris SzejnmannCommercial DVDs are expected to last more than 50 years, assuming they are pressed correctly on good quality media, and then stored in a cool, dark, dry place. Heat, humidity, handling and atmospheric pollution are all believed to reduce the life of optical discs, based on accelerated ageing tests, but nobody really knows.DVDs that are burned separately, perhaps as backups, could last anything from 20 years to 200 years. However, read-write (RW) discs should never be used for archiving: they are not as stable and many may not last 15 years. According to a study by America's National Institute of Standards (NIST) and the Library of Congress, some could last only two years. There's a summary at The X-Lab:Optical media longevity.Optical media are very variable, but Digital FAQ has published abrand media guide. Discs made by Taiyo Yuden in Japan are generally reckoned to be about the best, along with Hitachi Maxell, Sony and TDK. Some firms offer DVD blanks designed for archival storage. For example,Delkin Devicessells a 300-year Archival Gold disc andMAM-Ahas a Gold Archive DVD-R.Obviously, you should still store your archival DVDs vertically in jewel cases or special boxes in a cool, dry place. You should also avoid writing on them, sticking anything on them, or touching their surfaces. MAM-A has aPDFof handling instructions. Even then, someone maintaining a serious archive would want to check sample discs every five years or so, and consider re-copying discs to fresh media. Under the circumstances, the cheapest and best backup of a commercial DVD is probably another commercial copy, stored archivally.Either way, bear in mind that DVD is a heavily compressed, low-resolution, error-prone format, and there might be 80GB or more original data squidged down to less than 5GB. A DVD movie is not equivalent to a master tape. It's just a cheap format that works well for replaying movies on domestic TV sets.
I'm going to Canada for four weeks. I thought about getting an ebook reader as an easy way of carrying a lot of books, but the Iliad reader is ridiculously expensive.Allan CochraneYou can use almost any handheld computer, PDA or smart phone as an ebook reader, so you may already have something suitable. If not, the PDA section on eBay has hundreds of old Pocket PCs, Palms, Psions and similar machines, many of them going very cheaply. I've used an HP Jornada CE machine (one with a decent keyboard) and a Dell Axim mainly for Pocket PC street maps, word processing and email, but the ebook Reader software works reasonably well on a small screen, using Microsoft's ClearType. Also, eReader works well on Palm OS, while there's TomeRaider for Psions and other devices.But first, see what kind of books you might want, as not every ebook is available in every format. Lots of books are available in plain text and other common formats from sites such asProject Gutenbergand theUniversity of Virginia.Fictionwisesupports 12 formats including Microsoft Reader (LIT) for PCs and Pocket PC devices, and Mobipocket (PRC) for Palm, Pocket PC, BlackBerry and Symbian. The main copy-protected formats areMobipocket,Microsoft Readerand PalmeReader. Text Library (www.textlibrary.com) has lots of useful links.Note: Amazon's Kindle is not available in the UK.
I've had a message from AVG saying that they are ending their free anti-virus software at the end of May. Can you recommend a free alternative?Rev Julian DunnYes, you can now download AVG Free 8.0, which was released on April 24. The latest free version is always athttp://free.grisoft.com/. It's free for home/non-commercial use.
Can you suggest some software to maintain the registry on our PC with XP SP2 installed? Ideally, I'd like to remove any non-essential entries to speed up the performance of the machine.Greg BartonI'm not convinced that cleaning the registry makes any practical difference to Windows XP SP2, and I wouldn't expect it to make much, if any, difference to the speed. The only cleaner I now use with SP2 isCCleaner, which includes a registry cleaner, among other things. It's a free download, but watch out that it doesn't install the Yahoo toolbar as well.
All the satnavs I've seen allow you to search by postcode or address. However, many organisations provide grid references. Do any satnav devices allow you to search for these?Gren JonesI don't know of any, but satnavs seem to be aimed at drivers who don't want to read maps. By contrast, handheld GPS systems are more attractive to people who do use maps, often of the paper variety.Obviously you could convert grid references into "points of interest" (POIs) and load them into a satnav. There are also lots of sites that let you downloadfree POIs, though you may find it hard to get the places you want. There's a useful conversion site atnearby.org.uk.One solution might be a Pocket PC that can run satnav (eg TomTom) and other software, and also accept a plug-in GPS. Does anybody have a better idea?Backchat: Gren Jones wanted a satnav that could handle grid references, and David Bennett says: "My TomTom Go does!" Jack Isbester says: "The Garmin NUVI satnav for motorists accepts positions identified by their National Grid co-ordinates and can work to the nearest metre. It will also convert a grid reference to the corresponding latitude and longitude." Phil Gee adds: "I use a coordinate converter such as the one athttp://www.nearby.org.uk/coord.cgi. This allows conversion from NGR to WGS84 which is accepted in TomTom as a latitude/longitude input."Chris Platon says he uses "an XDA Orbit PocketPC (which has GPS) running TomTom and also running GPSMap-OS, a freeware program which shows your GPS position on a jpg picture of the OS map downloaded from OS Get-a-Map site or on a Google Earth screen grab. This has been very helpful in producing a map of our field archery target placements in their woodland locations."
Zittrain on wrong track?Well first of all I think he's just plain wrong (Are gadgets killing the internet, May 1). You only have to look at appliances like the Linksys NSLU2 or even the iPhone, which is oddly enough seems to be being held up as the poster child for vendor lock-in, to see that we aren't being locked in by these devices at all. Or at least, some of us aren't. I think he's right in one respect: I think we're entering a period where the number of people that can hack on the devices we use to talk to the network is going to become smaller.dailyack.comHMRC?So, now it begins - my wife's bank account has been debited fraudulently for &pound;560 (Is online shopping ever secure, April 10). She has never used her card on the internet, she checks her balance daily. So, what does she share with half of the population? The fact that we have children and our details are registered with a government department which has casually lost millions of people's data. She contacted her bank (Barclays) and found the source of the fraud. [The bank] told her that they have received a large number of fraudulent hits. I would suggest to those that have children, and therefore have had their personal data handed to criminal elements, to contact their banks and get new cards issued.Keith GoodeNorwichGames onI loved the article atWe've won: get over it. This was one of the best articles ever on computer games. I especially loved this part: "15 years from now, the prime minister of the day will have grown up playing computer games, just as 15 years ago we had the first prime minister to have grown up watching television, and 30 years ago to have grown up listening to the radio. Times change: accept it; embrace it. Don't make yourself look even more 20th century, even more public school, than you do already. You've lost! Understand? Your time has passed." Congratulations on this great article!Mark ReinVice-president and cofounderEpic Games Inc, North Carolina, USThe Guardian has proclaimed a Games Week for their paper. The Guardian has withheld nothing from this celebration: they flooded their website with new articles from the greats in VG journalism and VG creators. It's a must read. What a great acknowledgment of videogames as cultural relevant media. We'll see games popping up in news broadcasts more frequently.blogs.setonhill.edu/nmjIt's shameful to admit, but I really like this video game [GTA IV].fieldguidetomemphis.blogspot.comThere is no doubt that The Sims played a huge impact by helping mould the casual gamer. More people are introduced to gaming every day.simprograms.comFM's not so greatMr Greenwood says "apparently FM is higher quality anyway" (Letters, May 1). In my part of north London, FM reception quality has declined so much in recent years, even with an outdoor aerial, that I have been obliged to buy DAB and retire perfectly good FM equipment. I suspect a plot to force us all to convert! Now I get clean reception even with an indoor aerial - no more hiss, fluctuations due to passing aircraft, or interference from pirate stations. Just like the improvement of FM over AM in its early days!Stephen ThorntonLondonKeep it cleanToday's article (Filthy as a loo seat: hazard of computer keyboards) has "a vacuum cleaner can be used to clean vents, but contrary to internet myth, keyboards should not be put in the dishwasher, the magazine said." [ISBN 0-596-00513-X The book PC Hardware in a Nutshell, by Robert Thompson] has a section describing the authors' use of a dishwasher for this purpose - I haven't tried it.David MartinGlasgow
When Bill Gates was giving his finalkeynote speechat the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January, he said: "The second digital decade will be more focused on connecting people. It will be more focused on being user-centric. Microsoft will deliver platforms that will let people build applications. Those applications will run not only on the PC, they'll run up in the internet, or in the cloud, as we say, on the phone, in the car, in the TV."One of his examples was getting a new device, such as a mobile phone. You won't have to worry about loading it with your contacts and other data: that will be done automatically from the cloud. Perhaps people thought all this was airy-fairy futurism. But Microsoft had already developed what Gates described.Late last month, it was announced as Live Mesh, though it's only available in a limited beta test version. "Cloud services" will work with devices that connect to the net, typically via a browser. In fact, Live Mesh works using a two-way version of a standard feed, now known asFeedSync. Ray Ozzie, Gates's replacement as Microsoft's chief software architect, proposed the basic mechanism in 2005 as RSS Simple Sharing Extensions (SSE), and last year, Microsoft published the spec for developers under a Creative Commons licence.Live Mesh gives each user a desktop on the web, instead of on a local PC. You can add things to your desktop, such as devices - PCs, mobile phones etc - and connect them in a device ring. After that, Live Mesh keeps them synchronised. Users don't have to worry when or how the job is done (over the net, over the air etc) or whether connections are interrupted. That's all part of the Live Mesh service.Of course, you won't want everything replicated everywhere. You're more likely to replicate, say, a folder of photos, or a collaborative document. You can collaborate because Live Mesh lets you give other users access to selected items. You could, for example, share that folder of holiday snaps with your family and friends.Live Mesh is obviously not the first system for synchronising contacts, sharing photos, or storing things online. People have been doing that sort of thing for more than a decade, and Microsoft Live already has FolderShare and SkyDrive. What Live Mesh will really provide is an infrastructure and a programming interface so that developers can build their own applications on top.So while useful, mobile phone synchronisation isn't the purpose of Live Mesh: it's a demo. It's bait, to get users to try Live Mesh, and also a way of tempting programmers to think of other ways to use the infrastructure. Providing what is, in effect, an operating system for the web is going to take a lot of computer power, and Microsoft is building several $500m data centres. It has opened one near Seattle, is building others in Chicago and San Antonio, and plans one in Dublin. This is serious.ProgrammerJoel Spolskyhas already poured some healthy scorn on the idea. He's pointed out that Live Mesh is to some extent a re-run of the badly namedHailstorm projectlaunched in 2001. That time, Microsoft tried to get developers to build cloud applications based on XML Web services.Nobody wanted it. Hailstorm flopped horribly, and so might Live Mesh. But it might just be the Next Big Thing. And if it isn't, at least it could be a heroically expensive failure.
Square Enix's risky move away from fantasy worlds and magic pays off with The World Ends With You. Moving instead into a modern day Tokyo setting, this is a blast of Japanese culture focusing on its design and style, from the clothes you wear to the J-Pop you hear. Part Running Man, part Battle Royale, you're forced to compete in a Reaper's "game". Complete the daily tasks assigned to you for a week and survive. Fail, and you'll be erased from existence. Combat is innovative, with the use of psych pins (badges to the westerners) which give you powerful attacks, and dual-screen battles where you can control both yourself and your partner. However, if multitasking is not your forte don't panic - if left to their own devices, your partner will autoplay. Using all the DS's features during gameplay and allowing the gamer to choose how they want to play, this is a sharp, stylish game full of variety and customisation. All these features combined makes for an enjoyable experience, whatever level of gamer you may be.
While Rockstar is clawing in the plaudits for GTA IV, it could be another game that proves the most groundbreaking title of 2008. And, no, I'm not talking about Spore. Last week I met Chet Faliszek, a scriptwriter at Valve who cowrote the uniquely immersive action puzzler, Portal. Faliszek is now working on Left 4 Dead, a zombie shooter designed for eight-player mayhem - four participants are survivors attempting to escape the undead onslaught, four others play infected monsters with differing horror powers.What's so innovative about that? Well, this game deals with two vital game design elements - AI and narrative - in the opposite way to most traditional titles. Usually, the AI is reactive to the player's actions, while the story dictates the order of events. Left 4 Dead switches things around. The AI, based on a new system known as Director, manufactures a unique experience for every player, in real time. If the survivors have been through a nightmarish gun battle, Director stops spawning enemies and holds things off, allowing everyone to catch their breath; if they've been wandering around doing nothing for a while, the AI steps things up, throwing in a bunch of zombie aggressors or even a quick boss battle. These flashpoints can happen anywhere at any time; it all depends on the actions of the players. "Director creates highs and lows, without it being tied to navigation," says Faliszek. "There is an over-arching story, but it doesn't try to explain everything."This willingness to take a back seat to player exploration and experimentation is rare, and was a key reason why Portal was one of the most interesting games of last year. It's also what lifts Left 4 Dead above the usual horror blasters.Faliszek's approach hints at a videogame future in which it will no longer be possible to say, "do you remember the bit when ..." because every player will thrash their own route through the experience. There will be no end-of-level bosses, no culminative moments switched on when the player passes certain areas. Instead game design and narration will be fluid, while AI will be king, orchestrating the experience from beyond the constraints of cinematic structure. GTA IV provides glimpses of this, as do sandbox-style shooter Far Cry 2 and emergent gameplay whiz Battlefield: Bad Company, with its destructible landscapes that continually force new tactical requirements on to the warring factions. But Left 4 Dead may be the first to shout, "screw you, Hollywood, there's a new storytelling medium in town" - and really mean it.
In this spot recently we looked at a laser beam keyboard - and now, a fingerprint reader for your computer. Previously this was only the stuff of films; now we all get to play with them. Roll over James Bond - I'm sure my jet backpack is in the post.But while I wait, here's the &pound;35 Eikon "Digital Privacy Manager" (that's the fancy name for a fingerprint reader) from Upek. It works on XP, Vista and Mac OS X, and doesn't limit itself to just controlling whether you can log in to the machine (though that is one of the possibilities). No, you can also use it to access password-protected sites, encrypt folders (possibly forever, as I'll explain), launch applications with different fingers and even swap between user accounts.The worry that I had was this rather simple but pragmatic one. No, not what happens if I rub the prints off my fingers through some bizarre DIY accident (or worse, lose the fingers altogether) - because you can store up to 21 fingerprints in the system. (Are they catering to polydactylists?) But: what if I lose the fingerprint reader? How will I get at the sites and encrypted archives?Don't worry: you can set backup passwords that will unlock anything you encrypt with the reader. (Set and remember these, else you'll never recover the data if the reader fails.) With websites, the fingerprint isn't the password (I was wondering how I'd access them if it was sending the print itself). It's the password to the password.Thus relieved, how good is the Eikon? Pretty good. It's fast, and I could get reliable swipes from my different fingers. (Searching around, I find other people have fared less well; perhaps it's a function of how clean your hands are, or similar. There are cleaning instructions for the reader.)Swiping fingers to launch applications may be slightly faster, and swiping a finger to enter a password is easier on some sites - but many banking sites won't work with it (because they don't allow automatic password entry; too big a security risk). Which makes the fingerprint less useful, doesn't it?On Mac OS X, the software (from Upek's site) is less able than on Windows: it can't work with passwords on disk images, and simply unlocks your keychain (where you store your passwords anyway) on login.Finally, can your fingerprint be stolen? No - it's not a picture that's stored, but a calculation based on the pattern of whorls and ridges that come past the reader. So unless the whole world starts using Eikons, which I'm sure would please Upek, you can feel unworried.In the end, though, I did wonder whether James Bond really has it so good. Plain old typing, and memorable but clever passwords (seeHow secure are your online passwords, December 6 2007) seems to me like it'll do the job just as well.Pros:Simple, caters for multiple usersCons:Limited usefulness; Mac software limitedupek.com/solutions/eikon
Hollywood execs concerned that Iron Man (the movie) will suffer a box office hit as potential fans stay at home to play Grand Theft Auto IV should think themselves lucky. GTA fans will probably fancy a cinema break at some point but are unlikely to start another game. So Sega, publisher of the Iron Man game, must be expecting the worst. Which is a shame as this is a solid film tie-in. Playing as the titular hero you get to fly and roam around some surprisingly pretty environments, blasting enemies as you go. There is a plot but you probably won't care. Flying - and hovering - is the game's high point. Mid-air battles, disorientating at first, soon take on an epic feel as you blast assailants and lob missiles back to their launchers. Armour upgrades, which boost your power and abilities, add some depth but in reality brawn, not brains, is the main requirement. Hardly worth diverting yourself from GTA, but Iron Man is an entertaining short-term blast that is better than expected.
12th Webbies announcedThe results of the12th annual Webby Awardshave now been announced.Satellite TV wants to be freeFreesatwill provide free satellite TV including BBC and ITV programmes, and HD (high definition).Yahoo's safer searchYahoo's SearchScannow automatically removes sites that attempt drive-by downloads, using technology from McAfee's SiteAdvisor.Girls turned off ITBlackBerry-maker RIM unveiled its third annualWomen &amp; Technology Awardsthis week.Flash everywhereAdobehas made Flash player and AIR licences free to try to get adoption across mobile phones, TV sets and other devices.Another brick in the webLego Universe will be launched as a PC game and then, next year, as a massively multiplayer online game, saysReuters.Discs on demandCreate Space, a subsidiary of Amazon, is bringing back "out of print" CDs and DVDs by creating them to order.Zune TVMicrosoft is adding popular TV shows to itsZune download storein North America, including NBC shows (The Office, Heroes) not available on iTunes.
