Next month will see the first everEuropean Advertising in Games forum, following similar events in the States. As the press release states:"The agenda brings together all sides of the rapidly growing advertising in games market - technologists, developers, ad agencies, brands and publishers - to examine the emergence of video games as the next big advertising medium and discuss technologies in development to make rich, dynamic in-game advertising and branded content a reality."Reading through the specifics of the agenda, two interesting factors emerge. First, dynamic advertising - i.e. the ability to download ads into a game while the user is playing, thereby keeping the content up-to-date and specifically targeted - is very much viewed as the future of the medium. This makes sense with today's broadband/ Wi-Fi enabled consoles, but will gamers be happy for what seems suspiciously like Spyware to be hijacking their connection?Also, this sentence is intriguing:"The panel will examine the role that advertising will play in developing and funding the next generation of games and how to manage the ad agency/game developer relationship."With costs of producing games likely to sky-rocket in the Next Gen era this sounds like the perfect way to meet those spiralling budgets. The worry is, if large corporationsdostart to fund games in this way, how long before they're censoring content? How long before fast food giants and global supermarket chains are saying, "We'll give you $5 million to develop Doom 5, but, hey, we can't have all that violence, our shareholders won't approve and it contravenes our passionate support of family values..."Anyway, the press release comes with a whole bundle of interesting little facts about videogames in today's society, which I've pasted below.With 250 million computer and video game units sold in 2004, and over $25 billion in revenues, the electronic gaming sector is now the fastest growing sector in the entertainment industry.The average age of a console game is now 29, with an above-average education and income. It's no longer about kids in their bedrooms, games are taking media time and awareness directly from TV viewership.In 2004, TV viewership declined by 12% in the target group of males 18-34 years old while, at the same time, this group spent 20% more time playing games. NielsenThe fastest growing media segments in 2006 will be video game advertising (40%), online advertising (27%), movie screen advertising (25%), branded entertainment (18%), local/regional cable television (12.8%) and custom publishing (10%), whereas TV ad spend will actually decline. Jack Myers Media Business Report3/4 of households with a male age 8-34 own at least one videogames console. NielsenIndependent tests by companies such as Nielsen Entertainment show that recall of ads in games is as high as 60% thanks to the immersive and interactive game environments they are placed in.
Football Manager 2006is out on Friday and it would be a shock if it didn't go straight to number 1 in the PC charts. The game, formerly known as Championship Manager of course, is the most in-depth and enjoyable of its kind. Having said that, I played thedemoand have to wonder whether they've taken it almost too far now. Winning games isn't easy – I was at Leeds last night to see the Saints dominate but still lose, so sadly I know – but FM2006 makes success a real challenge. The real story with Football Manager, and Champ Man before it, though, is the demographic. A lot of the people, most likely men, who buy the game, are older than the average PC gamer. I've been told that a high proportion of FM players are over 35 and rarely buy any other games. Is this because Football Manager is just so intense that they don't have time to play anything else? Or are they just not tempted by the diet of first-person shooters and strategy titles that make up the majority of mainstream PC gaming? If so, shouldn't publishers be making more games that appeal to this older demographic?
Mobile phone company 3 is planning to become the world's first operator to sell airtime on its own network to advertisers, opening up its 3.2 million British customers to targeted marketing and advertising campaigns.The company, owned by Hong Kong-based conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, has already run two free downloadable ads on its network, including one for Apple's iPod music player. It is now looking for an advertising partner who can help it to further "monetise" its customer base with advertising services next year."We do offer advertisers a direct channel and crucially a return path," for interactive marketing, explained chief executive Bob Fuller yesterday. "Ads directed to individuals are going to be a significant part of our business."Other mobile phone companies, however, have so far shied away from bombarding their customers with ads. They believe 3 is seeking to persuade advertisers to subsidise content available on the service as customers themselves remain reticent about paying for it.While 3, which yesterday set out its strategy as a multimedia company, earns about a quarter of its revenues - &pound;250m - from non-voice services, it resolutely refuses to define how much of this still comes from texting, leading some to fear that paid-for content downloads are still a small portion of its overall business.But when it ran a free downloadable ad for Apple's iPod this year it received 160,000 downloads in a week. A similar test with a free trailer for the film, It's All Gone Pete Tong, received 100,000 downloads even though it was advertised on 3's mobile portal for just two hours a day.The company intends to continue with these one-off downloadable ads but is also looking for a partner - likely candidates include media buyers Aegis, WPP's MindShare and Publicis' ZenithOptimedia - to extend the range of advertising opportunities. The company is considering starting a mobile television channel, which could carry ads, while customers willing to receive communications that correspond with their interests could be targeted directly.Separately 3 yesterday outlined its multimedia ambitions, with Mr Fuller saying: "We are not a telco, we are not a media company, we are not a technology company; our business is radically different because we are all three."The company also launched a reality mobile TV channel, See Me TV, which will allows users to send in video clips and receive payments if other users watch them. Clip makers will receive 1p per viewing, but will not receive royalties until more than 1,000 people have viewed their clip. But the payment is merely a credit, rather than cash. It will cost 50p to put a clip on the service and 10p to download it.In Italy, where the service is running, popular sites include that of a user who updates viewers on the progress of his pot plant, while another provides clips of his cats. There is also quite a lot of quasi-sexual content. Gareth Jones, 3's chief operating officer, said 3 has introduced filter and will not allow any top-shelf content.
Although Coldplay's third album garnered largely enthusiastic reviews, it received few plaudits for innovation. But when it came to promoting the album, the band's record company, EMI, was lauded for its digital innovation last night at a ceremony reflecting the increasing interdependence between music and the internet.The BT Digital Music Awards, in its fourth year, has grown in stature as record labels have recognised the importance of the internet in breaking new bands and promoting releases from established acts.Last night's ceremony covered both ends of the spectrum, featuring a performance from newcomers the Magic Numbers, who won the "soundtrack of 2005" prize for Love Me Like You, and rewarding a number of established acts for their forward-looking use of the internet.With the results jointly decided by a panel of judges and more than 500,000 online votes,Coldplay.comwon the people's choice award for the best official website and the best digital marketing campaign for their latest album, X&amp;Y. The band also won the award for best digital music community forColdplayer.com, an interactive radio station featuring some of their favourite songs from other artists.Damon Albarn's virtual cartoon creation, Gorillaz, also signed to EMI, received the best artist and best dance artist awards. Fronted by a gang of animated characters, the group has always largely promoted itself through the web.The prize for the best unofficial site went toDepechemode.tv, a fansite reflecting the enduring popularity of the band fronted by David Gahan.Robbie Williams got the best digital promotion award for his greatest hits collection, and U2 won best single for Vertigo.Apple's iTunes was named the best digital music store, but rival download site Napster won the innovation award for its newly launched Napster-to-Go service, which allows subscribers to transfer any song from its catalogue to their digital player for a monthly fee.Natasha Bedingfield won the best use of mobile award for broadcasting a live performance to phone handsets, and the websiteLiveGigsOnline.com. won the best use of broadband prize.With the mainstream adoption of digital music players such as the iPod, millions of songs are being sold online. Recent figures from the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry showed that digital sales had tripled in the first half of 2005 as those of CDs continued to fall. Labels are embracing a new wave of acts who have built their fanbases through online communities.The award ceremony will be broadcast on Channel 4 tonight.
David Sifry of Technorati has posted another comment onThe State of the Blogosphere, based on his talk from the Web 2.0 conference. The bullet points are:* As of October 2005, Technorati is now tracking 19.6 Million weblogs * The total number of weblogs tracked continues to double about every 5 months * The blogosphere is now over 30 times as big as it was 3 years ago, with no signs of letup in growth * About 70,000 new weblogs are created every day * About a new weblog is created each second * 2% - 8% of new weblogs per day are fake or spam weblogs * Between 700,000 and 1.3 Million posts are made each day * About 33,000 posts are created per hour, or 9.2 posts per second An additional 5.8% of posts (or about 50,000 posts/day) seen each day are from spam or fake blogs, on average
One of the things I missed by not going to Microsoft's X05 event was Microsoft gibes against Sony and its PlayStation 3 launch. One example was Xbox UK boss Neil Thompson saying, according toMCVtrade magazine: "I'll be happy to compete whenever they [Sony] turn up, but I wouldn't be surprised if that's not until spring '07. If they hit Xmas '06, then maybe it'll be a very thin launch; a launch in name only."Sony hasn't firmed up a PS3 launch date beyond vague talk of spring next year, and that's assuming affordable supplies of Cell processors and Blu-ray drives. Neither is guaranteed. Also, it would obviously suit Sony to delay the PS3 launch as long as possible, because (a) Cell chips and Blu-ray drives will get cheaper; and (b) it's raking in cash from the PS2 and the hot-selling PSP.Given that the PS3 is likely to appeal to a couple of hundred million PS2 owners, it's also a pretty safe bet that Sony is not going to attempt a simultaneous global launch. It will satisfy Japanese demand before tackling the US, and then Europe will trail behind -- as usual.Under the circumstances, Spring 07 doesn't sound such a bad guess for the PS3 reaching the UK. And given the problems of launching products based on untried technologies, it could be even later....
The current issue of Time Magazine is dedicated to incoming technology and features an article entitled'5 News Things That Will Blow Your Mind'. Coming in just after Boeing's 787 Dreamliner aircraft (better fuel efficiency, more humidity!) is Nintendo's Revolution controller. The writer specifically praises the way in which the device can be used, "to apply real-world physical experience to games".It's this sort of mainstream coverage/hype-mongering that Nintendo needs to get its console out into the mainstream consciousness. Incredible how doing something new and astoundingly brave can achieve that.
Children of the 80s (or indeed children of any earlier decade) will probably remember that semi-irritating "Ello Tosh, got a Toshiba?" advert that plagued television screens. Still, it did Tosh a fair bit of good and raised the profile of the company.Lately, though, they've been a bit quiet on the advertising front. But no more: last night they resurrected the "blueprint man" in a new campaign.Swapping the late great Ian Dury for the not-quite-so-great Suggs, blueprint man is back and he's advertising notebooks. And apparently JC001 does a little rap thing over the top to appeal to ver kids - for those not in the know, he's "the fastest rapper alive" ... and I don't think they're talking about sprinting. It was certainly iconic in its day, but I wonder whether it will connect with many people second time around.I wonder what other adverts could be resurrected? Personally I've always been a huge fan of "Secret Lemonade Drinker". The campaign to bring that hairy midnight imbiber back to our screens starts here.
If, like me, you keep an eye on the statistics for web browsers - riveting, I know - then this might be of interest.Last night, in a moment of languid and idle web jiggery-pokery, I was having a look at how the Technology Guardian website was doing (nicely enough, thank you for asking). While I was there, I happened to take a gander at what browsers our readers are using. Turns out that 32% of our readers don't use Internet Explorer.Now, of course, one would expect that the readership of Technology are a little more likely to have ditched Microsoft's lame-duck IE6 browser, but month-on-month figures show the volume of alternative browsers is up slightly for October.It's tough to draw conclusions - and personal experience is that most people don't have much control over the programs they use at work (both the machines at Johnson Towers - that's one Mac and one PC - use Firefox, but in the office I'm forced to use Internet Explorer).Of course, that could all change whenever Microsoft starts shipping out IE7 with Vista - except for the fact that there might be a tipping point when the overall ease of sticking with the browser you've got is greater than the overall ease of using an MS browser. That's the point when people become permanent converts. So how many of those now defecting to, say, Firefox and Opera, are ever going to go back to Internet Explorer? How many will turn back?
The Christmas rush starts this Friday with the release of Pro Evolution Soccer 5. And, after having played a review copy for the last month, I can vouch for its brilliance. It's a grittier, more realistic football simulator and I can't wait to get stuck in on Xbox Live this Friday. But after speaking to some friends this weekend it seems the game they are looking forward to most isSingstar '80s. Sony's karaoke-style music series is, in my experience, the one thing that gets everyone playing, especially post-pub (or wine in front of telly, if you're a parent...) I know of at least four friends - of both sexes - who have bought a PS2 just to play one of the Singstar games. The latest version, out next month, is Singstar 80s, with Duran Duran rubbing shoulder pads with Wham and co. Don't go expecting any Gang of Four here - the choice of tracks is overly obvious - but do expect to be hollering at the telly with this at some point over Christmas.
Just in case you missed it, Microsoft has announced the line-up of games that will be available for download from Xbox Live Arcade when Xbox 360 is launched. Most are provided by indie superstars like Popcap, GarageGames and Stainless, but Midway, Bizarre Creations (previously responsible for Geometry Wars -pictured above- on Xbox Live) and Microsoft Games Studios also have titles on the list. The latter donates Hexic HD, a puzzle game designed by world famous Tetris creator Alexey Pajitnov, previously available on the original Xbox's Arcade service.Futhermore, 40 publishers and developers have apparently signed up to provide Arcade content including EA, Sega, Atari, Q Entertainment, Vivendi and uWink (Nolan Bushnell's company). Microsoft is promising a decent range of downloadable titles, taking in retro classics, casual puzzlers and innovative new titles - it would certainly be interesting to see if this can emerge as a viable mass market solution for indie titles. As long as we don't end up with 300 block-sorting games I don't mind.Here's a list of all the announced titles, ready for the Xbox 360 launch:Astropop – Popcap GamesBankshot Billiards 2TM – pixelStorm, IncBejeweled 2 – Popcap GamesCrystal Quest – Stainless GamesFeeding Frenzy – Popcap GamesGauntlet – Midway Home EntertainmentGeometry Wars 2 – Bizarre CreationsHardwood Backgammon – Silver Creek EntertainmentHardwood Hearts – Silver Creek EntertainmentHardwood Spades – Silver Creek EntertainmentHexic HD – Microsoft Game StudiosHoopworld – Streamline StudiosJewel Quest – iWin.comJoust – Midway Home EntertainmentMarble Blast Ultra – GarageGamesMutant Storm Reloaded – PomPom GamesOutpost Kaloki – Wahoo StudiosRobotron 2084 – Midway Home EntertainmentSmashTV – Midway Home EntertainmentWik: Fable of Souls – Reflexive EntertainmentZuma – Popcap Games
The non-profit organisation Games For Change is holding its second annual'Videogames for Social Change' Conferencein New York this weekend. Open to the public for the first time, the event draws together, "organisations attempting to reach young people for social change, media experts and socially conscious games developers", and features game demos, talks and design sessions. The press release continues:"'We're finally starting to see examples of videogames that positively inspire and empower our youth,' said Benjamin Stokes, Games for Change co-founder and a program manager at NetAid, a New York-based independent non-profit organization that fights global poverty.Although hidden from the popular radar, the movement is rapidly growing: State Senators are using games to balance the Massachusetts budget, asthma patients are learning better health practices, and the United Nations is teaching a little of what's involved in delivering food aid to a famine-stricken country."It's an interesting and admirable attempt to explore the educational possibilities of games and - by letting the public in - convincing American parents that games aren't quite the predominantly malign influence they're made out to be by some. Of course, the problem here is that rightwing campaignersSHOUT LOUDERthan anyone else. Plus, it is difficult to combat the emotive language of righteous condemnation, and the freedom from responsibility that it offers, with intellectual discussion amid like-minded professionals.The screenshot is ofFood Force, one of the UN's educational games.I like the basic assumption of the event, however, that gamescanand indeedmustcomment on real issues. As Suzanne Seggerman, Games for Change co-founder and Project Director at WebLab, puts it, "Just as documentary filmmakers use their medium to address important social issues, so too can games deeply engage audiences around the pressing issues of our day."Check out the work of developers such asPersuasive Games(responsible for the Food Force and Airport Insecurity games on the UN website) andPowerful Robotand you'll see how interactivity can providetheperfect medium to communicate complex issues.More infoWatercooler GamesSerious Games
Given his fortune, his global media empire and his clout with politicians you wouldn't expect to find Rupert Murdoch appealing for dining companions on the internet.But the media mogul, who owns a string of interests from the Times and the Sun in the UK, to Fox and the New York Post in the US as well as broadcasting enterprises in Asia and Latin America, is using auction site eBay to do just that.Dining with the News Corporation chairman does not come cheap, however. The charity auction, in aid of the Jerusalem College of Technology, has a reserve price of $25,000 (&pound;14,000).The winning bidder will be treated to lunch with four friends in the company's New York boardroom.The 74-year-old executive has long-established links with the Israeli hi-tech industry, with News Corp's satellite TV anti-piracy division NDS having a substantial presence there.
Jakob Nielsen of design house Nielsen Norman Group has been publishing lists of Web design mistakes since 1996, but I think this is the first time he's turned his attention to blogs. The result isWeblog Usability: The Top Ten Design Mistakes.I don't think anyone will be shocked by his advice: his tips are pretty obvious. But how many blogs meet all of them? This one doesn't....
"While cities around the country are battling over plans to offer free or cheap Internet access, this lonely terrain is served by what is billed as the world's largest hotspot, a wireless cloud that stretches over 700 square miles of landscape so dry and desolate it could have been lifted from a cowboy tune," reportsAP.The zone has been created by wireless entrepreneur Fred Ziari at a cost of $5 million."While his service is free to the general public, Ziari is recovering the investment through contracts with more than 30 city and county agencies, as well as big farms such as Hale's, whose onion empire supplies over two-thirds of the red onions used by the Subway sandwich chain. Morrow County, for instance, pays $180,000 a year for Ziari's service."
PSP, meet iTrip: Photograph byBATSNews just in from our Why Do They Bother files... one man - Mr "Bad Ace Tech Show" - has taken it upon himself to mind meld his PSP with a Griffin iTrip. For the unitiated, the iTrip is a little gizmo which broadcasts your portable music on an FM radio frequency so that you can tune into it in the comfort of your car: but it doesn't take a genius to realise that iTrip is only compatible with iPods.That didn't stop Mr BATS, who was jealous that his wife could use the gadget, but he couldn't:She also had the entire FM band at her disposal. That's 87.9Mhz to 107.9Mhz - over 100 frequencies to choose from. Now, sure, I could go and get an FM transmitter to jack-in to my headphone jack, but then I've got this cumbersome thing hanging from my sexy PSP... The plan is to marry the two so that the PSP still looks like a PSP, plus maintain the ability to change freqs on-the-go.Woo! Pointless hackery!(viaAlice)
Interesting story emerged out of Korea this weekend, with Samsung officials letting reporters get wind of a failed $3.8 billion deal with Apple.The proposed venture,according to Reuters, was meant to be a joint investment to make flash chips. That makes perfect sense for Steve Jobs and co, since they're already buying something like 40% of Samsung's flash memory... But Apple pulled out."We had had some talks with Apple earlier this year but it did not work out due to differences over terms," said the Samsung spokesman by telephone, adding they had dropped the joint investment talks "at a very early stage."Some are taking this as Samsung coming out punching against Apple for leaving it in the lurch. But I suspect that this is actually a story about South Korean politics, which isn't quite as sexy. After all, Samsung is not having a great time of it on the home front. Asthis LA Times storydocuments, the relationship between government and one of its biggest businesses is testier than ever.Samsung Group's reclusive chairman, 58-year-old Lee Kun Hee, South Korea's richest man, with an estimated fortune of $4 billion, has come under fire, accused of running the corporation like a feudal lord. Civic groups comprising scores of lawyers, professors and accountants have mobilized and filed lawsuits to push Samsung to operate more transparently and give minority shareholders a greater say in the company's affairs.Government officials called for an investigation of Samsung's campaign activities after revelations in July that company representatives paid more than $10 million in bribes to candidates in South Korea's 1997 presidential elections.The scandal led to the resignation of South Korea's ambassador to the United States, Hong Seok Hyun, Lee's brother-in-law and a former newspaper publisher who is said to have delivered bags of cash personally to at least one candidate.That's one way to try and take on your rivals in government: tell them - and the Korean public - that they just lost out on $4bn. Samsung bods are laying down their hand: jobs and money are at stake and that pesky stuff about bribes is getting in the way.
The New York Times has publishedMeet the Life Hackers, about how we all suffer so many interruptions that we never actually get anything done. Yes, it does include stuff from Danny O'Brien....
Pioneering, multi-award-winning European blogger and occasional Guardian contributor Tom (Plasticbag) Coates is joining Yahoo.Tom writes: "I'm leaving the BBC to go and work for Bradley Horowitz in the Tech Development Group at Yahoo! (alongside Simon Willison and Jeremy Zawodny among others). My particular special skill - I gather - is going to be the power of my social media mojo, undercut with my feral design instincts. I'll be based in London but out in the States pretty regularly - and here's the best bit - playing with the Flickr team and the Upcoming crew and all the folks over at Yahoo Research Berkeley (among others). Anyway, as is probably fairly evident, this is not the kind of opportunity you turn down without a very good reason, and I've wracked my brains and I sure as hell can't think of one. So wish me luck!"Updatedfollowing comments by LSF.
One game that I'm really looking forward to, and one that looks set to continue the DS's rich vein of gaming form, is Animal Crossing Wild World. This DS version of the quirkily uniqueGamecube gameis out in the US at the end of the year, which means sometime in the next 12 months for lucky old Europe. I've not managed to have a go yet - Nintendo review code is always the hardest to get, probably because it's more expensive to produce promo copies on their formats - but I am worryingly optimistic. Some of thefansites- watch out for spoilers - have been playing the game, and things look promising for another DS must-have.
Chris Pirillo and Lockergnome are being deluged with blog spam, "and 99% of the crap coming in is directly from a single domain: blogspot.com," he sayshere.Google, it may have been a smart acquisition in the beginning, but y'all need to clean house in a big way. You're the tallest nail, and you're really getting pounded - and now others, who aren't even using your service, are getting pounded. Blogspot has become nothing but a crapfarm, and your brand is going to go down with it. If your motto truly is to do no evil, then you need to start putting some resources behind an effort to curb this train wreck.
The Sheffield rock band the Arctic Monkeys release their first fully marketed single today but the group has already built a hugely devoted following by becoming one of the first to harness the power of the internet to reach young fans. Last week the band played to 2,000 fans at a sold-out London Astoria, with touts asking up to &pound;100 a ticket. The audience sang along to every word of the single, I Bet You Look Good on the Dancefloor, which has yet to be released.The speed with which they have developed a large and committed fanbase is being put down to the viral marketing effect of the internet, with fans swapping tracks with one another with the blessing of the group.According to one estimate there are already 142 different versions of various Arctic Monkeys songs floating around on the internet, some recorded by fans at concerts. The band has only officially released one very limited edition single called Fake Tales of San Francisco.Through community websites such asMySpace.com, likeminded fans have been finding one another and accessing songs. A Guardian/ICM poll this month showed that internet users between 14 and 21 were spending most of their time online communicating in this way.As a result, the singer, Alex Turner, the guitarist, Jamie Cook, the bassist, Andy Nicholson, and the drummer, Matt Helders built up a huge following before they had even registered on the radar of the record industry. They eventually signed to Domino Records, the home of Franz Ferdinand."This is the first generation for whom the internet has always been there," said the NME editor, Conor McNicholas. While the record industry has struggled with online piracy, bands such as the Arctic Monkeys are using it to their advantage, communicating with fans almost daily on their forum and posting tracks and lyrics.Mr McNicholas said they were carrying on where the Libertines, the first band to harness the internet to communicate casually with fans and make unreleased songs available, left off. "They'll be bigger than the Smiths and could be as big as Oasis. This band are going to knock the country sideways, I can't tell you how excited I am about them," he added.Mike Smith, senior vice-president and director of A&R; at EMI Music Publishing UK, who signed the band, said the internet had allowed the band to bring fans "into their world".
For all kinds of nefarious reasons, I want to be able to press one button and record both sides of mobile phone conversations -- ideally automatically. My Nokia 6230 stops after three minutes. A readerI don't know of a phone that will record sustantial amounts of conversation without giveaway beeps. However, there are at least two Series 60 applications that would seem to do the job. They are Psiloc'sExtended Recorderand Symbianware'sCallRecorder. Both are available for download in free trial versions that last for 10 and 15 days respectively.Anyone got a better idea?
37signals has launched another online application,Writeboard, for collaborative writing. It's free, but integrates with the same company'sBackpackorganiser, which is paid-for.
Renault's Espace has just celebrated its 21st birthday. Now into its fourth generation, the car which kick-started the European MPV revolution in the early Eighties has sold well over 1m vehicles. In its class it has never been beaten, despite the fact that every other manufacturer now also has a competitive MPV in its fleet. In terms of safety and driving technology it boasts more firsts than Oxford University ... So, it was a bit of a shock to find myself behind the wheel of a &#163;30,900 Grand Espace with a dud battery.No silence is more unsettling than that which follows a turned ignition key. I looked blankly at the on-board computer. It told me that the six airbags were functional, that the pressure in all four tyres was correct, that I had 323 miles' worth of petrol in the tank, and even that there was a crash on the east-bound carriageway of the A303, but it couldn't tell me its battery was kaput.I needed a real, live AA patrolman for that. He marvelled at the size of the battery, helpfully told me it'd need a truck to jump-start it and then launched into a 15-minute paean on the joys of driving Japanese. In What Car?'s recent reliability survey, eight of the top 10 cars least likely to break down were from Japan or Korea, with the number-one spot being taken for the fourth year running by Honda. The other two slots were taken by Mercedes and Skoda. The least reliable? Land Rover. (Time to rewrite those old Skoda jokes. Now it's: 'Why do Land Rovers have heated rear windows? To keep your hands warm when pushing them.)Flat battery apart, the Espace was un plaisir. The word 'espace' means space in both its senses in French, and when it arrived on our roads in 1984, its alien shape and unusual specifications meant sales were slow. But the motoring press loved it from the off. A review in l'Auto Journal at the time seems to say it all: 'The new minibus-car puts conventional saloons in the shade. It's the difference between a penthouse overlooking parkland and the small, dingy apartment that was home to the landlady you may remember from your childhood who lived in semi-darkness like a mushroom wedged between a decrepit sideboard and an ancient wireless ...'And, 21 years later, the driver of the Espace still feels like he or she has booked the hotel's best suite. From its shark-like nose, with its distinctive sweeping headlights to its cavernous rear, the Espace embodies all that Renault does well: five-star safety, velvety comfort and saloon-car performance. It also boasts a panoramic glass top which is so large it feels like you're closing the sliding roof at Cardiff's Millennium Stadium. The car's so big you need a remote control to operate the out-of-reach stereo...All this isn't cheap - penthouses never are. The entry level is &#163;19,650 and heads swiftly to a top-floor price of &#163;34,600. And, while we're on the money, its fuel consumption is poor. During a fully loaded week, up and down Devon's tortuous hills and gullies, I managed an average of only 21mpg. Still, as it is 21, maybe that's an appropriate figure. Many happy returns!
"MTV Networks on Thursday said it acquired IFILM, an Internet provider of short films, news clips and other video snippets, for $49 million (£28 million) as part of its ongoing effort to expand its presence on the Web. IFILM will be run by its current chief executive officer, Blair Harrison, and will retain its editorial independence," reportsReuters."MTV expects to increase IFILM's current reach to more than 10 million users a month and boost advertising revenues by promoting IFILM with other MTV-owned Web sites and offering MTV content to IFILM users."
All week I've been meaning to post something about Apple's latest iPod-powered financial results, which have finally taken the company's annual revenues past the 1995 peak of $11.06 billion. In fact, they've now gone comfortably past, to a very impressive $13.93 billion. However, no need, now I've spotted that Charles Arthur has done the job over atEl Reg, with a useful link to a graph ofApple's financial history.
At Slate magazine,Jack Shaferwonders why the mainstream press coverage of Apple is so sycophantic, as most recently demonstrated by the ludicrous amount of puffery for the lacklustre iPod with Video. He writes:What explains the press corps' exuberance for Apple in general and the iPod in particular? After all, the portable video player isn't a new product category — Archos, RCA, Samsung, and iRiver got there months and months ago. The excitement can't be due to the undersized screen, which measures only 2.5 inches diagonal, or the skimpy two hours of battery life when operated in video mode. As I paged through a Nexis dump of the V-iPod coverage, I searched in vain for a single headline proclaiming "Apple Introduces Ho-Hum Player" or an article comparing the V-iPod's technical specs to those of competing brands. At least the techie readers of Engadget, free of the Apple mind-meld, recognize the V-iPod as a deliberately crippled by copy protection, low-res, underpowered video appliance that is merely Apple's first try in the emerging market of video players.Comment:Shafer is talking about the US, but Apple press coverage in the UK is usually just as slavishly uncritical. However, you don't get US-style rivers of drool, just puddles.
An aquaintance persists in sending me e-mails of photographs, puzzles etc which I do not want and which take a long time to down load. I have tried "block sender" but my server just puts them into my deleted folder, which takes just as long. What can I do other than changing my e-mail address? Pat MarsdenYou don't say which e-mail program you are using, but it may well be possible to add a rule that deletes this sender's e-mails or does not download them from the server. (In Outlook Express, go to Tools and select Message Rules.) Alternatively, some mail programs, such as Eudora, will download headers rather than whole messages. However, I think your best bet is to useMailwasher. This will download the headers and also try to identify spam emails, so you can avoid downloading anything you don't want. Run Mailwasher, clean out the rubbish, then run your mail program to collect what's left.
A 19-year-old from Paisley is receiving counselling to cure an addiction to sending text messages and emails.In one of the first cases of its kind, the teenager was referred to an addiction centre after he ran up a bill of &pound;4,500 in one year texting about 100 times a day. He also lost his job after sending up to 500 emails a day from his office computer, many to his former girlfriend. The couple separated because she could no longer cope with the barrage of digital communication."He was suffering from severe anxiety when he wasn't getting any reply, which was causing him to text and email even more," said Phillip Irvine, project leader of Renfrew Council on Alcohol trust, where the unnamed man is being treated. "This patient has all the hallmarks of any classic addict where mental health problems such as depression, low self-esteem and relationship difficulties occur as a result of the addiction."The teenager described the buzz he got from his texting saying: "When you look at your mobile and you've got a message you wonder who it could be. It's kind of comforting when you get one." Mr Irvine said the teenager was trying to cut his mobile phone spending down to &pound;10 a week from &pound;60"This addiction problem is probably suffered by many more people but it is not being diagnosed," he said. "Young people and those with an extroverted personality are particularly susceptible."David Nott, the manager of the addictions treatment programme at the Priory, said it was the first time he had heard of an addiction to communication technology not allied to alcoholism or drug use, where it is sometimes a secondary problem. "If people aren't replying to your texts, there is anger and sadness ... A ping on your phone can give you a buzz," he said. Inappropriate use of a phone was an addiction that was likely to increase, he said, and he urged people to raise the matter with friends they thought were texting or emailing too often. The average number of texts sent has more than doubled since 2001 and 28bn texts were sent in 2004 alone, with 15 to 34-year-olds the heaviest users. One clinic in Dublin last month reported 30 young people seeking help such as hypnotherapy.
Nigeria is drafting legislation to make spamming a criminal offence punishable with up to three years in jail. Africa's most populous country has gained notoriety as a base for criminals using the internet to scam victims, often via unsolicited emails with false proposals.Under the law, likely to be passed in parliament, a person found guilty of "spamming electronic messages to recipients with whom he has no previous relationship" faces a fine of &pound;2,000 and three years in jail. The bill also identifies use of computers for fraud, identity theft, child pornography and terrorism as offences.
Far Cry: InstinctsXboxAs first person shooters go, killing henchmen with a selection of weapons is unlikely to turn many heads. Adding the ability to set traps and an array of "feral" powers you gain after time spent defending yourself in the tropical wilderness helps differentiate it, but what sets Instincts (and its PC-only forebear) apart from run of the mill wastes of ammunition, is the style with which it does all this. Environments look glorious: encounters can be approached in a number of ways and overheard conversations offer clues and comic relief in equal measure. Although not as enticingly open-plan as the PC version, this is still an excellent and engaging exercise in stalking interspersed with brief vehicular rampages.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;40NintendogsNintendo DSEveryone loves puppies: whether, like boa constrictors, that's as a tasty snack, or, like most, as a furry friend, there are few who are completely uninterested when it comes to small dogs. Nintendogs eschews any whiff of dog meat in favour of family-friendly virtual pet fun, letting you name, play with and train your surprisingly lifelike and charming simulated pooch before heading off to dog shows to demonstrate what your hirsute pal has learned. Responding to vocal commands and loving a good scratch under the chin using the DS stylus, this is more involved than simply remembering to feed the little fella, and has appeal way beyond the narrow (male, twentysomething) focus of more conventional genres.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30Xbox 360 newsWell ahead of Sony and Nintendo, Microsoft's publicity machine is getting its superchargers warmed up for the launch of next-next generation console Xbox 360, due here on Dec 2, which, in a departure from tradition, is a mere fortnight after the US launch and a week before it comes out in Japan. Highlights of the opening line-up include Rare's wonderfully inventive shape-shifting adventure n Xbox 360 News Kameo; first person shooting prequel Perfect Dark Zero and Call Of Duty 2's AI-enhanced Nazi-disposal antics. Despite mainstream-beckoning features like photo slide shows and MP3 playback, the roster of games is targeted at hardcore gamers, with a preponderance of shooting, driving and sci-fi musclemen shooting monsters with guns.
Film-maker Steven Spielberg is branching out into video games, teaming up with Electronic Arts to develop original titles. The Nasdaq-listed publisher of The Lord of the Rings video game yesterday announced it would collaborate with Mr Spielberg on the development of three new games. It is likely to be at least 18 months before the Spielberg games hit the shops.Electronic Arts will own the intellectual property for the games and be responsible for publishing and distributing them around the world. Mr Spielberg will have the exclusive rights to develop movies or TV programmes based on the titles.The agreement reunites Mr Spielberg with EA after a five-year break. Electronic Arts' LA studio was originally part of the interactive division of DreamWorks SKG, the film studio Mr Spielberg founded with David Geffen and Jeffrey Katzenberg. It collaborated with Mr Spielberg on the hit Medal of Honour games series. EA bought DreamWorks Interactive from DreamWorks and Microsoft in early 2000.
MondayXbox360 launch list?Peter Jackson to take on Master ChiefTuesdayPSP infected!ELSPA targets 'concerned parents'Tend your dogWednesdayThe beautiful gamesEA overtime lawsuit settledDogs do wellPeriodical mobile gaming updateThursdayPhoto-realism: Is it the only future?TechnologyNew blood for the next generationiPod vs PSP: does that make any sense?FridayPSP updateEA and Spielberg join forcesGreat games without sequelsLive ArcadeBut are they games?
It's the end of the day and the mind wanders to games, as you do. The Friday philosophy question today is "Are they really games"?The following is provided as an outline more to cause controversy than to really get to the meat of the debate. Please add your own, and maybe we can get to the bottom of it.Here's a brief list of things lumped in to the category "games" that, well, just aren't.NintendogsPuppy love, puppy power and well, puppy pampering. This caring, sharing title ain't a game, it's a digital parenting simulation.The SimsAnother title which taps into the psychological need to control things, this line of "games" is the best selling series of all time, yet it's not much more than a virtual dollhouse. You should hear the debates at academic conferences. Sheesh!Social WorldsBetsy Bookof Virtual Worlds Review and Terra Nova considers social worlds likeHabbo Hoteland pseudo-gameSecond Lifeto be more about getting together with your mates and forming communities than gaming. FellowTerra NovanT.L. Taylor'snot so sure the distinction's valid - isn't social reality just like playing a game anyway? Check out theState of Play IIconference archives for their great panel,Culture of Play.MTV Music GeneratorThis series of MTV DJ simulations, while available for the masses at cheap prices for home consoles, aren't games at all, but tools that let you believe you're actually a wikkid plate spinner (or something). Should they really be lumped in with games at your local emporium?Interactive FictionJust because there's an angry gnome at the end of a dark tunnel with a dagger doesn't mean that it's a game. Perhaps the most controversial contention of all, IFs - formerly known as text adventures - aren't really games; they're more like stories you lead yourself through. Choose Your Own Adventures for the digital generation.
Friday madness fromBoingBoing, which passes on a tale of ludicrous Japanese copyright enforcement. The Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper has been awarded compensation became people hyperlink to stories using headlines for text - and it seems it doesn't even matter if they're linking to the newspaper's own stories.Under this rule, you'd need permission to linking to say our story on Nigeria's plan to jail spammers with the link "Nigeria set to criminalise spamming". Ludicrous.FromAFP:The Intellectual Property High Court, a special branch court of the Tokyo High Court, ordered Digital Alliance Corp. to pay about 237,700 yen (2,000 dollars) to the Yomiuri.The court said the use of news headlines by Digital Alliance was illegal. It is the first ruling in Japan giving protection to news headlines.But presiding Judge Tomokatsu Tsukahara said that headlines were still in a legal gray area as they are not mentioned under Japan's Copyright Law. He did not order Digital Alliance to pull the Yomiuri headlines off its website.Digital Alliance runs a small information website called Line Topics which collects news articles and headlines. On clicking a headline, a web user is forwarded to the Japanese site of search giant Yahoo!, which provides the article.The madness never ends.So, apparently, if I link to Yomiuri's story that stars are supporting Japan's Rugby World Cup bid by using the textStars support Japan's Rugby W...[snip]Lawyer gives cold, steely glare and promptly disconnects computer.
Realising that sci-fi shooters and racing games will not grow the market, Microsoft have today announced their Live Arcade casual gaming line-up for the 360. The mixture of retro and other games usually found on the web and mobiles includes Joust, Jewel Quest and Robotron 2084.Those 360 owners who buy the console with the hard drive will find a full version of Tetris creators Alexey Pajitnov's new game - Hexic HD installed. Moore also announced that more than 40 publishers and developers will be supporting Live Arcade, including Atari, EA, Llamasoft (yay) and, thanks to earlier legal shenanigans, RealNetworks.Hype aside, I think MS are on the right track here. Casual gaming is massive, and is growing. And even hardcore gamers occasionally need some time off from the fragging. Of course, the key is cost and how regularly updated the game list is.
Nigeria is considering making spamming a criminal offence for which senders of unsolicited emails could be imprisoned for at least three years."Any person spamming electronic messages to recipients with whom he has no previous relationship commits an offence," the text of the draft law presented to parliament this week said.Convicted offenders would face either at least three years in jail, a fine equal to $3,500 (&#163;1,990), or both. The bill must be approved by a simple majority of MPs to become law.Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, is known for its "advance fee" spammers -people who send millions of unsolicited emails containing false proposals around the world.Among the most common are emails proposing to share portions of the estates of dead African dictators in exchange for an advance payment to help move the money overseas. In reality, the "fees" are kept, while victims of the scam receive nothing.The proposed law identifies use of computers for spamming, fraud, identity theft, child pornography and terrorism as criminal offences punishable by jail terms and fines.The Nigerian president, Olusegun Obasanjo, whose election in 1999 ended more than 15 years of corrupt military rule in the oil-rich country, has made the fight against corruption and financial crime a key policy.Computer users around the world see spam as a growing nuisance.In 2003, the EU banned all commercial emails unless a recipient had asked for them, but the regulation must be approved by each national parliament to become effective.The US congress and more than three dozen US state legislatures have passed laws in an attempt to contain spam.Argentina, Australia, Canada and Japan are among other countries to have taken legal steps against spam, according to a website maintained by the Illinois law professor David Sorkin.
"Cheap, paper-thin TV screens that can be used in newspapers and magazines have been unveiled by German electronics giant Siemens. The firm says the low production costs could see the magazine shelves in newsagents come alive with moving images vying for the customers' attention as they move along the aisle," reportsThe Guardian."The new technology caused a sensation when it was first made public this week at the Plastics Electronics trade fair in Frankfurt."Siemens spokesman Norbert Aschenbrenner said "the technology will be used for Harry Potter-style dynamic pictures in newspapers but will probably take a little while to get cheap enough."AsFood Navigatorpoints out, you're more likely to see them in your local supermarket: "The special labelling being developed by Siemens would be commercially possible for food companies even where it's unprofitable today for cost reasons, such as on food cartons, medicine packaging or admission tickets, the company claims."Here's theSiemens Press Release.Update:The Guardian article has beenSlashdotted.....
The videogame industry, just like Hollywood, works to a fairly simple maxim – if a product is successful, do it again. Then again. Then perhaps again, until absolutely everyone has lost interest. And then release one more just in case.But sometimes a much-loved gem slips through the system never giving itself up to the sequel business, never suffering the indignity of those ever-diminishing returns.I've suggested eight of my favourites (with some help from ex-Edge editor Joao Sanches), but take some time out to add your own. It's Friday after all, and no one actually expects you to do any work...Grim Fandango(PC) A follow-up to LucasArts' imaginative cartoon adventure was planned, anticipated by fans for months, and then cruelly buried. We may never see another videogame homage to Mexican folklore. At least not of this calibre.Ikaruga (Dreamcast, GameCube)I could also have chosen Bangio-O or Radiant Silvergun from Treasure's over-spilling back-catalogue of fiendish shooters, but Ikaruga deserves special credit for its combination of depth, innovative interface and sheer beauty. A sequel would work well on DS or PSP...Rez (Dreamcast, PS2)Lumines may be a 'spiritual successor' to Tetsuya Mizuguchi's hypnotic shooter, but a true Rez sequel has yet to appear. And just image what the Xbox 360 or PS3 could do with this musical marvel.Blast Corps (N64)Rare's early N64 smash-'em-up involved clearing a safe path for a giant unstoppable truck. A truck carrying armed nuclear weapons. Using buggies, robots and bulldozers you simply drove around demolishing buildings. Great idea. But then Rare went on to release GoldenEye and everyone forgot about it.NiGHTS(Sega Saturn) Sonic Team's visually astounding 3D-style scrolling adventure still turns Sega fans into weak-kneed nostalgics. It's the smooth gameplay, the lovely music, the characters, the sheer atmosphere... And, no, Christmas NiGHTS doesn't count as a sequel.Fantavision (PS2)This firework display challenge was THE early showcase for the powers of PS2 – a truly original mix of Missile Command and Puzzle Bobble. So realistic, peopledidactually go 'ooooh' and even 'ahhhhh', while watching...Vagrant Story (PSone)Possibly the only Square RPGnotto get at least one sequel, this overlooked masterpiece famously scored a perfect 40/40 in Japanese games mag Famitsu. Twisty plot, excellent hybrid battle system, great soundtrack – what more could you ask for? Surely Vagrant Story 2 must be somewhere on the Square Enix to do list.Theatre Europe (C64)A completely idiosyncratic choice, I know, but this excruciatingly tense military strategy game, based around global nuclear conflict, brilliantly tapped into the early-eighties Cold War paranoia – like an interactive Threads. Advance Wars is great and all that, but Theatre Europe was much more emotional. At the end, itmatteredthat you'd destroyed the planet. Games have never again tapped into the consequences of military action like this. Would be the perfect time for a comeback...
Sony has released yet another firm ware upgrade for the PSP, taking it up to v2.5 in the US and Japan. (UK users will get it next year.) From theUS download site, the main improvements seem to be theLocationFree Player-- which lets you watch TV and videos remotely as long as you also buy a separate Sony LocationFree Base Station -- and the ability to play copyright-protected video from a Sony copy-protected Memory Stick Duo. Neither of those sounds worth the effort. However, you can bet that v2.5 prevents users from downgrading to the v1.5 firmware required to run pirated software, and that some if not all desirable new games will soon insist on v2.5 being installed.LocationFreeis like theOrbsystem for Windows XP, which just needs a remote device that can stream "Windows, Real or 3GP media, such as WMP9 or above and RealPlayer 10 or above". That covers most Windows CE-based PDAs and mobile phones and a couple of dozen Nokias, etc. There's alsoDOT-Tunes, of course.The ability to replay copy-protected video is probably of limited value because Sony'sPortable TV system, P-TV-- where you download programs to the PSP for replay later -- is only available in Japan.
Spielberg: game for a laugh? Photograph: Damian Dovarganes/APElectronic Arts is well known for being the games industry's steamroller - franchises that dominate the charts - but now it's going for the big guns: Steven Spielberg is going to be working with them on a swathe of new titles.It's a serious celebrity coup for EA, even if we ignore the fact that Spielberg's been off the boil for some time (did youseeThe Terminal?).Some quotes, viaMCV:"I have been playing EA games for years and have watched them master the interactive format," he said. "Having watched the games industry grow from a niche and into a major creative force in entertainment, I have a great deal of respect for EA's understanding of the interactive format. I'm looking forward to working closely with the team in Los Angeles.""There is no greater storyteller than Steven Spielberg," added EA chairman and CEO Larry Probst. "In addition to his gift for pleasing movie audiences, he has an innate understanding of games and how to immerse players into a fantastic world of action and characters."Hollywood and the games industry are creeping closer together - as bothKeithandAlekshave pointed out in recent Gamesblog columns - but the question has to be asked: is that a good thing?Update:Keith's asking for suggestions on what kind of games this will end up producing: let him know over onGamesblog.
"The Technical Research Centre of Finland (VTT) has developed a method to recognise the owner of electronic devices by the way the owner walks thus preventing the unauthorised use of portable devices such as computers or mobile phones," reportseFinland."In the method, sensors measure certain features in the person's walk and these are compared to values stored in the memory of the device. If the values differ, the device requests an access code. In trials, the method has achieved a success rate of 90%. VTT is applying for a patent for the solution."Reutersalso has the story.
"Macintosh-style interaction design has reached its limits. A new paradigm, called results-oriented UI, might well be the way to empower users in the future," says Jakob Nielsen in his latestAlertbox.The next version of Microsoft Office(code-named "Office 12") will be based on a new interaction paradigm called the results-oriented user interface. As the demos show, the most obvious departure from the past is that menus and toolbars are all but wiped out. The focus is now on letting users specify the results they want, rather than focusing on the primitive operations required to reach their goals.The new interface displays galleries of possible end-states, each of which combine many formatting operations. From this gallery, you select the complete look of your target -- say an org chart or an entire document -- and watch it change shape as you mouse over the alternatives in the gallery. The interaction paradigm has been reversed; it's now What You Get Is What You See, or WYGIWYS.
Electronics Arts announced this morning that it will be collaborating with Steven Spielberg on, "three new original franchise properties". I think they mean 'videogames'. As the press release continues:"Beginning this year, with offices located on site at EALA, Spielberg will work directly with EA's development teams to offer his signature style of storytelling to the concept, design, story and artistic visualization of the new games. EA will own the intellectual properties and the game franchises will be developed, published and distributed worldwide by EA. Financial terms of the agreement were not disclosed."Also not disclosed are Spielberg's working hours. Will his film career and personal relationships suffer due to those lengthy videogame industry crunch periods? "No, Mr Spielberg you cannot have the afternoon off to direct Minority Report 2. You still have 15 level maps and ten character biogs to submit before we alpha in two weeks..."Anyway, back to the press release..."There is no greater storyteller than Steven Spielberg," said EA Chairman and CEO Larry Probst, clearly dismissing the likes of Dickens, Tolstoy and Balzac as mere also-rans, as they never managed to craft a narrative around a rubber shark. Later, Neil Young, VP and Studio Head at EALA, chips in: "He shares our vision for the potential of the medium and has the passion and creativity to help us finally deliver on the promise that a game can not only engage and compel you with its interactivity, but can also move you emotionally."He's clearly thinking of FIFA Street 2 here...So, what kind of game can we expect from EA and Spielberg, from these masters of mass entertainment? Your predictions please...
Anyone tried updating their PSP yet? Version 2.50 is out now but it isn't as appealing as previous upgrades. Whereas 2.0 bought in a web browser and wallpaper options, 2.50 adds DRM facilities and a few bug fixes. Of course, what it really does is stop people using homebrew and pirated games who were exploiting a security hole. I wonder if your average PSP user will bother with this update...
Industry site, The Inquirer, reckons the new video iPod, "could spell bad news for Sony's PSP"..."Apple's i-Pod screen may not be as impressive as the PSP's, being 2.5" and 4:3 but it is capable of playing H.264 and MPEG-4 video at 30fps. Alongside this Apple has released i-Tunes 6, which of course enough has a video section. Already there are over 2,000 music videos available for download as well as five television series. These episodes and music videos will cost $1.99 (£1.13) each....With movies on UMD both expensive and awkward in comparison to Apple's hard drive approach, Sony's domination of portable video could be short lived."I wonder if 5th gen iPodwillhit sales of PSP? Surely people aren'treallybuying Sony's handheld as a portable video player first and a videogames machine second (or even third behind listening to MP3s)? That would be like purchasing a mobile phone to listen to ring-tones, only later realising you can also make calls on it. For heaven's sake, Sony only put video downloading on there for a joke - otherwise they would have made it possible for peoplewithoutcomputer engineering degrees to use the facility without bursting into frustrated tears after two hours of fruitless fiddling. Look, you're supposed to be playing Lumines!Meanwhile, how about iPod as a games platform? Now that we have aDoom port, programmed by some Linux loon with far too much time on his hands, can we expect more than just Parachute, Solitaire and Brick in the future? How long before iPod gets MAMEd?
Years ago, for the briefest of moments (well, about a decade) Hollywood gave itself over to a new generation of innovative filmmakers. Hal Ashby, Paul Schrader, Terence Malick – not a commercial bone among them, but they more or less saved a floundering industry from disappearing up its own end credits. And now, after perusing another game chart dominated by street racers, sports sims and shooters, I wonder, will videogames ever get their own indie revolution?In a quiet corner of the Internet there are already rumblings.Facadeis an astonishingly clever interactive story, which has just been named Most Innovative game of the year at the IndieGamesCon event. Usually, when this industry talks about innovation it is referring to some new visual effect, or a staggering variation on the squad-based military shoot 'em up. If we're really lucky it might mean a wacky Japanese game involving puppies.But Facade is something else. Programmed by AI researchers Andrew Stern and Michael Mateas the one-act drama challenges you to take part in a real-time argument between a computer-controlled couple, Grace and Trip. You play as their best friend (retaining your own name and gender) and what you say and do to them will have far-reaching consequences for their marriage. Imagine The Sims, but with conversational and narrative cogency – a genuine interactive soap opera. No wonder the New York Times called Facade "the future of videogames". Slap a Desperate Housewives license on it and you've sold a million.But we're a long way from that. Facade, like other interesting indie titles such as surreal god gameDarwiniaand eco-adventureWildlife Tycoonare developed by tiny companies and distributed online to a comparatively modest audience. The mainstream industry seems happy for things to stay that way. True, earlier this year Zoo Digital took a great little indie shooter,Alien Hominid, previously only available via web download, and gave it successful roll-outs on PlayStation2, GBA and Xbox, but that's a rare exception to a depressing rule. And Zoo Digital is no EA.Videogames are on the verge of a major generational shift. This is the 'stand in front of the tanks' moment for the industry's more forward-thinking producers. Will the PS3 and Xbox360 era really be about tiresome graphical boasts – 'Realistic Tarmac!' 'Bullet wounds now with viscera!' Or will someone, somewhere invite the makers of Facade to create an entirely new experience that really tests those snarling multi-core processors?It wouldn't even have to be an official retail release. Microsoft put indie titles like hardcore shooter Mutant Storm on its Xbox Live Arcade, charging gamers around a tenner each to download them. PS3, PSP, Xbox 360 – all of them could offer similar service for more experimental fare. The coming epoch needs its own Resident Evils, Metal Gear Solids and Gran Turismos. But right now, the gene pool is drying up, new ideas are frighteningly scarce. One day amazing graphics won't do it anymore - even for the easily led.Perhaps Nintendo has all this covered with its own Revolution. Otherwise it is time to get some help in.
If you're not reading Rafat Ali'sPaidContent, then you should be.With all the talk of web acquisitions and the upward curve of the tech sector at the moment, Ali's been getting a lot of stories ahead of mainstream publications, and he's really on a roll. It's essentially a one man blog about the tech industry and focuses particularly online news, broadband, television - pretty much anything which could hide under the buzz umbrella of "content provision".Nick Dentonrecently asked"Has anyone noticed how Rafat Ali is breaking most of the smaller internet deals ahead of print media?". And he's right.
As visitors to the Ceatec gadget show in Tokyo found out last week, a mobile phone powered by methanol is more than mere guff from the telecom industry. The liquid - which can be derived from methane, a gas best known for its association with flatulent cattle - could provide an easy method of recharging.Toshiba and Hitachi both displayed prototypes of mobile handsets powered by methanol which, when mixed with water, reacts with air via a plastic membrane and produces electricity.Direct methanol fuel cells (DMFCs) are touted as clean and efficient and, if the research and development people are to believed, will one day be capable of powering mobile phones, PCs, music players and other gadgets for longer periods than conventional lithium ion batteries.Toshiba's unit contains enough power to recharge a mobile phone five times, while Hitachi's version - 4.8in x 2.8in, and an inch thick - contains enough juice to power a phone for five hours.The chargers have caught the eye of Japan's mobile phone firms, with NTT DoCoMo and KDDI, Japan's top two carriers, planning to make the technology available within a few years.Manufacturers say they are on the way to perfecting phones that will feature self-contained fuel cells, making conventional batteries a thing of the past. Toshiba's prototype DMFC-driven handset is on the chunky side but, the firm says, will run for about 2.5 times longer than one powered by an existing rechargeable battery.Toshiba has also developed prototype fuel cell chargers of 100mW and 300mW for Flash memory-based mobile audio players and those containing hard drives. A single 3.5ml charge of highly concentrated methanol from the 100mW version provides a Flash player with enough power for 35 hours.Consumers will have to wait a little longer for the new phones to appear in the shops. Manufacturers say the delay is due to airline regulations that ban passengers from taking methanol aboard commercial aircraft. Reckoning that the Japanese won't be interested in a gadget they can't take on their travels, the makers are said to be biding their time until 2007, when the ban is expected to end.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
