Opening an account withSmiletook six days - and on the seventh day I fumed.Smile, the internet offering from the Co-operative Bank, is a great idea. Its current account pays 4.07% interest on      credit accounts and comes with a fee-free £500 overdraft; savings, loan and credit card rates are exceptionally good.But trying to use Smile made it seem like another example of an internet service launched before it      was quite ready. It took six days to tell me no, I couldn't have an account - then changed its mind.The bank's site and its advertising, promise a decision within minutes. Yet, as online marketing manager Jo Dodds says,      credit reference agencies are not open 24 hours a day, and checks must be made before accounts can be approved.       The site has been shut down for long periods on at least four occasions, some computers don't recognise its security      certificate and therefore won't establish a secure connection, and the application form isn't behaving nicely.Then there's the Apple problem. Smile says the bank is not available for Mac users because the Java-based user interface      won't work properly. I know because Dodds told me, but not everyone can call the marketing manager and none of the      customer service staff told me. The only reference to non-compatibility with Macs is hidden in the site's      trouble-shooting section.Frustrated Smile customers must call an 0870 number to talk to an operator (charged at national rate peak of 6.7p a      minute). Or the bank offers a helpline - at 50p a minute.       I pre-enrolled, and was allowed to sign up on October 27, a day before Smile opened for business. Although I was using a      Mac, I managed to fill in the application form, but could not enter some details in the address field or, crucially, in the      area for my existing account number.I was emailed and asked to call Smile and provided extra address information; the application was proceeding nicely,      thank you very much.       On Thursday, the official launch day, an email told me: "Unfortunately, we cannot process any applications at the moment      as the credit reference agency we use is temporarily unavailable."       This message was repeated the next day.On Monday I phoned. There was nothing that could be done, I was told. Just wait. I received a third email, telling the      same story.       But that night it happened. "Thank you for your application to open an account with Smile. Unfortunately, I regret that      we are unable to open an account for you as your application failed to meet our credit scoring criteria."       Dodds could not explain why it would take six days to process an application. She said there had been complaints from      Apple users and she did not know why the security certificate was not being recognised. Then a shred of good news.Smile's Dave Smith told me there was hope. All rejected applicants were being rechecked manually (by actual humans).       Just a wee while after talking to Mr Smith, I received two new emails together: one an apology that it was taking so      long to process my application; the other said I had been accepted.Smile? I could have cried.
If he were alive today Guglielmo Marconi would be rubbing his eyes in disbelief. Almost 100 years since he sent the first wireless signals across the Atlantic his technology has been re-invented to bring the internet to a massaudience.During the next few weeks, the first of the much vaunted WAP (wireless application protocol) mobile phones - providing customised access to the internet - will be rolled out in Britain and elsewhere. For several years a debate has raged over whether the internet would reach critical mass by marrying the personal computer or the television set. But all the time it was having an affair with the mobile phone, which now looks set to be consummated.Why? Because PC access to the internet is still a minority sport - and likely to remain so. Distribution through television has social limits (half the family can't watch Coronation Street while the rest enjoy multi-player gaming). But sales of mobiles are still exploding, and, as yet more people come online, the greater is the incentive for others to join because of the effects of being on a network.If you have any doubts, look at Finland, which leads the world in mobile phone usage. Some 90% of youngsters have phones (and some families have more than 100% penetration). It is already changing the way people react with each other, reviving tribal instincts as people communicate in groups.Critics argue that the   five-line screen of a typical WAP phone cannot cope with the oceans of data on the net. On the contrary, far from being killed by information overload, the internet phones will provide an antidote to it.Instead of choosing from dozens of sources of news or services, those that suit you can be beamed to you on demand. The huge potential demand for customised usage will breed a new generation of service providers and coders. If you want to get ahead, start learning WML (wireless mark up language), the language used to customise internet data for mobiles.At first the applications look predictable - news, football results, share prices, home banking and so forth. But imagine what will happen when clever programmers start writing applications for one of the biggest mass markets ever. Already Phone.com, a leader in net access for WAP phones, claims access to 13,000 third party developers devising applications for corporate and personal users. Goodness knows what they will come up with.In recent weeks I have   seen prototypes of some of the new phones providing news about anything from who is in pole position in the Formula 1 Grand Prix to a "live" map of the main route around Paris showing which sections are congested and which are not - a service already available via French company Alcatel, one of the very few already operating banking services by phone.The weaknesses of the early models are obvious: problems include the size and visibility of the screen and speed of access. But what shouts out at you is the potential. After a couple of years, these WAP phones will be joined by the "third generation" of phones, for which the government announced an auction of bandwith last week. These will offer broadband (high capacity) access to an (almost) worldwide standard.Manufacturers will make them in all shapes, weights and sizes to ascertain what the market wants. All you need to do now is to think what will be possible when all the leading edge technologies converge with the mobile phone.It could have a screen capable of watching live video conferencing or films, a tiny web camera so you can be seen live by the person (or group) you are talking to. A tiny global positioning device will pinpoint where you (or your children) are. It could inform you of restaurants and places of interest in areas you are passing through. Voice recognition technology will enable you to "speak" your emails or (much easier) have text messages read to you. The Walkman and MP3 music players will surely be gobbled up by the web-linked phone.You will be able to peek at any web camera in the world from wherever you are, and those cameras will breed like rabbits as they fall even further in size and price. You could look at traffic densities ahead on the motorway, check your aged parents are OK at their home, link it to your cash card for payments,   monitor your own home's security, see who is ringing your front door bell while you are on a beach in the south of France, eavesdrop on a lecture at a university if it has installed cameras (and why not?) or consult your GP remotely about that throat infection ("Please hold the camera up to your mouth and say Ah").None of this is fanciful because all of these uses are available now. It is quite likely that wireless will become our principal method of communication.The interesting thing is that Europe still has a clear technological lead over the US. We have a much more advanced "mobile culture" and a standardised (GSM) infrastructure for phones to talk to each other (while the US has competing systems).It is interesting how Europe - despite a blaze of publicity - has failed to sign up all its member states to a single currency, but, with very little publicity, has standardised its wireless infrastructure. There is no doubt in my mind which is the more important.
Bill Gates has been taught a golden rule of American capitalism. Never underestimate the majesty of the anti-trust laws or the sheer power of the populist sentiment on which they are based. The United States is a nation where, when put to the test, the rights of the individual or the smaller entrepreneurial enterprise will always be held higher than brute corporate strength. Thus a century which began with the anti-trust authorities moving against John D Rockefeller's Standard Oil of New Jersey, which controlled more than 90 per cent of the world's oil production, ends with the state scoring a victory over Microsoft, the outstanding and most successful corporation of the late 20th century. The names and industries are different but the values which led federal judge Thomas Penfield Jackson to find Mr Gates and Microsoft guilty of being a relentless and predatory monopoly are immutable.Despite all his technological and business skills, this is a case that Mr Gates, who masterminded the defence of the anti-trust action, fumbled. There have been chances throughout for Microsoft to settle. The US is the home of the plea bargain and the out-of-court settlement. But Microsoft felt it could walk on water and turned aside all such offers. In spurning a negotiated agreement at an earlier stage of the proceedings Microsoft now faces the stark choice of years of appeals or the prospect of seeing the empire it created split asunder. If anyone believes that this will not happen, think back to the monopoly US telecom supplier AT&amp;T, which was splintered into more than a dozen operating companies less than two decades ago.Mr Gates and Microsoft have reason to feel some bitterness about the outcome of the case. Arguably the corporation   that he has driven forward has been a huge contributor to the longest period of US economic expansion since the 1850s. Without the higher productivity unleashed by the access of a nation and a world to the Windows operating system and the personal computer, the "new paradigm" of growth without inflation may never have succeeded. Moreover, had not Microsoft eventually latched on to the importance of web browsing technology, and brought it to a far wider market than embryonic rivals like Netscape, the development of the internet into the next great technological white hope might never have taken place. The build-up of financial resources within Microsoft's balance sheet and its willingness to carry complex ideas forward by means of skilful marketing spread the magic of the PC and the internet more widely and more quickly than otherwise would have been possible. Mr Gates knows instinctively this is right and is attempting to do the same for new delivery systems like cable and for next generation hand-held devices.But that is the point. In Microsoft's determination to be the dominant force in the third industrial revolution well into the next century it is willing to use its muscle to sweep all else aside. It has become arrogant enough to believe that in the same way as its control of the innards of the PC gave it domination of that market, so its awesome strength means that it can build itself a role in the next generation. The justice department recognised the danger and the courts have agreed. Judge Jackson may now come up with ways of separating the creative side of Microsoft - R&amp;D and manufacture - from the distribution chain. It will be a painful and complex divorce. But as in the case of telecoms, the global consumer should be the ultimate beneficiary.
Microsoft shares have fallen as much as 13 percent as a reaction to concerns the US Justice Department may seek to break up the company after a federal judge found
that the world's largest software maker was a monopoly.Microsoft fell 5 9/16 to 86 in early trading. The stock, which has risen about 24 percent so far this year, dropped as low as 80.US District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson said on Friday that Microsoft ''stifled innovation'' by
abusing its monopoly over personal-computer operating systems. Assistant US Attorney General Joel
Klein said yesterday a breakup of Microsoft is among the remedies being considered by the Justice
Department in its antitrust case to promote competition and consumer choice.''This ruling raises a lot of uncertainty for Microsoft and it's bound to scare some investors,'' said
Fredric Russell, who manages $75 million for Fredric E. Russell Investment Management Co. in Tulsa,
Oklahoma. ''People are going to take a sober look at Microsoft and all technology stocks.''Jackson has yet to issue a final ruling on whether Microsoft violated the Sherman Antitrust Act or
assess punishment. His final decision is expected to take months and an appeal by Microsoft
could stretch the case by several years.Washington-based Microsoft said yesterday it remains confident that it didn't do anything
wrong. 
''We are in the third inning of a nine-inning game,'' Microsoft Chief Operating Officer Robert Herbold
said on ''Fox News Sunday.''''We are confident that at the end of that process, the decision will
match what's going on in the marketplace today, namely, a ton of innovation.'' 
Some analysts believe the decline in Microsoft shares will be short-lived because company business
will continue as normal pending a final settlement.Russell doesn't own Microsoft shares because he views the stock as too expensive. A decline in the
stock might be an opportunity to buy, he said.
The lord chancellor's department has had a website closed down because material posted on it criticised judges.James Hulbert's internet service provider told him last week that his webspace was being "disabled with immediate effect" after a complaint from the department that it was causing offence.Mr Hulbert, 67, from Hull, had posted an open letter to the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, criticising five judges who presided over cases in which he said he was denied justice.The move, which has serious implications for freedom of speech, is the latest step by government to try to stop the tide of anti-judge material put out by disgruntled litigants who believe the legal system has conspired against them.The attorney general, Lord Williams of Mostyn, is seeking to have Geoffrey Scriven, a Cheshire businessman, jailed in January for breaching an undertaking not to "scandalise the court", an ancient form of contempt of court which has not been invoked in England since 1931.Mr Scriven sends frequent faxes to newspapers accusing the judiciary of bias, mafia membership, perjury, high treason, defrauding the public and other forms of chicanery.Mr Hulbert was tried for deception and assaulting a police officer in 1991 after a taxi driver accused him of evading a fare. After he was acquitted, he sued the police for false imprisonent and assault, and won an out-of-court settlement of &#163;12,000.Since then he has waged an unsuccessful legal battle, detailed on his website, to try to get the courts to accept that some of the evidence in the trial was fabricated.Last week Kingston Internet Webmaster closed down   the site, claiming that Mr Hulbert had breached its terms and conditions, which ban a site's use for "obscene, menacing, threatening, offensive, abusive, indecent or defamatory" material.Service providers have been quick to act on complaints since a high court ruling in March that they could be sued for defamation if they were alerted to offensive content but took no action.A spokesman for the lord chancellor's department said the decision to try to have the website closed down did not come from Lord Irvine personally but from the department's lawyers.Mr Hulbert said: "What they've done to me is unconstitutional. I wouldn't mind if they had taken me to court, but they haven't. My evidence is too good, so they won't take me to court. I've now made an initial application to the European court of human rights in Strasbourg."He said he had since put all the material on to another website, a US freeserver."I have a choice of 30 other sites if I need them, so they'll have a job to close me down."&#149; The government's plans for a freedom of information law were attacked yesterday by the new president of the Society of Editors, which represents national and regional newspaper and broadcasting editors.The proposed legislation "is weak and shows no genuine commitment to a free and open society," Neil Fowler, editor of the Western Mail, told the society's annual conference in Portsmouth."This government - like all others before it - seems, sadly, to hold the view that politicians and civil servants know best and the people shall know nothing at all," he said.Editors would continue to lobby for changes in the legislation. "An open society leads to a healthier and wealthier society."
Microsoft is the latest in a long line of American leviathans whose actions have prompted anti-trust proceedings by the US Justice Department. Here are the cases of three other giants that have shaped the face of modern America:Standard OilJohn D. Rockefeller rose from humble circumstances to create America's most powerful and feared monopoly. He aggressively bought up oil companies and employed such strong-arm tactics that Standard's reach seemed limitless.By 1910, Standard refined and marketed almost 90 per cent of all the oil produced in the US, earning the nickname 'Octopus' because its tentacles stretched everywhere. Its omnipotence prompted legal action by the US Government. A Supreme Court ruling in 1911 stipulated that Standard Oil should be broken up. Critics allege that the move did little to limit the Rockefeller corporation's dominance of the oil industry.IBMBig Blue may be riding the e-commerce wave these days, but its origins were in much more elementary services. In 1890 International Business Machines started life as a fledgling business that tabulated the US census for the Government.By the turn of the century it had merged with two other tabulating companies to become a major force in the early computing industry. In 1932 the Justice Department took IBM to the Supreme Court, alleging that it forced customers to buy its tabulating cards before they could use its machines. The court found in favour of the Justice Department.Another anti-trust suit four years later saw IBM forced to sell its tabulating machines, rather than lease them. This established a rival market, diminishing IBM's monopoly. A third suit filed in 1979 collapsed 13 years later, when it was ruled that government intermediaries must sit on the IBM board. The result? IBM ended up with $8 billion losses.AT&amp;TThe American Telegraph and Telephone Company started life as a government-backed monopoly. Accepting that a standardised communication system was needed, US officials allowed AT&amp;T to develop on its own, at both national level and 'Bell', or local, level.But by 1949 the government was worried by AT&amp;T's position and filed an anti-trust suit. In 1956 AT&amp;T reached an agreement with the Justice Department in which the telecoms giant promised to limit its activities. However, as computing started to take off in the Eighties, with emphasis on the transfer of data across wires, AT&amp;T's position became stronger.In 1984 the company was forced to separate its local operators, what became known as Baby Bells, from its long-distance arm. Today the Baby Bells have consolidated into some extremely powerful telecommunication companies, while AT&amp;T's position is threatened by newcomers such as MCI WorldCom.
It's official. Microsoft is a monopoly. But those hoping to see the break-up of Bill Gates's empire are likely to be disappointed. The 207-page judgment delivered by US district court judge Thomas Penfield Jackson on Friday found in favour of the US Justice Department's anti-trust team, lead by Joel Klein.The government's case against Microsoft focused on the software giant's dominant position in the industry. The justice department (and 19 state attorneys who also accused the company of anti-trust behaviour) argued that Microsoft used its power in operating system software to strongarm its rivals, notably Netscape, out of the market.During the course of the trial, which started in October 1998, Netscape, an entrepreneurial Internet software company, was bought by Internet service provider AOL - a move Microsoft unsuccessfully argued made the case redundant.As employees on Microsoft's Redmond campus digested the judgment on their screens, many winced at the strong words, but experts pointed out that this judgment represents only the first part of the anti-trust proceedings. A decision about how Microsoft should be punished - or the situation remedied - may not be reached until well into next year.The world's richest man reacted to the findings in a far more conciliatory way than his arrogant and sometimes petulant behaviour during the 77-day trial would have suggested. 'There's got to be a way to resolve it which is fair to the government, fair to the consumer and fair to Microsoft,' said Gates, speaking on CNN directly after the findings were published - on the Internet of course.The principal points of the judgment that gave Klein and his team complete victory over Gates were that Microsoft operated a monopoly, abused that monopoly and harmed the consumer by restricting competition and innovation.But anti-trust experts and followers of the case were quick to reach the conclusion that there was nothing in the findings that would force the company to break up. In particular the judge could find no conclusive evidence that Microsoft overcharged for Windows. What the judge seemed to take greatest exception to was Microsoft's behaviour, rather than its structure.The main findings of Judge Jackson were that:&#149; Microsoft enjoys monopoly power in the market for Intel-based PC operating systems. It has a large and stable share of the market, which would be expensive for any competitor to crack. Customers do not have an affordable alternative to Windows.&#149; In this sector of the market - the kind of PCs most users have at home or work - Windows has had more than 90 per cent of the market in every year of the past decade. For the past couple of years this has risen to 95 per cent, and predictions are that it will climb higher.&#149; Microsoft has demonstrated that it will use its prodigious market power and immense profits to harm any firm that insists on pursuing initiatives that could intensify competition against one of Microsoft's core products.&#149; On its battle with Netscape, the judge said: 'Microsoft largely succeeded in exiling &#91;Netscape's&#93; Navigator from the crucial OEM &#91;original equipment manufacturer&#93; distribution channel.' In other words it bounced Netscape out of the market by bundling its own Internet browser, Internet Explorer, with its software.A triumphant Klein said: 'This shows that no company is above the law.' US attorney general Janet Reno   claimed: 'It's a great day for American consumers.'But what does this actually mean? As the dust settles around the initial pronouncement, it is clear that Microsoft's main worry now is not necessarily the next phase of the trial - which allows the company to argue a case in law, whereas the first phase was argued in fact - but that the strength of the findings will open the way for more damaging civil actions.AOL, a company in which international financier George Soros has a stake, and Netscape are likely to launch a multibillion-dollar lawsuit against Microsoft on the back of the judgment.UK-based technology analyst Simon Moores says Gates will have to move quickly to limit the damage: 'Microsoft had been hoping to find some ambiguity in the judgment, but that doesn't seem to be there. Gates needs to achieve a compromise quickly - it looks very bad for Microsoft at the moment.'The US government would in reality like to see this action settled out of court.'They need to make an example of Microsoft but they have a feeling that if they do something damaging to it, it will have an effect on the market. Microsoft is the goose that laid the golden egg'.Golden eggs maybe. But this weekend Gates and his team will be reviewing a trial process which was handled shambolically by one of the world's smartest companies.Gates will no doubt relive the horror of the moment when crack anti-trust lawyer David Boies used two college graduate expert witnesses to prove that videotaped evidence from Microsoft was faked. Boies was exactly the kind of lawyer many felt that Gates should have retained himself instead of, what appeared at times to be, almost bumbling counsel. But as Boies said: 'He never called.'Microsoft, say many, will have to mend its ways, and not just in the market place.The trial process and the often stunningly personal judgement have been a PR disaster for the company. There seems to be no way back from this for Gates, who even in his hour of defeat can hardly manage the right degree of contrition.Gates, during his post-judgement press conference, could not help lapsing into his role as Microsoft's most ardent cheerleader.'We have the most incredible track record of not just being a company which behaves in a lawful fashion but being a company which brings incredible benefits to millions of consumers' says Gates.'Microsoft has succeeded because we have been guided by the most basic American values: innovation, integrity, serving customers, partnership, quality and giving to the community.'As the judge would say, add bullying competitors to that list, and that's the whole picture. Microsoft has lost the battle , but now it has to be careful that it does not lose the war as well.The key playersDavid BoiesDavid Boies volunteered to take a huge deduction from his normal outsized fees to serve as prosecutor for the public in United States v Microsoft. But he said he would have just as readily defended the Gates monopoly, if only Bill had called.That Bill didn't was a surprise, as it was Boies who demolished the US government's trust-busting case against IBM in the 1980s. Boies defends more Goliaths than Davids. Recently, he defeated attempts by the Philippines to end that poor nation's disastrously costly contract to buy a nuclear plant from Westinghouse. Public interest lawyers claimed the deal resulted from bribes paid to the Marcos dictatorship. Besides his blue-chip corporate clientele, Boies has attracted celebrity clients including Gary Shandling, Mike Wallace and Ross Perot.Bill GatesBill Gates was born in 1955. His father, William Gates Senior, was a corporate lawyer in Seattle who sent his son to Lakeside private school. It was here that Gates Junior met up with co-Microsoft founder Paul Allen. Gates dropped out of Harvard to start a programming business with Allen and the rest is history.  Gates, who married his wife Melinda, a former Microsoft employee, in 1993, is thought to own around 16 per cent of Microsoft stock, which makes his holding worth around $74 billion. On top of this, Gates has a large number of investments in other interests such as property and biotechnology, which according to some makes him worth more than $100bn. He has pledged to leave 95 per cent of his wealth to charity.Joel  KleinAssistant attorney-general Joel Klein is the most successful entrepreneur in the US federal bureaucracy, turning the Justice Department's Anti-Trust unit into an astonishing profit centre for the Treasury.In his two years at the Department, he has collected more than $750 million in fines, mostly from European monopolists. Klein, who was President Clinton's deputy counsel until 1995, broke new ground in anti-trust law by winning serious jail time for corporate price-fixers (a felony in the US) who happen to be key funders of the Republican Party. Unlike his attack dog, litigator Boies, Klein made his name fighting for the impoverished, mentally ill and retarded, joining the Mental Health Law Project after graduating from Harvard Law School, with high honours, in 1971.
It was a boring cover to many of the magazine's readers: a computer that, by today's standards, was only marginally smarter than a house brick. But for two young men the article on the new Altair 8800 computer in  Popular Electronics in January 1975 was gold dust. It set Paul Allen and Bill Gates on the road to creating the world's largest company, which in the past three months of this year alone had sales of more than $5 billion - rather more than the $16,000 revenue made by the company when it launched 24 years ago.Allen and Gates wrote software for the new computer. This may not seem revolutionary today, but in those days computer programming was practically a cottage industry. Gates was so excited he dropped out of Harvard to commit to the venture.The two men signed a licensing agreement with the company that had produced the Altair and patented the Microsoft name in 1976. Soon Microsoft (then with headquarters in Albuquerque, New Mexico) had turned its attention to programming for other computers.It was in the Eighties that Microsoft started to emerge as a truly global player. It began licensing its operating system software to IBM and   Apple. Soon other hardware manufacturers wanted the software. Its ubiquity ensured the operating system became an industry standard and the battering ram Microsoft would use to break into other markets.During the Eighties, Microsoft's ambitions accelerated. Not content with making operating software, it turned its attention to other products, including Word, a word-processing package, and Excel, an application to create spread sheets. By 1985 Microsoft had revenues of $140 million. The following year it moved its headquarters to Redmond, Washington, and went public. By the end of the decade Microsoft had annual sales of $1bn.Further upgrades of Microsoft's operating system, rechristened Windows, continued to propel the company's fortunes, and its share price. In 1991 four million copies of Windows were shipped to 24 countries. Anti-trust officials began investigating Microsoft's activities.And then things went exponential. Microsoft started to realise that content was king. It launched the Microsoft Encarta, the world's first multimedia encyclopaedia for a computer; Windows NT, a suite of services for businesses; and a range of software packages for children.In 1995 the company teamed up with DreamWorks SKG (Steven Spielberg's brainchild) to launch interactive and multimedia entertainment services. It also joined with broadcaster NBC in offering an interactive news and information service. Other investments in cable companies followed. By the middle of the decade Microsoft had become so powerful it built itself a museum to chronicle its history.Slow to wake up to the Internet's potential, Microsoft 'reinvented' itself in 1996, launching a range of online services. To cement its position as a software and entertainment player, it bought WebTV for more than $400m, allowing it to offer Internet services through television.Then Microsoft launched its Internet Explorer browser software as part of its Windows 95 package. Government officials were now running scared: it was obvious Microsoft had gone way beyond being just the world's largest software company.In 1997, the same year as Microsoft was voted America's most admired company by the public, the US Justice Department asked the courts to stop Microsoft tying its browser software to its Windows operating system. The computer industry held its breath.
Even in what his enemies were calling his darkest hour, the richest man in the world was still smiling that boyish smile, still exuding that mix of edginess and inner calm.Less than an hour after losing the first round of his legal battle with the federal authorities, Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft, defiantly rejected a judge's verdict that his company was a monopoly.He said: 'Microsoft's actions and innovations were fair and legal and brought tremendous benefits to millions of consumers.'But Judge Thomas Jackson's 'finding in fact' did not spare the company. He ruled not only that Microsoft was a monopoly but also that it had abused its position. By coupling an Internet browser to   the Windows 95 operating system, it had limited consumer choice.The language was harsh: 'sabotage', 'arm-twisting'. Microsoft had 'stifled competition'. 'Some innovations never occurred', he said, because they did not fit in with Microsoft's strategy. 'No company,' said Judge Jackson, 'is above the law.'How did Bill Gates feel? He had been at a 'think week', he replied, and had been 'thinking about the opportunities ahead of us'. He said he was 'very excited'. 'We will be making sure that all of Microsoft's 30,000 employees stay focused' on the main mission - 'innovation', 'great products'.'America should wish that every business was as competitive as the personal computer business.' And anyway, the ruling was 'Just one step in an ongoing legal process'.After the findings in fact come the findings of law and the application of law. 'You can find all the facts you want,' said Gates, 'but at the end of the trial only those facts that pertain to the law are important.'Microsoft's chief counsel Bill Neukom was more aggressive. 'The government should not be designing technology products,' he said.'We think there is no single market in the US or anywhere else in the world that is more competitive than the industry of computer software.'Microsoft operates through that same curious symbiosis between jittery edginess and confident, inner calm. But now, Microsoft may have to prepare a third ingredient that is strange to the culture of Redmond, the campus that is home to the world's most successful corporation: Washington compromise.The talk in the wake of the government's apparent first-round victory is of sanctions, possible class-action suits and even 'breaking up' Microsoft. All of which are unlikely. The atmosphere at Microsoft is not one of apprehension; rather of insulted pride, righteous defiance and disbelief that the case was brought.Employees, said one, 'simply cannot understand why the government is out to penalise the leading company in the industry which is propelling a period of economic strength and low unemployment'.The oddity of the Microsoft case has been the acute dichotomy between the two forces at work in it: technology and the law. The former moves at warp-speed, while the latter is slow-moving.The irony, said staff at   Microsoft as they plodded out into the rain, is that during the time it has taken for the case to be heard, the market has made Microsoft's point about competition a self-fulfilling prophecy, with the Internet now open to a host of services competing with Microsoft.To enter Microsoft's campus is like taking a step into some other, intangible, next world. It's simultaneously scary and comforting. It's like finding a lost tribe from Star Trek, busily creating its own personable but single-minded   Arcadia. There is a uniform: casual: chinos and denim. The friendly smiles are ready and willing but detached - this is the planet of the digital smile. Everything is pristine: the Lego-brick buildings of brushed concrete and reflective glass; even the birch trees.There are Microsoft tennis courts, Microsoft soccer fields and a Microsoft hospital with health cover for employees.It could be Huxley's  Brave New World; one former programmer said the campus had the feel of a 'minimum security prison'. Hallowe'en seems a little out of place: the corridors are lined with pumpkins, straw men, wooden crosses in the design of  The Blair Witch Project.The judge has asked the government to file a brief on 6 December outlining how to apply anti-trust laws to Friday's finding, with Microsoft due to file its responding brief on 17 January.The government would then get a chance to file a response by 24 January, with Microsoft's final response due by 31 January.
The federal judge presiding over the Microsoft Corporation antitrust trial has declared the software giant wielded monopoly power in the market for personal  computer operating systems.Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, in dealing a major legal setback for Microsoft, also found the  company will use this power to harm firms that could intensify competition in the PC operating system  market.With further argument from both sides, the judge will decide in the coming months whether the facts  show a violation of antitrust law that could lead to possible sanctions.Microsoft issued a statement calling the judge's findings "just one step in an ongoing process, with  many more steps remaining. We're confident the American legal system will ultimately support our  position and that our actions have benefited consumers."   Assistant Attorney General Joel I. Klein said, "This is a tremendous victory for America's consumers.""Clearly, this is a severe blow to Microsoft. And as of last week, it's in the Dow (Jones Industrial  average) so it will play out with a real negative tone in the early goings. We have been waiting for over  a year and a lot of things have changed in the landscape of the PC market so what was true at the  beginning of this is not as true today," says Art Hogan, chief market analyst at Jeffries &amp; Co.The judge wrote, "Microsoft has demonstrated that it will use its prodigious market power and  immense profits to harm any firm that insists on pursuing initiatives that could intensify competition  against one of Microsoft's core products."A final ruling could come by the end of the year, with any penalties or remedies spelled out next year.   Jackson could order that Microsoft be broken up into smaller companies that would compete against  each other. Or he could choose from a range of lesser punishments, such as requiring Microsoft to  allow rivals to sell and improve its dominant Windows operating system, or prohibiting the company  from interfering with new technology that could threaten Windows.Appeals are likely to keep the case in court - and delay any punishments - for several years.   The government, which spent dlrs 7 million on the lawsuit and used tens of thousands of pages of  e-mail and other documents as evidence, sought to portray Microsoft as the industry bully. Justice  Department lawyers said the company illegally used its heft to undermine competing technologies and  to discourage support for its rivals.The lawsuit by the Justice Department and 19 states accused Microsoft of bullying the industry to  help maintain its remarkable influence.Jackson timed the release of his decision to come several hours after U.S. financial markets closed for  the weekend.   An out-of-court settlement is unlikely.The government previously accused Microsoft of breaking an important related agreement in 1995,  and mutual distrust remains. Chairman Bill Gates privately said a few months after that earlier deal that,  "We haven't changed our business practices at all," according to trial evidence.The success of Microsoft, with dlrs 19.7 billion in sales this year alone, rarely wavered during the  legal assault. Its stock price more than doubled since the lawsuit was filed and its Windows software  runs more than 90 percent of computers. Its Web browser - once considered second-rate - is now  favored by nearly three-fourths of the roughly 200 million people on the Internet.When Forbes magazine last month listed the 400 richest Americans, three of the top four executives  owed their fortunes to Microsoft, including Gates, who turned 44 last week and personally is worth  dlrs 85 billion.Famous for being personally involved in decisions at Microsoft, Gates avoided appearing as a trial  witness. Stephen Houck of the New York attorney general's office, one of two government lawyers  who questioned him in a deposition, told the judge Gates was suffering "a lack of intestinal fortitude."The government resorted to playing nearly eight hours of video excerpts from that deposition, and the  judge laughed and shook his head while watching portions. Gates sounded evasive - at one point he  asked a government lawyer to define the word "definition" - and professed not to remember key  events and e-mails.In court, Microsoft at times suffered the equivalent of a hard-drive crash. With help from two hired  experts barely out of college, government lawyer David Boies forced James Allchin, a senior vice  president and a top computer scientist, to admit that a video demonstration shown in court was false.   The government suffered its share of problems, too. Its top economics expert, Franklin Fisher, told a  surprised Boies that Microsoft hasn't hurt consumers "up to this point."
Staff at Microsoft and some members of the United States government have had little reason to thank God for Fridays. On each of the past two Friday nights, employees at Microsoft and the US Justice Department have waited for the first sign of a judgment in their historic legal tussle.Yesterday - after two false alarms - they finally expected a preliminary ruling to determine if the software company abused its dominance of the computer industry. The anti-trust case, which started more than a year ago, is expected to be the most important business case of its era.The decision is set to have wide-ranging implications for the software industry and for business as a whole. George Cary, anti-trust lawyer at Clear, Gottlieb, Steen and Hamilton, said: "This is going to define the rules in the market."More immediately for Microsoft, the case could jeopardise the launch of its Windows 2000 software, due to take place in February, which the company hopes will succeed its internationally successful Windows 95 system.Yesterday's expected preliminary ruling - where the judge gives his so-called findings of fact - offers just the first hint of that definition, and the first sign of who has won.Few analysts and observers have come up with a plausible reason for why Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson decided to tell the world that his preliminary findings in the case would be made available late on a Friday, but not which one.Most believe that the court wanted to put as much time as possible between the decision and trading in Microsoft's shares. Traders and analysts will be able to use the time to work out exactly what impact the judge's decision could have on the company headed by Bill Gates, the world's richest man.There has been mounting speculation that the judge will want to offer something to both sides in his findings in an attempt to push them into reaching a settlement.One lawyer said the long, drawn-out judgment phase with yesterday's expected ruling preceding any actual legal conclusions - suggests that the judge wanted to give both sides time to use his findings as the basis for further talks.Bob Lande, a professor at the University of Baltimore School of Law, has said that the judge is "trying to force settlement by bifurcating facts from law, which gives the parties another chance to start talking".Since preliminary settlement talks foundered earlier this year, Mr Gates and other Microsoft executives have spoken of their regret at having failed to reach an understanding with the government.Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel for worldwide sales, said: "We have said constantly that we would rather settle this if possible."At the time he said it in July, he added that such a settlement was "not imminent".In outlining what he believes to be the facts, Judge Jackson is expected to reveal his views on the central parts of the case - whether Microsoft is actually a monopoly and whether its behaviour has in any way harmed consumers.Microsoft's market share alone - its Windows operating system is used on more than 90% of computers - would fit most everyday definitions of a monopoly.However, under US law, the government has to prove that this market power was abused either by the company's ability to raise prices or stifle innovation without suffering a loss of market share.The government urged the judge to consider evidence from a meeting between Microsoft and Netscape in 1995 in deciding on this point.Several Netscape executives accused Microsoft of threatening them with extinction unless they agreed to carve up the internet browser market.Such behaviour, denied by Microsoft, would be a serious breach of anti-trust laws.Microsoft has suggested that the newly competitive landscape in the fast-changing world of the internet has largely negated the government's position.
What do you call a group of cyber pups? Litter sounds far too messy for a trio of hi-tech hounds. They're quite shiny, so it could be a glitter, but I'm open to suggestions.The reason I ask is that Gromit has just spent the day playing with Rex and Spot, two Aibos currently brightening up the offices of a computer firm in Letchworth. And anything that brightens up Letchworth can only be a good thing.Adept Scientific boss Paul Bragg justified his company purchases with a variety of technical explanations about how the two Aibos were valuable for research purposes, before confessing that like every other Aibo owner, they're just a bunch of tech-heads who couldn't say "no"."Most companies offer its employees a few perks," Paul added. "With some it's pension schemes, with us it's robot dogs."After his TV appearances Gromit has become a bit of a show off and spent the afternoon cheering and waving to the crowd of employees that gathered to see a third Aibo in the office. Their youngest, Spot, seemed particularly influenced and yawned for the first time shortly after Gromit did. So now he's a teacher as well.Talking of tuition, Paul and I could really use the Aibo-equivalent of Alex Ferguson. Our robot football skills leave a lot to be desired. With Rex and Gromit supposedly under remote control we had a kickabout in Paul's conference room, but it was the furniture more than the ball that saw most of the action.The incessant bleeping of two sound controllers at full volume soon proved too much and we called it quits well before the whistle should have blown. I also suspect that Paul had been watching too much World Cup as Rex's tackles were definitely of the rugby variety.I can't be too hard on him, though, as he let me have his spare copy of the Aibo Performer Kit. This nifty piece of software allows you to plug your pooch's 8MB memory stick into your PC's card slot and influence his behaviour electronically. You can create new moves, add sounds and "exchange emotions" with other Aibos.The Aibonet.com website is full of owners exchanging files to make their pets perform in new ways. But so far all I've done is a back-up. Somewhere on my hard-drive is Gromit's personality in case he bashes his head too hard and gets amnesia.Although the Performer software does look fun and it would help me get a better insight into how Gromit works, seeing lines of code on a computer screen rather takes the mystery out of the machine and I'm quite enjoying my ignorance at the moment.However, there is one move a guy called Brian has perfected, that I might just have to download. He's managed to make his dog bend over and fart. So now any unfortunate dinner-party faux pas really can be blamed on the dog. The miracles of modern technology!
He is the darling of Wall Street, credited with engineering America's longest post war economic expansion. But the man who holds the future of the world economy in his hands, Alan Greenspan, the head of the US central bank, is under threat.New technology has already changed the face of high street banking: branches have closed as customers have moved to telephone banking services and now the internet. The next internet revolution will put central bankers like Greenspan and Britain's Eddie George out of business. And the P45 may not be that far away.Forget the euro, the pound in your pocket could soon be replaced by virtual currencies and digital payment systems. Once money moves online, it moves out of the control of central banks, crippling their ability to run the economy. Greenspan and George will no longer be able to conquer inflation by putting up interest rates because holders of virtual money will be unaffected by changes in the cost of borrowing in the real economy.George's deputy, Mervyn King, has already seen the future. At a gathering of the world's top central bankers in Wyoming this August, he warned his colleagues that once they lost their monopoly over printing money, "the successors to Bill Gates would have put the successors to Alan Greenspan out of business."Online, the revolution has already started. Cyber loyalty schemes likeBeenz,ipointsandFloozpay customers who visit internet sites in credits which can be spent online. Air miles, the original shopping loyalty scheme, is branching out from flights to other rewards. OneCanadian siteoffers everything from propane stoves to copper pans to collectors of its reward points. The British founder of Beenz.com,   Charles Cohen, admits his brainchild isn't really money yet. It can't be downloaded or spent in the non-electronic economy and its purchasing power is limited by the number of sites which will accept it.But he foresees a world in which private electronic money becomes more popular than official money issued by central banks. "It will be less than a decade before private companies start issuing their own currencies," says Cohen. The consequences will be profound. "I wouldn't want to be working for the Inland Revenue when it happens."Technology is already making notes and coins redundant. We pay our bills over the phone or by direct debit. Plastic is replacing cash and cheques - cumbersome and expensive means of payment. But plastic money is still under control of the conventional banking system - at the end of the month when the bills arrive, we settle them through a transfer from a bank account.The real revolution will occur, according to King, when companies no longer need to use the banking system to settle their bills with each other. At the moment, when firms make   big financial transactions, they settle them through the banking system. Because central banks set the rules for high street banks - how much money they need to have in their own bank accounts with the Fed or the Bank of England in relation to their outstanding liabilities - Greenspan and George have leverage over the whole financial system.When inflation threatens, central bankers react by making credit harder to get which slows the economy down. They raise the interest rates on loans to high street banks which pass on the increased costs to their customers. This has a knock-on effect throughout the rest of the economy, even though the reserves held with central banks are a very small part of the total money supply.But when companies can settle their bills with each other electronically, without needing to use the banking system, then central banks no longer control the levers of the economy. Digital payments systems will allow companies to instantly transfer wealth, without the risk of default. Once there is no need to use the conventional   banking system, there is no need to use national currencies either.Imagine a world where Microsoft has its own currency - called Bills perhaps - backed by the wealth of the company. Companies trading with Microsoft could decide whether to invoice in Bills or dollars. Individuals might prefer to be paid in Bills if they think that Microsoft money will be less inflation-prone than the pound or the dollar. Using existing smart card technology, Bills could be downloaded into electronic wallets, which would allow them to be used in the real economy instead of cash or cheques.For the libertarian right, private money is a long-held dream which the internet may finally provide the technology to fulfill. "Money does not have to be created legal tender by governments. Like law, language and morals, it can emerge spontaneously. Such private money has often been preferred to government money, but government has usually soon suppressed it," wrote Frederich Hayek, 50 years ago.Legal tender - government control over printing money - is a fairly recent   development in most countries. In the US, private banks issued money until the creation of the Federal Reserve in 1913. The Bank of England has held a monopoly over printing notes and coins since 1921, but the government did not control the money supply until Threadneedle Street was nationalised by the post-war Labour government.For libertarians, the monopoly of central banks has been a disaster. It simply allows governments to cheat their citizens by eroding the value of their savings through bouts of inflation. If there were different types of money in circulation, consumers could choose which they thought was least likely to loose its value over time."Ultimately, the competition for the standard of value should be no different to the competitive market of multiple providers we see for toothpaste or for shoes," writes Jon W Mantonis, author of Digital Cash And Monetary Freedom.The internet offers the chance for individuals to escape from the government's monopoly. Developers of e-cash can issue it easily to a wide number of people, encryption technology is moving on to allow privacy and security, and, as e-commerce grows, the spread of the digital currencies will be guaranteed. The internet is an international network, so it makes sense for someone to develop a global currency to use on it, which would protect consumers buying across national boundaries from swings in national currencies.The time for e-cash has come, according to Mantonis. "Neither the US dollar, nor any other governmental unit has gained a foothold in this new economy. The monetary landscape is ripe and wide open and private currencies should infiltrate now."So far, Hayek's dream has yet to be translated into reality. Most sites advertising e-cash or digital money are encrypted credit card schemes of various descriptions which offer consumers a chance to pay securely using   existing national currencies. Beenz and Flooz are more truly e-currencies but are too limited in circulation to compete with money.The real revolution will come when a big firm with global brand recognition decides to establish a currency. A firm like American Express which already has a money substitute - travellers cheques - would be a natural starting point, according to Mantonis. By running its own currency - an Amex - it could charge lower fees to merchants accepting its cards. "American Express will gain clout from the name association and brand identification that accompanies a pricing system," writes Mantonis.Amexes could even come to replace existing currencies in countries prone to hyperinflation. This is not as far-fetched as it sounds. Several Latin American countries are considering abandoning their own inflation-ridden currencies for the comparative stability of the US dollar. Only the colonialist overtones of adopting the greenback as their national currency are holding back countries like Argentina. There would be no such hangups about adopting a credible private currency.Private currencies threaten not only to overturn the rules for managing the economy, but also to transform the face of government. Once payments go digital, it becomes more and more difficult for states to trace them and extract taxes from individuals.As the tax base shrinks, it will be harder for governments to pay for the services we take for granted, from health care to defence. To persuade people to pay their taxes, governments may have to make the connections more obvious between what we pay the state and what we receive in return.There are huge hurdles to be overcome before e-cash becomes a reality. What will companies use to back their currencies and who will determine the exchange rate between new currencies and   existing ones? Will the advantages of the new currencies really outweigh the complexities of a having more type of money in circulation? Will they be more inflation proof than government money or will companies succumb to the temptation to "borrow" from their customers by increasing the supply and eroding its value?The chief danger of private currencies will be that companies can go bankrupt, while governments rarely do.Tim Congdon, chief economist at Lombard Street says he finds the theory that national currencies are in danger of extinction rather implausible. "There is    effectively a government guarantee on deposits with a central bank. If you leave your spare cash with a big company you don't have   that guarantee," he says.But the prospects for Greenspan and George look a little uncertain. As King told his colleagues in Wyoming,   central banks may be at the peak of their power. "Societies have managed without central banks in the past. They may well do so in the future."
Back in the IT dark ages, circa 1995, internet telephony might easily have been mistaken for a particularly cruel form of psychological torture.At that time, web-calls, especially those that were routed direct from your PC to a regular phone, nearly always proved to be an excruciating endurance test of dislocated, robotic voices and jittery connections. Information packets lost during the long journey across the net meant that large chunks were often sliced out of sentences. Most infuriating of all was the disorienting effect of the constant delay, which smothered conversation,   murdered jokes and encouraged both parties to stutter at cross purposes. Internet telephony, many providers proudly boasted, could shear off up to 85% of your long distance phone bill. But only if you had any friends left to call.Thankfully, the general improvements in network bandwidth, access speeds, computing power and software capability over the past few years have had a phenomenal impact on every aspect of the internet telephony industry. Now, instead of emitting a chorus of shrieks and expletives before hanging up, the recipient of an internet call is likely only to discreetly inquire whether the caller might be using a mobile   phone. In fact, the quality of the pre-paid "calling card" method of internet telephony, which routes calls from your regular phone to its destination via the internet, is often indistinguishable from regular fibre-optic calls.Even the traditionally worst performer in terms of quality, the PC-to-phone method, which allows an online computer to call any regular telephone in the world, has shaved down the delay to the point where it can handle most non-business uses.Savings are provided because the signal travels via the net either to the destination country (from where a local server dials the number) or to America (with its low international phone tariffs). One company -Dialpad.com- last week started a free web-to-phone service, funded by advertising. Even on paid-for internet telephony services, calls from anywhere in the world to the US can be as low as 3p a minute and, to Russia, 13p. BT's equivalent peak day rates are 23.6p and 79.5p.For anyone wishing to    explore internet telephony, there is no shortage of programs or service providers to choose from. The pioneer company in the field is VocalTec, whose Internet Phone was, in early 1995, the first to offer PC-to-phone capabilities and can now be downloaded - in version 5 or in a streamlined Lite version - fromwww.vocaltec.com. The full version is a rather hefty program that also offers PC-to-PC telephone capabilities, online chat, file transfer, video, conferencing and a white board, which allows people to illustrate ideas to each other as they talk online. VocalTec founder Lior Haramaty claims that this functionality, not the price savings, is internet telephony's greatest boon: "With its intuitive interface, it can supply much more complex services," he says."A conventional telephone doesn't supply you with any real feedback, with the result that most people don't know how to use call forwarding or program their phone memories."VocalTec's software works in conjunction with a    number of well-flagged service providers, includingDeltathree, which also offers its own phone. Most significantly, the company claims to have built its own private network to fast track its PC-to-Phone service: "The signal only travels along a portion of the congested public internet," says spokesperson Suzanne Chu, "then our faster, sleeker network will take over, significantly increasing quality."One of the most popular of the telephony programs is Net2Phone which can be downloaded fromwww.net2phone.com. Though more expensive than some of the other alternatives (calls to the US are 10p peak and 6p off-peak) it offers very reliable software with   32-bit sound as well as exquisitely simple processes for recharging accounts, viewing balances and checking call activity. The next version of its phone, due out this week, will allow users to send cut-price faxes and exchange emails with voice.The annual growth rate for the internet telephony industry is running at 108% and by 2004 should be worth around $19bn.With increased access speeds and with the advent of internet 2, web telephony may, sometime around then, be delivering CD quality phone calls and digital video. You'll be able to use the phone to attend meetings, play music, catch a film or watch the cup final. And there should be no delay.
The company that supplies the web's most popular software for downloading and listening to music has been condemned by privacy activists after being caught secretly gathering information on surfers.RealNetworks has admitted that its RealJukebox program surreptitiously reports back to them on individual users' identities and listening habits, along with other information.After several months of silence in the face of accusations, RealNetworks' privacy statement atwww.real.comwas quietly amended last weekend to include references to the Globally Unique Identifier (GUID) - an electronic serial number issued when the software is registered - which is used in the clandestine communications.This week the company issued a software "patch" which will allow RealJukebox's 12 million users to block some of the data which was being sent without their permission. The company has also disabled the GUID system.Its doings were revealed by Richard M Smith, a US-based internet security consultant, in a report published on his website. He had found RealJukebox sends a mass of information to RealNetworks, including:&#149;  The number of songs stored on the user's hard drive;&#149;  The type of portable music player, the user connects to their computer;&#149;  The formats those songs are stored in - such as MP3 or RealAudio;&#149;  The user's favourite types of song;&#149;  The user's GUID number, which, when tallied against RealNetwork's own records, can identify each user, their email address and postcode.He also discovered that, if users do not change their default settings, the software will send details of any CD that they insert into their computer, along with the GUID number.Jason Catlett, of privacy watchdog Junkbusters, wrote an open letter to RealNetworks claiming that "the surreptitious transfer of information _ is a kind of Trojan Horse attack that should constitute 'exceeding authorised access' under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986."But Shari Steele, director of legal services for online rights body the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), said she was taking a less severe attitude after talks with the company."While the information that was being collected could have led to pretty serious privacy abuses, such as a   record of all of the music a person was permitted to download or had downloaded and all CDs they had played, RealNetworks wasn't actually using that information in a privacy-eroding way," she said. "They were collecting the information for future personalisation of their system, where they'd be able to provide music in preferred formats, notify users of new releases and so on, based on their past behaviours. But none of that has been implemented yet.""Obviously, there were concerns over this," said Tom Frank, RealNetwork's chief operating officer. "We take the privacy of our consumers extremely seriously, and we wanted to be responsive and decisive."Chief executive Rob Glaser admitted that RealNetworks had made a mistake in "not being clear enough to our users about what kinds of data was being generated and transmitted by the use of RealJukebox."It was intended for aggregate purposes only," he said - contradicting a statement from the company to the New York Times on Monday, which said the information was being used to determine whether a user was "naive" or "sophisticated" in their use of the software.Earlier this year, similar rows about the potential for invasions of privacy involved Microsoft and chip maker Intel. Microsoft Word, the word processor, was found to   be embedding a GUID in every document. This could, like an electronic fingerprint, enable someone to identify the PC used to produce it.Intel had also started embedding a serial number in its new Pentium III chips, for security purposes. But it could allow direct marketers and others to monitor the habits of web surfers.The EFF says self-regulation of online profiling has failed, and will tell the US Federal Trade Commission next week that new solutions are needed to stem "the misuse of personal information".The RealNetworks row is "exactly the type of abuse we're talking about" in a submission to the FTC, says Steele. "In fairness to RealNetworks, they claim that privacy was simply an oversight and that they really want to do the right thing. RealNetworks seems to have learned from the experience and is trying to be a good net citizen."But he sounds a cautionary note. "The problem is that few, if any, companies have an analysis of privacy considerations woven into their development cycle. This is really what needs to be done if companies want to avoid these kinds of faux pas in the future."I suspect we'll be seeing a lot more of these cases over the next few months."&#149;  Richard M Smith's report:www.tiac.net/users/smiths/privacy/realjb.htm&#149;   Junkbusters:www.junkbusters.com
Type and talkEricsson has launched its first two "Wow" (sic) products, an FM radio and Chatboard, a mini- keyboard for SMS messages and email. The FM radio connects to a mobile phone and automatically mutes the sound when a call is received. Its headphones work for both the radio and the phone, and there's a microphone built into the cord for phone calls.The Chatboard (pictured above) snaps on to the bottom of most Ericsson mobile phones, and allows users to create SMS (Short Messaging Service) messages and email, and to chat online.Ericsson has also launched aChatboard websitewhere users can meet on the net, and where they can have their own web pages.Like the FM radio, the Chatboard is aimed at the   youth market - kids aged 14-19 - though people older than that will also be allowed to buy it. Chatboard will be announced in the UK next Tuesday and, Ericsson says, "should be in the shops before Christmas". The price is expected to be less than &#163;20.Zap this!Scan a barcode: go straight to the web page. Ericsson sees its new ConnectThings service as a way for people to get information via the net without worrying about complicated things like typing in internet addresses. Most products already have barcodes for ConnectThings to exploit, and Ericsson's Medialab in Stockholm has designed a distributed database that can handle "several billion products quickly and efficiently", the   company claims. Electrolux and AstraZeneca, a pharmaceuticals company, have already joined the service, and Sony Music Sweden is testing a service that enables customers to listen to samples of albums.Ericsson plans to have cheap bar-code scanners, which link to a PC serial port, on sale to Swedish consumers early next year. Users who don't have a scanner can, of course, type in bar-code numbers manually.The ConnectThings service is free but Ericsson will charge companies an annual fee to have their bar codes registered in the database.Ericsson says: "We aim to make this system into a world standard. A symbol shall be put on all products that are connected, in order to make it easy for customers to know which products to read." For more information, seewww.connectthings.comKing of cardsXircom has bought the Rex product line of credit-card sized information devices from Franklin Publishing, and plans to develop the range by   adding interactive functions such as "web clipping" (to render complex web pages as simple text) and wireless connectivity. The idea is to enable users to keep in touch with the online world via a system that's so small you don't know you're carrying it. The Rex, which originated with Philippe Kahn's Starfish company, was designed to let users carry around the contents of a PIM (personal information manager) such as Microsoft Outlook, Symantec ACT or Starfish's Sidekick by synchronising the Rex with a desktop PC.Xircom hopes to have Xircom-branded versions of devices like the 1.4oz &#163;120 Rex Pro 5 on the market before Christmas, with more interactive models following early next year.White RabbitThe Matrix will be launched on digital video disc (DVD) in the UK on November 29 and the trade is crossing its fingers for its biggest hit so far: the title sold 750,000 copies in its first week in the US.Unlike most DVD movies, The Matrix has extra features.   For example, when you see a white rabbit on the screen, you can press enter for a behind-the-scenes look at how the special effects were created. The DVD also includes the screenplay, storyboards and stills from the film, a trivia quiz, links to the Warner Brothers and The Matrix websites, and many other features.Blue notebookDell Computer Corporation has joined the long line of companies experimenting with coloured computer cases.Its latest "mobility product", the Inspiron 3700, comes in Tahoe Blue or Storm Grey instead of the traditional black. The 3700 notebook PC is available with Intel Celeron (Pentium II) and Mobile Pentium III processors at prices starting from &#163;1,269.Dell, the market leader in the UK's personal computer market with an 18.7% share, according to market research company International Data Corporation, has also became the market leader in the US, overtaking Compaq, according to figures from both IDC and Dataquest.MacFreeserveOnly 13 months after its launch, Freeserve is offering a dual-format CD that works with both PCs and Apple Macintosh computers. This will appeal to Mac users who want to sign on to its free internet service using a disc    rather than by downloading the software fromwww.freeserve.com.The CD should be available now at Dixons, Currys, PC World, The Link and @jakarta stores in the UK.Plane crazyOracle software boss and multi-billionaire Larry Ellison is in dispute with his local airport in San Jose, California, which doesn't like him landing his $38m Gulfstream V jet after 11.30pm.The problem is that his plane exceeds the regulation take-off weight of 75,000 pounds including fuel - it can carry enough fuel to fly to New Zealand - and therefore qualifies as a commercial airliner rather than a rich man's flyabout.Ellison says the decision should be made on how quiet his jet is, and told the local KPIX-TV station: "I have no intentions of adhering to their rules,which are arbitrary and absurd."He has violated the curfew at least nine times, but is not frightened by the city's threat to sue. "They can sue me if they want to: we're prepared to go to court."
Rupert Murdoch once dismissed the internet as a passing fad. Now he has changed his tune. Just as Bill Gates abruptly swung Microsoft around to focus its strategy on the web, Murdoch is doing the same with News Corporation.The traditional media tycoon has set up a new media investment company calledePartners, which he hopes will enable News Corporation to exploit emerging online markets. The Chelsea-based business is being run by one of Murdoch's most trusted lieutenants - the former head of BSkyB, Mark Booth.According to insiders at News Corporation, Booth was offered an internet role at Microsoft by Bill Gates. But Murdoch countered by offering Booth the opportunity to head up ePartners.As the chief executive of News Corporation's internet investment vehicle, Booth has an estimated fund of $400m to spend on emerging internet companies. So far about $100m is earmarked for the UK, and the company is already punching its weight.Any suggestion that Murdoch might be half-hearted about the internet is jumped on by his hard-nosed executives. "No one can provide internet companies with what we can provide them with," declares Bruce McWilliam, a partner in the new media investment business.Knowledge of the UK media, News Corporation's buying power and a track record which has seen TV companies successfully set up from scratch are some of the key reasons why McWilliam is confident that   ePartners will carve out a highly profitable slice of cyberspace.At its Chelsea headquarters, ePartners has about 20,000 square feet with room to expand. By the end of next year, executives expect to have been joined by about 10 internet companies. The plan is to float them within two to three years. Success will be down to backing the right ones.McWilliam says: "They have to have superb technology. They have got to have fantastic management and they have got to have the ability to become the best in their category."The volatile performance of shares in internet companies like &lt;QXL and Freeserve does not trouble McWilliam or create any feelings of doubt about the long term viability of e-commerce in this country.He believes both companies were initially overvalued and argues that running any internet service provider (ISP) business model like Freeserve will always be difficult - particularly when facing major competitors like AOL, who are continually reasserting themselves.News Corporation's decision to carve up sections of cyberspace is relatively late in the day and to kickstart its entry into e-commerce, ePartners has created a joint venture company calledeVentureswith the Japanese internet   investment bank,Softbank.The Japanese business has stakes in hundreds of US internet companies and has aggressive plans to expand its portfolio. From Murdoch's incubating base in Chelsea, Softbank plans to launch its most successful US internet businesses into the UK.That kind of rapid growth is vital, says Dana Noble, eVentures' chief executive. "There is a complete acceptance that as soon as a US internet business is successful you have to go international otherwise people could nick your business model."It is likely that eVentures will have a decisive role in influencing the shape of the internet economy in the UK. Already the internet mortgage bank,E-Loan, and a major US retailer,Buy.com, are preparing to move to Chelsea.They, like any other company selected for Murdoch's internet incubator services, will have access to web designers, accounting services, marketing experts and PR agencies and will get help with their business plans in return for eVentures taking equity in their business.As a venture capitalist, Murdoch is entering a frenzied atmosphere where all sorts of companies, including PR agencies and lawyers, are putting money into internet start ups.But Murdoch's approach is essentially a conservative one, as he is putting his money only into tried and tested models where the risks are not too great.Some critics cast doubt   on News Corporation's ability to understand and adjust to the demands of the web-based economy.Head of strategy for internet consultancyRazorfish, Neil Crofts argues that News Corporation is ill-equipped culturally to relate to the emerging internet-based economy."News Corporation is still an old industrial age business, it is not a new internet economy business. It is based on old industrial values of mass production. We perceive that the new economy will be based on far more personalised services to the consumer."Some might argue that a core of basic business skills exists applicable to any business. But the demands of a networked economy, with its low barriers to entry, will create different business challenges.Mike Butcher, editor of the new media business magazine New Media Age, sees Murdoch's move into e-commerce as an attempt to create a platform from where he can challenge Bill Gates.Butcher argues that, as a media mogul, it is impossible for Murdoch to sit on his hands any longer and watch a new media empire emerge."It is a shrewd move on his part. He is now in a position where he can buy into the best internet start up companies - and remember he never enters markets to support them, he always enters markets to take them over."
What computers do you work with?For design work we use an Apple Mac 8600, an iMac and a G3 laptop. For sound work Tom Smyth (my collaborator and engineer) and I have primarily used Cubase VST with PC and Logic Audio with Mac.How important is technology to your art/design work?In the primary stages of any image making, technology is not important to me. As an editorial tool it becomes increasingly important, its strength being that of speed. I'm generally wary of the trap that many fall into of perceiving technology as the be all and end all of any creative process; it is nothing without human impulse and idiosyncracies.How important is it in the creation of your music?As the music on the Undark - Pearl &amp; Dream album tended to grow from a contextual base, technology became essential in the collaging and editing of appropriate sounds, but in its primary stages its usefulness was only exciting when it threw up occasional oblique pointers. That it can create sounds that are simply weird is of no great importance.How do you feel about computer-generated/based art?While computer generated art is potentially phenomenal, I find most of what I see to be numbingly boring as its practitioners attempt to merely replicate what has already been done in another medium. This is compounded by an over-reliance on the use of stock library photos which leads to a lazy mediocrity. A combination of flabby thinking, lazy application and a lack of risk on behalf of those who commission work has led to a plethora of Photoshopaholics. I miss the visceral properties of paint and real matter in flux: the alchemy of paint and its autonomy can't be rivalled.Any favourite websites?Most of the ones I've seen are pretty pointless, tiresome, and are no more than digital rags for trainspotters with nothing better to do with their lives.Peoplesoundandmusicunsigned- I'm curious to see how they evolve and whether the acts that they are brokering will succeed or have any effect on the major record corporations.What's your view of the internet?Enormously important in its potential but at present I suspect that it might be in its honeymoon period, fraught with misunderstandings, mistimings and awkward fumblings.What are you working on?CD art and design for Bill Laswell, the Tony Williams Lifetime, Graham Haynes and the re-issue of my first Undark project for the Bella Union label (Spring 2000).
X marks the handheld boxMicrosoft hasn't just developed a games console, known temporarily as X-Box, rumours suggest. It's also working on a portable, handheld version. Both might be launched at the Consumer Electronics Show in January, though it's still not clear which manufacturers might become involved. The handheld is hard to square with earlier reports of a console designed as a dedicated PC running Windows 98. It's easier to imagine it running CE, the consumer electronics/compact edition of Windows used by Sega's Dreamcast games machine. Of course, Casio's Cassiopeia E-105 palmtop and similar CE machines already run iD's DOOM in full colour on something that fits in a shirt pocket. However, at &#163;499.99, the Casio is a long way from the affordability of Nintendo's Game Boy Color.GCSE in fragging?"Computer games should be educational," education secretary David Blunkett said last week, and suppliers have been approached to see if they    can make it so. "'We know that you have to make it fun. It's no good just saying, 'it's good for you'," he added. The government's plea elicited an anodyne response from the director general of the European Leisure Software Publishers' Association (Elpsa), Roger Bennett: "We, in the industry have always recognised that many leisure software products, games as well as edutainment software, can make a really positive contribution to the learning skills of young people." Indeed, many games help develop advanced skills, particularly weapons training. Strategy games like Civilization and Age of Empires are useful for kids who want to take over the world, or the galaxy. Even   humble skills like driving a car are covered by Grand Theft Auto and Carmageddon. But not all games are violent. There are dozens of resource management games from Railroad Tycoon to RollerCoaster Tycoon that inculcate the good old-fashioned values of capitalism. What more could anyone ask?David Bowie's Soul musicMusician and net-freak David Bowie has moved into the games world with Quantic Dream's latest 3D action-adventure, Omikron: The Nomad Soul, published by Eidos Interactive. Not only did Bowie produce the music   for the game, he appears as a character called Boz. According to Bowie, he's "the spiritual leader of the Awakened, a revolutionary bunch trying to free Omikron from the grasp of the demons. He was a mere mortal who was sucked into the Omikron equivalent of the internet and continues to live "amidst the binary tides. He says some pretty profound things, in his own way".Omikron TNS's novel feature is that you can pass from character to character by taking over whoever kills you (or finds you dead) in the game. Also among the cast of characters is the stunning Iman 1631 (above), based on the model and actress (Star Trek IV etc) who is Bowie's wife.
If all the volunteers of the Samaritans lay end to end, they would stretch for 20 miles, the distance travelled by a cry for help in 100 seconds. It is quicker, say the Samaritans, to make a phone call.Last year the organisation received 4.5 million calls. It also received 15,300 emails. The internet is proving a significant tool in the search for support and advice.Before online technology, self-help information was limited to personal referral, the Yellow Pages and leaflets displayed in surgeries and libraries. Now thousands of self-help organisations can be contacted through your internet service provider providing anonymity and immediate information.A search for support groups usingwww.yahoo.co.ukcame up with 131 UK sites, from acne problems to the Manchester Gay and Lesbian Switchboard.Acumen Solutions' servicetells you about more than 1,000 self help organisations and support groups across the UK.The Samaritansalso offer a fast-expanding email support system and throughBefrienders Internationala secure credit card donation system to boost funds.The Samaritans' online support network enables them to contact new groups - young men who have internet access and find it difficult to talk on the phone. More than 50% of the emails received (when the age is known) are from people under 25.They are also targeting those in greatest need. While 25% of callers express suicidal thoughts on the telephone, with email it rises to 50%. Research shows that suicide is not generally a spontaneous decision. It is an emotional response to a series of events, so any delay in receiving a reply is not generally crucial. Messages are answered within 24 hours although six to eight hours is the norm. Emails are deleted 30 days after the last contact.Online support is backed up with two email addresses:jo@samaritans.organdsamaritans@anon.twwells.com. The latter is an anonymous address. If a second email is received from the same person, it is automatically sent to the same support centre (although it may be a different   volunteer answering).The Samaritans have established 20 centres offering this email support including Hong Kong and Perth, Australia. Between January and June this year they received 11,180 emails and are expecting at least 25,000 to 30,000 this year.As children are becoming more and more IT proficient, a wealth of information that would be hidden is now available. There are nationally recognised organisations with websiteswww.nspcc.org.ukwww.childline.org.ukthat provide information and contact numbers. Smaller groups are also providing a service.Kids in crisisis an online resource centre for kids and teenagers who are having difficult life problems and don't know where to turn for help. Run by two abused teens and one adult, the site was initially an attempt to purge the demons inside 15 year old Alex. It has now had more than 16,000 visits. The site offers email support, information and referral.Andrew Grayson, the adult running the site, believes that it is easier to confess your problems and intimate thoughts through the relative anonymity of cyberspace. He says that initial communication begins with email and then progresses with internet relay chat (IRC) protocols. This allows those in need to receive insight and suggestions from similarly situated peers or helpful adults.The negative side is the small percentage of adults who prey on disenfranchised youngsters. The NSPCC warns children using its website to clear the history from the computer.Kids in crisis is not the only website that works successfully for both browser and creator. Many recovering individuals are setting up personal web pages to purge a few demons. Molly's unofficialAlcoholics Anonymous UKwebsite provides information about AA and a   forum for members to share their experience, strength and hope.Other services offered by online organisations include helpful texts that can be emailed to your personal email address free of chargewww.save.orgoffers this service for those affected or threatening suicide). Be warned however, a search on alcoholism atwww.dejanews.comcame up with, among others, eight major beer suppliers.Many organisations are advertising online, but only a few are fully utilising the tools that the internet toolbox offers. Only 10% of organisations listed with Self Help UK provided an email address. Only 7% have provided a web address.Keith Pollard of Acumen Solutions believes that numbers will be getting higher as internet knowledge is growing by the day, but believes there are three fundamental reasons why companies are slow to get online.Firstly most organisations don't understand the technology. Secondly, many are under-funded and believe that it will be prohibitively expensive - which it would not. Lastly (and one of the main reasons that AA has not developed an email support service) is that they are worried that they will get swamped by inquiries and will not have the personnel to handle the enquiries. Pollard states, however, that a web presence can often be funded by suitable sponsorship.It is crucial that more information and resources is given to these self help groups. As anyone who has suffered depression knows, the hardest thing is to help yourself. Trawling through the Yellow Pages and then mustering the courage to speak to a stranger is sometimes impossible. Getting online is relatively easy and offers anonymity and immediate information. The internet, that millionaire- making success story of the late 90s, is saving lives. It could save many more.
Old formula, new twistsFormula 1 99PlayStation &#163;29.99 Psygnosis/SonyPsygnosis burst on to the Formula 1 racing scene with a game that wasn't realistic but was great fun to play. It was so good, I paid &#163;49.99 for a copy without suffering any long-term ill effects. The next two versions were more realistic and much less fun to play, but the fourth annual release is once again buyable.Formula 1 99, developed for Psygnosis by Studio 33, is both more realistic than the 98 version and more entertaining. It also uses a new graphics engine that provides much better 3D graphics.However, don't get the idea that you can just pick up a controller and expect to stay on the road. Realism means there aren't any large arrows saying "turn here", so you have to learn the track and the landscape - just like an F1 driver - to compete.And the game is reasonably complete. It simulates the   whole F1 circus with practice sessions, qualifying laps, coloured flags, and pit strategies on all the 98-99 tracks. You can even get stuck behind the safety car.But, perhaps fortunately, the racing is less realistic. You can easily drive over the grass and across gravel traps: the vibration of the Dual-Shock controller, and the sound of Murray Walker shouting, are the main drawbacks. Cars usually bounce off tyre walls without being damaged, and overtaking is extremely easy.I didn't find Formula 1 99 as compelling as the PlayStation's best rallying games, Gran Turismo and Colin McCrae Rally. But in offering both arcade-style racing and an official F1 simulation, this is probably as good a compromise as you can get.Eighth time luckyFinal Fantasy VIIIPC CD-rom, £44.99 Squaresoft/Sony Computer EntertainmentWhenever a movie franchise gets as far      as number eight, it's enough to send most folk running for cover. Fortunately, the logic seems to apply inversely in the      games industry; higher numbers usually mean higher quality.And so out rolls Final Fantasy number eight, obligatorily      bigger, better, and more counter-intuitive than ever. For those unfamiliar with the previous seven titles in the      role-playing series, this is not the ideal place to start.Even FF veterans may have something of a mental wrangle with      the new "junctioning" system, which seems to have been conceived in the brain of a particu larly fiendish monist. But      making sense was never Manga's strongest suit, and all the other ingredients are as polished as you'd expect: elaborate      storyline, marvellously over-the-top combat animations, even a neat little game-within-a-game that becomes addictive      in its own right. FF8 can rightly call itself an epic. Although, with its infinitely flexible character management,      extended special moves (which you cannot skip, not even the 50th time round) and an interface that too often sends you      where you don't want to go, it may be slightly too big for its own good.Rainbow warriorsRogue SpearPC CD-rom £34.99 Red Storm EntertainmentRun, shoot, pick up handily placed ammo; get hit, rejuvenate,
    stumble on carelessly discarded rocket launcher. Videogame culture is big on reincarnation and easy-access weaponry,
    with reality placed firmly on the back burner. While the thought of applying for a licence before taking up arms in Quake
    is possibly a step too far, the clamour for more "realistic" games has steadily risen.Step forward Rainbow Six. Based on
    the Tom Clancy novel, this strategic title had you planning and implementing the operations of covert anti-terrorist
    group, a task made considerably harder by the fact that one bullet meant instant death. No extra-life miracles here. The
    sequel, Rogue Spear, builds on this realism and adds in a deeper single-player mode as well as a wonderful (escalating
    phone bill notwithstanding) multiplayer mode.There is a similar mix of terrorists to flush out, hostages to rescue and
    bumbling colleagues to cajole. Yes, the infamously erratic Artificial Intelligence of the original returns, albeit slightly
    improved, and often puts paid to your meticulous planning; a crucial part of the game despite the beefed-up action side.
    Numbskull tendencies aside, Rogue Spear is an addictively absorbing continuation in the series, with the satisfaction of
    successfully pulling off a well-planned mission outweighing the minor niggles. Varied locales, from jumbo-jet to art
    gallery, are visited and, although Rogue Spear is more like Rainbow Six-point-One, the evolutionary approach pays off.
    Who said reality had to be humdrum?
The Brighton racecourse hasn't changed much in 50 years. Sure, the razor gangs are gone, and the south London rowdies that were accustomed to bloodying up the car park are more given to arthritis than assault and battery these days. But the fog rolling in off the channel still obscures all but the last 50 yards of the track, and the cluster of wooden buildings still houses a rabble of bookies and day trippers braving the cold for a day of racing.Last Friday, Brighton saw a new breed of bookie, and a new breed of punter among the ranks of old faithfuls. Sports Adviser, a website and magazine dedicated to coverage of international sports betting, is seeing just how much the new world of the internet can change the old world of the race course.The world of betting, already highly automated, is fast advancing into internet services. A variety of racing sites provide up-to-the-minute reports, as well as links to piles of background information on horses, racecourses, jockeys, trainers, and stables.At last week's annual Bookmaker's Show, soon to be renamed BetExpo, the floor was abuzz with talk of new automatic settling systems, which calculate the wins and losses on every bet, as well as the new Racing Post website, which launched the previous week.Sports Adviserwww.sportsadviser.com, which launched in September to fill the void of the recently folded and much-loved Sporting Life, has its own ideas about exploiting the internet for the benefit of punters. It has hired an   assortment of paddock judges - professional punters with a reputation for knowing what horse will run well by looking at their fitness just before each race.For all the punters who haven't managed to sneak off to Brighton or Newmarket or some other race course for the day, Sports Adviser's paddock judges report the findings by mobile phone to editors at the magazine's web site, minutes before the horses set off for the starting gate. Remote punters can access the paddock judge's expert findings virtually as he's making them.Sports Adviser tried out the new service on Friday, at one of Brighton's last meetings of the racing season. Led by Chris "The Paddock" Anzani, a professional punter who's known for his ability to sight what horses will run well,   the site streamed specs, ticker-tape fashion, about the way the horses looked and acted prior to the race."You're looking for something nicely muscled up," Anzani explained, as he surveyed the horses for the first race. "We don't want a weight-lifter."Anzani watches each horse before the race to assess their coat, musculature, and the way they act around the crowds. Later he was back in the paddock, watching how much each horse was blowing, a mark of fitness that could help in placing future bets.It's the human touch like this that Sports Adviser hopes will attract punters from the larger gambling sites. The web is full of data that serious gamblers crave: statistics about horses' racing history, their lineage, and the record of their   trainers and jockeys. But Anzani says that a gift like his is more valuable than just a summary of numbers."It's not a mathematical thing," he said. "We're dealing with flesh here."And that assessment of flesh had an impressive record at the Brighton meeting: Anzani called the first four races perfectly, picking up the winning and placed horses each time. This was to the delight of Sports Adviser's PR man and a journalist, who had their bookies on the speed dial of their mobiles as they followed Anzani's moves."With the Online Paddock, everyone can get a live assessment on every horse," said Andrew Sim, editor of Sports Adviser. "It's not just numbers, it's an informed opinion to back your choice."Anzani said that the Online Paddock is only the   start of his vision for using pre-race internet assessment to enhance the betting experience. "My vision is to have a camera in paddocks all over the world, you could have a 24-hour global racing scene," he said.Another famed punter in attendance was Mark "The Couch" Winstanley. Known as The Couch for his habit of sitting on it all day watching racing, Winstanley has had a spectacular record in the last few weeks, calling races with startling accuracy. He runs a phone-in tip line, recording his advice just minutes before each race. Standing in the grey mist, mobile clutched to one ear recording his calls on the race, Winstanley is the very image of the modern tipster. "I'm now into the realm of the internet," he said. "If I can help somebody beat the bookmaker then why not?"
Scrambled egg theoriesLast week saw a controversy break over the authenticity ofRonsangels.com- a website that      claims to be auctioning the unfertilised eggs of American models. The New York Times was first on the story, but Clay      Shirky professor of new media at Hunter College, was unimpressed. He wrote in techie daily,Feedmag.com, that an      overenthusiastic news media were failing to crack on to the real story.Ron, a man who carves out a living in the artier      end of glamour photography, could be trying to bring attention his rack of soft-porn sites that were linked initially to      the egg auction. The site has since been soberly redesigned (and the pornographic links removed) perhaps to add weight      to the proposed auction, that if true could prove extremely lucrative. An elaborate hoax or an alarming slide into      glamour eugenics? The New York Times no longer seems so sure and the models themselves seem to be disappearing      quicker than you can say "wipe that face off my eggs".Browsing for bargainsAlthough limited to books, software and      electrical goods the site atwww.valuemad.comis a valuable resource for those seeking the cheapest deal in the      shortest time. Valuemad works by simultaneously searching different sites (Amazon, BOL, Bookstore etc) in much the      same way as a metasearch engine, like metacrawler would search several engines at once.For books and CDs Valuemad is      excellent. Although not the quickest of interfaces, it does show you a range of prices and is especially good for rare      items, as users see more or less immediately if the item is available on the web.TMSelectorSmall, independent net      radio stations are emerging from all over the world and keeping track of them, and even knowing of their existence, is      not easy. Which is why the launch of a site like theTMselector.netis such a welcome addition to the burgeoning net      radio scene. Acting as a guide to alternative net radio, the site contains links to many of the best stations and supplies      a user guide that helps select the stations you want to hear in the format of your choice.Remember, rememberExcellent      little site athttp://web.idirect.com/~redsonja/guy". Tamped full of stuff on the gunpowder plot we learned at school,      but with a twist. Trust the web to come up with the Guy Fawkes conspiracy theory.PaperboyOne of the greatest things      about the web is that the world's media is just a couple of clicks away. But what if you still find the touch of paper      preferable to reading a news on the screen? Then the Hewlett-Packards service atwww.instant-delivery.comcould be      the answer. The site features special deals from the likes of the New York Times, Marvel Comics and CBS (for the      moment the service is restricted to US titles). Special software, must be downloaded as the editions included are      specific to the service and not just print outs of web pages.2000 mapJake Tilson's graphical explanation of how the      millennium bug might strike is both a stylish and a potentially vital piece of webart. The site atwww.thecooker.com/ispy2kcontains a series of artistic images from 25 different countries, which will only work if the      country still has a computer network up-and-running. Come January 1, it will be vital for anyone wanting a one-stop      site that shows how the bug is taking effect. Britain experiences the millennium 12 hours after New Zealand and should      the worse happen, a run through of ispy2k could help with last minute preparations.Vote hereAlthough cable channel      The Box claims to be the "music channel you control", its older rival MTV has opened up its annual award ceremony to      web voters. The site atwww.mtv-vote.comdisplays the shortlists (which sadly allowed users no input) in 11 different      categories.Under coverAfter launching a diffusion range for Marks and Spencer, London's saucy lingerie shop,Agent      Provocateur, has launched its very own website. As you would expect it is incredibly      stylish and allows purchases without that trip to London. If the pricetags are too much maybe the screensavers can      console.Six of the bestContemporary artA chance to buywww.londonart.co.ukThe next big thingwww.ica.org.ukEssential arts listingswww.london-gosee.comCountry-wide guidewww.artsline.co.ukTurner Prize controversywww.tate.org.uk/london/exhibitions/turnerprize99Vote for Turnerwww.newsunlimited.co.uk/turner
Microsoft has changed the face of desktop computing twice in the past decade with Windows 3 and Windows 95 and its operating systems are used on about 90% of the world's desktop computers. Now it's planning to do it again.Windows 2000, formerly known as Windows NT &#91;New Technology&#93; 5, will be launched with a fanfare at the Comdex computer show in Las Vegas in 10 days time. Microsoft hopes to finish it by December 11, with corporate customers receiving code before the end of the year.The packaged retail version should reach the shops on February 17. No release date has been announced for Windows 2000, so it's technically incorrect to describe it as "late", though it has been in development since 1996. Even today, Microsoft staff like UK product manager Nick McGrath are careful to say that the release is "subject to customer feedback: we're not going to ship until our customers say it's ready".However, the February date was given to more than 600 companies at Microsoft's Partner Marketing Day in Las Vegas, Nevada, last week, so they can prepare their own launches. The whole computer industry is looking forward to the feast. Firms who adopt Windows 2000 will need to retrain the professionals who run their computer departments and help desks, which will benefit companies like QA Training and Global Knowledge.Many will have to buy or write new applications, which will benefit programmers, software houses, and consultancy companies like KPMG and Arthur Andersen. Many will have to upgrade their PCs and file servers, filling the coffers of business PC suppliers like Dell, Compaq and IBM. Analysts at the GartnerGroup consultancy in    Stamford, Connecticut, have suggested that upgrading to Windows 2000 could cost companies up to $3,100 per user. (For those not used to GartnerGroup numbers, it also puts the cost of a Palm Pilot handheld at about $2,700 per year.)However, the rivalGiGa Group- also founded by American guru Gideon Gartner - reckons it will cost only $970 to $1,640 per desktop. Put crudely, the GiGa Group argument is that upgrading PCs probably isn't worth the effort: they are so cheap nowadays that you can chuck them out and buy new ones with Windows 2000 already installed.No wonder PC makers are rubbing their hands. Many companies will wait to see how things go, especially when it comes to Windows 2000's new directory services software. However,Survey.comof San Jose, California, says that "by January 1, 2001, over 90% of the desktops in all organisations will be running some modern variant of Windows and over 40% will be running Windows 2000 Professional. By the same date, 81% of the    servers in all organisations will be running either Windows NT 4.0 Server or Windows 2000 Server."The figures should be reliable because Windows 2000 is already well known. The first beta (test) version was released on September 27, 1997, and not much has changed since the third beta came out on December 16 last year. PC manufacturers such as Dan, Dell and IBM have been shipping "Windows 2000 Ready" PCs since January 26 this year.  As a result, some companies - Microsoft's "rapid deployment partners" - have already started moving to Windows 2000: these are the customers who will decide when the code is ready to ship.One of the first to go public is Leicester university, which started planning its move to Windows 2000 in December 1997. "At this stage we've migrated about 25% of the university," says Peter Burnham, assistant director of the university's computer centre. "In real numbers    we've got over 4,000 registered users of the Windows 2000 service, sharing 870 PCs running Windows 2000."Burnham says it's going well, considering it's a pre-release version of the code. "Clearly we've had a few problems, but if I look back over the years to when we introduced Windows 3.1 with Netware servers, or when we started offering Apple Macintosh and Unix services, it's gone very smoothly compared with all of those. I'm very content with the way things are going at the moment."Dick Sullivan, US-based vice president of IBM's $14bn software division, sounds even more enthusiastic. IBM is 100% behind NT, he says, "and it will be our standard desktop &#91;operating system&#93; within IBM. We're going to roll it out to all our users, and we've got roughly 300,000 of them." Sullivan does stress that IBM supports other operating systems too, including Linux. "But where you need a graphical user interface and a full-function desktop, I think customers will roll out Windows 2000 as    their preferred system," he says. "The 'total cost of ownership' &#91;TCO&#93; issues are clearly important but I don't think that's sufficient &#91;reason&#93; to not roll it out." Clearly companies must have reasons for spending vast sums on retraining staff, buying or upgrading PCs, and moving Windows 2000.What Leicester university wants to do, for example, is reduce or ideally eliminate other operating systems and use Windows 2000 on both client PCs and central servers. "Previously we had Windows 3.1 and NT, Mac, Unix, and Novell servers, but once students are using &#91;Windows 2000&#93; as the common platform, that simplifies things like the helpdesk," says Burnham."We'll only be supporting one service rather than three, hopefully. The reality now is that we've got another service to maintain!" Companies also want to    standardise on one version of Windows rather than three or four. Microsoft's McGrath puts this in a positive light."Windows 2000 is the business client, that's crystal clear," he says. "There's a single version of Windows whether it's on a laptop PC, a desktop, or a workstation. All paths can lead - if the customer chooses - to Windows 2000. It's the logical choice." In other words, companies can use Windows 2000 to clean up the mess left by earlier versions such as Windows 3.11, 95, 98 and NT4. Even companies that have tried to standardise on NT4 can benefit, because Microsoft has patched and upgraded that with six "service packs".Getting everything installed in the right order, and reinstalled where necessary, can be hell. Why not make a fresh start? EDS, the American    computer services giant that runs a lot of UK government computing including the inland revenue, expects a "massive migration" to Windows 2000 towards the end of next year, because it will be cheaper to run. Philip DeRidder, EDS' Brussels-based Service Line Director, says: "The cost of operating NT4 is very high today. Nobody talks about it but everybody knows it, and the solution is Windows 2000, basically."Windows 2000 also has many advantages. Unlike previous versions of NT, it supports Plug and Play (to simplify the installation of add-ons and peripherals) and works well on notebook computers. It supports communications standards such as USB (Universal Serial Bus), high-speed 1394 links, and IrDA2 infra-red connections. It also offers "roaming profile support", with user files stored on a central server   instead of the local PC.This means users can log on to their network from any PC and still have access to their files and data. Windows 2000 isn't perfect, but it's the best and (so far) most reliable version of Windows Microsoft has produced. And if it's good for users, Windows 2000 will be even better for Microsoft. The prices for various versions of Windows 2000 will be "broadly in line" with NT4, which is three or four times what people pay for Windows 98. Microsoft will also offer Windows 98 users a PUP or Professional Upgrade Product, which could cost around &#163;140. The extra income from the sale of millions of copies of more expensive Windows 2000 software should boost Microsoft's sales and earnings. And the company made $2.2bn profit in its last quarter, or 41% of its $5.4bn turnover.
Now that he has analysed more than 17,000 questionnaires about internet use filled out at America'sABC Newsweb site over the past year, a psychologist named David Greenfield believes he has proof positive that the internet is addictive.He announced his findings to the American Psychological Association which, no doubt, will soon join the American Pediatric Association in condemning today's media for its negative effects on the human mind and body.Unfortunately for those who still rely on the pronouncements of such organisations to make decisions for themselves and their children, the   studies on which they are based are ill-conceived, motivated by fear, and ultimately misinterpreted.Take the Greenfield/ABC study, which concluded that 6% of internet users are addicted to the technology, based on their answers to a list of questions posed to them at the end of an article about internet addiction on the ABC News web site. So much for an unbiased sample.Moreover, what sort of people, exactly, would choose to spend their evenings alone at the ABC News web site voluntarily answering survey questions about addictive behaviour, when they could have been engaged in any of the internet's more social activities?Might not the 17,000 folks who felt inclined to   submit to the survey be predisposed to think of themselves as having a problem? At the very least, they do not represent a random sample.This biased conception and analysis by the medical and psychological industries should not surprise us. Except for the mainstream media itself, who is more challenged by the advent of interactive technologies than doctors?Today's cyber-literate patients now second-guess treatments and look for alternative therapies online.Worse, the explosion of new media has led to widespread awe and confusion - as well as a new class of pundits who are now revered even more than doctors.When a shooting or social disaster occurs almost anywhere in the world, it is no longer doctors or psychiatrists who are interviewed on CNN or the BBC; today, media theorists are asked to decipher a nation's psyche.Maybe that's not such a bad thing. If the internet is, in fact, leading to the kinds of antisocial behaviour - gambling, obsessive investing, excess consumerism - that the addiction study suggests, we'll need some good media theorists to parse out which of these technologies and   implementations might be leading to such dangerous behaviour.I suspect that it's not the interactive media themselves that are creating addictions, but rather the marketing techniques of those who are implementing these media.As someone who worked alongside the e-commerce specialists for four years in order to study their coercive techniques for a book on the subject, I have watched a communications medium get transformed into an electronic strip mall.This was accomplished by translating and automating the most coercive weapons from the marketer's arsenal to create a recipe for addiction and dependence.For example, the most important quality for a marketer's web site today is something called stickiness. This means, quite literally, the degree to which a web site holds a user within it.Such sites are designed to fill your computer screen with pop-up windows that must be individually closed, or to nest features deep inside the individual site - like the speciality store deep inside the shopping mall - so that you can't find your way out so easily.The object of the game is to exert an inexorable pull   on the user towards the buy button.Interactive media gives the direct marketer a chance to customise his offering to each individual user in real time. The best new web sites reconfigure themselves based on the behaviour of the user.They plant cookies on your computer that contain as much information as they know (or have bought) about you. If the last time you came to one of these sites you responded best to red buttons and offers that ended in 88 cents, then the cookie will help the site reproduce the conditions that led to the most loyal,   consumptive behaviour from you.Marketing psychologists call this technique pacing and leading. It is based on a form of hypnosis used by therapists, where the doctor will imitate your posture, breathing rate, and speech patterns in order to bring you into a state of trance. Computers allow for the automation of this same process.Through the internet, thousands of individuals can be paced and led by the same site simultaneously, each user being drawn towards the kinds of compulsive buying that keep Nasdaq stocks meeting their quarterly earnings estimates.The interactive media space is probably the best place yet to induce impulsive and addictive behaviour. Ironically, this has been accomplished by making the internet less, not more, interactive.Instead of sharing our ideas or writing letters, we are encouraged to abandon the keyboard for the mouse - to click mindlessly through product offerings instead of expressing ourselves to others.&#149;  Douglas Rushkoff's new book, Coercion, will be published by Little/Brown-UK in April 2000.
Data Warehousing 99Conference and exhibition, Olympia 2, London.EAI Europe 99(Enterprise Application Integration) conference and exhibition, Olympia 2, London. Business Intelligence: 0181-879 3355 or go towww.business-intelligence.co.uk/dw99open.htmlNovember 10-11Learning OnlineOne-day conferences, TUC National Education Centre, Crouch End, London N8. TUC: 0181-341 6161 or go tohttp://events.learnonline.org.ukTrade Unions, November 11; Education and Training, November 12; Voluntary sector, November 23; Local Government, November 24COMDEX/Fall '99Computer trade exhibition and conference, Las Vegas, Nevada. ZD Events: (781) 433-1500 or go towww.comdex.comNovember 15-19Digital Media WorldIncluding the London Effects &amp; Animation Festival, Wembley Conference Centre, London. Free registration: 01244 393261 or go towww.digmedia.co.ukNovember 16-18Cartes 99Smartcard exposium, CNIT, Paris. Cartes: +33 1 49 68 52 89 or emailcartes@exposium.fror go towww.cartesexpo.com/November 16-18Java 99 exhibition and conferenceOlympia, London. IT Events, Basingstoke: go towww.itevents.co.uk/exhibitions/java/November 16-18IST 99Conference and exhibition, Exploring the information society, Helsinki. European Commission IST Secretariat, Brussels: +32 2 296 90 37 or emailist99@dg13.cec.beor go towww.ist99.fiNovember 22-24Professional web developerConference, Business Design Centre, London. Wrox Conference: 0161-427 7057 or go towww.wroxconferences.comNovember 22-24Telecommunications Managers Associationexhibition and conference, Brighton. TMA Ventures: 01372 361000 or emailtmav@tmaventures.co.ukor go towww.tmav.comNovember 29-December 1Are the money men killing the net?A Guardian Unlimited debate on the web's commercialisation. National Film Theatre, London.November 29
Free profitsBoth Vic Keegan and Harvard (Second sight, October 28) are blind if they cannot think of a similar business      model to the internet that generates high profits by not charging for the products. I can - it's called ITV. At its high      point (the 70s and 80s) , an ITV franchise was "a licence to print money" solely because advertisers were clamouring to      get their products on TV. Will the internet follow the same route as ITV where more channels lead to lower ad      revenues which lead to lower programme quality?Michael SandersLondon E8With reference to Second Sight (October      28), unmetered access was not due to the phone companies in the USA. It was the federal Communications Act of 1934.      So all get on to your so-called democratic representative and bend their ear about laws and what they are for.Keith Scottkscott@btinternet.comLet pandas dieAt the risk of creating "panda"monium, I would like to question the whole      morality of our approach to biodiversity conservation (Science, October 28). Nearly all forms of life that have existed      have become extinct. Even without human pressure, the giant panda would have been no exception. We have decided that      it "must" survive. So what have we done with the poor panda, an animal that, as Claire Cockcroft says, prefers "eating      bamboo or sleeping to procreation"? We have shipped it round the world to support often badly-run zoos. We have      established breeding programmes and attempted artificial insemination. Now we are thinking of cloning it. We have also      stuck its image on collecting cans to make money. We have turned this truly wild animal into Pooh Bear! Is this really      moral? Shouldn't the panda be allowed to go with dignity? And why aren't we saving the smallpox virus, the mosquito,      and the rat with the same vigour?Philip StottProfessor of biogeography,School of Oriental and African Studies, University of LondonNot so flashGordon Stevenson (Feedback, October 28), is obviously out of touch if he thinks people      are prepared to sit and wait for pointless Flash animations to download, when it keeps them from getting to the      information they require. Too many sites are a triumph of the web designer's ego over usability. Why should people have      to install Macromedia Flash simply to view the charitycards web pages? Once, the web was usable by just about      everyone, even using text based browsers.Steve JefferyLeicesterI run a web design agency catering for small and      medium sized companies. I would imagine that of the 30% of browsers with no flash support, many are in the workplace.      Companies are often the slowest to upgrade. One of my golden rules of design is keep it small - and keep it fast. Nothing      turns people off a site faster than a page filled with flash, shockwave, java applets, gif animations etc that take time      to download. Many people seem to see it as a showcase for the last bit of software they bought, rather than as a tool.      When (if?) BT actually gets around to cost effective rollout of ADSL and further broadband technology then we can all      play to our hearts content. Until then, spare a thought for those who don't have the connection or technology to keep up.Nick Winghaminfo@wbhb.f9.co.ukGordon Stevenson claims to know how many web browsers use Flash to the nearest two      decimal places (Feedback, October 28). Doubtless this claimed accuracy is meant to impress, but does he really think      anyone can count the number of Flash users to an accuracy of one in ten thousand?Mark PackLondonCheap lineI may      have found the closest thing to unmetered calls. My internet service provider's server is connected to the local cable      network, so my connection is charged as a cable to cable call and I pay just 3p for however long I am connected (offpeak      only) - I can connect at 6pm on Friday evening and spend 48 hours online, if I wish, for a mere 3p. I pay my ISP £11.75      per month but my monthly telephone bills are now less than £2 for internet calls.Chris WalkerCardiffGordon Brown      might as well give away iMacs on the street corner if the unemployed have to pay their own phone bills for their "free"      internet use and cheap PCs. There's no point giving away a Porsche if the recipient has to pay for the petrol.D CameronStoke-on-TrentNot so soundIt seems to be a common misconception (Online October 28) that MP3 compressed music      files can store sound at equivalent quality to that of a compact disc. This is not the case. The nearest equivalent in      quality they can achieve is that of the Sony minidisc format - itself inferior to a CD. MP3 certainly delivers the goods      well enough for almost anyone - but the public should not be led to believe that they are going to hear CD quality sound.Simon Peelsnpeel@globalnet.co.ukCanine virusNik Berg notes robomutt Aibo's new trick of "a bottom dragging move      where he sits down, lifts his rear legs up and pulls himself forward with his front paws." (Online October 28). I would      suggest getting Aibo's software checked - it sounds as if he's got worms.Nick CouldryLondon SE18
Poetry, comedy and unmade beds? Pah. Video games are the new rock'n'roll. Just ask Sam Houser, the 27-year-old British president of New York publisher Rockstar Games. He used to direct music videos, but finds games much more enjoyable. "We get into trouble every now and again - it's raw," Houser enthuses. "That's what the record business was like when it started. It's supposed to be energetic and fun."Houser, a witty, personable bloke with a shaggy beard and chunky jewellery, is in London for the launch of Grand Theft Auto 2, developed by the Scottish company DMA Design. The first game became notorious for concentrating on stealing cars, killing cops, and (for bonus points) running over whole lines of orange-robed Hare Krishnas. On its British release two years ago, the game was denounced by the Police   Federation as "sick, deluded and beneath contempt".Lovely: you can't buy publicity like that. Houser cherishes video games' "naughtiness", and the new game provides even more freedom to commit random acts of humorous violence than did its predecessor. But not everyone disapproves. "I met the NYPD," Houser says, "and they said, 'We think your game's all right.' And I said, 'What about the fact that you kill cops?' and they said, 'Well, you know what? There's a lot of people out there trying to kill cops and we'd rather they did it in your game than on the street.' "Of course, you can't slap a sticker on the box saying, "Cops love this game!" - it wouldn't play with the kids. And that matters to the people at Rockstar: they   approach marketing as an art in itself. They publish video games, sure - but they've also started a nightclub in New York, flying in famous DJs such as Dimitri from Paris; they are designing a range of street clothing; they promote hip-hop gigs; and to advertise Grand Theft Auto 2 they shot a full-blown short film on 16mm, which they have already been invited to screen at film festivals. It looks like a five-year plan for global media domination.Eagerly smothering his fried breakfast in ketchup, Houser explains the multimedia rationale. "We wanted to create a label that reflected the emerging status of these games. They were becoming credible, they were becoming cool. Video games have gone from being   playground currency to street culture. Everyone's playing 'em. So we thought, "Why don't we try and have fun with it and do some other things too?' "Most video game marketing departments, Houser says, are staffed with people from the toy business. But he and his colleagues come from music and film, so they can target consumers in a more hip, sophisticated way. "In America we have what they call a street team. Street teams were invented by R&amp;B and hip-hop bands. They're units of urban guys who go to gatherings where there are young people and spread the word about a particular track. We're the first game company to employ one of these."Rockstar's next major product is a street skateboarding game. Authenticity is key, so as well as getting all the major board and clothing manufacturers involved, they've made sure that the music fits. The sound of skateboarding is hip-hop. So, Houser explains, "We've gone round and we've cleared everything from Afrika Bambaata, Sugar Hill, Grandmaster Flash, up to A Tribe Called Quest, Gangstar, Public Enemy, Run DMC, Eric B and Rakim and on and on... It's the definitive history of hip-hop in a game soundtrack." And they'll release it as an audio CD too? "No. Kids will already have most of these tracks. We'd far rather do that with something like the Grand Theft Auto 2 soundtrack, which is    all original music."Apparently none of this does any harm to your love-life, either. Houser's trump card - incontrovertible proof that video games are now a pervasive cultural force - is this sweet little romantic story. "I genuinely pulled my current girlfriend on the back of Grand Theft Auto," he relates with charming self- deprecation. "We bumped into each other in a bar, and we got talking, and she said, 'There's this game my friends are playing and they're all talking about it - I wonder if you can help me?' I said, 'What's it called?' and she said, 'Grand Theft Auto.' Bingo!"&#149; Grand Theft Auto 2 is out now for PC and PlayStation. Steven Poole's book, Trigger Happy: the Inner Life of Videogames, will be published by Fourth Estate in the spring.
What are you driving?A dark green Honda Accord Coupe called "Splodge" because of the bright green stain from a spilt paint can that happened on day one.What does it say about you?Modest, safe, country-bumpkin.What do you like about it?It's quite nippy, reassuring and reliable and it doesn't frighten pigeons, rabbits or moles.Why did you buy it?It's a good size for two, plus there is room for the luggage for a holiday cruise.What kind of driver are you?Tentative but cheerful.Any bad habits?Irreversible.Have you ever crashed?I collided with a window frame when parking at Thames TV in Teddington, and with a rising metal gate on the way to the underground car park beneath Channel 4 (thereafter I was driven to work). I have also been the victim of an unprovoked assault by a vicious Leylandii hedge in Suffolk.What do you use your car for?Getting from A to B.Have you ever experienced road rage?Constantly, principally at traffic jams ahead not signalled in time, and at long lasting holes in road seeking national heritage status.Have you had any romantic encounters in a car?I listened with my wife Gillian to Wotan's Farewell live from the Royal Opera house, while gazing at the stars through the sunroof.What music do you listen to on the road?None.What would be your dream car? Why?The Mercedes 2-seater with the concave roof would express the other me.Who would be your dream passenger?Gillian, but she insists on driving. We enjoy travelling together.Jeremy Isaacs's book, Never Mind The Moon, is published on November 11 (Bantam, £20)
If you ask a kid to draw a car, you get something pretty much like this," says Marc Newson of the Day-Glo orange car at the centrepiece of Ford's stand at the Tokyo Motor Show. The cheeky, chirpy blob-like saloon is certainly an eye-catcher. Japanese photographers spent the whole day flashing away at the Newson-designed Ford 021C (twenty-first century) concept car. Which is cheering news, not just for children everywhere who can now become car designers at the age of five, but for Ford itself, which has tagged itself for years with the label "makers of perfectly decent and largely boring cars".Ford's vice-president of design, J Mays, invited Newson, one of the most inventive product designers on the global scene, to work on the design of a concept car aimed at wowing the Japanese market. In Tokyo traffic flows like treacle and, the road to Narita International Airport aside, there is little opportunity to drive at more than about 60mph. Despite this, even the Tokyo Motor Show was full of muscle-bound cars from around the world. If there was one consistent theme at this year's shows, whether in London, Geneva or Tokyo, it was automotive testosterone: cars that produce as much as 800bhp and aimed to go faster even than McLaren's 235mph M1.In a world where it is increasingly hard to find the road space needed to drive with anything like brio, cars are for many people little more than ostentatious toys - particularly in city centres as densely occupied as Tokyo. In fact, for 15 years at least, the Japanese mass motor industry has operated on a number of levels, churning out reliable but tedious cars for the global market, while designing and making some fascinating small cars for its own cities.Newson's 021C is 19mm shorter than the Ka, Ford's   smallest current production model, which looks like a well-sucked pear-drop and has been a popular buy among graphic designers. But where the Ka still feels like a big car that has been squeezed down to size, the 021C is a tiny car that has been blown up to be as big as possible within its diminutive frame.To beat Japanese product designers at their own game, Ford needed to bring in an outsider with a knowledge of Japanese ways of thinking, designing and consuming. Just as importantly, it had to be a designer who loved cars but was not a part of the grotesquely hermetic and self-regarding world of car design and production. Enter Marc Newson.Newson, 36, lived and worked in Tokyo between 1987 and 1991. In fact it was the Japanese entrepreneur Teruso Kurosaki, whose design shop Idee is one of Tokyo's best, who first put a Newson design into production. This was the Lockheed Lounge chair of 1986, a sweeping, comic book rivetted aluminium chair that was a play on the kind of old American airliners we tend to think of when words like "cocktail", or "Grace Kelly" loop into mind. It was the making of the Sydney-born designer, who has since gone on to become a deeply unpretentious star. The design of furniture, lamps, glassware and restaurants like Coast in London, Mash and Air in Manchester and Osman in Cologne followed. Everything Newson has designed has been very much his own, a world of sexy, stretched, organic, space-age shapes in diverse materials such as rush, stainless steel, plastics and carbon fibre.He has been much influenced by the shape of the cars he loved as a child and has owned the two best looking British cars of all, the   Jaguar Mk2 and Aston-Martin DB4. Add to this the fact that this hip, peripatetic talent has lived and worked in Sydney, Tokyo, Paris and London (where he is now based), and he was pretty much the ideal choice to design Ford's first truly playful, global concept car for young buyers. J Mays says the target buyers for 021C won't have got round to owning a car yet; in other words, 20-year-olds and younger who are hot on computer-technology, "brand aware", up on the latest in design and fashion and likely to find the big-bottomed and hugely powerful cars dominating this year's Motor Shows way out of date.Is the 021C convincing? As car-as-urban-toy, yes. It seemed to make everyone who saw it smile. It's partly   the car's sheer cheekiness that appeals, and the way its interior is so generous despite its tiny overall dimensions, but most of all the delightful details that are very likely to find their way into some future Ford production models. Newson had a free hand with these. They include the "clam-shell" doors, which open like those of an old Maigret Citro&euml;n and allow easy access to the exceptionally bright and breezy cabin. The seats, looking like something from an early 60s, NASA-inspired Yank Tank, swivel to greet driver and passengers, so despite the car's Lilliputian scale the smiling models in micro-skirts at the Tokyo show were able to get in and out with modesty intact.The dash, its instruments by Newson's watch company Ikepod, moves up and down to suit the different sightlines of noodle-fed Japanese and burger-chomping American drivers. The boot pulls back like a parcel shelf, and the whole roof glows with light when the doors are opened. Even the matt graphite coloured Pirelli tyres have been custom-designed, while the car's LED headlamps, designed with Isometrics of London, can be programmed to say things like "have a nice day", "move over punk" or worse. It's cute. Paul Smith - he of the suits - thought so, and said he could imagine selling them in his shops.And that's the point. The 021C is an attempt by Ford to appeal to fash ionable young shoppers, for whom a car is as much a fashion statement as the latest in frocks and stacked-heel trainers with free internet connection. To see Ford move away from its most-mass-for-your-cash design ethos, whilst making a clever fashion statement, is a very encouraging sign. As for getting designers like Newson involved in cars, this can only be a good thing. The vast majority of contemporary car design is about as interesting as watching magnolia paint dry. A touch of child-like imagination, rather than lager-fuelled machismo tedium, is just what the discipline needs if it is to have any relevance to young urban consumers in tomorrow's Bladerunner-like cities.
On December 31, Japanese people traditionally clean the old year's dirt from the house, tuck into a midnight bowl of noodles and then head to the nearest shrine or temple to make their first prayer of the year.But for this year's festivities, the government is recommending that each household lay aside two or three days' worth of supplies, keep a record of bank balances and ensure that a torch, radio and first-aid kit are close to hand.These are the basic disaster precautions every Japanese family is supposed to have made because of the country's high risk of earthquakes, but yesterday the prime minister, Keizo Obuchi, advised a double check before new year."As a result of the full efforts of the government and private sector thus far, I do not think there will be any major confusion as a result of the millennium bug," the prime minister said in a policy speech to a new session of parliament."But I would like citizens to be prepared for all eventualities, in line with government guidelines issued today."The 11-point guidelines recommend the withdrawal of enough money to last the holiday period, though they warn that this may encourage thieves. They also suggest that anyone travelling overseas should take out millennium-bug insurance cover.The guidelines also appeal for the public to minimise telephone and internet use over the new year period. The request is prompted by fears that lines will become jammed by complaints about malfunctioning computers, fax machines, telephones and video cameras.Most international leaders have refrained from issuing warnings about the Y2K bug out of fear they might spark panic. But Japan has learned the hard way that it must prepare for the unexpected. Last month the government was severely criticised for its laggard response to the world's worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.The country is not taking any chances with the millennium bug. East Japan Railway will halt 230 trains a few minutes before midnight on new year's eve, the Bank of Japan will pump extra money into the markets and airports will order a longer gap than usual between takeoffs and landings.About 100,000 electrical technicians will be on 24-hour standby, power companies will have three times the usual number of staff on duty and manufacturers plan to put aside their vaunted just-in-time distribution system by stockpiling supplies over the critical period.Anxieties about the risks outside Japan are even higher. The Japan Travel Bureau, the country's biggest travel agency, has refused to take bookings for flights that will be in the air at midnight on December 31.At home, members of the prime minister's Y2K crisis management team say everything that can be done has been done."We do not expect any major disruption, but something will definitely happen," said Kaoru Nakamura, head of the Y2K taskforce."Nobody knows what or where it will be so we must be ready for all eventualities."Obuchi's Y2K checklist&#149;Stock food, drink and water for two days, as well as a torch, first aid kit, radio and batteries&#149;Keep a record of your bank and postal account balances and transactions&#149;Withdraw enough cash to cover the new year holiday period, but beware of thieves&#149;Ensure you have the necessary fuel for the period&#149;If you are on a prescription, consult a doctor to ensure you have adequate supplies&#149;Check Y2K compliance with makers of computers, fax machines, telephones and video cameras&#149;Keep non-essential internet and phone use to a minimum&#149;If travelling abroad, bear in mind that some countries may have Y2K problems. Leave contact details and take out insurance cover for Y2K damages&#149;Be alert about Y2K-related fraud&#149;Check mail files for viruses over the period&#149;Small firms should back up data and ensure they have a crisis-management system
View the maps:See the Nethttp://cybergeography.org/atlaswww.nd.edu/~networks/visual/table.htmlThe internet celebrated its 30th birthday this month. But what is it? How wide is it and how much does it weigh? Users know it as a global network of email, chatrooms, information exchange, music downloads, video-conferencing and more, without worrying about where it all comes from or how it gets to us.Although the internet itself is 30, its most celebrated offspring - the world wide web - is barely five years old as a   mass phenomenon. It was only then that the system (first devised by Tim Berners-Lee in 1989) started to become a world force. It has since exploded to become the fastest growing communications phenomenon in history.The rise of the web has spawned a new breed of cartographers and topologists trying to map out its characteristics.They attempt to produce three dimensional models of the digital traffic spinning through cyberspace as all our emails and picture requests   are translated into the 1s and 0s of computer code.They are then dispatched at frightening speed down telephone lines or cable or satellite links or (increasingly) by wireless means.It is not easy to put all this on a single map. An email sent to the computer across the room from you could easily have been routed through South America or the United States before being bounced back home.The process of mapping the web has already produced some surprisng results.   Researchers at Alexa Internet estimate that the whole internet consisted last summer of three trillion bytes of information, about the total capacity of 5,000 CD-roms - which is compact enough to be accommodated on a single state-of-the-art server computer. Just as all the gold in the world could be acommodated in a suburban semi, so all the data on the internet at any one moment could be fitted into a reasonably sized bathroom.Studies by Hal Burch of Carnegie Mellon University   and Bill Cheswick of Bell Labs show that about 94,000 networks are connected to the internet and packets of data originating at Bell flow through more than 88,000 unique IP (internet protocol) addresses on their way to those networks.Attempts have even been made to measure the diameter of the net (see below). But we have seen nothing yet. In 50 years time, undoubtedly the internet will be of a size - and shape - we cannot even imagine today.Victor KeeganThis is what cyberspace looks likeThis is probably the most complete map available of the core of the internet (though it doesn't include local connections). Devised by Bill Cheswick of Lucent Technologies-Bell Labs and Hal Burch of Carnegie Mellon university, it traces the routes that pieces of data take to reach up to 20,000 nodes (computers like web and    email servers) connected to the web. At the ends of the lines are the many networks and nodes that connect to form the internet. The explosive cluster towards the top of the picture is the start of the route taken from the Cable and Wireless interchange through which Bell Labs connect to cyberspace. The different colours represent   blocks of internet addresses owned by different companies through which emails and other data are routed.The graph contains nearly 100,000 edges - giving cyberspace the appearance of a human lung, with its incredibly fine lattice of filaments.For many it is more important to map what is "on top" of the infrastructure of nodes and wires - the information and human interactions of cyberspace. The largest information space is the world wide web, comprising maybe 800 million pages, on more than five million servers, all interconnect by hyperlinks to form the eponymous web. How does one map this web   of the web? One could argue that there is no need to try, as the web is its own map. It is both a map and a territory, so it would be foolhardy to try to produce a better one.But that it is not too helpful for people who are lost and want a map of the web from a distance, floating above it, so they can get a broad view of the information landscape.And there is where the problem lies - for while there are tools to map the structure of web sites, of use to web masters, they give only a very limited and local view of the web of hyperlinks. They are simply not capable of producing such an overview.Martin DodgeWhy the world is your neighbour thanks to 19 clicks of separationIn the game Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon, contestants attempt to link any actor to the Kevin      Bacon. Actors are linked if they have worked together, with the challenge being to join any      actor to Kevin Bacon via no more than six intermediate actors.It's an example of a small world network. And the same theory means that even for a      network as large as the world wide web (800 million pages at the last estimate), no two      sites are very far apart.Putting a figure on exactly how "wide" the web is attracted the attention of a group of      modellers from the university of Notre-Dame in the US. They created a piece of software,      known as a robot, which scours the web, collecting universal resource locators (URLs) and      noting links between them. Using the data generated by these robots the researchers were      able to create a model of the world wide web which they could study at their leisure.What this model revealed was remarkable. Despite the web's staggeringly large size, any      two randomly chosen sites are, on average, no more than 19 clicks apart. This figure gives      us an estimate for the diameter of the hazy ball that these sites and links form.More good news followed. Although the diameter of the web will increase as the number of      sites increases, large numbers of new nodes result only in small changes in the diameter.       The expected 1000% increase in the number of web pages in the next few years will only      bump the diameter up to 21 links.So why are the web and other small world networks like this? The answer lies in the way      new websites are added. Links are chosen carefully by webmasters according to how      relevant they are to their site.No single authority decides how the web is structured, but because webmasters try to link      their sites to others with similar content the potentially chaotic system shows some      self-organisation. In the three-dimensional model, sites with similar content are      clustered.And that offers some hope to the designers of search engines. Recent research has shown      that the proportion of web pages covered by any one search engine is surprisingly small.      Northern Light - until recently a little known search engine - came out top, but managed to      search only 38% of all available pages.       Search engines work by constantly checking web pages and creating an index of them. When      you use a search engine, you're actually only searching through its index of web pages. And      it's tough luck if the page you're after isn't on that engine's index. More powerful computers      could create more comprehensive indices, but why not just use the naturally occurring      structure of the web?Lada Adamic of Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center in California has done just this,      developing a search technique that takes advantage of the small-worldness of the web.       Instead of searching for individual pages, the new engine homes in on clusters of pages      which are centred on the topic of interest. Because clusters are created when pages of      similar content link together, identifying clusters is like asking webmasters which other      pages they think are important.The engine then returns the addresses of pages located close to the centre of that cluster.      At the very least these will be closely linked to other pages on the same subject.       Adding this human element to web searching will be vital as the size of the web continues      to soar. It is humans that create the web. There may not be anyone in charge, but because      we're interested in people who have similar interests the web is taking on its own      structure. As in real life, success is all down to your contacts.Jim Giles&#149; Martin Dodge is curator of an Atlas of Cyberspaces.&#149; Jim Giles is education officer at the Science Museum
The armed forces have been put on high alert to deal with any protracted outbreaks of public disorder during the extended millennium holiday.Government sources yesterday said contingency planning was now almost entirely focused on public disorder and/or hysteria, rather than on breakdowns in public services caused by the millennium bug.The hope in Whitehall is that Britain and its advanced services will be virtually immune to any computer glitch that cannot recognise the century date change.Giving details of what is said to be the biggest planning operation since the second world war, Jack Straw, the home secretary, said the ministry of defence had been drafted onto the civil contingencies committee he chairs. Also on the committee are an assistant Metropolitan police commissioner, the head of the Association of Chief Police Officers and officials from Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.With hundreds of thousands of people expected on the streets of London alone on millennium eve, the expanded committee has met three times since July 1 and is to meet virtually weekly between now and December 31.Unveiling a government millennium centre in the cabinet office, Mr Straw said "enhanced stand-by arrangements" had been put in place for the military in case of disorder, computer breakdown or unforeseen disasters such as abrupt weather change."But the police and fire services should be able to deal with a wide range of problems without outside help," he said. "We have to plan for a wide range of human behaviour."
In the game Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon, contestants attempt to link any actor to the Kevin Bacon. Actors are linked if they have worked together, with the challenge being to join any actor to Kevin Bacon via no more than six intermediate actors.It's an example of a small world network. And the same theory means that even for a network as large as the world wide web (800 million pages at the last estimate), no two sites are very far apart.Putting a figure on exactly how "wide" the web is attracted the attention of a group of modellers from the university of Notre-Dame in the US. They created a piece of software, known as a robot,   which scours the web, collecting universal resource locators (URLs) and noting links between them. Using the data generated by these robots the researchers were able to create a model of the world wide web which they could study at their leisure.What this model revealed was remarkable. Despite the web's staggeringly large size, any two randomly chosen sites are, on average, no more than 19 clicks apart. This figure gives us an estimate for the diameter of the hazy ball that these sites and links form.More good news followed. Although the diameter of the web will increase as the number of sites increases, large   numbers of new nodes result only in small changes in the diameter.The expected 1000% increase in the number of web pages in the next few years will only bump the diameter up to 21 links.So why are the web and other small world networks like this? The answer lies in the way new websites are added. Links are chosen carefully by webmasters according to how relevant they are to their site.No single authority decides how the web is structured, but because webmasters try to link their sites to others with similar content the potentially chaotic system shows some self-organisation.   In the three-dimensional model, sites with similar content are clustered.And that offers some hope to the designers of search engines. Recent research has shown that the proportion of web pages covered by any one search engine is surprisingly small. Northern Light - until recently a little known search engine - came out top, but managed to search only 38% of all available pages.Search engines work by constantly checking web pages and creating an index of them. When you use a search engine, you're actually only searching through its index of web pages. And it's tough luck if the page you're after isn't on that engine's   index. More powerful computers could create more comprehensive indices, but why not just use the naturally occurring structure of the web?Lada Adamic of Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center in California has done just this, developing a search technique that takes advantage of the small-worldness of the web.Instead of searching for individual pages, the new engine homes in on clusters of pages which are centred on the topic of interest. Because clusters are created when pages of similar content link together, identifying clusters is like asking webmasters which other pages they think are important.The engine then returns the addresses of pages located close to the centre of that cluster. At the very least these will be closely linked to other pages on the same subject.Adding this human element to web searching will be vital as the size of the web continues to soar. It is humans that create the web. There may not be anyone in charge, but because we're interested in people who have similar interests the web is taking on its own structure. As in real life, success is all down to your contacts.&#149;  Jim Giles is education officer at the Science Museum See more maps at theUniversity of Notre Dame, Indiana
When did you first meet computers?In 1986 a friend of a friend gave me a Sanyo NBC1000 - an 8-bit computer with a whopping 64k of memory that took 5 1/4 inch floppy disks. The next stage was the inevitable Amstrad PCW which I wrote my first solo book Crosstown Traffic on. My good friend and former NME colleague Tony Tyler had been going on at me to get a Mac (he had one of the first Macs in this country) but it wasn't until 1990 that I could afford a Mac Plus and an Imagewriter and I was delighted. I've been a total Macintosh nazi ever since.What are you running now?A 266MHz Power Mac G3 (with a Mitsibushi monitor). I discovered the joys of a two monitor set up and being able to view two documents at once and I've used that for the new book - being able to keep an interview transcript open on one screen and the chapter I was writing on another so I could cross-reference.Any reason for your preference?The thing with the Mac was from the moment I first plugged it in and started using it, it was logical, captain. I've occasionally had to do work on PCs and I hate them. All the commands are different and everything looks ugly.How reliable is the internet as a research tool?Everything you want is there but everything you don't want is there as well. A lot of the time I'll still do stuff the old fashioned way because often you have to wade through so much garbage that it's counter productive.Any favourite websites or search engines?I find myself using the Mac's Sherlock because it's a sort of "uber" search engine that can plough through all the others. As for websites, Z Netwww.zmag.orgis pretty good for lefty stuff and there's always the Socialist Worker sitewww.socialistworkerco.ukand the best thing is nobody's shouting at you while you're looking at it.How do you feel about the increasing prevalence of computers/technology in music?There were a lot of records made in the 80s where the technology used now dates them, whereas a good drummer, well recorded, will always sound contemporary. I do think it's horses for courses, though - with a band like, say, the Pet Shop Boys, I think the methods they use are perfectly calibrated to the effect they want to create. There have been great records made with machines and crap records made with machines.Are you into gadgets?I would love a new Powerbook and if the book sells sufficiently, I will get one. I also want the Star Trek computer - I just love it when Picard says, "tea... Earl Grey... hot" and there it is.What do you imagine in the future for computers?I envisage a greater gap between "haves" and "have nots".
Toshitada Doi is tall and thin, and wears the serious demeanour that befits a 57-year-old senior vice president of Japan's mighty Sony Corporation. But catch him with one or two of his favourite dogs, which look as though they're about to lick his face, and the mask dissolves. He's all smiles...Of course, Doi is in no danger of getting his face wet. The black dog may have a rudimentary jaw, but it lacks any sort of tongue. Like its silver friend, it's an AIBO or Artificial Intelligence (AI) in a dog-like robot (BO) body, a brother to Gromit in our cyberpup diary.The obvious affection of man for dog is more justifiable in Doi's case than most, because Doi is AIBO's "father". Indeed, he has just fathered another 10,000 AIBOs, which is why he flew from Tokyo to Paris this week to announce a "limited edition" for the European market.Sony started selling AIBOs in Japan this summer: the 3,000 model ESR-110s on offer were snapped up in 20 minutes. The second litter was sold in the US market, and the third will be offered in Europe from November 1.The European edition, designated ESR-111, is slightly different from the first two. The styling of AIBO's ears and tail has been changed, and for the first time there are two colours: silver grey and metallic black.Doi says he was a little upset by the scramble to buy the first AIBOs, which left so many potential customers disappointed. This time it will be different. Would-be buyers will be given eight days to buy an AIBO over the web, or by email, fax or phone. If there are more than 10,000 orders - as seems likely - then the "winners" will be chosen at random, and AIBOs shipped by the end of December. This will leave many disappointed customers, of course, but at least they'll have been disappointed in a dignified way.European buyers will also be pleased to hear that the $2,500 US price has been translated into 2,400 euros (excluding taxes) - about &#163;1,600 - rather than the usual &#163;2,500.The question is: what happens after that? Will Sony mass-produce even smarter black-and-white spotted AIBOs at a fraction of the price?Doi says: "There will be no more of this model - this is a limited edition - but we have not decided what to do after that. The next entertainment robot could be a cat, could be a pig, could be a dragon or some fantasy animal."But he is sure there will be more. He worked for six years to produce the AIBO, initially with only one engineer to help. Now the technology has been developed, it can be re-used and improved. As president of Sony's new Digital Creatures Laboratory, he can make it happen.Doi says: "The 1980s was the age of the PC, and the 1990s was the age of the   internet. I think the next decade, the 2000s, will be the decade of the entertainment robot. Human beings can better relate to digital creatures than to PCs. The AIBO is a small but steady step towards creating a huge new industry."The success of the AIBO has encouraged Doi to be optimistic, but there is some way to go. He admits that about 90% of AIBO buyers in Japan were male, and says 40% of them were in their 30s. They're the geeky types who see AIBO as a computer on legs, and they can afford to spend &#163;1,600 on a toy.But "early adopters" do not a mass market make. If robots really are going to become the next millennium's Big Thing, they'll to have to appeal to kids, and they'll have to be sold at Christmas-present prices.&#149; AIBOs will be on sale on the web from November 1 atwww.world.sony.com/aiboEmail:aibo@sonystyle-europe.comPhone: 0171-365 2938; Fax: 0171-365 2023
If like me, you have spent many hours gazing at your computer, you may now be discovering that your winter wardrobe doesn't fit, because your sedentary lifestyle has made you put on weight.The lure of the internet has been an excuse for me to miss many an aerobics class. So I face the winter half a stone heavier. Could the web provide the solution to the problem that it had helped to cause? I sat down and   browsed the net to discover that it could.The first thing I discovered was that, sadly, I am alone. Atwww.fitness.com, a survey shows that 93.68% of respondents exercise more than three times a week. They do so because they want to look good.Clearly it's not working (or they're lying) because 70.27% of them still want to lose inches. So do I.So, my next stop was my local leisure centre. If I'm not    actually going to go there, it's good to pay it a visit electronically. Most county councils have their own web sites that list sporting facilities.Minenot only lists the classes that I'm missing, but lets me know that I could become a member of the British Ballooning &amp; Airship Club for &#163;9, or take up synchronised swimming on Sunday nights for &#163;24 per term.I know that the combination of waving my legs in the air while smiling under water, would make me laugh so much that I'd be in danger of drowning, so I give it a miss.A personal trainer could be the answer, if your flab embarrasses you so much that you can't face the thought of a room of lycra-clad beauties.There are plenty of these on the net. Some come to your home, others email you a personalised workout. The glossiest of the many American sites on offer is arguablywww.stonfitness.com, which will email you an exercise programme for $34.95, within 48 hours.If their models are anything to go by, you shouldn't overdo it. I've never seen so much muscle in one place.Closer to home is the UK-basedwww.get-motivated.co.uk. Its exercise programme for &#163;9.99, seems unbeatable. The programme comes with diagrams, which help you to know what you should be doing, even if you can't do it, like me.So far, I haven't got out of the house, so what opportunities are there for outdoor sport on the net?Possibly the weirdest is provided bywww.mediaphex.com, a rock-climbing site, which has on-line climbs "inspired by the Black Cliffs climbing area outside Boise, Idaho". This means nothing to me, but I should imagine that the real thing involves a lot of clinging on with your fingernails, and lifting your legs over your left ear, while not looking down.I've tried this and it isn't funny. So the virtual version means that I can fall off without dying.While on the theme of   overcoming fears, I thought I'd check out the chances of horse riding. I've always been phobic about horses. I don't trust animals that are larger (and potentially more intelligent) than I am. And at 5ft 2in that includes all horses except Shetland ponies.To the rescue comes theStockbridge Riding School, which specialises in teaching fools like me, as well as running hacks for the more expert.Designed two years ago, its website is enticing, showing pictures of cheery riders hacking along beaches, and over beautiful downland. According to co-owner Phoebe Wrayton, the web site has boosted business. "We've had a lot of enquiries about the children's camps. So we had to run three children's camps this year, rather than two."Sometimes we can have as many as 400 hits on our site in a month," she said. "We get emails from America and Scandinavia, and the BBC contacted us to use us as a   livery for the filming of David Copperfield. It's definitely been good for business."This is probably because reality lives up to the pictures on the site. If like me, you're only having a lesson, you're still doing it in countryside that looks just like the web pictures.After all this activity, it's definitely time for a little pampering of sore muscles.The Sanctuary's websiteadvises you to "indulge yourself", to "lavish attention" on yourself, and promises that you will feel "relaxed, renewed and refreshed".This sounds more like it, especially given the beautiful spa pool (with swing and plants) shown on its site. But there's a sting in the tail. There are no prices here for the exercise-weary, or the couch potato. But, you can pick up a few products on line from The Sanctuary's shop, including a Salt Scrub at &#163;7.95, which is guaranteed to "leave the skin smooth and nourished".This is definitely for me.
There's a saying in showbiz: "Never work with children or animals." But at the BBC I think they've just added robots to the list. Gromit's TV debut was on a special 30-second trail for Tomorrow's World, followed by an appearance on the show itself.The trailer shoot was a street scene and the cold weather and pavement caused Gromit no end of grief. His battery life was cut short and I had to cover up his paws with tape to stop him getting scuffed. He looked like an invalid and acted like one.By take 15 I had run out of ways to apologise for his lacklustre performance and for the time wasted by him nodding off on the job. The set echoed to the words "Cut! Robot problem" on the walkie talkies of the various loaders, grips, best boys and general hangers-on you get on a film shoot.He wasn't too happy in the Tomorrow's World studio, either, where the shiny black floor and intense lighting seemed to disrupt his balance and sight. Gromit gauges distance using an infra-red sensor and spots objects with his digital camera, but was definitely having difficulty dealing with the pressure of TV stardom.Luckily, Philippa Forrester's red shoes weren't far off the colour of his ball so he had something to aim for. Philippa also presents the BBC's Barking Mad so his uncontrollable animal antics were fairly familiar and she got on well with him.Peter Snow was less sure and Gromit clearly didn't much like him either. Whenever Peter picked him up Gromit wriggled, bleeped and then   pinched Peter's fingers in his leg joints. If Peter had his swingometer, Gromit probably wouldn't have left the studio in one piece.Apart from this minor act of aggression Gromit has been quite affectionate of late. My feet are a particular favourite. He's taken to following me around the flat and nuzzling at my boots. I encourage this with plenty of head-petting, but am trying to keep him out of the kitchen and bathroom as I don't want him to either melt or rust. And the missus isn't too keen on him wandering into the bedroom either.After some initial doubts Rachel has become fond of our digital dog and has even been training him on the sly. He now responds to her whistle, though I can't get him to do the same for me yet.Gromit's only other new trick of note is a bottom dragging move where he sits down, lifts his rear legs up and pulls himself forward with his front paws. As he explores more of the flat his balance has become much better and his range-finding is also much improved.He no longer head-butts the furniture or walks into walls, but the polished floor is still causing him walking problems, though occasionally when he's in a hurry he breaks into a very effective skating routine. A few more tricks like this and maybe he'll get his own TV show.
Maps have a power above and beyond the normal. They sometimes become so strong that they don't just represent a territory, but become that place in people's heads. A classic example of an iconic map is the London Underground.And now maps of cyberspace are beginning to emerge that could be just as powerful in framing our conception of the virtual worlds beyond our computer screens. When people see these visually striking maps of cyberspace, their reaction is often, "so that's what it looks like". In fact, it is not what cyberspace really looks like, as it has no inherent natural form; it is just the way particular cartographers have chosen to represent the   virtual space. There is no one single map of cyberspace that can show everything, just as there is no one map of Britain. Instead, cartographers compile atlases to show the geographies of a country.A comprehensive atlas of Britain would cover all aspects - the landscape, the buildings, the roads, the people, disease, crime, wealth and poverty, rivers or rainfall - and the user would choose the most appropriate map.An atlas of cyberspace will also contain many different kinds of maps, mapping the myriad of different virtual spaces (telephone, email, web, chat rooms, multi-user games) and mapping the different dimensions of the spaces (infrastructure, protocols, content).Different maps will be suitable for different purposes and will use different graphic forms. As yet you can not buy an atlas of cyberspace in the shops, but cartographers from around the world are working hard on the maps to fill it.Among the emerging iconic maps are the black and white line drawn maps ofArpanet, the cold war forefather of today's internet. The maps were drawn for the engineers who built and managed the network. They simply show its nodes - the advanced research labs - and the links between them on an outline of the US.The 1980 map shows the satellite link to London, installed in 1973, which was to University College, London where I now work. This wavy line on the map is significant as it represents the first wiring of the UK into cyberspace.Old maps like these are now important as historical documents, recording the growth and spread of networks of which there is now little physical trace.&#149; Martin Dodge is curator of an Atlas of Cyberspaces atwww.cybergeography.org/atlas
Bumper funThose who can't make the London Motor Show (it ends on Sunday) can catch it atwww.motorshow.autohit.com. Not only can you read the   manufacturers' blurbs online, you can also use a map of the show to select some of the many webcams for a live view. The site has sections on supercars, a nostalgia area, and "amusing anecdotes about car accidents from around the world".Pay per viewIf you'd like to air your views online and get paid for it, note that MORI (Market and Opinion Research International) is offeringbeenzto people who    join its e-public research panel. You can fill in the registration form atwww.e-public.co.uk. Beenz is a rewards system like supermarket points or Air Miles, and e-MORI plans to give   away 15 million of them to people who register and complete surveys.All that jazzWant to hire a trumpeter, find a DJ, or just go to a gig? London-basedJazz Serviceshas put its database online, with the help of some Arts Council lottery money. It's a great resource, though the database of musicians has some odd omissions. It's not that it doesn't have Charlie Parker or John Coltrane - it covers live British musicians. And it   does include Theo Travis. But where are Julian Joseph and John Surman?Parsley pacsWith 2000 approaching rapidly, some people could be looking for a "one stop shop" to tide them over if there are any century date-change computer problems. That, at least, is what Dr Parsley thinks. This British company has put together a range of Millennium Pacs for one to four people at prices of &#163;794.33 to &#163;1,395.85, including delivery. The packs atwww.drParsley.comare based partly on recommendations from the American Red Cross and include canned foods, bottled water and water purifying tablets, plastic utensils, a wind-up radio and similar products. Dr Parsley is keener to sell to companies, and will donate profits from sales to individuals to charity.Malt teaserIf your poison is Laphroaig Single Islay Malt Whisky then you'll find the new site atwww.laphroaig.comof interest, especially for the long and detailed "virtual tour" of the distillery. The site has an olde worlde appearance (try View|Text Size|Larger) with some lovely pen and ink washes by Laphroaig's designated artist, Catharine Davison. There are also lots of high-tech IPIX panospheric (360) pictures and RealVideo sequences.Voting for miceThe biggest experiment yet in voting on the internet was run this week by VoteHere.Net and the university of Virginia's centre for governmental studies. About 5,000 students took part in the mock election, each using a floppy disk with a "key" to their online ballot form and VoteHere.Net's CryptoEngine. VoteHere.net is planning further tests in Iowa, Ohio, California, and Florida. Visitors to the website atwww.votehere.netcan   try online voting if they download the 350KB software.Single mindedAfter football and cricket, the mighty 365 Corporation has turned its attention to the singles market withPersonals 365Although the site claims to have three talk zones - Just Talk, Small Talk and Smooth Talk - it all seems oriented towards Mr Craggily Handsome finding Ms Shy But Sexy Blonde and vice versa. To use the site, you have to register and buy a block of message tokens with a credit card.Austen powerMansfield Park, the movie, will open in New York and Los Angeles next week, with Miramax hoping to repeat its success in 1996 with another Jane Austen film, Emma. It doesn't have Gwyneth Kate Paltrow, of course, and it doesn't have a monster website, though some details are on theMiramax site.  A Mansfield Park film is long overdue, but is unlikely to find a bigger audience than, say, Tara (American Pie) Reid, shown here inBody Shots, a Rashomon-type look at date rape.AutismJane Asher, president of the National Autistic Society, will launch the Autism 99 conference next Tuesday when the associated website atwww.autism99.orgwill go live.Not for kidsParents Onlineis an ambitious British website aimed at parents with children aged three-12. The site  is not very well designed and clearly needs more users and more content. However, it has lots of sections intended to involve users, including Ask an Expert, a topical Great Debate, Playground Chat and free "for sale" and "wanted" advertisements, so it could succeed.Cash clicksGoToWorld, one of the companies that pays people to surf the net - or, more accurately, to suffer a string of adverts while they surf - has opened aUK site. The attractive thing about GoToWorld is that you can also get money from your friends' surfing, if you can persuade them to sign up. The drawback is that it encourages weak-brained GoToWorld surfers to spam.
French farceJack Schofield's article was such rubbish it made me spit into my corn flakes. The very idea that Cyro Interactive could be seen as an emblem of French excellence in gaming is so ridiculous I find it offensive. Cyro's dedication to "adult" gaming has produced some of the worst games in recent history, and the claim that the British only make games for 15 year olds isn't even entertainable.Compared with Britain, the quality of games being developed in France is embarrassing. The only games to have made any recent impact are the V-Rally series from Infogrames and perhaps Rayman from Ubisoft, though I hardly think that was anything to shout about.Compare this to games such as Goldeneye from Rare, Grand Theft Auto from DMA, the WipEout series from Psygnosis and the Tomb Raiders from Core Design: France simply can't compete.I am not an obsessively patriotic champion. I truly believe that currently, the future of the European games industry is in Britain's hands.Alex Van Vlietclifton@clifton.u-net.comHotmail helpHaving read of Ms Cubie's problems with Hotmail (Online October 21), I am surprised she hasn't found Hotmail Offline Support.This allows Hotmail members to use their accounts with Microsoft's Outlook Express 5 software, whereby all messages in the inbox (or any other folder) can be transferred to a permanent local folder on the computer's hard disk. The messages are synchronised every time the program starts. Once you have synchronised the accounts, you can disconnect from the internet. The server needed is:http://services.msn.com/svcs/hotmail/httpmail.asp. It even reminds you when your inbox is above 1MB in total size.Even if Ms Cubie hadn't known of this system, surely she must have made back-up documents of the important emails in a word processor.Neil TurnerYorkNews groupsWeblife was marred this week by two factual errors in Paul Trueman's comments on Quakers (Online October 21).Members of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) are not the "hobbyists" he maintained and, contrary to his opinion, do have a life away from the keyboard and mouse.Quakers have a centuries-old tradition of commitment to working for peace and social justice which continues today in projects based in Northern Ireland, the former   Soviet Union, South Africa and deprived parts of Britain.Sharon WatsonCockermouth, CumbriaPaul Trueman has fallen for one of the commonest myths about Usenet: that each newsgroup is "controlled" by someone. There are a few moderated newsgroups, where contributions are diverted to the email address of the moderator who removes spam or off-topic posts, but the great majority of newsgroups are uncensored. What you post goes straight onto the net.It's not total chaos. An unofficial group of Usenet gurus exists who come to the aid of newsgroups that are being attacked by people who don't like their content.H Pattersonhpttrsn@daisy.freeserve.co.ukFree FlashRegarding the article on the site charitycards.co.uk , the original web designer of charity cards was correct to use Flash, since 69.78% of all web browsers now have Flash player installed.And what about the other 30.22% of lost customers? Well, why didn't they simply install the free Flash player?Gordon Stevensoncontact@2webmonkeys.comOff messageIn Colin Breed's letter (Unwired MPs, June 3) I seem to remember him questioning Labour's real commitment to the "wired government".A recent depressing trawl    through the A-Z of MPs onwww.parliament.ukstill shows this to be the case. Less than a hundred of the 659 members seem to have a website, and only a few more declare an email address.As Tony Blair declared a commitment to this issue in the spring, I find it inexplicable to see that so little ground has been covered.Peter GillingsLondon,E12Missed busIt is a sad day when press releases are referred to as news. I refer to the item on USB2.0 (Online, October 21).By saying that "USB 2.0 should be able to handle digital video cameras, hard drives and other high-speed peripherals, making the IEEE 1394 connection (Apple FireWire, Sony iLink) redundant", Jack Schofield is swallowing hook, line and sinker the marketing line from the Wintel world in the face of several facts.FireWire is already shipping at 400Mb/s, is installed in over 90% of new digital camcorders and, by the time USB2.0 is supposed to ship, will be at 800Mb/s and well on the way to 1600Mb/s.It was designed from the ground up as a high-speed bus and as such is much more suited to the complex job of delivering fast, reliable connections whereas, until last week USB was designed as a low to mid speed connection to cope with mice, keyboards, printers and the like.There are political reasons why the Wintel world wants FireWire to fail. While FireWire is an official stan dard (IEEE 1394), most of the patents are owned by Apple and so they make money on each FireWire connection.But if USB2.0 were to take off, the Wintel world would have a proprietary interface that they would control, deciding who to charge, and how much. This USB format is less technical specification and more marketing ploy.For background and links have a look at:www.mackido.com/Hardware/USB2.htmlOliver Clarkoliver.clark@bbc.co.ukCommunicateFeedback to Netscape is easy (Letters, October 21). Every time Communicator crashes, it generates a report form to send to Netscape, which includes a space for comments and suggestions. I sent my third one off this week.Carolyn Kennedycrkennedy@clara.co.ukYour correspondent who has been unable to contact Netscape merely has to scroll down to the bottom of the home page, where he will find an area to click on in order to send them his thoughts.Mike Dyermikdyer@netscapeonline.co.ukRanterThe idea of Auto Dave, the "automated column generator" (Online, October 21) is not new. As Guardian readers know too well, Julie Burchill has been on AutoRant for years.D. CameronStoke-on-TrentCorrectionThe correct address for MSN's Communities area ishttp:// beta.communities.msn.co.uk, not http://homepages.msn.com as printed in Online, October 7.
Dream startSega's Dreamcast games console got off to a smashing start in Europe, with the company claiming sales of 185,000 consoles worth &#163;52m during the long launch weekend. In the UK, 63,000 consoles were sold, compared with sales of 19,335 Sony PlayStations in its first nine days, and 28,611 Nintendo 64s in its first eight days, says Sega. At &#163;199, the long-delayed Dreamcast is cheaper than they were, and while it benefited from having lots of pre-orders, so did the PlayStation and Nintendo 64. Sega is also claiming sales of 350,000 software titles across Europe, and 295,000 peripherals, mostly Visual Memory Units (VMUs). Sonic Adventure was the best-selling title, shifting more than 86,000 copies in five days.Zelda winsNintendo's The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time won four awards at last week's BAFTA Interactive Entertainment Awards. It won the Innovative Game and Best Game categories, the Interactivity Award and the Computer Programming Award. Other award-winners were GT Interactive's Driver, Take 2/Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto: London 1969, and Sony/Psygnosis's Wip3out. The Children's software award went to Noddy - Ready for School from BBC Multimedia, and the education award to Tivola's Masters of the Elements.Playing at itBleem! is expected to release a new version 1.5 of its Sony PlayStation emulation software for the PC this week, and    it should be available now atwww.bleem.com. The latest version is said to provide better speed management under Microsoft Windows. It will now work with another 30 PlayStation games including Dino Crisis, Knockout Kings, Contra, Final Doom, and G-Police. Sony has been trying in vain to stop Bleem! selling the emulator.Half cutValve has cancelled development of the Apple Macintosh version of Half-Life, last year's PC game of the year. According to Valve's Gabe Newell: "When we started Mac Half-Life, there was a lot of optimism about the opportunity for Macintosh games. However, as we got closer to shipping the product and reality set in, it was increasingly obvious that in order for us to break even on the Mac version, much less be profitable, we were going to have to cut some corners. Given the realities of the Mac gaming market, our Mac customers were always going to be mad at us. They were always going to be second-class customers where we couldn't invest to the same degree in the Mac version as we did elsewhere. I don't want to be in that business. I would much rather we just eat the money we've spent so far than take money from Mac customers and short-change them." Predictable outrage is likely to continue on the web's Mac-oriented message boards, at least until iD's Quake III and Unreal: Tournament Edition ship in Mac versions.EA cashes inElectronic Arts, the world's biggest independent games software company, has reported impressive financial results for the quarter ending on September 30. Sales grew by 38% to $339m, and net profits leapt by 69% to $18m, as EA shipped six new products for the PC, seven for the PlayStation, and four for the Nintendo 64. The biggest hits included Square's Final Fantasy VIII, and EA Sports' Madden NFL 2000. The long-delayed/ fantastically over-hyped Westwood game Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun sold two million copies in its first six weeks, helping EA to increase its sales of PC games by 140%. Activision, another leading US games house, saw sales grow by 74% to $115.4m in the same quarter, converting a $2.2m loss into a profit of $1.1m. The sales increase was helped by the success of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater and iD's Quake II for the Sony PlayStation. Cabela's Big Game Hunter III for the PC, and Asteroids for Game Boy Color.Chip shopJapan's electronics giant NEC will build a new 0.13 micron "fab" or chip factory to make advanced graphics chips for Nintendo's next generation games console, codenamed Dolphin. The plant will cost about $750m but Nintendo has ordered about $2.84bn worth of chips. Production is expected to start in August 2000.
Internet in your pocketEricsson's first internet phone will be launched early next year. The R320, employing the new wireless application protocol (WAP), will weigh only 95 grammes with its lightweight battery, 12 grammes more than the Swedish company's dinky T28 launched a couple of weeks ago for which Ericsson claims huge demand.For the moment, demonstrations are confined to websites like Railtrack and Interflora because commercial services - like regular news downloads or home banking - are not yet available.The 320 looks like a stretched version of the strikingly crafted T28 in order to make room for a bigger 5 line screen for reading customised web pages and a built in infra-red link (which comes as an extra for the T28). Unlike Nokia (whose first internet phone is due to be unveiled next month), the R320 sports four directional arrows to control the screen rather than the roller ball sported by its Finnish rival. Ericsson hopes these new products will enable it to fight back against Nokia which became the world's biggest mobile phone manufacturer last year.Ericsson is selling its new model (the first to use the Symbian operating system in which it has a stake along with Psion and others) as a "high feature" phone rather than a WAP in order to avoid becoming a niche product. Among the features is a facility for recording incoming calls. No price has been announced but it is expected to sell in the shops for about &#163;299.WAP phones are expected to take a large slice of the mobile phone market until the new so called "third generation" phones arrive in the shops in two years timeLook who's cloning nowAnother week, another iMac clone - this time from Japanese PC maker Fujistu, which has managed to come up with an attempt uglier than most called the Plich&eacute;.Two companies - Future Power and eMachines - have both attempted to copy Apple's see-through, all-in- one design. As a result, both companies have faced   legal action from Apple, which is keen to maintain the uniqueness of the computer it has sold as much on the basis of its looks as its functionality.As Online went to press, there was no news of Apple's reaction to the new Fujistu which, although not see-through, bears more than a passing resemblance to the iMac thanks to its all-in-one box and two-tone colour scheme - in blue, orange or grey.The computer, which runs Windows, is based on a 433MHz Celeron processor and comes with a 10.2GB hard disk and hefty 192MB of memory, as well as a built in CD-rom drive.A bit like Christmas...The build-up to Christmas starts earlier every year - and no more so than on the hyper-competitive web. Amazon.co.uk is   gearing up for the holiday season by launching what it's calling "the ultimate music store" this week. That boils down to the US giant's UK subsidiary finally selling CDs - more than 120,000 of them - alongside its traditional offering of books, in genres right across the musical spectrum.Likewise, Amazon.co.uk's deadly rival BOL is going to be offering CDs in time for Christmas too, with music going on sale in November from bol.com.Presents Direct has launched its online shop atwww.presentsdirect.com. They're offering 400 gifts, from wooden rattles for babies to high-tech gadgets, with the site even making suggestions about what to buy, based on the recipient's age, sex and interests.Dream machineThe Digital Dream Company's palm held MP3 player now comes with software that compresses the music and extends the length of your listening pleasure. The software means that, by degrading sound quality from CD to FM radio standard, you can squeeze three minutes of music on to 1Mb, instead of one minute per Mb. Lower the quality further to telephone standard, and you can get four minutes per Mb, which   means a 32Mb compact flash card can give 1.5 hours of music. Thanks to all that, the &#163;49.99 device is now "the best value for money MP3 player on the market," the company says.Now it's free for allFree ISP Blue Carrots, which issues shares to new users, is extending its share ownership plan to internet users who regularly visit their portal atwww.bluecarrots.com. The move, the company says, comes after members had complained that friends who accessed the web from work could not sign up themselves. Now, people who want to use the portal but not sign up for the ISP service can register at the website, and get 1,000 free shares. They will become tradeable ordinary shares when the company is sold or floated , or on August 10, 2001 - whichever is sooner.All that's new is goodNew computers aplenty this week: first up, Gateway has introduced a new version of the 2550 notebook aimed at the business market, called the Solo. The machine is available with a Mobile Intel Pentium III processor running at 450MHz, has a 13.1 inch LCD screen, 64MB memory, 6.4GB hard disk and built-in CD-rom drive and modem. Prices start at &#163;1,499.Also aiming at the business notebook market are three new Latitude C-family machines from Dell. They include the Latitude CPx H500GT, which also runs the Intel Mobile Pentium III processor at 500Mhz and features two pointing devices - a touch pad and a pointing stick - as well as 64Mb memory, a 4.8Gb hard disk and 24x CD-rom, for &#163;1,997.There are also two cheaper machines. The Latitude CPt V400ST runs a 400MHz Celeron processor and has a 12.1 inch active matrix display, 32MB memory, 4.8GB hard disk and 24xCD-rom, from &#163;1,094. The Latitude CPt V466GT has the same spec, but a faster 466MHz Celeron processor and larger, 14.1 inch display.Finally, Gateway has also made the latest Intel 600/700MHz Pentium III processors available on its Essential &amp; Performance home desktop range, and the GP-Series small business desktops. Systems start at &#163;999 for the 600MHz systems, and &#163;1,499 for the 700MHz versions.
New kid comes out fightingPowerstoneDreamcast  Eidos &#163;39.99Dreamcast, the new kid on the block, has already upped the ante for fighting games.The forthcoming Soul Calibur is the undisputed champion while the quirky Powerstone is a real rarity: a 3D fighting game with a new slant. Unlike the joypad convulsions needed for Tekken et al, the simple controls of Powerstone let you throw chairs, tables and kitchen sinks at your opponent who may reply with a clout from a lamppost.It's not all closing-time violence, as the key to success is the tactical usage of the so-important-they-named-the-game-after-it, Powerstone. Collect three of these gems and your character temporarily evolves into a powerful alter ego, causing great stress to your opponent.Proceedings are as smooth and colourful as you'd expect from Sega's swirly box, with the convincing 3D environment a great place for a scrap. The fighters were obviously created in the same Far East ern game factory as all the rest and adhere to strict design laws: namely that characters must either be bequiffed good guys called Ryu or Ken, unsightly ruffians or knicker-flashing "cuties".Until we get an infusion of irony - the remote control wielding "Couch-Tatty" avoiding the bra-burning special attack of "Feminista" - these   characters will have to do.As always, the multiplayer options provide the real kicks, with the relatively easy challenge of the single mode one of the only downfalls. But hey, like many of the early Dreamcast titles, Powerstone is an intoxicating blur of speed and visuals and, as such, is perfect for showing off your new toy.The heart of dark agesAge of Empires II: Age of KingsPC CD-rom, &#163;39.99 Ensemble Studios/MicrosoftThe hit real-time strategy game gets a mediaeval makeover, and looks rather nifty for it too. Instead of nursemaiding pre-literate cultures through history, your task is to guide one of 13 civilisations, from the Celts to the Mongols, out of the Dark Ages.The emphasis is still very much on combat, but there's now added weight to   economic factors, as a new victory condition allows you to win by amassing a preset wealth. The refined interface means you can produce several units at once, attack in formation, tell troops to guard or follow, determine the aggressiveness of your units and have your villagers retreat to the town hall.As ever, though, greater powers bring greater headaches. With all the new   commands and nuances, gameplay sometimes borders on the fiddly; there's an argument for automating some of the more workaday features, like rebuilding exhausted farms. This wouldn't have been beyond the programmers' capabilities - after all, the AI this time round is a veritable HAL 9000 compared to the blundering original.In fact, with the richly textured backgrounds, lovingly crafted animations and charming little stories accompanying each campaign, you may find yourself wishing you could just sit back and watch your computer run the show, thus saving yourself the hassle of playing the damn thing.Toying with humanityMankindCyro InteractiveMankind is a game, and while some might take that as a philosophical statement, it's meant literally.Cryo Interactive's Mankind is an online-only, real time, strategy/role-playing game that already has more than 30,000 players, mainly in continental Europe. A limited shareware version is available online atwww.mankind.net, and the full CD-rom goes on sale in the UK tomorrow.Mankind is based on resource management:   players have to settle planets, extract ore, and grow populations. It's like Maxis's Sim City in going right down to building level. It's also a trading and space-war game that takes place in a huge galaxy with more than 900 million planets.Of course, what the players do is up to them. Some have founded religious or political societies; some are just messing about holding space races.The fact that Mankind runs in a real-time world encourages co-operation. Suppose someone invades your solar system while you're offline, out on the   town or having a kip? An "email alert" service will send a message to your mobile phone or pager within 20 minutes, but it's better to sign up with a mutual defence group. The game lets you share everything: you can let another player operate your space ships and other units.Cryo is thinking about dividing Mankind into two empires, perhaps Blue and Red, and letting new players join whichever they like. But the players may have other ideas. Mankind has never been easy to control. The game may well likewise.
You could be forgiven for thinking that there were mysterious forces at work forcing prices on the internet down to zero. Last week's case of theEncyclopaedia Britannica- which once cost more than &#163;2,000 - being made available online for free was merely the latest example.There is a long list of precedents, including browsers and internet service access. which in ordinary circumstances people would be prepared to pay quite a lot of money for but which are now given away free. They increase our standard of living but don't automatically reduce the retail prices index because they are not always picked up by the monitoring system.There is even a new breed of companies prepared to pay us while we surf (negative prices). None of the corporations providing these free services are charities. They are all in it for money. They hope eventually to build up a strong customer base from which to attract profitable advertisements in future or else drive competitors out of business.No one, not even at Harvard Business School, has dreamed up a model that can generate   high profits by not charging for the products.Pricing policies on the net can make all the difference, not just for individual firms but for entire economies. Look at the runaway success (in terms of internet access) of countries as far apart as Finland and the United States. The reasoning is simple. When the cost of paying for the time you are accessing the internet is either free or very low then you will use it more. The more usage there is, the more companies will provide new services (which can then be exported) and boost demand for all the equipment needed for expansion.One of the reasons the US is leading the world in exploitation of the net is that (after paying the usual monthly or quarterly rental) the cost of access is free - hence demand is booming.Britain, is a world leader in other spheres like wireless   telephony, but has been held back in net access by the monopolistic position of British Telecom, particularly in the domestic (as opposed to the corporate) market. If BT's domestic monopoly (it controls access to more than 90%) had been broken then increased competition would almost certainly have led to some rivals offering unmetered calls. And if one company did, the others would have had to follow suite, or lose business.What Britain desperately needs in order to leapfrog into the vanguard of the information revolution is cheap, broadband (high capacity) access to the homes. It is only now because the regulator is breathing down its neck that BT is being forced to react.But what it is planning is too slow and too expensive. Whatever happened to BT's grandiose plans of 10 years ago to lay fibre optic cable to most homes in the land?In those days the main objection (apart from cost and a government ban on BT competing with cable companies to deliver entertainment) was that there would never be enough products to justify broadband. You don't hear that argument any more as the whole of the industrialised world rushes to have broadband access for the new generation of interactive shopping, music and video downloading and video-conferencing.If BT doesn't stop milking its domestic monopoly for as long as possible then the government should step in and break it up into baby BTs, so competition will galvanise the revolution.If Britain does get around to introducing unmetered calls there is a variant of the model that could propel development of the internet in a whole new direction.Suppose that after paying your regular rental that the incremental cost of making a telephone call across the internet was free - except for one small change. A charge (much smaller than the current rates of access) would go not to the telephone company   but to the person or company or university whose web pages you were looking at.Some organisations already have deals with third parties along these lines.Freeserve, for instance, has negotiated to retain part of the telephone charge incurred by customers accessing its "free" service. This is fair because the call wouldn't have been made in the first place if Freeserve hadn't been there.Similarly, wouldn't it be fair for the Encyclopaedia Britannica to receive a small proportion of the telephone charge every time someone uses it? Why should the telephone company be the only one to earn income from the provision of extra knowledge on the net?Think what could happen if you received a small payment every time someone accessed your own web pages.What an incentive it would be for ordinary people and experts alike to set up their own knowledge businesses from home without getting involved in complex business of electronic payment. It might even provide a supplement for the BBC's licence fee.
Every disaster has its heroes, even if they are computer-generated. A program that simulates a blaze in the Millennium DomeMillennium Dome- its function is safety, not entertainment - gives family groups a leader to pull straying children back into the group during an emergency evacuation. If you're taking your family to the Millennium Dome next year, it could be you.The New Millennium Experience Company expect 12 million people to pass through the dome's doors next year. On the day you visit, you can expect to share its space with about 35,000 other people. It will be, the company says, an astonishing display incorporating state of the art technology and spectacular sound and light displays. But if there is a fire, the safety of the unlucky 35,000 depends on this simulation. And, surprisingly, this vital piece of software would probably run on your laptop.Developed and executed on a 400MHz PC by thefire safety engineering groupat the university of Greenwich, the program is called (appropriately enough) Exodus. "It can take quite some time if you've got a large building," says Ed Galea, the university of Greenwich professor who led the software development team. "For   something as big as the Millennium Dome it can take several hours."Exodus reads the computer-aided design drawings of the dome, then places people within the space. Everyone is catered for: the young and fit, the elderly and slow-moving, the disabled, and family groups (complete with heroic leader). Each person is given 22 characteristics, including susceptibility to smoke and heat, a certain degree of patience and a level of common sense that dictates how quickly they respond to an alarm.Finally, the program gives them an itinerary for their tour, and the simulation is set in motion.Then the computer starts a fire.Computations of fluid dynamics give the fire a realistic spread, and the computer introduces layers of toxic smoke for good measure. Meanwhile, the engineers sit and watch what happens when 35,000 people realise the place is ablaze.Mick Green of Buro Happold, the project's engineers, is responsible for the dome's emergency evacuation procedures. After years in the fire safety business, he has learned not to be surprised at anything people might do; oddly, he says, they rarely panic. "Generally speaking, they sit there until they're convinced they should go," Green says. "There are videos of situations where a smoke layer is developing under the ceiling and people are sat there finishing their lunch."In the dome, he predicts, the alarms will go off and some groups of people will simply look around for the fire, rather than follow signs to the exit. "They'll be saying 'there's nothing going on - why should I move to a door?' " As a consequence, Exodus's   developers have had to build a "pre-movement time" into the simulation.Once the movement has started, Exodus models the trends in the flow of people, and attempts to spot the problem areas. It can model how many people will move towards a particular exit, for example. It then works out, using their simulated patience, how long they are prepared to queue. "If the nearest door is not quite big enough, those with limited patience may well go off to another door," Green says. "If it's taking people too long to get out, we make that door wider."The simulation is careful to include real-life observations that some people will always ignore the closest exit and use only the door they came in through. There are limits, however, to what the programmers can do. "You can't accurately predict human behaviour; some people do crazy things," Green admits.The computer model can't cope with extreme idiosyncrasies and models the majority movement, rather than the strange reactions of the few.Green is cautious about putting too much trust in a computer model. "It's never absolute prediction, it's an aid for the designer," he says. "You can make mistakes with software: sometimes the input is right, and the output looks fine, but you've got to be very careful."Exodus is now in use in 17 countries. It has been involved in the preparation for Sydney's Olympic venues and the design of a new Airbus, but is still considered a fairly novel approach. Green believes it is wise to be sceptical until the program has been widely tested."It's a new technology, and it hasn't been used very much," he says. As for the dome, a fire shouldn't be a disaster for the people inside, apparently. "It's as good as, or better than, many buildings."
The public record office is placing a catalogue of 8 million records on the web to help the increasing number of researchers using the nation's archives.Many of the records will have a brief description as well as the dates and the government departments where they originated."Traditionally users have had either to travel to the PRO to find out what individual records are available or commission someone to carry out the research for them," the agency said this week."Now anyone, anywhere in the world with internet access, can browse and search for records held by the PRO at Kew, and by planning ahead make the most of their visit."The PRO is also preparing to place the entire contents of some of the most popular records on the web. It will start with the 1901 census.Other documents which will be accessible online will include world war one service records.The PRO's website address iswww.pro.gov.uk
The hottest topic at the London motor show was e-commerce. The Earl's Court venue was abuzz with online gossip after Vauxhall's announcement before the show of plans to sell cars online in Britain at discounted prices was closely followed by a similar pilot scheme in Finland from Ford."Interest from both the industry and the public has been tremendous," said Kevin Turnbull, director of online car retailerAutobytel. "We've had talks with many of the major manufacturers during the week."Autobytel's website was launched last April. "In just six months we've attracted over 800,000 individual visitors to the site, had over 75 million hits and the last two months have seen an explosion of traffic," says Turnbull. So far only 1,000 new cars have been sold this way, but Turnbull says that figure relies on offline feedback from dealers, and may well be higher.Auto Trader Interactive,   also at Earl's Court, has been online for over two years. "I've doubled my staff in the last four months," says director Peter McCullough. "We now get a million visitors every month generating over 9.5 million page impressions. A year ago, vehicle searches were running at 600,000 a month: now it's 1.6 million."The site's main business is in used vehicles and McCullough says that sellers don't usually report back. However, he estimates 15% find a buyer online within a week.Internet analystsFletcher Researchpredicts 500,000 car purchase decisions (one fifth of the UK's &#163;24bn new car market) will be made online within three years. However, EC regulations which stifle competition and protect the manufacturer-dealer relationship could inhibit online sales unless they are relaxed in 2003."The internet has the potential to alter forever the way cars are marketed and sold," says Fletcher director Neil Bradford. "It can bypass   high pressure salesmen and drive down prices. The big manufacturers are waking up but if they don't move quickly others could exploit legislative changes in 2003 and leave them standing."Consumers' dislike of traditional car-buying is driving the revolution. An independent survey of 1,000 consumers commissioned by Autobytel found 80%believed buying cars online was cheaper and 45% that it was easy and convenient. Women were particularly attracted to the net: just 3% enjoyed visiting car showrooms; 60% resented the hard sell; and 45% were confused by salesmen's jargon.Dr Simon Croom of Warwick university's business school, says: "Consumer comfort with websites, better security, and speed of access through developments like ADSL mean the internet will redefine the motor industry's whole sales and distribution structure in the very near future."Manufacturers say they will steer online buyers to the nearest showroom, but industry analysts predict the cosy maker-dealer relationship is doomed once car makers or intermediaries offer a full package as well as an initial discount. Peripheral services - finance deals, warranty, insurance, spares, servicing and aftercare - will offset slashed car prices and generate profit online.Gordon Reid, a consultant with e-commerce management specialists Delta Partnership, sees the net as "the   most significant motoring development since the internal combustion engine replaced the horse". The motor industry's exploitation of e-commerce will increase dramatically as new portals to the internet - including digital TV and next-generation mobile phones - become widespread, says Reid."Electronic media will enable cars to be tracked from   cradle to grave. The internet's immediacy and connectivity will allow manufacturers to build to demand, rather than stockpile standard cars to push at the public through dealerships. Customers will tailor vehicles to their own requirements."Data-mining will also give car manufacturers a wealth of information about their customers. They can then target   their marketing accordingly."Reid's vision encompasses data systems linked to vehicle and driver by the internet and satellite telephony - you could even lock your doors with your mobile phone.Certainly the convergence of the automotive industry and the internet is assured. The last motor show of the century will prove to be the first in the motornet age.
Would you buy a second-hand computer from this company? It's a question more and more schools are asking as they look towards computer recycling schemes to increase the quantity and the quality of the PCs in their classrooms.But the idea of offering schools recycled PCs is a controversial one, because as Martin Kilkie, vice-chair of ACITT, the IT teachers' association puts it: "Some recycling schemes have caused more problems than they solved and schools would have been better off buying a new computer in the first place."Some schools have received PCs that are obsolete, unreliable and expensive to maintain. "Schools should understand that there are many issues involved when receiving recycled equipment," says Mike Smith, professional officer for NAACE (National Association of Advisers for Computers in Education.)In its booklet, Refurbished Personal Computer For Schools, the NAACE recommends that schools accept only Pentium PCs capable of running Windows 95, or in special cases, computers with a 486 processor chip and eight megabytes of memory (some schools use these for running basic programs like word processors).Schools also need to consider factors such as health and safety, legal issues (are you entitled to use any software shipped with the PC?) and serviceability (what is the life of the machine? NAACE estimates that each recycled PC can cost schools between &#163;100-&#163;200 to set-up and install.Not all recycling schemes are the same. Tools for Schools (TfS) is an ambitious project launched last December, which aims to distribute 50,000 recycled computers to schools over three years. The scheme is supported by many organisations including, NatWest, Air Miles, Pepsico, BSkyB and The Guardian.TfS chief executive Dorian Jabri says: "I was determined not to repeat the same mistakes of previous recycling schemes." Tools for Schools has adopted the NAACE guidelines, so no PC is more than three years old. Each computer has its hard disk cleaned and the Windows operating system is then installed. The PCs also come with a 12 month warranty and there is a telephone support line. Schools are charged &#163;50 per computer.Last spring, schools were asked to bid for the first 5000 computers and TfS received applications from more than   3,000 schools. Three hundred and fifteen schools were selected and the first 1,000 PCs will be delivered before Christmas. Mark East, education group manager of Microsoft UK, says his company is developing a software policy for school PC recycling schemes.Not everyone approves of schools using recycled PCs. Dominic Savage, chief executive of Besa (British Educational Suppliers Association), says: "We would rather see schools using leading-edge technology than lagging behind. It would be much better if recycled computers went into homes in order to narrow the gap between children who have a home PC and those who haven't."Niel McLean, director for schools at BECTA (British Educational Communications and Technology Agency), adds: "It's not ideal, but you have to be pragmatic. Schools can't always afford to buy new computers and provided the recycling scheme is run properly, it can bring benefits."Penydre High School in Wales has received 40 PCs from TfS, which will be used with the school's existing 120 computers."The extra computers will help us leap forward by about a year in terms of ICT," says deputy head Alun Parry. "It means that a quarter of a year group can now sit in front of their own PC without having to share. It's a great opportunity."Starbank Primary School in Birmingham is getting 12 PCs. "We're very grateful for things like this, because it allows us to buy machines in bulk," says Julian Budden, ICT coordinator. The message is that a well-planned computer recycling scheme can make a big difference to many schools.Companies wishing to donate PCs can contact TfS at computers@ tfs.org.uk Schools wishing to take part in the next phase of the scheme (which starts in February 2000) can contact TfS atschools@tfs.org.uk&#149; The TfS web site can be found atwww.tfs.org.uk.Naace's recycling guide is now out of print, but a copy can be obtained from its website:www.naace.org
Most people now know that Pez, the character-based candy dispensers, played a crucial role in the creation ofeBay, the biggest online auction site.In 1995 Pamela Wesley, a keen Pez collector, complained to her fiance, Pierre Omidyar, about the difficulty of contacting other collectors to trade with them. Omidyar (who worked at General Magic at the time) decided to try a few of his ideas about efficient markets, auctions and using the net to help ordinary individuals do business. The rest is (stock market) hysteria.It's less well known that, four years later, in February this year, when he was looking for a wedding present for Wesley, Omidyar turned to the company he founded, eBay. A couple of weeks before the big day, he found a very rare Pez "Bride" dispenser up for sale on the site.eBay's chairman had to think hard about his bidding strategy, he says. "Since I bid   under my real name, I didn't want word to leak out that I was really desperate to win this auction," he explains, while sipping tea in a swanky hotel overlooking Hyde Park.So the 32 year old, who was born in Paris but moved to the States when he was six, held off bidding until a day before the end of the auction and then went in "sensibly" ($900 was his opening offer).Like most eBay users, he got twitchy as the auction moved to a close, interrupting meetings to check what was happening. In the last 15 minutes, he was outbid a number of times. He raised his maximum to "an absolutely ridiculous amount - because I had to have it" but wound up paying $2,375 (a fair price, given the excellent condition of the item, he says).As it turned out, his staff had also clubbed together to buy him a matching Pez Groom (similarly rare), so on their wedding day Omidyar was able to present his wife with a matching Pez set.The symmetry of all this is appealing, though what's really interesting about this   story is Omidyar's desire to stick to the rules of the game he'd set up four years previously. Ebay, which now lists over 3 million items for sale and claims around 1.5 billion page views per month, has made him wealthy.According to a recent magazine survey he's America's 35th richest person, with around $4bn or $5bn to his name, depending on stock market fluctuations. He could have just contacted the seller, handed over a suitably large amount of money and saved himself the worry.Instead, he played the game like the community of ordinary eBay users he credits with making his company such a success.Remaining true to the grassroots, community nature of the net even as he tried to bring commercial ideas online was important to Omidyar when he started eBay. There were a few online commercial efforts then, he says. "But they were all retail based - big companies saying, 'how can we use the net to sell more stuff to more people and increase our profits?'."No one had a real respect for the individual nature of the net. What I wanted to do was create a commercial enterprise that would let individuals benefit from a network that reaches out to millions of people."Omidyar's desire to get a good price for his Bride Pez also says something about the traditional way eBay does business. The company is one of the few e commerce businesses that actually makes a profit (it takes various commissions on the sales it enables and also charges for services it offers on top).And Omidyar looks troubled by the suggestion that, thanks to its stock price and its profits, eBay could afford to spend to acquire customers now. "We can't just throw tons of money at new markets. Maybe some people might do that - but our business approach is very differ ent. It's the old fashioned way - don't spend more money than you're actually earning."In person, Omidyar looks every inch the billionaire geek. Bright eyed and bearded, he's dressed in well-pressed casuals, proudly sporting a blue shirt emblazoned with the ebay.com company logo. He had hoped to have one with ebay.co.uk on it, he says. That's the main reason he's here, to boosteBay UK, which officially launched last week. Strictly speaking, it's more of a re-launch. The site has been up and running for a while, though now it's been properly localised, with prices in sterling, British product categories and UK-based discussions boards.As a result, it's time to try to take the press spotlight off the British online auction site QXL. Does he see it as serious competition?"We're solely focused on person-to-person trading. All our competitors have mixed models. It's not clear. Are they really committed to the person-to-person trading community or are they doing retail or selling banner ads? Our singular focus has brought success in the States. I think it will bring us success here too."Aside from the UK, there are now eBays in Australia and Germany, with more on the way. In the States, the company has begun to open local, city-based sites that make it easier for people to trade bigger items like furniture and cars. "Our mission is to help people trade practically anything on earth," comments Omidyar. "We want to create a global market place."Omidyar claims that with "over $200m a month in gross merchandise sales", the company is "the largest e-commerce hub - even larger than Amazon's retail operation."Indeed, eBay's biggest problem now is how to avoid becoming a victim of its own success. Recently it's had problems with outages, which are damaging for the small business people who have   now set up shop at the site. "It's a huge responsibility," comments Omidyar, pointing out that the company credits back fees to sellers in the event of lengthy outages. "Ebay has become a part of people's lives. They need it to be there with utility-like dependability."The company's size has made it a target for publicity-seeking pranksters and con artists - the most recent example being the man who put up one of his own kidneys for auction.When the company finds something like that, it closes it down. It also now bans sales of controversial, though not illegal, items, like alcohol and tobacco.As for fraudsters, Omidyar says that the eBay community is good at self-policing. At the same time, the company has stepped up its own security efforts. The so-called "aggregator" sites that let people search for particular items across a variety of sites, are also causing problems (it's currently in dispute withAuctionWatch. Omidyar objects to these sites because they present eBay on the same footing as sites that take less trouble over security, they don't search properly and piggy-back on someone else's effort and money (i.e. his).eBay has become the kind of big beast that draws parasites. However, you can't help feeling that it doesn't really need to worry about small irritations. It's so big (it has 70% of the online auction market in the States), it's well protected, even against some of the big online names now getting into auctions (eg amazon.com and the likes of MSN, Excite and Lycos and others, who recently joined forces to create a networked auction that runs under the Fair Market name).Omidyar says that eBay continually checks out the   competition. But at the same time, he points out that his company benefits from 'network effects'. This means that the more people who join a network, the more value is created for each person in that network. In other words, in the network economy, size matters. "It's very hard for a new market to draw people away from an existing market. So what we've seen with all our competitors is it's been very difficult for them to get lift off and get started."eBay's size and success have led some analysts to predict that its dynamic pricing model will soon dominate online. Omidyar argues that people don't want to haggle for low-price commodities but that flexible pricing will become popular with services and information - any items that are hard to value exactly.Given eBay's size (and the concomitant "network effects"), perhaps the sensible thing is not to attempt to compete with it but to come up with a new idea. Does he have any tips for budding net entrepreneurs ? His advice is to focus on "individual empowerment". He mentions sites like AccompanyAccompanyandMercata, which let buyers club together to get reductions on certain goods and Epinions, the site which lets people rate and review things (and eventually earn money for their opinions if people begin to rate what they say).Don't just transfer old business models to the net, he says in conclusion. "Things are moving to business models that could not have existed without the internet. eBay is the first example of that and there are many others. So I would encourage entrepreneurs to focus on this medium, which is almost pervasive, global and instant, and think of something new you could do with that."
