CUTTING-EDGE CUTLERYDining involves more than just a tongue-teasing dish. Eyes, ears, noses and skin can all be involved to augment a culinary experience, as numerous scientific studies have found, and tableware is one medium through which to do it. Indeed scientists have found that changing the shape, colour and weight of plates, glasses and cutlery can all influence the perception of a meal. And designers have taken note.Related:Spoon me: how cutlery design can blow your tastebuds awayEnter the Molecule-R Aromaforks (£40) – a set of four (pictured right) recently launched eating irons that feature small absorbent circles, lodged on the fork’s handles, onto which accompanying pungent fluids can be dropped.The theory is that diners can experience, for example, a waft of basil as they tuck into a tomato and mozzarella salad or, as the company bombastically suggests, vegetables with a hint of bubblegum. However given the rather overpowering odours it seems diners are likely to end up with remarkably clear sinuses to boot.Taking a different approach, Studio William launched these stylish spoons (pictured above left, £34 for a set of four) in spring hoping to manipulate mouthfeel by means of textured cutlery. Sweet.NDEDIBLE CUPSLoliware Biodigr(edible) cups.Photograph: PRIf these cups look good enough to eat, it’s because they are. Produced by US company Loliware Biodegr(edible)s and created from agar, the innovative tableware was launched in March to provide an alternative to plastic cups – although at £8 for four, they don’t come cheap.Related:Drink up, then eat the glass – the trend for edible food packaging and tableware“The product we have is for special occasions and events, which can range from a picnic to a large outdoor concert. Weddings are another interesting use,” says co-founder Leigh Ann Tucker. “But we do want to bring costs down as we develop the product line and different materials.”She compares it to an ice-cream cone – a container than can also be nibbled upon, but says the concept goes beyond nutritional novelty as it also offers an environmentally sustainable alternative for containers. “Part of the idea of moving into biodegradable packaging would, potentially, be really thinking about it more as ‘it is so biodegradable you can eat it’,” she says.NDNUTRITION PATCHESThe idea of sticking a patch on your skin to deliver useful substances into your body is not a new one. Transdermal patches have been around since the 1970s and are commonly associated with nicotine, to help people give up smoking, and medications of various kinds. But what about using patches as a means of feeding ourselves, or at least supplement our diet?If we can absorb drugs through the skin, to address cravings and medical issues, why can’t we do the same with vitamins and nutrients? That’s the line of thinking that Irish entrepreneur Gareth Sheridan, 26, was following when he set up Nutriband in 2012. “My university thesis was about different ways you could absorb nutrients into the body,” says Sheridan, who studied business and management at the Dublin Institute of Technology. “A family member was using a patch at the time for a medical purpose, so I decided to see if patches could be used to deliver daily doses of vitamins and energy.”A sumptuous nutriband being lovingly applied.Photograph: PRNutriband has three patches on the market: the NRG Band, which contains caffeine and claims to boost physical and mental performance over a six-hour period; the Vit Band, which delivers a cocktail of vitamins to bolster the immune system; and the Amino Band, which is designed to help the body recover from strenuous exercise.When a patch is applied, nutrients contained in the adhesive layer are absorbed (if the molecules are small enough) through the pores of the skin into the blood stream. The patches are designed to release their ingredients over a period of time and, as Sheridan points out, you don’t have to commit to a full dose as you would with a pill: to stop the process, simply remove the patch.A testosterone-fuelled advert for Nutriband patches.Photograph: PRWhen I tried the NRG Band, it gave me an energy boost comparable to the effects of drinking a strong cup of coffee. I experienced a mild crash, too, when the effects wore off, but the energy release felt relatively consistent over a six-hour period. The effects of the Vit Band and Amino Band were less tangible.Obviously, these products are not substitutes for food and Sheridan believes such a development is a long way off. “But I think they can be a very good addition,” he says. “Patches are going to be developed that will help you get the best from your food. Digestive issues such as gluten intolerance could be addressed with the use of a patch. That’s something we’re looking at.”Manufacturers of oral supplements can make similar claims, but one further advantage that patches have, according to Sheridan, is what they don’t contain. “No flavourings, colourings, calories – no additives of any kind,” he says. “Most capsules have a gelatine shell, which means they can’t claim to be vegan. We can. With patches, you bring it right down to the essential ingredients.”KFFOUR EATING APPSEatbyapp.comA smartphone app that tracks the expiration dates of food in your fridge and reminds you to eat it before it expires to avoid food wastage.SmartplateClaims to use cameras and weight sensors to identify what you are eating. The nutritional information is then displayed on an associated app.Pizza Hut Sunconscious MenuSubconscious menuTrialled by Pizza Hut, this electronic menu tracks your eyes and predicts what ingredients you want based on what you looked at the longest.Fooducate.comOne of many food trackers, the Fooducate app scans barcodes and provides nutritional information.
VERTICAL FARMING“I know it sounds utopian”, says Steve Fry, apologetically, as he explains the merits of multi-layer hydroponics. Known colloquially as “vertical” farming, the approach in which plants are grown in water instead of soil has grown significantly over the past 20 years. Fry, as head of hydroponics hardware firmHydroGarden, believes it is the next step in reforming the wasteful, polluting, oil-dependent aspects of the farming industry, and preparing for future threats to food security.Related:Vertical farming explained: how cities could be food producers of the futureInside HydroGarden’s Coventry warehouse isa demo of their system, featuring a carefully monitored environment with three long trolleys, each supporting four layers of narrow trays. Water containing a mixture of potassium, nitrogen and other nutrients flows down each tray, feeding the dozens of plants sown along it, while above them, low-energy LEDs enable optimum photosynthesis.According to Fry, it can produce 2,000 butterhead lettuces in 28 days; a crop that would take three times as long in open soil.But he admits it is not a “silver bullet”. Staple crops such as cereals cannot currently be grown vertically, and the foreseeable future of vertical farming is largely one of salads and herbs. The new method uses much less water and energy than open soil farming, and requires no pesticides or fungicides, but nevertheless, on most hydroponic farms, chemicals are used to sterilise the water, and some nutrients are synthesised.The Soil Association also refuses to recognise hydroponic plants as organic; a source of frustration to Fry, who thinks changing the mindset of modern agriculture is paramount. “We need to start growing crops in peri-urban environments,” he says, envisioning a future where crops are grown “on the tops of buildings, in disused car-parks”, or anywhere, in fact, with ventilation and a power supply.One of the tunnels under Clapham North, before being turned into a vertical farm.Photograph: PRSouth London startupGrowing Underground(GU) is testing the limits of this idea. In 2012, GU leased two vast former air-raid shelters under Clapham High Street to house a commercial hydroponic farm. Steve Dring and Chris Nelson, two of GU’s founders, claim that, come October, it will be the biggest multi-layer system in Europe, and when the tunnels reach full capacity they hope to produce 80,000 kg of produce per year. For now, just one semicircular bunker is in use, growing ‘micro-leaves’ - largely, they imagine, for restaurants.Descending a rattling lift-shaft to a brick dungeon 100ft below the A3 is not what one typically identifies with the word ‘farm’. And yet the plants grown in the tunnel will be among the most chemical-free in London and, thanks to the minimal transport, some of the freshest. The first harvest will arrive in New Covent Garden market next month, although they plan to launch quietly. “Anything might go wrong; you can’t control nature,” says Steve. “Well,” Chris adds, glancing at the gleaming rows of trays, “up to a point you can.”KBDRIVERLESS FARMINGDairymaster MooMonitoPhotograph: PRThe farm manager of the near future watches a large tractor on a screen in his office. It has no driver but is manoeuvring itself around trees, precisely planting seeds to within a centimetre. Sensors measure soil moisture to a depth of 100cm and a mini weather station tells him the humidity and temperature.He receives an automated text warning of a major storm approaching. His insurance company in the US automatically calculates from millions of bits of historical weather data that he may have to replant the field at a cost of £2,000. It offers him an instant quote. If a satellite confirms that the storm ruins his crop he will be paid instantly.Related:Robot farmers are the future of agriculture, says governmentHe switches to another screen where he can observe his herd of 500 cows. Each animal is being monitored for its milk yield, body weight, the food it has consumed and its location. Sensors on their collars indicate that one cow is behaving slightly unusually. The computer warns him that she is likely to be ill and could infect the others.The technology for driverless, fully connected, practically people-less precision farming is thriving in the US and coming to Europe, says Antonio Marzia, vice president of Precision Solutions atCNH Industrial, makers of some of the world’s largest and most advanced farm machinery. He sees big data, machinery, climatology and agronomy all combining to increase productivity and reduce labour costs. “The technology is all here now. What was developed for very big farms is now applicable to mid-sized ones. But farmers don’t want decisions to be made by machines. They want help making decisions,” he says.Climatological data in precision farming could protect farmers from destitution when their crops are ruined.Photograph: JEFF COOPER/APThat help is becoming plentiful as Silicon Valley moves into agriculture. Drones can map and survey any piece of land; computers can link to weather archives; machines can minutely adjust the amount of herbicide they spray or fertiliser they spread on any acre. A combine harvester will not just cut a crop, but will record the amount harvested every second, and measure which square metre of land is the most fertile. A tractor can be programmed to work in the dark , or with any product.The forerunner of the fully digital farm has just arrived in Pembrokeshire, South Wales, where cattle farmer e has a herd of 650 cows. He has thought about buying a robotic milking system but has decided to invest in a “moo monitor”, a device that fits on a collar and measures each animal’s temperature. “You can get technology to do just about anything on the farm now,” he says. “The monitor is able to detect whether a cow is ill or on heat. It saves me about £15,000 a year. It’s very accurate and should pay itself off in around three years. The main advantage is that it saves time and labour. It aids rather than replaces people” But, he adds, “It gives me a lot of data and updates itself all the time. That’s the problem , too. But you only use what data you need. I don’t think it could ever replace a good stockman.”JVMORE FARMING TECHHarvard Univeristy’s robotic bee.WindowfarmsIf you live in a flat and have little or no garden, these vertical, mini-hydroponic systems allow you to grow mainly salad and small vegetables.Robotic orange pickerA robot that is designed to scan the orange trees and pick ripe fruit.RobobeesThe smallest farming robots, robotic bees can pollinate a field of crops.“Smart pills”Essentially, a fitness tracker for cows in pill form, which offers farmers information on the cows’ temperature, appetite etc.RD
TAKEAWAY GETS GENTRIFIEDFour chargrilled scallops steam from the plastic box on the kitchen table, each one leaning on a pillow of fancy puffed rice. This is takeaway, but unlike any I’ve experienced. An earthy-tasting rich green sauce is the pool for three mushroom dumplings that taste, well, expensive. “Hmmm… interesting,” says my friend, trying the spicy sauce with a corner of her truffle naan.With La Belle Assiette, a chef will appear at your house at the drop of a toque.Photograph: Marshall Troy/PRSupper London is a new online food delivery service that will bring you Michelin-starred masalas as well as dishes from high-end Japanese, Italian and French restaurants on demand. It’s similar to Deliveroo, another restaurant home-delivery site founded in 2013, but at prices that make your eyes water even more than the chilli lamb – a meal for two was £60. The food comes in a swanky shopping bag, delivered on a motorbike. It’s as quick as a normal takeaway, and stays hot. But it’s the same price as ordering it at the white table-clothed restaurant it comes from, and much less glamorous. Are rich people really so lazy that they’ll forgo silver service and painstakingly-presented plates to spoon posh food into their mouths in their (silk) dressing gowns?The burgeoning number of on-demand food services certainly hope so, tapping into the high end of a huge market: in the UK, we now spend a third of our food budget on fast food and takeaways. “It’s much more enjoyable being at home,” says Stephen Leguillon, founder of La Belle Assiette, another online service that, this time, allows people to hire a private chef to cook for them and their friends at short notice. “You choose the music, when you want to sit down, and you can drink as much wine as possible.”Related:Takeaways acceptable at dinner parties, says Debrett'sWith La Belle Assiette, which started in France and recently launched in the UK, Stephen hopes to normalise something previously seemed extravagant, as on-demand taxi service Uber has done. Like Uber, La Belle Assiette keeps costs down by minimising overheads – it is an online-only service – and employing freelance chefs who make their own way to your house. “The host and guests can leave the chef reviews, but unlike Uber we don’t let the chef rate the customer,” he says.Another new service trying to elevate home meals beyond beans on toast is Gousto, which delivers both recipes and fresh ingredients at £3.12 per portion – a step up, perhaps, from well-established supermarket deliveries. However, unlike La Belle Assiette, you have to cook them yourself. If you can remember how to, that is.KFBE YOUR OWN CELEB CHEFSnapping a meal with a smartphone and sharing it online is a ritual of the modern world. But has our appetite for “food porn” grown to the point where a still image is not enough? Food firms certainly think so: Aldi has just launched its own YouTube channel, while swanky restaurants such as Oblix in the Shard now have video “trailers” on their sites.We spoke to Steven Kydd, a the founder ofTastemade, an online food channel that also allows users to upload clips to theTastemade app. Started in 2012 on YouTube, its short videos combining recipes with foodie travel tips have recently been snapped up by platforms such as Apple TV, Facebook and Snapchat.Chef Marcus Meacham cooks on camera for Tastemade’s Snapchat channel.Photograph: MaraCasey/PRWhat’s more mouth-watering, pictures or video?Video – it’s sight, sound and motion. But making food look good on film is difficult, so people often stick to text and images. We have a team of food stylists who make it look beautiful and tasty.Who watches your videos?We target young people who don’t watch TV, but spend lots of time on mobiles. One of our shows is called Raw. Vegan. Not Gross. That would never work on TV, as it’s too specific. Lots of people are interested, they’re just not all sitting on the couch at the same time.Will people film their own food?Sure, you can take a snap of your own dish, but isn’t it much more interesting to show someone your favourite pub for Sunday lunch, take them inside, talk to the chef and show them what the food looks like in a video? Eating is a communal activity; most images are just about the food. With a video, you can meet the people around the table.What’s the future of sharing food online?It’s definitely mobile. More than 70% of our video consumption is on a mobile device. We want our videos to be intimately carried with people wherever they are, and shared instantly.KFMORE FOOD-SHARING START-UPSMealsharing.comThis and other ‘shared dining’ websites let you join in someone’s dinner, for a fee. Great when travelling.Olioex.comThe recently launched OLIO smartphone app allows you to share food that is either unwanted or about to expire.ripenear.meAllows foodies to connect with local growers and buy unwanted produce.leftoverswap.comCooked too much food? This smartphone app allows you to share leftovers with neighbours.RD
ROBO-CHEFWaiting for the right moment to reach for the next ingredient, Moley Robotics’s robo-chef moves its arms as if in a shrug. It’s a peculiarly human gesture – but according to its creator, Mark Oleynik, therein lies its appeal. Who’d want an impersonal mechanical box whipping up your dinner when you can have a lifelike — albeit torso-less — android instead?Incorporating two enormous arms and a pair of surprisingly nimble hands, the uncannily anthropomorphic actions are choreographed from movements caught by motion-capture technology as 2011 MasterChef winner Tim Anderson knocked up a crab bisque wearing sensor-clad gloves. The result is mesmerising — enormous limbs deftly drop ingredients into the pan and gently stir them, considerately plonking used items in an adjacent sink. And the bisque that’s served up isn’t bad either — which is just as well since it is currently the only option on the menu.The Moley robot slaving over a hot stove.Photograph: PRFor Oleynik, the vision is to produce a hi-tech solution to an everyday domestic issue. With the tap of an app, he reveals, the evening meal can be chosen and the timing set, allowing the robotic kitchen to have dinner on the go by the time you get home. The commercial version is set to debut in 2018 for around $75,000 (£49,000), featuring an expanded repertoire of meals that owners can add to (although they, too, will have to motion-capture their movements) and a greater range of functions — at the moment human chefs need to prepare the ingredients, putting them in just the right place for the mechanical hands to grab. A built-in fridge and a dishwasher that can be stacked by the robot are also on the menu. But will it find a place in our homes? Oleynik believes so.Related:The robot cookbook: can a supercomputer write recipes?“If you say, ‘In your home you can now choose any dish you want’, I am not sure that you will find people say, ‘No, I don’t need it’,” he says. Having recently taken to the stage at the Consumer Electronics Show in Shanghai, Moley Robotics’s kitchen is hot stuff, but it’s not the only machine donning an apron. IBM’s big-brained computer, Watson, is being harnessed by chefs to churn out new recipes, while San Francisco company Momentum Machines have created a robot capable of making burgers, cooking them and preparing toppings before popping the final product in a bag.From home meals to fast food, tech, it seems, has cooking all wrapped up.ND3D-PRINTED FOOD“We think that within 10 to 15 years, 3D food printers will be a standard kitchen appliance, like the microwave,” says Lynette Kucsma, co-founder of Natural Machines, the Barcelona company that produces the Foodini, a cutting-edge 3D food printer.Natural Machines’ mini-burgers.Photograph: PRThis is clearly early stage technology, but watching the Foodini produce a perfect hexagonal wall of mashed potato in the kitchen of the Michelin-starred restaurant where it is being trialled shows its potential, certainly when it comes to food presentation. The machine looks like a large microwave and inside are a set of capsules for the ingredients. In this case, you put mashed potato in one capsule, choose a nozzle size and a design and press go. Within two minutes, out comes mashed potato, exactly as you put it in, but in an interesting shape.One of Natural Machines’ 3D-printed designer dishes.Photograph: PRThe machine is getting attention from top restaurant chefs who are always looking for creative and original ways of presenting food in the tradition of the culinary trompe l’oeil pioneered by Ferran Adrià. “Anything that requires shaping or layering, from simple bread sticks to more complex ravioli, that’s where 3D food printing comes into play,” Kucsma says. “There are also designs the machine can produce that, no matter how steady your hand, you couldn’t do yourself. What chefs are doing is printing part of the dish and adding to it afterwards.”Related:3D-food printer offers the prospect of hamburgers printed to goIt could also be fun with children, who can be persuaded to eat food they wouldn’t otherwise eat if it’s presented in an imaginative way. However, at $1,500 (£975), when it begins to ship early next year, it may be some time before the Foodini becomes the must-have appliance.“The idea of a 3D printer conjures up images of processed food, but that’s not what this is about,” Kucsma says. “It’s all about fresh ingredients, these are your recipes, you don’t have to change anything. We’re never going to force people to buy prepared food capsules or add chemicals, like with other printers. It’s all about real food.”One of the Foodini’s selling points is it can make a filled ravioli in two minutes, not bad for what is a fussy operation when done by hand. But as anyone who has tried it at home knows, making good pasta dough that doesn’t come out either too dry or too rubbery isn’t as easy as you’d think. So the ravioli the Foodini produces will only be as good as the dough you put in. It will not make you a better cook.The Foodini itself.Photograph: PRWhat makes the Foodini different is it produces a range of sweet and savoury foods with multiple ingredients. “The first machine we’re releasing doesn’t cook,” says Kucsma. “It can heat but it doesn’t cook. We’re working on one that can cook and will be able to produce a three-course meal.”Kucsma says that she and her business partner, Emilio Sepúlveda, are getting a lot of interest from chefs, hotels and caterers in China and the US.They also responded to Nasa’s interest in 3D food printing by producing a 3D pizza in five minutes. “It’s possible that the Foodini will be in space,” Kucsma says. “There are challenges, like no gravity, and there are issues about weight and micro-organisms. It’s not our number one priority but it’s an interesting market. Really, what we’re looking to do is get people back in the kitchen and making food with fresh ingredients.”SBSMART OVENI am watching food porn on an iPhone in the office of a San Francisco startup – a birds-eye view of baking chocolate chip cookies gently rising. “You wouldn’t get that experience with a traditional oven,” says Nikhil Bhogal proudly. He is the co-founder and chief technology officer of June, a modern appliance company that recently unveiled its $1,495 (£972) smart oven of the same name for pre-order. It will begin shipping in spring 2016.The June oven.Photograph: PRThe oven, which includes an internal camera in its roof, does more than promise a new era of food voyeurism. The prototype we are watching knew when the cookies had been placed inside and also how to bake them to perfection (14 minutes at 325F was its recommendation). When done, it will turn itself off and alert the iPhonephone app through which the oven’s basic functions can be remotely controlled (the company is working on an Android app, though it is not expected before shipping).“This is going to go down in history as the first kitchen appliance which was artificially intelligent,” says Bhogal, adding he doesn’t believe kitchens have seen as big a paradigm shift since the invention of the microwave.A promotional video for the June oven.The oven’s software was taught using algorithms to recognise different foods, by being shown example images again and again. It knew what chocolate chip cookie dough was because it has seen close to 1,000 samples and learned the common features.Once the oven has recognised a food it uses a cooking program based on experiments conducted by June’s resident chef. Because the same food can come in different shapes, sizes and densities, as well as start out at different temperatures, a built-in oven scale weighs items and the camera allows for counting.There are also temperature probes, designed to be inserted into foods such as meat, fish, pies and bread loaves to ensure thorough cooking or a preferred level of “doneness”.So far the oven recognises 26 foods from steak to chocolate cake, but June is working to increase this, says Bhogal. It is also experimenting with thinner probes that will work with smaller items like cookies.Will it become a mainstay of future kitchens? There is a cultural shift under way where people want to be more connected with their food and experiment in the kitchen, believes Bhogal.“This is going to be technology which helps this [tech savvy] generation rediscover the joy of cooking,” he says.At least, that is, if they’re willing to follow what the oven knows.ZCMORE COOKING GADGETSThe SITU smart scale.Photograph: PRbettermicrowave.comA heat-map microwave that uses infra-red cameras to capture and display the temperature of your food on an LCD screen, helping you know when it has been heated up.Intelligent pansPans like SmartPromptPan use sensors to detect and alert you if your food is burning or boiling.SituFor the health-conscious, these kitchen scales weigh your food and link to an iPad app that offers nutritional information.Maid ovenThis smart microwave reads stored recipes out-loud, and makes personalised recommendations on what you should cook by learning your nutritional requirements.
Think of Instagram and you probably imagine a stream of changing-room selfies, envy-inducing holiday snaps and an avalanche of smashed avocado on toast. But there’s another aesthetic which arguably defines the online social networking and photo-sharing platform which you may have missed if you’re straight.Instagram is being made over by gay men and, to a lesser extent, gay women. Search for the hashtags #gay, #gaygirl or #instagay and you’re hit with more than 45 million posts. Must-follows include:@thenexttopgay(buff guys who clearly don’t own any shirts);@lesbianfunhouse(honed girls with quiffs, tattoos and bow ties) and@thegaybeards(two guys who love to accessorise their whiskers). And recently a cluster of accounts have sprung up celebrating all things gay marriage, highlighted in a Buzzfeed listicle entitled17 Beautiful Instagram Accounts That Will Bring Queer Love To Your Feed.Instagrammers Lesbianfunhouse celebrate “Same love. Gender equality”.I’m a recent convert to Instagram (I tend to use Facebook for personal posts,Twitterto promote my novels and connect with readers) but I’ve found the photo network less riddled with trolls and a warmer, more welcoming space than Twitter. And, unlike Facebook, the “likes” and supportive comments you attract often lead to new connections. More simply, it’s just fun.Simon Dunn is a member of the Australian Olympic bobsleigh team whose@bobsleighsimonaccount has more than 35,000 Instagram followers. Like me, he finds it fun but also uses it to build up his profile and attract sponsorship: “I tend to keep anything I need to say regarding gay rights on Twitter. But it’s hard to show you had a great day at training or a photoshoot you did in 140 characters or less.”A wedding photo taken by “Queer Chicana feminist” photographer cisforcristalBut how has Instagram become such a hit with the gay community and, in particular, with gay men? Like other forms of social media, it offers users a sense of belonging, and if you’re growing up gay and feeling alone, searching for the hashtag#instagay,#homogramor#gaygirlallows you to connect with millions of people all over the world in a relatively safe space.Most gay people, male and female, have grown up in a society that told them it was wrong. But while a boyish girl may merely be identified as a tomboy, manifestations of effeminacy in youngboys can prompt ridicule, or worse, bullying. Yet however much we may have learned to love our sexuality since our childhoods, many still carry a lingering feeling of not being acceptable or good enough, leaving us craving affirmation – which being part of a supportive community of strangers can provide.Mirror selfie specialists thenexttopgayOne might even say that deep down a disproportionate number of gay men struggle with low levels of self-esteem. We’re often good at smartening up the surface and making ourselves – and everything around us – look more attractive. This might explain why we’ve traditionally been over-represented in fashion, hairdressing and interior design to such an extent it has become a stereotype. So it seems logical that so many of us have been seduced by the selection of reality-improving filters offered on Instagram. Juno, Perpetua, Mayfair; each offers us the opportunity to become better versions of ourselves.Whatever the reason, there’s no sign of Instagram declining in popularity among the gay community. If you’re not already a member, log on and see for yourself. And while you’re at it, if you want to follow me, my Instagram account is@mattcainwriter. Please make sure you click “like” if I ever post a shirtless selfie.Matt Cain writes forAttitudemagazine and is the author ofNothing But Trouble, published by Pan Macmillan.
ARCADIA BY IAIN PEARSiOSThere have been apps of books before, with varying success. But this is a novel written specifically to be an app. While it makes use of the interactive potential with its interweaving characters, the medium never swamps the message: it’s a very good read indeed.YOUTUBE GAMINGiOS/AndroidGames are huge on YouTube: gamers like PewDiePie and the Diamond Minecart are even more popular there than Taylor Swift. This is a dedicated app for watching favourite YouTube gamers and discovering new channels – with an emphasis on live streams as well as archived videos.WONDERBOXiOSChildren are using apps like Instagram and YouTube in their millions, even if they shouldn’t be. WonderBox blends the best of both – creativity and educational videos – in an app for parents and children. An inventive idea, artfully crafted.AMAZON UNDERGROUNDAndroidAmazon’s latest app for bargain-hunters could be a boon for anyone fed up with freemium games. It offers a list of apps and games for free, including any freemium components, with Amazon picking up the bill by paying developers for every minute you use them.NUMEROUSiOS/AndroidClaiming to track “life’s most important numbers”, Numerous aims to be a single dashboard for your digital stats, from steps counted by your fitness-tracker, to your social media followers or the number of days until your anniversary. A fun tool for number-crunchers.MICROSOFT TRANSLATORiOS/AndroidIf you’ve ever turned to Google Translate on a phone to make yourself understood abroad, now it’s got competition. Microsoft’s app supports 50 languages, and includes a feature that speaks phrases for you, plus smartwatch support.KARENiOS/AndroidKaren sounds a bit scary at first: a “life coach” who asks you questions in order to build a psychological profile of you. Except, as you go along, there’s more to it interactions than you expected. Part science and part interactive drama, and always thought-provoking.MOODNOTESiOSMoodnotes is part of the wider “mindfulness” trend, which in this case uses cognitive behavioural therapy to help you track your moods and getgive tips on how to deal with negative moments. It’s a stylish, simple logging tool with plenty of practical advice.NINJA JAMMiOS/AndroidThis app is the work of independent label Ninja Tune, tapping its stable of artists for songs and samples that you can remix, or mix into new tracks of your own. It’s playful rather than intimidating, and there are plenty of tune packs sold as in-app purchases to experiment with.MSTYiOS/AndroidPeople are messaging about music in apps like WhatsApp and Snapchat in their hundreds of millions, but MSTY is focused purely on music messaging. You pick a song, a background then type a message before sending to a friend – a fun idea with potential for more.
Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture(PS4, Sony Computer Entertainment, cert: 16)★★★Games in the “walking simulator” genre – with an emphasis on exploration and light puzzle-solving – are somewhat divisive. Ever since they emerged in the past few years, there have been some that suggest that they shouldn’t be considered games at all. Sci-fi mysteryEverybody’s Gone to the Rapture, for good or ill, adds considerable weight to this argument.Wandering the lifeless roads of a beautifully realised English village and uncovering the story of its departed residents can be moving, intriguing and quietly horrifying, but the question of why it is told this way is never really answered. There is practically no agency to the role of the player as the things unfold, and by the conclusion a lack of having had anything to actually do can leave a bitter aftertaste.By no standard could it be considered a bad narrative, but for a better example of how walking simulators can also be interesting games, most would be better off with something likeJourneyorGrow Home.SRResident Evil: Revelations 2(PS Vita, Capcom, cert: 18)★★Revelations 2 has all the atmosphere of earlier Resident Evil games.A bid to recapture the atmosphere and glory of theResident Evilgames of yore,Revelations 2has a familiar set-up – a mysterious island surrounded by zombie-like monsters –returning characters (heroes Claire Redfield and Barry Burton) and the trademark hammy dialogue.Fans will enjoy the classic feel, and it has a compelling story – albeit an inconsistent one – that switches between the unnerving and the unintentionally hilarious. Outside of that 10-hour story is Raid mode, which is a series of run-and-gun challenges. It’s the best thing in the game, particularly when played cooperatively.Unfortunately, however, this Vita version is not on par with the console editions released in March. Although all the modes are present, the visuals have been significantly downgraded, loading times are painfully long, the frame rate often grinds to a halt and the controls are a little unwieldy, particularly in using the touch screen to crouch. Capcom have produced a solid horror game inRevelations 2akin to early iterations, but it is really best enjoyed on other platforms.CDBeatBuddy: Tale of the Guardians(Wii U, Threaks, cert: 7)★★★Bouncing on enemies adds flourishes to the soundtrack of Beatbuddy.A Wii U update for the PC adventure,BeatBuddyaims to make interaction with its soundtrack an integral part of play, as you take on the role of a blank-eyed alien charged with rescuing planet Symphonia’s music. There’s a lot to enjoy during the quest. The hand-drawn visual style invites investigation, as does the discovery of a fantastic musical ecosystem, where bouncing off bass drums, hi-hat crabs and other enemies adds pleasing flourishes to the soundtrack, which has been written by a different composer for each of the six levels.Their work is successful, as the game engages the senses at each turn as levels unfold in complexity and depth. However, this novel exterior isn’t matched by the gameplay, which reverts to more familiar platform puzzles and light brawling, while things are further hampered by occasional glitches and visual slow-down. Still, the exploration is rewarding and each level hides 10 “beatpoints” that unlock a well-written development diary.A quirky, inviting game, then, with a beautiful aural landscape best appreciated for its artistic ambitions rather than its ambitious interactivity.AR
Price: £99,602Top speed: 188mph0-62mph: 4.6 secondsMPG: 32.5Opening up Porsche’s fabulously rorty engine and letting its distinctive exhaust note engulf you is one of motoring’s most celebrated experiences, a journey into automotive nirvana… Well, that’s the theory anyway. Truth is, like teenagers and hairy pets, you often have to work hard to see the good in a Porsche.First up there is the nose-bleeding price tag. You’ll get just £398 change from £100K for this911 GTS– fill it up a couple of times and you’re there. Second, everyone hates you – even more than usual. In the week I spent with this car (yellowanda soft top was fuel to the flame), I was the victim of three cases of road rage (there was a fourth but that one was deserved). All involved liberal use of the words “twat” and “wanker”. Maybe Porsche should trademark them, as people seem to think that’s what the cars are called.Then there’s the drive. In an ideal world we’d only travel on empty winding roads with challenging cambers and stunning views. But life’s not a driving game, sadly, and nose-to-tailing in the 911 is like giving your left calf an extreme work out – the clutch is sprung like a mantrap. On top of that there’s the ludicrous seven-speed gearbox with a gate so narrow you are forever jamming it into the wrong gear. Without the finessing effect of speed, the car feels cumbersome and a fatiguing drive.But (and it’s a but that’s enraptured Porsche zealots for decades) when you do finally hit that open road, open up the roof and open up the rear-mounted flat-six… Well, oh my. It’s properly amazingly awesome.This 911 was unveiled at the Los Angeles Auto Show last November and its cabriolet sister has now been rolled out to match the coupé. With the soft top up, both cars share the same legendary silhouette. The 3.8-litre engine is the 911’s defining characteristic and it pumps out 424bhp, does 0-62mph in 4.6 seconds and tops out at 188mph. The electric steering delivers superb feedback so you can feel your way in and out of corners with surgical precision. With the cabriolet you can drop the top and truly revel in the car’s performance. Everything about the car is quick: it only takes 13 seconds to open the roof and you can do it at up to 35mph.The boot is pathetic, but there are two unexpectedly large rear seats for baggage – or people. I squeezed a 6ft friend, his dog and his injured son in there to drive them to hospital for an x-ray. The boy claimed he’d been “saved by Porsche” – a future sale in the bag for the German marque.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter at@MartinLove166
Can’t be bothered with pedals when you cycle? Then theKick Varibikeis for you. You can push along as though you’re on a scooter or turn the cranks by the handlebars to increase upper-body strength on the move. It has a three-gear system and brakes on the front and rear. With a prototype recently on show at the Eurobike exhibition, commercial versions are expected to become available soon. But with an estimated RRP of €1,600 (£1,160) it’s wheely expensive.codingFarmersLearn coding via an old-fashioned board game.Photograph: ObserverIf you prefer a low-tech way of learning, here’s a board game that teaches children coding with nary a computer in sight.IncodingFarmers, players have to move around the board using action cards that feature the instructions in Java code. There are optional longhand instructions to give you some back-up.With a retail price of $30, the game is set to launch on Amazon this November. The makers are going to reinvest their profits into teaching coding.OnCourse gogglesNavigation goggles for swimming in open water.Photograph: ObserverIt’s easy to veer off course when swimming in open water, but technology can help.OnCourse goggleslet you lock on to a spot such as a buoy by pressing a button. If you deviate from your course, the goggles warn you by flashing an LED light on the side you’re straying towards, until you’re back on track. Pledging $149 on theKickstartercampaign will get you the goggles, which are expected to ship in February.PetBotThe world’s first smartphone for pets.Photograph: ObserverIf you are lonely without your labrador, or just anxious about leaving your doggy companion behind at home,PetBotwill let you keep tabs on your pooch at a distance. Marketed as the first “smartphone for pets”, it features a webcam, a treat dispenser and recordable audio – all controllable from your smartphone.It also boasts an automatic selfie-taking feature so you can record your dog’s antics. And with a rather unlikely sounding “bark recognition” feature to boot, this gadget certainly takes the (dog) biscuit.It is currently open for funding on Indigogo and pledging $149 will get you the basic model.O WatchThe latest must-have watch.Photograph: ObserverStep aside Apple Watch, theO Watchcan do more than boost your street cred. Designed by an eight-year-old called Omkar Govil-Nair, it’s anArduino-based3D printable watch that can be programmed to tell the time, play games and even measure temperature, pressure and humidity, thereby teaching wearers the basics of coding. You can even customise your own case to look extra stylish.Backing the O Watch on Kickstarter will set you back $85 for the base kit, and $109 with a sensor board included.
With the launch of the new Apple TV, Apple has positioned its set-top box as the heir to the Nintendo Wii, bringing accessible casual gaming into the living room with the device’s app store and motion-sensitive remote control.The company’s all-singing, all-dancing press conferences regularly involve a quick play-through of a video game, but usually under the guise of a graphics demonstration. Hence the introduction of Vainglory,the mobile-first multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) that debuted alongside the iPhone 6, which was explicitly characterised as an example of what the company’s new Metal API could do for game developers; andInfinity Blade, announced as “Project Sword” by Epic Games alongside the introduction of Game Centre, again with the emphasis on its graphical fidelity. “Everything you see is in realtime”, Epic’s Mike Capps emphasised.This time, the demonstration of Warhammer 40,000: Freeblade, a third-person shooter for the iPhone, followed a similar pattern: its compatibility with the new devices’ “3D touch” was trailed heavily. But the two games we got to see running on an Apple TV were somewhat different.Crossy Road, an already hugely popular iPhone game, served notice to existing iOS developers that porting games over to the living room was expected, while the debut of Beat Sports, a new game by Rock Band developer Harmonix, emphasised that Apple wanted to work with the sort of developer who normally steers clear of the ecosystem entirely (although Harmonix has released one iOS game previously, a port of Rock Band for the iPhone, which was co-developed with EA Montreal).To be sure, both demos did touch on aspects of the device that Apple was keen to show off, with Crossy Road’s tight integration with the iPhone version and Beat Sports’ use of the motion-sensitive remote. But the subtext was clear: Apple thinks it can take on Nintendo for third place in the console market.The problem is, even while it’s parading game developers on stage, it’s still not clear if Apple actually wants to take on the console market. The inconsistency within the company when it comes to games is painful to see, and shows no sign of abating any time soon.The problem is that games are treated as just another type of app by the company – albeit a very profitable type. The games store, for instance, is organised in exactly the same way as the rest of the app store, with prominence given to a few select apps and then three charts of top-selling paid games, most-downloaded free games, and “top grossing games”.Like all charts, those tend to be vaguely self-reinforcing – and their relation to the actual highest-quality games is loose at best – but “top grossing” takes it a stage further, encouraging the sort of cash-grabbing that makes Clash of Clans, Game of War and Candy Crush Saga a perpetual top three.Candy Crush Saga: forever at the summit of the ‘top-grossing’ chart.Photograph: Carlo Allegri/ReutersSimilarly, inthe newly-released guidelines for Apple TV apps, the company reveals that “the maximum size of an Apple TV app is limited to 200MB”, with no persistent local storage. In other words, apps must be lean, and they must download everything they show from the cloud. That’s smart for a media player in a world with widespread broadband penetration, as it removes the risk of one app filling up the storage with downloaded movie files, leaving all the others unable to work. Streaming is the new downloading, that much is clear.But 200 megabytes is a paltry amount for a game. The top-tier consoles right now ship their games on Blu-ray discs, which store at least 25GB and can rise to 128GB per disc (twice the total storage of the highest-capacity Apple TV); but even last generation’s Nintendo Wii, which is perhaps a better comparator, used DVDs that hold 5GB. On my iPhone right now, I have five games installed that are over the 200MB limit.Some of those games might be able to stream content, hewing to the developer guidelines by the letter by downloading levels as you play. But unless Apple seriously intends to reintroduce the interminable loading screens of pre-hard-drive console gaming, it seems clear that they simply view games as an acceptable casualty of their drive for sleek TV apps.Perhaps the most damaging example of Apple’s failure to give games the support they needis at the very top of the company’s app store review guidelines: “If you want to criticise a religion, write a book. If you want to describe sex, write a book or a song, or create a medical App. It can get complicated, but we have decided to not allow certain kinds of content in the App Store.”The iPhone is the largest games store on the planet, and it’s managed by a company whose attitude to the medium is “go write a book”. That hasn’t stopped magnificent art being made for Apple’s platforms, but it has stopped some, such as Sweatshop HD, whichwas pulled from the app store in 2013. Of course, that game didn’t criticise a religion or describe sex, but it did satirise exploitative employment practices in manufacturing. Can’t think why Apple would have an issue with that.Despite my concerns, there is the chance that the Apple TV could be good for gaming. Unlike PC games, consoles have always been fairly locked down by the platform manufacturers. In a way, its “no sex, no drugs, only rock and roll” attitude is merely replicating the same approach that Nintendo has emphasised for years in its efforts to keep its games consoles family friendly. The company has onlyallowed six 18-rated games on its platforms in its history, and maintains a strict ban on any game given the US “Adults Only” rating, alongside Sony and Microsoft.And unlike the old consoles, there’s no need to ask permission before making a game for the Apple TV, and the company is still much less controlling over what makes it on the App Store than any of the legacy publishers.But its success as a games console would be handing yet more control of the medium to a company which fundamentally looks down on games and gaming. And that should concern anyone who likes to play.
Nissan has been going through a phase of making cars that look like their internal organs are on the outside of their bodies (chief among them, the marvellously ugly Juke, which once you notice, you become fascinated by, like ugly babies). In the Pulsar, they bring us a car that looks like a car: they are obviously a bit embarrassed by that, which is why they gave me a red one (they think we’re like bulls, and you hold our attention by waving a red thing at us: which in my case is broadly true).The look suited me fine: I prefer a hatchback to be sensibly close to the ground. The way they endlessly try to raise themselves above one another is vulgar. It has all kinds of nice finishes, from the classy textures on the ledge above the exhaust, to the alloy wheels, to the elegant fonts on all the displays. The boot looks large and is even larger, as I learned when I swapped cars while away and had to leave the dog in Kent (joking! I went back for him).It’s not the most fun I’ve ever had in a car: the seats may be heated leather, but the driving posture is a bit upright and uninviting, like sitting on the Paris Metro. The 1.6-litre petrol engine was smart and credible in a town. You could nip in and out of lanes, parking spaces, other people’s drives that expressly said “no turning”. Plus, 7.7 seconds from 0-62mph is pokier than you’d expect, and sometimes, tricks you into zooming and tearing about, when all you had meant to do was mosey. On an A-road, its limitations were more obvious, though never howling; it has good grip but not the most responsive steering, smooth cruising, but not the most enthusiastic acceleration in the top gears. The handling is a bit creaky and stiff, like a person who leans because they have a bad back and don’t want to reach; that makes it sound worse than it is. Think of a person with only a slightly bad back.It has a top speed of 135mph, so it’s not that safety-first, though a lot of the jazzing up has been with a safety motive. The safety features – lane-departure sensor, blind spot detector, rear-end collision auto-braking, run the full gamut of preventative imagination, from “driver who’s not really concentrating” to “driver who is playing Candy Crush and on drugs”. The newest feature is moving-object detection, for the awful event in which you miss a child or a dog. Didn’t use it; can’t vouch for its efficacy; even if I had used it, wouldn’t admit it.I never felt that I became part of the car, or that it was an extension of me. But I would admit it happily as a member of the family, which is roughly 80% of what a family hatchback hopes for.Nissan Pulsar: in numbersPrice£22,345Top speed135mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption48mpgCO2emissions138g/kmCool rating6/10Eco rating7/10
Staff at social media firm Facebook will have to update their status to “moving” after it agreed to take offices on a former Royal Mail site near Tottenham Court Road in central London.The company has agreed to take on all of the 227,324 sq ft of office space at One Rathbone Square, a new development by Great Portland Estates (GPE) on a site sold by Royal Mail in 2011. The sale had been criticised because the price paid for the prime 2.3-acre site was £120m and the project has been forecast to generate a profit of almost £100m.Under the deal announced on Friday, Facebook will pay an initial rent of £16.9m a year to occupy the building after getting the first 30 months of its tenancy rent-free. Staff are expected to move in after the building’s completion in February 2017 and Facebook has signed up for 15 years without a break clause.More space, currently allocated for retail, will also be rented by Facebook, subject to Westminster city council agreeing a change of use. The company has been given first refusal on other buildings on Oxford Street.The firm’s current UK base is near Euston, where it almost doubled its office footprint earlier this year to more than 150,000 sq ft, so its new home will mark another big increase in space. The firm would not say how many staff will be employed in the new building, although industry averages suggest an office of this size could accommodate 2,000.The offices are close to Tottenham Court Road station, currently getting a major overhaul as part of the new Crossrail development, which is set to bring faster links to Heathrow and Canary Wharf.Facebook’s head of real estate, Robert Cookson, said: “The move to our new offices at One Rathbone Square highlights our commitment to invest and grow our talented teams of people based in London, from engineering and analytics to partnerships and design, who help us connect over a billion people on Facebook across the world.”Cookson said it was a fantastic opportunity to occupy a high-quality development in the West End. “The location has excellent amenities and connectivity, with the very best the city has to offer right on the doorstep, including Crossrail once it is established,” he added.Neil Thompson, portfolio director of GPE, said: “We’ve long believed in the potential of the east end of Oxford Street, and have built an enviable portfolio of developments totalling almost 700,000 sq ft in the area. An endorsement of this scale from one of the world’s largest and most recognised brands, along with the arrival of Crossrail in 2018, will help transform this exciting part of the West End.”
In the dating sphere, “treat ‘em mean, keep ‘em keen” used to be the adage. That, and the “three-day rule” – the length of time it was deemed necessary to wait before contacting someone after the first date.Tinder, however, has distanced itself from received courting wisdom with the latest addition to its dating app – the “super like” feature, which allows users to declare an interest more eager than a mere swipe right.It’s true that both the three-day rule and the idea that acting disrespectfully to a potential mate is outdated practice – and by “outdated” I mean awful and socially inept – but Tinder’s super-like feature isn’t something that sets the heart a-fluttering either.Fresh from the moral panic thatan article in Vanity Fair created, in which Tinder was portrayed as a tool for oversexed college frat boys, the app hasreleased a promofor its new feature, poking fun at its reputation for users being, well, oversexed college frat boys.Tinder’s new advert for the super-like feature.Super like (swipe up) will be a third option presented to a user when browsing other users of the app – along with the pre-existing options to swipe left (reject) or swipe right (approve). At present, if two users swipe right on each other, they will be “matched” and are able to converse privately. A user does not know if another user has swiped right on his or her profile until he or she has done likewise.With the super like option, however, users will be able to see when browsing if a user has already “super liked” them. Tinder hopes this will “influence” the actions of users (ie encourage more matches). Because ego.Introducing varying levels of liking, however, could prove to be a disaster. If one is super liked, it may raise concerns that a suitor is, like,really eager.See also: blurting out potential kids’ names on a first date (Reuben and Rafferty for twin boys, by the way).The flip side is if one receives a swipe right, but not asuper like. This just sends a signal that someone thinks you’re OK, but in the parlance of many a rom-com,just isn’t that into you. It sets the relationship up for banal dates in the park and mediocre sex before one partner calls time on “what was a good thing while it lasted”.Each user is allowed just one “super like” a day. Tinder’s chief executive, Sean Rad,has saidthat this limitation “sends a more powerful signal, conveying an especially high level of interest”. Which is great, but see above. How does one know a super-liker isn’t going to turn out to be the type of person who adds you on Facebook on the night bus home from date two?It’s possible that Tinder felt the need, after the recent negative publicity off the back of the Vanity Fair piece – exacerbated by a public relationsTwitter meltdown– to announce a new feature to shift its current image. But the super-like feature is the kind of idea that should have stayed on the A3 flip-board and been disregarded way before the boardroom broke for lunch.The feature is now available in Australia, and will be rolled out to other countries later in the year. It remains to be seen whether users will take to the new swiping option, but as far as I’m concerned … well, I don’t super like it.•Star-crossed lovers? Tinder introduces verified accounts for celebrities
The UK intelligence agency responsible forvast amounts of snooping,as exposed by theSnowden revelations, has released new password guidelines.GCHQ and the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructurehave released a reportentitled “Password guidance: simplifying your approach”, which suggests that complex passwords are no longer recommended.The agency instead recommends using passwords made from three random words, using password managers and jettisoning overly complex password rules in favour of systems capable of detecting unauthorised activity.The suggestions seem sensible at face value, allowing users to remember passwords and not forcing them to reuse complex strings of letters, numbers and special characters for many services because they can only remember one or two.However, some will be sceptical about trusting the advice of the intelligence agency of a government which has pushed forbackdoors within softwareand theweakening of encryptionused to protect user data for surveillance purposes.In particular, GCHQ’s advocacy of password managers brings into question whether they are target of the agency’s efforts to achieve backdoors into products. The report warns that “like any piece of security software, they are not impregnable and are an attractive target”.Related:What to do if your email gets hacked - and how to prevent itCiaran Martin, director general of cyber security for GCHQ, said: “Complex passwords do not usually frustrate attackers, yet they make daily life much harder for users.”Change defaultsThe report includes common sense advice such as “all default vendor-supplied passwords that come with any system or software should be changed before deployment” and “never allow password-sharing between users”.GCHQ also recommends having higher levels of security for administrators and remote workers, who it says should be forced to use two-factor authentication to protect their accounts.Nigel Hawthorn from security company Skyhigh Networks said: “The security industry is awash with password advice, but much of it is contradictory or simply not suited to modern working. The result – passwords still puzzle many. GCHQ’s latest advice is refreshingly to the point and covers some of the most pressing issues facing UK businesses and employees today.”Martin caveats GCHQ advice, however, saying that it is “not intended to protect high-value individuals using public services”, which essentially means that it is appropriate for the public, but not GCHQ.What do you think of GCHQ’s advice? Welcome insight from the experts – or a bit rich coming from the agency that doesn’t need passwords to look at your mail? Let us know in the comments below.
What are they?Dating sims are games focused on building a romantic relationship with one of many possible partners and are popular in Japan. Often the protagonist is a male character with several potential female partners, but some titles – called otome games – have a female protagonist with male suitors and others feature same-sex pairings or don’t enforce gender restrictions. The game is won by building up enough of a relationship with a chosen partner to fulfil a relationship goal such as dating, sex, or marriage, often within a time limit. The inclusion of multiple available partners adds replay value.How do you play them?Most dating sims feature simple graphics, commonly still images, and lots of text. Players interact with the game through dialogue with the other characters and choosing actions from text menus. Often your character has stats that you can build up through choosing certain activities to focus on in the time limit, which may make the character more or less attractive to a partner.The popular dateHuniePopis a mature dating sim for PC, Mac and Linux, with a female or male character who has several female partners to choose from. You buy them food, ask them questions and can take them on dates by playing match-three puzzles, after which you can sleep with them.A YouTube video explainingHatoful Boyfriend.The offbeat dateInHatoful Boyfriendyou play a female student at a school for birds. Humans have been relegated to a lesser role in society and she is expected to date a bird. Originally Japanese,Hatoful Boyfriendwas released on PC, Mac and Linux in the UK last year and recently on PS4 and Vita.Best date for a beginnerHakuokitells a supernatural tale of a girl who ends up in the 19th-century world of Japan’s shinsengumi and can have a romantic relationship with several of the warriors she meets. It’s available for iOS and Android, making it a good choice for those interested in learning about the genre.
PAC-MAN256iOS/AndroidThis isPac-Man, but not as you know it: an all-new title based on the gaming legend (and his ghosts) developed by the makers of casual hit Crossy Road. More power-ups, an endless structure and lots of clever references to the original make this a joy.FIVE NIGHTS AT FREDDY’S 4iOS/AndroidThe Five Nights at Freddy’s games have been a bracing series of survival-horror titles that’ll put you off ever entering a toy shop again. The latest (and last) shifts the action to your character’s home, as you fend off more nightmarish animatronic animals.SPIDER: RITE OF THE SHROUDED MOONiOS/AndroidIf you prefer playing as Play a creepy animals yourself, this is a delightful game that sees you exploring a dusty mansion as a spider, trapping insects and solving puzzles as you uncover the story behind it. It’s a beautifully-crafted game for arachnophiles.LARACROFT GOiOS / AndroidThere were always puzzles in the Tomb Raider games, so this new mobile incarnation isn’t as big a departure as it may seem. But the emphasis is firmly on puzzling as you guide Lara through five stylish chapters of brain-teasing action.THIS WAR OF MINEiOS/AndroidPorted from PC to tablets, this is one of the best war-games ever – but you’re not in control of any armies. Instead, you’re in charge of civilians trying to survive in a wartorn city, maintaining a shelter while scavenging outside for supplies. A gripping game with an important message.PRUNEiOSDescribed as “a love letter to trees”, Prune may not be an all-action game, but it’s one of the most engrossing you’ll play. Grow your tree with gentle swipes on the screen, avoiding hazards and generally blissing out to the relaxing soundtrack. An ideal stress-reliever.ANGRY BIRDS 2iOS/AndroidThe original Angry Birds has hatched lots of sequels, but this is the first to be granted official sequel status. It has everything that made the original bird-flinging formula so popular, although its focus on freemium purchases can get in the way of the gameplay.MARCH OF EMPIRESiOS/AndroidIf you gathered every ‘build an army and conquer the world” mobile game, you’d have… well, quite an army.March of Empiresdistinguishes itself with excellent production values and clever battles, although it has a bit of work to do balancing powerful and new players.ALPHABEARiOS / AndroidThere’s a big audience out there for accessible word games on mobile, andAlphabearis one of the best recent examples. In time-honoured fashion you spell words from a grid of Scrabble-ish tiles, with the inclusion of cute bears giving this a quirky touch of charm.CHAMPIONSHIP MANAGER ALL STARSiOS/AndroidThis latest version of the franchise is a massive multiplayer football management game bringing transfers, tactics and training to the fore.
Dizzying number of toys-to-life products are coming out in the next six weeks, featuring the biggest entertainment names.Toys-to-life is the world’s most lucrative video game genre, having made an estimated £2.6bn since it began in 2011 withSkylanders: Spyro’s Adventure. This month marks a manic time for the sector.Disney Infinity 3.0has just launched, whileSkylanders SuperchargersandLego Dimensionsarrive over the next two weeks. More than 100 toys based on these games (plus Nintendo’s Amiibo range) will be released over the next 12 weeks. Here’s what to expect.Star Wars maniaDisney Infinity 3featuresInside Outfrom Pixar and a few Marvel superheroes, but is really aboutStar Wars. FifteenStar Warstoys have been announced and three “games”, one inspired byStar Warsepisodes 1-3, another based on episodes 4-6 and a third set, due later in the year, featuring stars of the coming Star Wars movie:The Force Awakens.Lego DimensionsThis new entry lets Homer Simpson drive the Batmobile through Mordor. It a game that mashes upDoctor Who,Batman,The Simpsons,Scooby Doo,Lord of the Rings,Jurassic World,Back to the Futureand a lot more. It even features many of the original voice actors from their respective movies and TV shows. The drawback? The starter pack costs £95-plus and all the sets combined almost £700.SkylandersSkylanders Superchargersdoes not feature the same big-name characters as its rivals (though the Nintendo versions feature Bowser and Donkey Kong), but it does bring cars, planes and other automobiles to the franchise, moving the toys-to-life genre away from just fancy figurines.Superchargerslacks the appeal of Star Wars and Lego, but is the only toys-to-life game coming to Wii, 3DS and iPad.
To many,Pokémonwas a craze that peaked at the turn of the millennium. Yet to thousands of dedicated players, both the video games and the trading card game (TCG) are still cause for celebration, and not just among kids. It turns out the grownups are more involved than ever as they, alongside the younger gamers, take part in what might be described asPokémon’s world cup – and British competitors of all ages are there in force.Just as characters in the games (and animated series, and movies, and more –Pokémonremains a thriving media empire) employ virtual beasts to do battle, so too do the competitors who fight for a place at the annualPokémonworld championships.This year’s event took place last month inBoston, Massachusetts. The tournament is split into video and TCG, and three tiers: juniors (under 10); seniors (11-15); and masters (16+). Despite the franchise’s kid-friendly nature, many competitors are adults.“When I come to the events, yes there are children here but there are way more masters than there are younger people,” says Barry Anderson, a 27-year-old British hopeful. “If anyone asks why I play, I just explain that it’s the competitive side. It’s kind of like poker or chess. It has so much more to it than people realise.”Pokémon trading card game junior winner 2015, Rowan Stavenow from Canada.This is Anderson’s second time competing in the video game division, having previously battled in 2013 and placed ninth. This year hasn’t gone so well, but his enthusiasm and optimism, typical of so many players at the tournament, are unbowed. “Obviously it’s fun playingPokémon, but it’s addictive as well,” he says. “You might say ‘Oh, I’m not going to compete any more’ but you will still want to.”And so it goes on the trading card side of the arena. Charles Barton, 22, from Southport is another player seen as a veteran, having been competing since 2012. For him, playingPokémonhas been more than just a competitive pastime: it helped him get into university.“For Ucas, I had to find an extra-curricular activity, and I thought, why not find something unique?” Barton says. “So I didPokémonTCG as a competitor, rose fairly quickly, and my application was successful. I feel like mentioning it helped.”The tone of the event balances between a serious sporting competition and a fan convention. There’s a buzz of excitement, even among those not competing. People walk around wearing T-shirts emblazoned with memes such as “Delphox ate my baby”, indecipherable to the uninitiated, while parents, far from long-suffering, enthusiastically follow their children’s progress. One proud American mother exalts her son’s standing in the top 10, talking over a father’s equally proud declaration that his son ranked in the top 20 for his bracket.All major matches are broadcast, on stage and online, witheager commentaryfrom esports professionals analysing each move, as one would with a football match. It proves to be surprisingly tense viewing, and the crowd grows more rapturous with each victory. There are no sore losers though – everyone cites the friendly community as one of the main reasons they keep playing.Pokemon world championships 2015 masters finalsYet there was also a dark side to this year’s championship. Two men from Iowa, Kevin Norton, 18, and James Stumbo, 27, who had both entered the tournament, were arrested on their way to the venue with a car boot full ofguns and ammunition. The pair had allegedly made online threats to kill another competitor.It seems unlikely that a game as innocent asPokémon, where even in-game creatures faint rather than die when defeated, could attract such individuals. But this did not dampen the spirits of those who came from around the world to compete. As the event peacefully wound down, players were already looking to next year’s championships. “The Boston Open is tomorrow,” said Rachel Annand, 23, from Aberdeen. “My next season starts now. My 2016 starts tomorrow.”
It was exactly 20 years ago, a warm, late-summer afternoon. My girlfriend and I arrived in Bath, unsure of where to park, marvelling at the sheer density of beautiful Georgian architecture – just like millions of tourists before us. I was there for a job interview, and I was nervous as hell because I had lied to get it.The PlayStation was launched in Japan in the winter of 1994, but it took several months for Sony to roll its impressive 32bit console out to the rest of the world. The US release was on 9 September 1995, a day of hype and expectation dominated by two launch titles: the arcade driving sim Ridge Racer and the now almost forgotten fighting game Battle Arena Toshinden. Both featured state-of-the-art texture-mapped polygonal graphics, both spoke of a future that would abandon old-school two-dimensional sprites and scrolling, in favour of fully explorable worlds with dynamic cameras. It was immense and exciting.But I’d missed all that build up. I was working for a small development studio in Leamington, writing manuals and testing levels for PC games – not console games. I didn’t know where I was going or what I wanted to do – so I stayed with friends and helped them make games. I tested the very first consumer virtual-reality headsets with our war simulation Tank Commander, I fed Game Genie codes into hundreds of Nintendo GameBoy games. But I didn’t see a PlayStation.Then my friend Jon Cartwright, who got me my job at Big Red Software, spotted a job advert in Edge Magazine. This was (and in some ways still is) the industry’s bible, a stylish, mature publication that has always treated games as an artform rather than a throwaway entertainment. They needed a staff writer. Jon told me to go for it. He lent me a couple of issues, and I read about the excitement surrounding the arrival of a new console generation, spearheaded by the Sega Saturn, Sony PlayStation and other weird outliers like the Atari Jaguar and 3DO. “I don’t know what these things are,” I said to him. But I applied anyway.On that summer afternoon in Bath, I met the magazine’s then editor Jason Brookes, and we just chatted about games and what we liked. I didn’t know much but I understood his excitement, I knew we were on the verge of a new era. I’d read so much Edge, I faked my way in. When he complained about the early PAL versions of PlayStation game’s he’d seen, which were poorly converted from NTSC, with great big black borders to make up for the difference in the television refresh rates, I nodded and could name the worst offenders. I’d read about it in Edge.PlayStation came at a fascinating time – games were moving closer to pop culture and pop culture was moving closer to games. Already, CD-ROM technology was allowing games to include real video and music soundtracks, this was astonishing back then. But at the same time, 1995 saw the very beginnings of the world wide web, and the concept of internet publishing, personal home pages and the digitisation of life experiences. This was also the era in which computer-generated imagery was making vast progress thanks to powerful new processors. Pixar was making its wonderful short CGI animations, which would soon evolve into Toy Story: the world was beginning to understand how to read and appreciate computerised imagery as linear entertainment.And music was so important of course. PlayStation could play CD-quality tracks (indeed its built-in CD player was one of the very best available at the time), which led to a new emphasis on audio. The famous example was Wipeout, the sci-fi racer with its dance music score, picking up on and amplifying the exploding club scene. Many teenagers discovered groups like the Chemical Brothers and Leftfield through PlayStation games and also understood the aesthetics of dance music culture through hypnotic video game graphics.I had to do a writing test for the interview. Jason told me to just review a game I liked and then he left the office for an hour. I sat in a room next to a vast CRT television, which was spewing cables on to a desk groaning under the weight of Japanese games consoles like the Neo-Geo and FM Towns Marty. I could also see a blue debug PlayStation, the version of the machine only usually sent to developers – a Japanese copy of Ridge Racer sat next to it. I could barely concentrate on what I was doing – I felt elated and curious; I desperately wanted to be there. So I wrote a review of XCOM: Terror from the Deep, a PC strategy game I’d been playing at work – I wasn’t quite cocky enough to attempt a PlayStation review. But what I did do was write it in Edge style – no first-person (we used “Edge” instead of “I”) video game as one word – all the stylistic elements I’d learned. Apparently I was one of the only applicants who did that.I got the job. My first week was reviewing PlayStation games – a baptism of fire into the next generation. I’d never loaded a CD game before, never attached a console to a TV with anything other than an old RF cable (we had scart and S-video at Edge); I’d never taken a screenshot. I did all my writing on an old monochrome Mac Classic, which was on a shared server with every other magazine in Future Publishing – I was bewildered by it.Across the office from Edge (at that time we were based in a converted pub on a backstreet behind Future’s main Monmouth Street head office), a small team was working on the launch of the Official PlayStation Magazine. There was so much excitement and energy, and all these astonishing new experiences coming in. I remember huge groups of us standing around in the games room when titles like Resident Evil, Tomb Raider, Final Fantasy VII and Driver arrived. We’d play into the night – the security guards would come and watch. It was uncharted territory – not just in terms of visuals, but experience. We’d all grown up with the rigid structures of arcade titles with their systems of levels, bosses and high scores. But these games had no scores, they were often open and explorable; they handed autonomy to the player.PlayStation brought in all these new people; people I’d never played against before. Pa Rappa the Rappa, Um Jammer Lammy, Bust a Groove … these were games you could play at 2am with anyone in the house. The concept of post-pub gaming was born – the divide between going out with your mates and getting back home was blurring because you all lived together anyway and when you got back you just switched on PlayStation and played International Track and Field or ISS Pro Evolution Soccer. In the UK, the advertising giant TBWA was producing amazing commercials that augmented the sense of PlayStation as a culture in itself. “I lead a double life”, went the voiceover from the most famous example, a montage of gamers – gangsters, a pregnant woman, kids, clubbers – boasting about their onscreen achievements. For years I’d played games in my bedroom on a tiny portable TV, feeling slightly awkward and alone. And now here they were, with beautiful choral music and interesting weird people, blasting across the cultural landscape like a hurricane.So I’ve been doing this for 20 years. Writing about games, playing them with friends, thinking about them, being excited by them. PlayStation has been a constant during that time, through four generations of hardware – it doesn’t surprise me that people feel such nostalgia and warmth for the brand; it doesn’t surprise me that you can now buy PlayStation 1 merchandise, that the limited edition PS1-skinned PS4 released last year is such a prized collector’s piece. This was the beginning – the beginning of the modern era of gaming. Even when I worked on a Dreamcast magazine for a year (and I loved that machine), I had grudging respect for the PlayStation 2 as it crushed Sega’s console like a tin can.I walked out of Edge magazine on that warm afternoon and went to meet my girlfriend in Queen’s Square. We sat for a while, watching the pink glow of the sun on all the sandstone-coloured buildings around us. “How did you do?” she asked. I said I thought it was OK and told her about the consoles in the corner, and mentioned the blue debug PlayStation I’d glimpsed. I knew that if I got the job, I would move to this beautiful city, and I knew that it would be a pivotal moment for us as a couple, because she was still at university in Leamington. I wasn’t scared, it felt like everything would work out. I was right.Sometimes when I hear the PlayStation’s start-up music it takes me back to that time, to that very afternoon even. We walked back to the car park, hand in hand, having seen the future of games, and not realising that it was our future too.
Ever wanted to send a burrito emoji? Of course, you have. We live in a world ofNetflix and chill. Well now – you know where this is going, right? – users will soon be able to send burrito emoji and communicate via a unicorn or a flipped middle finger. Or they will when Apple’s update to its mobile operating system, iOS 9.1, arrives later this autumn.A whole new batch of emoji wasapproved by the Unicode Consortium, the industry body which sets the standard cross-platform options, in June 2015 and 2014. But many of the newer designs have yet to be implemented, aside fromemoji people of colour, fixing the, quite frankly, appalling fact that initially only white people were represented in human emoji.iOS 9.1, which has just been made available in beta, will allow iPhone users to share some of the designs from that latest Unicode Consortium update (version 8) as well as previous approved lists. New additions for iOS 9.1 include a robot, a bandaged face and a “nerd”.There are nowflag designsfor territories including Christmas Island, Antarctica and Vatican City. Sports fans have also had their options widened, with the addition of badminton, cricket, field hockey and archery. Religions other than Christianity – which has always been represented by a church emoji – are now included, with a mosque and synagogue among new additions.New sports emoji in iOS 9.1Photograph: AppleSome of the new travel emoji in iOS 9.1Photograph: AppleSome of the brand new emoji in the people category.Photograph: TheNextWebThe new emoji will not be available in the release of iOS 9 on 16 September, but are available in thebeta versionof iOS 9.1, which will be fully released to the public later in the year.Tech Insiderrefers to the middle-finger swearing emoji as “hotly anticipated”, but the Guardian is more excited by the soon-to-be-available burrito, writing hand, and a popped bottle of champagne.It’s unclear when users of other operating systems, including Android, will get their hands on the new emoji. But no-one will get to use a red-haired emoji anytime soon, which, once again, STILL DOES NOT EXIST.• ‘I’m sitting next to a weirdo on the bus’ and other true meanings of emoji
Microsoft has admitted that it is automatically downloading Windows 10 on to user machines even when they have expressed no interest in installing the new operating system.As discoveredby an Inquirer reader, the automatic download takes up between 3.5GB and 6GB of storage on the user’s computer. Some recent Windows computers, including new form-factors such as Windows tablets, have only a small amount of storage as little as 32GB, making the download potentially up to 19% of the total hard drive space.The download happens in the background unbeknown to the user. If the user is on a slow internet connection as many are in rural and poorly connected areas it could severely impact other time-critical activities. It could also take up a significant chunk of a metered internet connection, which can provide as little as 40GB of downloads per month.User reports indicate the Windows 10 download is occurs on Windows 7, 8 and 8.1 computers with automatic updates turned on. Automatic updates are a good idea, as they install much needed bug fixes and security updates when they are released.But Windows 10 isneither a bug fixnor a security update; it is a whole new version of the Windows operating system.Microsoft said in a statement: “For individuals who have chosen to receive automatic updates through Windows Update, we help upgradable devices get ready for Windows 10 by downloading the files they’ll need if they decide to upgrade.”Do you want to install Windows 10 now?Windows 10 will not install until the user accepts a prompt to do so, which means that it will sit on the user’s hard drive taking up space even if they have no intension of ever upgrading.It can also led to a prompt to install Windows 10 every time the computer is rebooted to install, according to one Inquirer reader.Microsoft: “When the upgrade is ready, the customer will be prompted to install Windows 10 on the device.”According to data from web analytics firm StatCounter, Windows 10 accounted for 4.9% of desktop internet users in August. Windows 7 held a 48.1% share, for comparison, but the number of Window 10 user is already greater than those who upgraded to Windows 7 and Windows 8 after the first complete month of release.Microsoft’s pre-caching of Windows 10 on user machines could account for some of that success.•Windows 10 review – final version of Windows might be Microsoft’s best ever•Windows 10 sends identifiable data to Microsoft despite privacy settings
Uber’s US operation has suffered another legal defeat in its efforts to class its drivers as independent contractors, after a California labour board ruled that a former driver was an employee and so eligible for unemployment benefits.The ruling is particularly significant as it was upheld twice on appeal, once to an administrative law judge and once to the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board. But as the ruling comes from an administrative board, not a full court, Uber says it “does not have any wider impact or set any formal or binding precedent”, meaning future cases are free to decide differently.The case strikes at the heart of Uber’s business model, which relies on the firm positioning itself as a mere middleman between drivers and passengers. Many analysts have questioned whether the firm would even be sustainable if it was forced to provide standard employee benefits to all its contractors.The decision was handed down by the California Employment Development Department (EDD), and appealed twice. It was most recently upheld by the Appeals Board from its Inglewood office this August. The case came to light when a lawyer suing Uber on behalf of other drivers posted documents to her website.The EDD decision is one of several rulings that appear to undercut how San Francisco-based Uber operates, relying on independent contractors to transport passengers.Among the others were rulings by a Florida regulatory agency in May, the California Labor Commissioner in June, and another case this year, in which a Los Angeles-area Uber driver was classified by the EDD as an employee and given unemployment benefits.But significantly, the ruling from Inglewood is among the first of these cases to be appealed and to have those appeals denied, foreshadowing how other appeals may be handled, some legal experts say.In the Inglewood case, a former Uber driver, whose name was withheld from case documents, applied for unemployment benefits in April 2014.After the EDD determined the driver had rights to unemployment benefits as an Uber employee, the company appealed the decision first in November and again in June, according to the EDD.According to the administrative law judge who heard the first appeal, Uber has sole discretion over fares, and can charge drivers a cancellation fee if they choose not to take a ride, prohibit drivers from picking up passengers not using the app and suspend or deactivate drivers’ accounts.Based on that, “there was in fact an employer/employee relationship”, according to the decision.The company argues that drivers want independent contractor status because they value the chance to be their own boss.Eight states have issued rulings that classify Uber drivers as independent contractors: Georgia, Pennsylvania, Colorado, Indiana, Texas, New York, Illinois, and California, which made such a ruling in 2012 that applied to only a specific case.But a federal judge in San Francisco ruled last week that drivers are entitled to class-action status in litigation over whether they are independent contractors or employees.
Moshi Monsters maker Mind Candy is selling its social appPopJamto fellow children’s entertainment firm SuperAwesome.The applaunched in July 2014 as an Instagram-style photo-sharing app for children, and remains only available in the UK. Neither company is disclosing the acquisition price for the app.“There is nothing like it in the kids space, and without any real marketing spend it has become extremely popular,” said SuperAwesome’s chief executive Dylan Collins.Related:YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and the future of children’s media“It has hundreds of thousands of monthly active users, and it has done multiple millions of downloads. If you were going to reinvent Nickelodeon for today’s generation of kids, I think it would be PopJam.”SuperAwesome, which runs a marketing platform covering children’s websites, apps and online videos, plans to launch PopJam in North America and Australia, before expanding elsewhere in the world.Collins said that brands like Puffin Books, The Beano and Horrible Histories, as well as popular British YouTube stars Dan and Phil, see PopJam as a safe space to reach their younger fans.“Many of those brands have got more followers on PopJam than they do on Twitter, for the very simple reason that kids aren’t on Twitter in any meaningful sense,” said Collins.He pointed to Puffin Books as an example, with the publisher having 30k followers on Twitter globally, but 73k on PopJam in the UK alone. The Beano has less than 4k followers on Twitter but 60.5k on PopJam.Mind Candy’s chief executive, Michael Acton Smith, said that the sale comes at the right time for the app and for his company.“We’ve reached the point with PopJam where we need to start generating revenue from it. We didn’t think a subscription model would work so the most logical step was to fund it via advertising,” he said.“We have no expertise in this area and since Super Awesome are experts at it felt sense to have a conversation with them.”Advertising to children within apps can be controversial, asGoogle’s YouTube Kids has discovered. Collins said SuperAwesome will be ensuring that wherever it launches, PopJam will ensure that advertising does not flout local regulations on marketing to children.“The debate is really about whether you want advertising to be done in a way that is targeting kids and surreptitiously collecting data on them, or whether you want it to be done by appropriate brands and using technology that ensures kids are not being targeted or tracked,” said Collins.Related:Moshi Monsters creators launch mobile game World of WarriorsMind Candy made its name with online world Moshi Monsters, although its popularity has fallen due to competition from tablet and smartphone games.Mind Candy’s comeback plans have so far focused on itsWorld of Warriorsbrand, with three mobile games, collectible cards, a magazine and now toys available.“The game is doing okay but due to the super competitive nature of the mobile gaming space isn’t a top grossing title,” said Acton Smith.“Warriors toys launch this week and we don’t have early reads yet but we have strong distribution and great support from our licensing and retail partners so we’re hopeful,” he said.Mind Candy recently denieda report suggesting that the company was shutting down, but Acton Smith said the company is optimistic for a future focused on “developing worlds, stories and characters”.“I’m always optimistic. That said, it definitely hasn’t been an easy couple of years as revenue from Moshi has fallen much faster than we predicated,” he said.“In the digital age it’s extraordinary how fast hits can come and go. We’ve got a very creative team and are working on a number of new initiatives. These are challenging times but we’re rolling up our sleeves and battling onwards.”
1. Speak to CortanaCortana is Microsoft’s digital assistant, in the vein of Siri and Google Now, and with Windows 10 it’s breaking out from Windows Phone on to desktops, laptops and tablets. You can turn Cortana on and tweak its settings from the Start menu, then use your voice or the search box on the taskbar to run Web queries, set reminders for yourself, check the weather forecast and more. It’s available in the US now and coming to other parts of the world soon — to test it out in advance, set the system region and language to US in the Time and Language section in Settings.2. Log in with a finger pressMicrosoft has added a new feature called Windows Hello to its newest operating system: it lets you log in using facial recognition, a fingerprint or even an iris scan, if your computer has the necessary hardware attached. To change the way you gain access to your machine, go to the Settings app, then follow the Accounts link and choose Sign-in options from the menu on the left. The options listed will vary depending on the various bits of tech attached to your computer, but new laptops and desktops made specifically for Windows 10 should include at least some of the new options.3. Save on battery useFor laptop users, Windows 10 comes with an official Battery saver feature for the first time, which you can find in the System section of Settings (there’s also an estimate of how long your battery is likely to last). You can turn the Battery saver mode on or off manually, or have it kick in automatically when your battery gets down to a certain level — click the Battery saver settings link to change this level from the default 20%, and to specify certain apps that are exempt from the various power-saving features.4. Add extra desktopsWindows 10 brings with it native support for “virtual” desktops — that means you can set up your app windows across a series of desktops rather than sticking with one (the taskbar and desktop shortcuts remain constant). You could have one desktop for work and one for entertainment, for example. Click or tap the Task View button (next to search on the taskbar) or press Windows Key+Tab on the keyboard to view, create and remove virtual desktops. You can also click on the individual app thumbnails to switch between them.5. Snap to cornersSticking with the theme of screen layouts and organisation, Microsoft has upgraded the window snapping function introduced with Windows 8: as well as snapping windows to either side of the display, you can now snap them into the corners too. To try it, drag an open window into the corner of the display; you can also hold down the Windows Key and tap the cursor keys if you prefer. If you like having your Windows 10 apps precisely arranged and want to make full use of your screen’s resolution, it’s a handy feature.6. Save maps for offline useThis is a tip that’s more useful on smartphones, but tablets and laptops can benefit from it as well: Windows 10 lets you save maps to your device in case you should lose a Wi-Fi or data connection while you’re trying to scout out the nearby area. Head to the Settings app then choose System and Offline maps to choose which maps to download (each region comes with an estimate of how much storage space will be taken up). You can then launch and use the Maps app whether or not you can get online.7. Analyse the hard driveWindows 10 brings with it a new interface for viewing the contents of your hard drive, making it much easier for you to see how all of those gigabytes are being used. From the Settings app, click or tap on System, pick the Storage option and choose the drive you want to take a closer look at — the next screen breaks up used storage space into pictures, documents, videos, email, music and so on, provided all of this content is saved into the appropriate folders. Click or tap on a particular entry in the list for more details.8. Fix default app associationsThe default app for a particular file type is the one that opens when you double-click on a file saved in that format (so Word opens for .doc files, for example). The Windows 10 upgrade process can break some of these associations, and the easiest way to get them back is by opening the Settings app from the Start menu and following the System link. Head to the Default apps page and you can make any necessary changes, as well as resetting file associations back to their “Microsoft recommended” ones if required.9. Access the alternative Start menuRight-click on the Start menu button to bring up an alternative one — it’s not quite as user-friendly but it offers quick access to some of the most important areas of the system, including the Device Manager utility, the command prompt window and the old legacy Control Panel. You can access the Task Manager as well as the system search and the Run box from here too. This alternative menu was available in Windows 8 as well, and you can also launch it by pressing Windows Key+X.10. Turn off Wi-Fi sharingOne of the more controversial new features in Windows 10 is Wi-Fi Sense, which lets you automatically share Wi-Fi passwords with your contacts on Facebook and Skype. The idea is that they can quickly get online when they visit your home or office, but some have expressed misgivings about the feature. To turn it off, or just take a closer look, head into the Network &amp; Internet section of Settings, then select Manage Wi-Fi settings. At the bottom of the screen you can turn sharing on or off for all of the networks your computer regularly connects to.11. Record videos of on-screen activityWindows 10 comes with an on-screen activity recording function — it’s primarily designed to capture your gaming exploits for sharing with the wider world, but you can use it to prepare a presentation or start up your own Windows how-to video series on YouTube. Press Windows Key+G from inside any app and then check the tick box to get the Game DVR utility up and running. Any clips you record are available from inside the Xbox app; use the Windows Key+Alt+Print Screen keyboard shortcut to save a static screenshot to the same location.12. Schedule Windows 10 restartsIf you’re running the Home version of Windows 10 (and you probably are) then you don’t get a choice whether or not to install updates — they’re automatically applied to keep your computer safe and up to date. What you can do is prevent your desktop or laptop from restarting automatically when updates arrive: from Settings, click Update &amp; security and then select Windows Update from the left-hand side. Click Advanced options and you can use the drop-down menu at the top of the screen to force Windows 10 to notify you before any restart happens.13. Turn off Quick accessIn the revamped Windows 10 File Explorer interface (previously known as Windows Explorer), there’s a new Quick access section that collects together recently opened files and frequently used folders. You can “pin” folders here by right-clicking and choosing Pin to Quick access. If you don’t like the new feature, right-click on the Quick access heading on the left and choose Options — the dialog box that pops up lets you start File Explorer with an overview of your PC system (“This PC”) rather than the Quick access page, and you can also hide recently used files and frequently used folders.14. Get Windows 10 working with your smartphoneMicrosoft knows Windows Phone hasn’t set the world alight, which is why it’s making its software much more compatible with iOS and Android. To see evidence of this, launch the Phone Companion app (available on the Start menu): it will help you get your emails, photos and other files on an Android or iOS phone through apps such as OneDrive and Outlook. Choose the type of mobile device you’re using from the opening splash screen then follow the instructions to get set up.15. Customise the Start menuThe Start menu returns with Windows 10, but it’s borrowed heavily from the Windows 8 Start screen: it’s got colourful, “live” tiles that rotate regularly to show snippets of content from the relevant app. As with the old Start screen, you can customise the new Start menu to suit yourself: right-click on individual tiles to keep them static, change them in size or remove them from the menu altogether. Right-click on an app shortcut in the All apps list if you want to pin it to the Start menu.16. Switch to touch modeTrying to make up for some of the mistakes of Windows 8, Windows 10 has two different modes for tablets and fully fledged computers, and it can switch between them automatically (if you attach a keyboard dock to a tablet, for example). You can also flip between them manually if you need to: click or tap the Action Centre notification icon in the system tray in the lower right-hand corner, then choose Tablet mode. Taskbars and menus are simplified to make them easier to use on a touchscreen and the Start menu returns to the full-screen mode it used in Windows 8.17. Stream games from an Xbox OneWindows machines and Xbox One consoles are friendlier than ever after the roll-out of Windows 10, and one of the new features is the ability to stream gameplay from an Xbox One to a Windows 10 desktop or laptop seamlessly. To get started, enable game streaming from within the Xbox One settings, then go to the Xbox app that’s part of Windows 10 and choose Connect from the panel on the left — select your console from the list to establish a link. For the stream to work, both devices need to be on the same local Wi-Fi network.18. Write on the WebInternet Explorer is still hanging around in the background of Windows 10, but as far as Web browsing goes, the new OS is all about Microsoft Edge: the brand new browser is quick, clean and designed with the modern-day internet in mind. One of its more unusual features is the ability it gives you to annotate webpages — click on the Make a Web Note icon (a pen inside a box) and you can scribble and highlight away to your heart’s content. Pages can then be saved or shared for future use.19. Read without distractions on the webAnother useful feature ushered in with the Microsoft Edge browser is the Reading View mode — on websites where the mode is available, you’ll see an icon that looks like an open book on the right-hand side of the address bar. Click on the icon to activate this mode, and the layout of the current page changes, cutting out adverts and other unnecessary distractions so you can focus on the main text of the article. Click the icon again and the page view goes back to normal.20. Control your notificationsWindows 10 comes with a revamped notifications system that is — dare we say it? — a little reminiscent of Mac OS X. Here you get notifications about Windows events, pop-up alerts from your installed software and updates from individual Windows apps as well (like new messages in the Mail app). To customise what shows up here and what doesn’t, go to Settings, System and then Notifications &amp; actions — you’ll see you can block alerts on an app-by-app basis as well as apply a blanket ban. If you find the new system too distracting, this is the screen to visit.21. Sync your Windows experience to other PCsLike Windows 8, Windows 10 lets you sync various parts of your Windows experience — such as your desktop wallpaper and online passwords – between computers, as long as you use the same Microsoft account to sign in with. From the Settings app choose Accounts and then Sync your settings: the subsequent screen lets you turn syncing on and off and choose the data that’s included. If you have multiple Windows PCs in multiple locations (eg at home and in the office) it’s one way of keeping a consistent experience across them all.
It’s Friday.
My favourite-ever kitchen gadget is a £1.50 small aluminium fish scaler in the shape of a turbot which I have never actually used to scale a fish but have cherished as a much loved back-scratcher.I’ve never been much good at finding the right tools for the job. I’ve had other more productive forays into the world of kitchen gadgetry since, but good products are hard to find. Most gizmos were one-trick ponies, used once and then dutifully retired to kitchen graveyard at the back of the under-sink cupboard with the bundt tin and the juicer. Others, like theEgg Masterand my hog-shaped jelly mould, are delightful grotesques designed to be gleefully revered and never, ever sullied by actual use.Some things have wriggled their way past my curmudgeonly, anti-gadget reticence, though, to find a niche in my utensil drawer and even a place in my heart. Alongside the old-fashioned favourites that I know will always serve me well – a couple of heavy cake tins, a battered old wooden spoon, basic electronic kitchen scales – there are sturdy plastic dough scrapers and silicone baking moulds, a loyal oven thermometer and a coffee-grinder that’s made me everything from icing sugar to spice mixes.They’re tools that align with the simple kind of cooking that I enjoy.I’d never used an iPad before last month and my most shameful confession is that until recently I thought that app was short for Apple, so I can’t claim any authority as a gadget expert. What I do know though is cooking – when it’s better to get your hands dirty and when it’s OK to delegate to your supporting cast of mixers, blenders and machines.If a change-averse, technology neophyte can get with the times and come to terms with, even see the good in, this new generation of kitchen gadgets – then so can you.Thermomixthermomix.co.uk, £925The hefty Thermomix.Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverIf you’re looking for a kitchen gadget with the horsepower, heft and expense of a small car, you’re in luck. The Thermomix TM5 is sold as an all-in-one powerful food processor and with functions ranging from chopping and whisking to pureeing, kneading, weighing and grinding it lives up to that promise. Its heating capability is impressive, too, making a custard smoother than any I’ve had before. But this jack-of-all-trades feels clumsy. The touch screen display is crude compared with even the most basic recipe apps. And in its eagerness to do everything, the Thermomix leaves you powerless: my only hands-on involvement is via a plastic spatula thrust into a hole in the lid, stabbing in the dark for the joy of cooking I just lost.VERDICTUsefully, but joylessly, consolidates all your kitchen gadgets into one. Looks like a spaceship.Lékué Kit BreadMakerlekue.com, £30The helpful Lékué bread kit.Photograph: Richard Saker/the GuardianWhen so much of baking relies on pricey tins and specialist ingredients, bread’s refreshing for its cheap no-frills experience. Surprisingly for a gadget, this breadmaker fits well alongside that less is more philosophy. It’s an all-in-one piece of kit: mix, knead, prove your dough in the silicone bowl, then fold the mould into a rugby ball shape to cradle the bread as it bakes. Because it hugs to the bread during baking, it creates the steamy conditions for a great rise and crust. The one-bowl concept also means much less washing up than usual, which I’ll admit earned it my vote. You’re limited when it comes to the size and shape of your loaf, though, and it’s only oven safe up to 220°C, so crusty baguettes and the like are out of the question.VERDICTHandy, compact and easy to use. Not one for serious bread-heads, though.Joseph Joseph Adjustable Rolling Pinocado.com, £15.49The gripping Joseph Joseph rolling-pin.Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverThis is the first gadget to catch my technology-averse eye: a simple wooden rolling pin, satisfyingly heavy in beech wood, with a handy ruler guide along the length. Its selling point, and presumably the justification for that price tag, is a set of multi-coloured rings on each end, setting the body of rolling pin at an adjustable 2, 4, 6 or 10mm height from the work surface. When I test it out on a batch of buttery cookies, it rolls them to perfectly uniform thickness so they later bake to an even golden brown, rather than the thick-and-thin, doughy-then-burnt patchwork I’m used to. For anyone as clumsy as I am, it’s a joy to have that kind of precision within your grasp. I kind of like it.VERDICTA good-looking rolling pin if ever I saw one. Helpful if you’re prone to heavy-handedness with your pastry: it’ll make a Mary Berry of you yet.DROP KITCHEN SCALEgetdrop.com, £79.95The elegant Drop scale.Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverI spend 10 minutes trying to peel the weighing platform off this when I first get it, so sure am I that there must be some display screen or some button that I’m not seeing. But this is a different generation of kitchen scale. Designed to be used with an iPad, it’s completely naked, sending its readings via Bluetooth to be displayed instead in the requisite Drop Kitchen app (downloadable for free). I’m impressed at what the scales can do when used with the in-app recipes: you can scale up or down depending on how much of an ingredient you have to hand and make easy substitutions. If you go off-road with your own recipes though, the Drop scale is just a scale and without the iPad, it’s not even that.VERDICTExquisitely designed and perfectly intuitive, but sadly unusable as a standalone set of scales.
US intelligence chiefs are warning Congress that the next phase of escalating online data theft is likely to involve the manipulation of digital information.A “cyber armageddon”, long imagined in Washington as a catastrophic event of digitally triggered damage to physical infrastructure, is less likely than “cyber operations that will change or manipulate data”, the US director of national intelligence, James Clapper, told the House intelligence committee on Wednesday.Related:CIA to make sweeping structural changes with focus on cyber operationsClapper, backed by the director of the National Security Agency, Admiral Michael Rogers, said that while such efforts had yet to manifest themselves, US business and governmental agencies had entered an era of persistent “low-to-moderate level cyber-attacks from a variety of sources”.Yet both indicated that US digital networks are currently threatened by wide-scale data theft, like the recent intrusion into the networks of theOffice of Personnel Management, not destruction or compromise.Rogers and Clapper warned that a mutated phase of malicious digital penetrations would undermine confidence in data stored and accessible on US networks, creating an uncertainty that could jeopardize US military situational awareness.“I believe the next push on the envelope is going to be the manipulation or the deletion of data which would of course compromise its integrity,” Clapper told the House panel.Rogers testified that while the NSA and its military conjoined twin, US Cyber Command, had clear rules for protecting US networks, its authorities to engage in offensive action online were murkier. In 2013, the Guardian published asecret directiveon US digital offensive capabilities and a framework for their use, thanks to the whistleblower Edward Snowden.There is “still uncertainty about what is offensive and what is authorized”, Rogers said. “That’s a policy decision.”While noting that offensive cyber attacks were “an application of force” akin to conventional military conflict, Rogers suggested that NSA or Cyber Command require a freer hand, warning: “A purely defensive strategy is not going to change the dynamic we find ourselves in now.”Rogers also urged new international norms that would prohibit “extracting mass personally identifiable data”, although the Snowden document hoard demonstrates that to bethe NSA’s practice worldwide.Nor should the global community accept data destruction as a national practice, Rogers said – a cyber practice the US and Israel arguably inaugurated by allegedly creating the Stuxnet worm that hijacked and damaged industrial controls for Iranian nuclear centrifuges.The FBI director, James Comey, joined by Rogers, reprised his plea for surreptitious access intoend-to-end encrypted data. Comey argued that technologists had not truly tried to find a mathematical solution that would allow the US government access without subjecting sensitive data to increased insecurity.Though leading cryptographers have likened Comey’s effort to “magical thinking”, Comey said: “My reaction to that is, really? Have we really tried?”Clapper testified that there was no consensus within the intelligence agencies as to the ultimate culprit in the mass exfiltration of federal employees’ data at the Office of Personnel Management.Rogers said the NSA had provided the office with “19 specific recommendations” to forestall a future hack, but did not indicate why the US agencies tasked with protecting government networks did not spot the vulnerabilities before 4 million personnel records were stolen, reportedly by China.“I don’t think anyone is satisfied with the environment we find ourselves in right now,” Rogers said.
After years of Apple events starring the same four-person executive team, of Craig Federighi, Eddy Cue, Phil Schiller and Tim Cook, the absence of any female representation on stage had started to be a running joke – albeit not a funny one.Even after the hiring of Burberry’s Angela Ahrendts to head up the company’s retail operation in 2014, the biggest company in the world still managed to run overwhelmingly male-dominated keynotes. At the company’s WWDC event in June 2014, and at the launch of the iPhones 6 and Apple Watch, no women were on stage at all.Even March’s Apple Watch event featured just one woman, supermodel Christy Turlington Burns, who came on stage to discuss running a marathon with the new device. Critics were quick to draw a link between the failure of representation at the highest levels, and other oversights in the company, such as the lack of period tracking in Apple Health.But there are signs that the company is responding to criticism. The latest version of Apple Health, released as part of iOS 9 on 16 September, does indeed track reproductive health, Cook announced in June 2015. And at that same event, two female Apple employees (Jennifer Bailey and Susan Prescott, the heads of Apple Pay and Apple News) took the stage.Wednesday’s iPhones 6S launch event saw the company move a step further, putting three women on stage: Jen Folse, a senior design producer at the company who introduced the new Apple TV; and two guests, Michelle Peluso, who introduced her company Gilt’s Apple TV app, and Irene Walsh, head of design at 3D4Medical, who demoed an iPad Pro edition of its medical app.Of course, against the 24 men who also took to the stage, it shows that Apple has a way to go to achieve a semblance of parity. But the company is apparently taking to heart the statement Cook made in Junewhen he saidthat the lack of diversity in tech was “our fault”.“‘Our’ meaning the whole tech community,” he added. “I think in general we haven’t done enough to reach out and show young women that it’s cool to do it and how much fun it can be.”Eric Snowden, Director of Design for Adobe/Behance, fixes a model’s smile.Photograph: Beck Diefenbach/ReutersBut apparently Adobe didn’t get the memo.Invited on stage to demonstrate the company’s new suite of iPad design software, Adobe’s Eric Snowden rattled through a number of cool tricks, from automatically turning scribbles with the $99 Apple Pencil into coherent layout, to handling any of the company’s 1,000+ truetype fonts.But then came the tone-deaf decision to demonstrate a new app for retouching images, called Photoshop Fix, by “fixing” a model’s smile. “I wish she had a little bit more of a smile. I think it would warm up the design quite a bit. Luckily we have an app for that,” Snowden said, before tweaking a slider in the app to alter her appearance.The Apple keynote or: if you can’t get a woman to talk on stage, you can at least photoshop one live 😘&mdash; Monica Dinosaurescu (@notwaldorf)September 9, 2015lmao a sweaty nerd just made a woman smile more using photoshop or whatever at this apple event&mdash; kitchen witch (@burjz)September 9, 2015So, the only woman on stage at the Apple Event so far has been a man showing how to Photoshop a woman&#39;s smile. Mmmmkkkkk.&mdash; Biz Carson (@bizcarson)September 9, 2015From the company whose flagship product’s name is synonymous with unrealistic images of female bodies, the sight of a man doing the technological equivalent of shouting “give us a smile, love” is perhaps not surprising, but it is unhelpful.So, while it is good to see more women on stage at a major tech launch, just 12.5% is little to shout about – and, as the Photoshop incident illustrates, the industry still has a very long way to go.
Smartphone gaming is a tough business – even for the companies at the very top. Candy Crush Saga developer King has struggled to develop new games beyond its hit “match-three” puzzler, while Rovio announced more than 200 lay-offs in August as part of an attempt to restructure and refocus its increasingly bloated business. The app stores are dominated by a handful of longstanding titles, and that makes developing, marketing and launching new IPs even more expensive and risky, especially as it can take several months to start seeing significant returns.It’s a problem Rovio is about to face head-on. The Finnish company’s latest title, released this week on the Apple and Google stores, is Nibblers, a match-three puzzler featuring a cast of aquatic creatures. As ever, players need to line up similar pieces of fruit to clear each level. Unlike the company’s other recent attempts to explore new genres – including Angry Birds Stella Pop and Angry Birds Go – there are no furious avian creatures or porcine antagonists. The cast – if not the design concept – is entirely new.According to executive producer, Teemu Hämäläinen, the development process hasn’t been straightforward, despite the familiarity of the genre. “Rovio is all about the characters,” he says. “Everybody knows that Angry Birds is about the birds and the piggies. We looked around and thought, what do we need to do to have the characters right in the centre of a game – actually on the game board itself? You see a lot of puzzle games where the characters are at the very sides of the screen, but you’re not playing with them.”Last year, a small team of 10 staff started the prototyping process, toying with the fundamentals of the match-three genre. “We played with ideas that let us combine a game board with the characters, within a set of game mechanics that balanced skill and luck,” he says. “We built more than 20 prototypes, but often we just couldn’t get that balance right – it was a long journey.”Eventually, the team had the idea of including characters among the fruit as gameplay elements. In Nibblers, the heroes are a bunch of amphibian creatures who stumble onto a beach and find lots of delicious fruit, unaware that fish-eating reptiles are watching. In each level, then, the board features not just fruit to match, but also reptilian enemies who have to be dispatched by matching fruit nearby. When the player matches more than three fruit in one go, a friendly fish character pops up onscreen offering a power-up, which can be used immediately, or saved. Match four fruits and you get Coral, who can be swiped vertically or horizontally across the screen, destroying all fruit and enemies in her wake. Five or more matches earns Octo, who stomps through three rows of fruit in one go. Players can even unlock a giant battler called Bouncer who can splat a whole screen in one landing.The huge Bouncer character can smash through vast quantities of fruit and reptiles, giving players huge scoring potential in the style of an action game.Photograph: RovioIt’s a series of special-move mechanics taking from the fighting game genre. Although it’s not exactly a revolution, it’s a neat skill-based addition, accentuated by a combo mechanic that lets you combine the abilities if you have multiple characters on screen at once. As you progress the enemies start eating Nibbler characters and breaking up fruit chains, adding more sense of peril. The game even adds end of level boss fights between different map areas, including a giant snake that sucks up fruit and fish – these need to be hit with multiple fruit matches to defeat. Some of the enemies also move around the board, adding a timing element missing from most match-three titles. “The game is full of surprises,” says Hämäläinen. “We wanted to create a living environment with small movements and animations, even in the backgrounds.”So why just Nibblers? Why not Angry Birds Nibblers? “We did ask ourselves: do we want to launch another Angry Birds game or do we want a new IP?” says Hämäläinen. “We felt we needed to be more daring. We wanted to create a wider cast of characters. In Angry Birds it’s clear that Red is the leader - we wanted it to be less clear this time. It’s more about the group. We also wanted characters that aren’t too childish - that are likeable but not as much huggable. They’re not too cute or over-polished. But we thought a new IP would allow us to take more liberties - we didn’t need to be worried about the brand or other constraints.”There’s doubtless something else behind the decision, however. Through its cartoon-style character design and relentless merchandising, Angry Birds has become very much a kid’s brand – but the match-three genre tends to be aimed at an older demographic. Candy Crush saga has proveda huge hit with female players– its key demographic is women aged between 25 and 45. Nibblers had to take a bit out of that sector, so its characters are cute but not childlike.The game was soft launched in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Finland in January (the latter so the development team’s friends and families could play). Rovio watched how the design was appreciated, but also how well it monetised. Unlike Angry Birds, a premium game with an upfront cost, Nibblers is swimming straight into the free-to-play ocean, with players able to buy extra moves or new characters when they’re stuck. Rovio is also toying with the currently trendy “incentivised video advertising” model: if you fail a level, the game asks if you want to look at a video advert in return for a free power-up at the start of your next go.The snake is one of several boss characters that players face at key points in the game. The battles are multi-stage, with characters pulling out extra moves when they’re shot on health.Photograph: RovioIn terms of the gameplay, the big lesson has been to introduce the fresh gameplay elements slowly – match-three puzzle titles don’t usually have characters that move about the board, or boss baddie encounters – these are small but important shifts toward more “hardcore” gaming content.Apparently, the priority for the development team – now up to 20 people – is to ensure a fast flow of new content. Free-to-play games have to battle for retention in such a crowded market place and allowing a title to stagnate for even a few weeks will see players moving on elsewhere.“We want to make sure we can produce a lot of levels in a very short time frame,” says Hämäläinen. “You have to keep giving your audience more things to play. We’re launching with 200 levels, and the first update will be two weeks later when we’re giving an extra 60 levels, and then we’re releasing more content every fortnight – more levels, new islands, new opponents or new game play types. That’s why we have a big team.”Nibblers certainly resonates with typical Rovio qualities: the visuals and sound are super-polished, with lots of smooth animation and the usual over-the-top victory displays at the end of each stage. And the slightly more complex play dynamics may well bring back match-three fans, who have grown tired of the genre’s staid and limiting properties.It is, however, still fundamentally a very recognisable game type in a massively overcrowded market, where everyone is using similar visual feedback systems and cunning compulsion loops to ensnare bored commuters. “Competition is fearsome,” admits Hämäläinen. “Launching games is not simple - we have to be humble, it’s always a risk.”
With its latest 16GBiPhone 6S and 6S PlusApple has answered the question of what it thinks really matters: profit or user experience?The new iPhones are resplendent with new features, despite being the “tock” year in Apple’s “tick, tock” update cycle and looking exactly the same as last year’s iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.But the 3D Touch screen, the better camera, the Taptic engine and the faster processors all hide one thing – the starting iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, costing £539 and £619 respectively, still only come with 16GB of storage.The iPhone has come with 16GB of storage since 2010’s iPhone 4. Apple presumably wants to keep a lower price point to market its phones at, and to be able to upsell customers to the 64GB version - generating an extra £80 in revenue.Almost all companies do precisely this, including Apple’s main handset rival Samsung. And you can argue that users have a choice – pay more to get more – but the vast majority don’t appreciate how small 16GB now is. They just want an iPhone and buy whatever they’re given by default, which is usually the cheapest.The problem is that 16GB is not enough storage for today’s smartphones. After formatting and the OS being installed, this ends up providing around 12GB of storage space for the user.Just over 12GB is all the space you get out of a 16GB iPhone, and it runs out really quickly once you start using all the features.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianBack in 2012 the average app size was 23MB. Retina screens have significantly increased that size because each app has to have much higher-resolution imagery, which take up more room. Apps are also more complex, do more and provide richer experiences – everything that’s good about a vibrant app ecosystem - but they’re also taking up more space in the process.Apple increased the largest app size to 4GB this year, meaning a single app can take up a quarter of the space on the normal iPhone. Not every app is massive, of course. Facebook weighs in at 95.2MB, Twitter 62.7MB, Snapchat 52.9MB and the Guardian’s app is 24.7MB.That’s the size of the unopened installed app, but the moment it starts doing something – caching the images and data it needs to operate – the app sizes start to balloon.The Twitter app, for instance, can easily hit more than 240MB, for a regular Twitter user. The Facebook app can grow easily to that size too, while many others including Apple’s own Messages app can start to put on data weight if users start sending photos.Delete those photosSpeaking of photos, the iPhone 5S and 6 shoot 8MP photos that are just over 3MB in size each, which makes the average holiday, and the 200 or so photos that accompany it, a 600MB chunk of the storage.The iPhone 6S now has a 12MP camera, which means larger photos that will take up more storage, and Apple’s new Live Photos will consume yet more space with their added video and audio. You can forget about shooting 4K video, which consumes around 300MB per minute. That 16GB of storage could easily be filled with just photos, let alone everything else.There are ways to offload those photos onto cloud storage, of course, but most users do not do that by default and are simply forced to delete some.What about music? Most people use their smartphone to listen to some sort of music, and while streaming is labelled as the answer, our 3G and 4G networks are not everywhere and cannot always be relied upon to sate our thirst for music.An average album of 12 tracks stored on an iPhone from Apple’s own iTunes music store or Apple Music takes up around 90MB of storage. A 200-track playlist, therefore, takes up around 1.5GB of storage or around 12% of a 16GB iPhone.That’s without talking about other media such as the movies and TV shows on offer from Apple’s various stores; we’ll gloss over those that weigh in at around 1GB per movie.Gaming costThe biggest offenders, of course, are games. Even a small game such as Apple’s current favourite Crossy Road, weighs in at 74.7MB of space before being opened. Angry Birds 2 takes up 91.6MB, Candy Crush Saga 55MB and the critically acclaimed Monument Valley demands 275MB without the Forgotten Shores expansion pack.Those are all small compared to graphically rich games such as Real Racing 3, which claims at least 855MB of your storage. Even a card game such as Blizzard’s popular Hearthstone demands a minimum of 868MB of storage. An avid player of Hearthstone, for instance, with all the latest content will need at least 1.3GB of space on their smartphone.The average userhad 27 apps on their iPhone at the end of 2013according to data from Nielsen, which means with apps growing in size and photos, music and videos becoming more compelling that 12GB of space seemed small last year, let alone today.Running out of storage makes the smartphone behave poorly and provides a veryunsatisfactory user experience. Users are forced to delete precious memories, tracks they might want to listen to or apps and games that they can no longer afford to keep on your phone, and that might just be to install an update.Given that Apple does not allow users to add storage with removable cards, if it cared about the user experience of the vast majority of its users it should have increased the storage capacity of the starting iPhone.Analyst firm IHS estimated that storage cost Apple$0.42 per GB of storage. Adding an extra 16GB of storage to bring it to 32GB would have cost Apple just $6.72 extra per smartphone, something it could have easily eaten within its profit margins – the biggest in the industry by miles.The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus are premium smartphones, which Apple claims are the “most advanced smartphones in the world”. Yet the rest of the industry, includingarch-rival Samsung, has woken up to the fact that 16GB is not enough storage these days and either allows users to add their own storage to top-end smartphones or provides at least 32GB of rated space for their base models.In 2015, anyone who buys a 16GB smartphone risks quickly running out of space or being forced to pick and choose what apps they use. That’s a problem for the user, but it’s a problem for Apple too - its iPhone 6S innovations won’t be seen as as good as it thinks they are if users quickly run out of space to store their 4K videos.•Apple supersizes its tablet with new 12.9in iPad Pro•Apple TV upgrade brings App Store into living room
If you think this looks like a 3D version of a Picasso, then you’re not far off. Inspired by the abstract ideas of cubism, artist Bill Shannon created the digital headgear to explore the disconnect between our real and digital selves.Acting as a “digital face in front of the face”, the mask projects pre-recorded footage of Shannon in different emotional states from an iPod app on to the screens, which are mounted on holders welded to a hard hat. The mask is accompanied by audio of Shannon constantly yelling out status updates!“We can’t put our whole selves out there,” he says. “Our digital entities are just these scraps of who we are that we put forward to the world and then there’s our real self.”Created for Pittsburgh’sCREATE Festival, which took place in June, Shannon will also be performing with the mask at the Kelly-Strayhorn Theatre in Pittsburghin November. “I wanted to do something about technology and humanity,” he says, revealing that the mask builds on his previous work, the “Fragmentation Series”, a live dance performance that used screens to display the same movement at all angles simultaneously.
There’s been a lot of chat lately about why people might stop playing games – in particular why little girls who grew up with consoles don’t seem to stick with the hobby as they get older. I’ve experienced this firsthand; girls I knew at school who were gamers before I even got my first console just seemed to stop once the industry switched from the Mega Drive and Super Nintendo to the PlayStation era. It baffled me, especially as games were making the big leap from 2D to 3D at the time – how could you not be excited?In her recent article,No girl wins: three ways women unlearn their love of video games, Juliet Khan posits the main reasons why girls in particular might quit playing: disqualification of the sorts of games they like (“Gone Home is not arealgame!”), marginalisation (It’s less socially acceptable for girls to play games as they grow older), and the way most big games are marketed at young men through violence, competition and sex. Importantly, the article asks girls for their experiences and doesn’t just assume from dry stats what’s really going on.Most of the time when we discuss why girls don’t play games itoften boils down to representation: there still aren’t as many female characters to relate to. For the past few years, this situation has been improving: titles such as Mirror’s Edge: Catalyst, Horizon: Zero Dawn, Dishonored 2 and ReCore all have women front and centre and are all either out now or on the way. Obviously, that’s great – having more female characters in games is a step forward. But to be honest I think we need to ask a different question. The problem of marginalisation in games development isn’t just about women, or people from different religious or ethnic backgrounds, it’s about entire genres. Marginalisation is happening in the very fabric of the design process, and this is just as damaging to the health of the industry and its ability to hold our attention – both as developers and as gamers.The thing is, I don’t really care if youput a female avatar into Assassins Creed. You can put as many women as you like into Fifa, or make the entire cast of Gears of War tough action chicks – I still won’t play those games. I don’t care about climbing a tower to reveal more of the kill-map, I don’t care about shooting people, I don’t care about winning the World Cup. You can’t put a pink bow on a tank and assume different audiences are going flock to it because you gave them some token aesthetic validation. Adding representational diversity to those kinds of games is important, but how often do we consider diversity of genre; diversity ofexperience?Mainstream big-budget video games have been shifting towards a mechanical singularity for years, and it’s really time to ask if that’s something that might be keeping people away too? I’m still waiting for an excuse to upgrade to PlayStation 4 or Xbox One myself, but I’m not excited by the prospect of more detailed chest-hair physics in what are basically the same games we had last gen. And what if I just never get that excuse? I’ll have indie games, sure, and Nintendo will always be there for me, but nowadays, AAA titles are just something other people play. The kinds of games that I enjoy have been pushed out of that space and I’m being pushed out with them.In 2001, then-major publisher Eidos published the eccentric musical game Mad Maestro in the west. Would that happen now?Photograph: EidosThis is a contentious issue, and there are always going to be exceptions that run counter to the trend, but it seems a lot of play styles, genres and core mechanics have been polished out of a mainstream industry preoccupied with adolescent power trips and gritty revenge sagas. Consider the fact that atmospheric survival horror stopped being a thing in mainstream development several years ago. The most recent titles in the Resident Evil series dropped the old inventory management system, got rid of the hacking puzzles and upped the ammo count, turning this tense and terrifying series into a sequence of mindless cover shooters. Of course, Resident Evil 4, the game that signalled the change in direction, was hugely successful, but subsequent (inferior) titles thoughtlessly accentuated its action-focused gameplay. This is presumably because somebody pointed to a pie chart and said that young men like to feel powerful and you can’t do that if you only have a torch. The thing is, the recent excitement around Capcom’s decision to releasea remastered version of series favourite Resident Evil 2suggests there’s still a large audience for the original recipe.Underlying all of this is a central notion that games are best for shooting or killing things – or scoring goals – and all other intricacies are subservient. The excuse that “games are good at binary states – alive or dead – not the complexities of emotion” is often carted out to explain why violence is the focus of the majority of blockbuster titles. But games have always been about more than that. What of exploration? What of puzzles? What of rhythm action and strategic salt-on-the-fries theme park economics?Narrative games, multidirectional platformers, strategy sims and “casual” puzzle apps aren’t weird outliers, they’re all the bits of games that have been jettisoned in the race toward the perfect shoot-’em-up mono-experience; they’re every idea a dev has had that was considered too much extra effort to fit into a sprawling AAA epic, or was “too girly” to appeal to the target audience; they’re what happens when people want to focus on mechanics that do something other than kill, race or score. Indie games (and to some extent the smartphone sector) are now the spiritual remnants of a time when mainstream titles were still trying to figure out what games were, when they could just as easily be about jumping on platforms or dancing ortalking to weird fish men. Now, the console and PC mainstream is increasingly focused on dynamic beard growth, modular weaponry and chucking money at voice actors.Nintendo’s recent Wii U multiplayer “shooter” Splatoon provides a pretty good example of how thinking outside of the box – mechanically as well aesthetically – can turn a “core” genre on its head and make it speak to people who enjoy a slightly different way of playing games. It’s not just about the bright colours and cute characters, though those help a lot – the slight shift in your priorities and in the game’s mechanical focus from “shoot the men with bullets” to “shoot the walls with paint” makes a huge difference to how you approach the game. For some people, gameplay principles such as learning the map and cleaning the space of enemies are just as enjoyable as getting the perfect headshot and racking up a killstreak. Splatoon puts those elements at the core of the experience.Splatoon subverts the conventions of the first-person shooter genre, twisting the mechanic from killing to painting.Photograph: NintendoWe all like different things. That’s not about gender, that’s about being human. Narrative and character diversity are both important; representation is a fundamental way of saying “you are welcome, games are for you”. But then so is gameplay variety. The lack of genre diversity doesn’t just affect players, it affects employees within the industry – especially women, who are more likely to have grown up enjoying slightly different games, the ones that now don’t count as games – the one’s outside of the epic shooter-killer wavelength. With fewer and fewer of these titles being made by big studios, eventually the mainstream industry will feel like it’s just not a place for people who aren’t as interested in heavy weaponry.If your dream job is to work on a game such as Halo, there are multiple studios that have touched that franchise, and many more working on similar sci-fi shooters. You can build your career on blasting aliens, and if the game you’re working on tanks and the studio goes bust, there will be other ways to explore your desire to terminate extraterrestrials. Perhaps you’ll grow tired of saving Earth by your 10th year in the industry, but by that point you may have got enough experience under your belt to set up your own studio, or use the clout of your 90+ Metacritic CV to switch things up and try something new. Heck, maybe you have a couple of kids and it inspires you to take a year off and spend the bonus you got from Halo 12 to make a virtual pet game about alien dogs.But if your dream is to start out making alien virtual pet games, or dense narrative adventures, or detective dramas, you’ve got considerably fewer options. Even if you’re a fantastic developer, you’re going to struggle to plan out your career, find mentors or get to the point where you can release a title you’re proud of without people telling you its not a real game. You may find a company that makes apps for children or Facebook games, or a tiny independent studio, but you’re probably not going to get the same kind of kudos as someone who worked on a huge AAA tentpole. Then, perhaps the bubble bursts and the tiny independent studio goes under. Eventually, after months or years skipping between similar companies, you hear about an industry veteran who is making an alien virtual pet game for the PlayStation 6 and apply for the job – but then they won’t hire you because you don’t have enough AAA experience and they can’t take on “juniors”.Sure, the industry is a tough place for everyone – it’s constantly changing. But if you already fit in, you’re going to have more ways to chase your passion through the hazards. I’ve seen women throw in the towel after a couple of years in the industry because they just don’t see a path forward that appeals to them. Others stay but find their creative fulfilment elsewhere. Studios wonder why they don’t get a more diverse range of applicants but the lack of project variety cannot be overlooked as a barrier to entry. If you’re a creative person and don’t feel passionate about the sorts of experiences a medium is producing, it’s tough to find the strength and inspiration to carry on.The light at the end of the tunnel, of course, is that right now the industry is in a pretty good place for people setting up their own thing. A new generation of successful indie developers is currently moving into the mid-sized AA space that so many more experimental companies occupied throughout the 1990s – and they’re hiring.These endeavours take a huge amount of dedication and persistence, as well as a range of business and promotional skills (it’s a densely crowded marketplace out there). That’s not for everyone – but if the people strong enough to do it can build a path forwards – or even encourage the mainstream industry to start re-discovering lost genres, mechanics and concepts – it’s not only a worthwhile endeavour, it’s a true hope for the future.This article was written by a games industry insider with years of experience in a variety of studios. They wish to remain anonymous.
Plusnet users have been experiencing intermittent service outages due to a DNS malfunction at the internet service provider’s HQ, leaving them unable to access websites from their broadband connection.We’re really sorry about the current problems, we’re working as quickly as possible to resolve this and we will keep you updated.&mdash; Plusnet (@Plusnet)September 10, 2015The outage leaves users nominally connected to the internet, but unable to resolve URLs to working web pages. A short-term fix, for users who can access the net through another means, is to switch their DNS server to Google Public DNS,following the company’s own instructions.The issue at the heart of the malfunction is the domain name system, the technology that converts a web address such as “theguardian.com” into the IP address such as “77.91.252.10”, which tells the computer the actual location of the server it is trying to connect to. DNS acts like a phone book, linking the name to the number, and when the DNS server is down, as with Plusnet, machines cannot tell where a URL is telling them to connect.Switching to Google’s public DNS, which has the memorable IP address “8.8.8.8”, replaces Plusnet’s DNS servers with Google’s own, which are still working.In a statement, Plusnet said: “Since early this morning we’ve experienced an outage which affected our phone and broadband service as well as our website. We’ve worked throughout the night to resolve this and have made a lot of progress with most of our customers now up and running. However we still have a few issues which we’re working to solve as soon as possible. We would like to sincerely apologise to our customers for the inconvenience caused.”The company’s services were restored on Thursday afternoon, and the company added: “All our services are now fully restored, including the Plusnet website. Thank you for your patience, we’re really sorry this has happened and would like to apologise for the disruption you’ve experienced.”
I am looking for a portable laptop/tablet hybrid with a screen that is a reasonable size for working from home (larger than 10 inches), and fairly good performance, as my partner wants to edit photos. I know the Surface Pro 3 is probably the safest bet, but I have seen a few far cheaper alternatives. They seem to have mixed reviews, though, and every time I look, different models appear.PatrickMicrosoft’s Surface Pro 3 meets your needs, and the 12in screen is excellent for work and for editing and showing photographs. It’s very well made, and it also comes with a stylus/pen/pencil so that you can make handwritten notes in OneNote and annotate documents and webpages. (See myreview.)It is relatively expensive by Windows standards.Pricesrange from £639 (with an Intel Core i3 processor. 4GB of memory, and 64GB of storage) to £1,549 (Core i7, 8GB RAM, 512GB SSD). It includes a stylus/pen, but the Type Cover keyboard adds another £109.99.However, at this stage it may be better to wait for the rumouredSurface Pro 4with, perhaps, an Intel Core M or next-generation Skylake processor. If that happens, older models may be sold at a discount.Either way, the Surface Pro 3’s success is enabling Microsoft toexpand its distribution. Dell is going to sell Surfaces from its website, while Dell, HP, Accenture and Avanade will be making volume sales to large businesses. We should also see “clones” from other PC suppliers, with Lenovo’sIdeaPad Miix 700being the first example.Microsoft has also launched a cheaper version: theSurface 3. This has a 10.8in touch screen with a resolution of 1920 x 1280 pixels. A Surface 3 with quad-core Intel Atom x7-Z8700 processor, 2GB of memory and 64GB of storage costs £419, while one with 4GB of memory and 128GB of storage costs £499. Those prices do not include a pen or a Type Cover keyboard, so they’re still quite high by Windows standards. Another two models with 4G LTE mobile connections are on the way.The 1.6GHz Atom x7-Z8700 is a good processor, though perhaps not quite as snappy as my favourite cheap chip, the 2.16GHz dual-core Pentium N3540. Both are some way behind the 1.5GHz Intel Core i3-4020Y used in the cheapest Surface Pro 3.Two approaches to hybridsDozens of companies now offer 2-in-1 Windows machines that are basically tablets with detachable keyboard docks. As with other tablets, all the electronics are behind the screen, which means some have a tendency to tip over. (Hence kickstands.)These 2-in-1s are generally cheap, but they have limited specifications. Usually they have Atom based (but Celeron- or Pentium-branded) processors, 2GB of memory and only 32GB of storage in the form of an eMMC (Flash memory) chip. They are great for tablet-style uses such as browsing the web, YouTube, email and social networking. They can also run Microsoft Office, so they can do real work, and they can edit photos. However, I’d hesitate to choose one as a main PC.The alternative approach is to stick to a traditional clamshell design, with the electronics under the keyboard, but fit a screen that can swivel 180 degrees or rotate through 360 degrees. The disadvantage is that you can’t remove the keyboard, so you have to bear the full weight of the laptop even in tablet mode.A 2-in-1 shortlistAsus pioneered 2-in-1s in 2011 with the Transformer T101 running Android, and in 2013, made a big impact with the Transformer Book T100 running Windows 8. The latest 10.1inT100TAFis still a good buy at £199.95, which is well below the original price. There are also two new, better-constructed models: the T100 Chi and T300 Chi.TheTransformer T300 Chihas a 12.5in screen, an Intel Core M processor, 4GB of memory and 128GB SSD (solid state disk), so it is a reasonable alternative to the Surface Pro 3. On the downside, you lose the pen, it has worse battery life, and it’s not that much cheaper at £599.95. (Shop around for prices, which change often.)There are lots of similar 11.6in 2-in-1s from other companies including Acer, Lenovo and Toshiba, but this year’s HP Pavilion x2 is worth a look. ThePavilion x2 10-n055nahas a decent keyboard and 1280 x 800 pixel screen for £249 (with 32GB of storage) or£279.99 (with 64GB). There’s also the HP Pavilion11-K000naor11-K007nafor £329.95. This wins by having 4GB of memory and 64GB of storage, but loses by having a Celeron N3050 processor, which is a little slower than the Atom Z3736F in the cheaper model.Rotating screensLenovo pioneered the 360-degree rotating screen approach with its Yoga range of laptops, but now HP and many others make similar machines. Lenovo’s latest entry-level model is theYoga 300with an 11.6in screen for £249, but it would be better to go for the£329.95version with a quad-core Intel Pentium N3540, 4GB of memory and a 500GB hard drive. This may be your best economically priced option, but a bit more money would get you into Surface Pro 3 country. For example, you could get aYoga 3with a Core M processor, 8GB, and a 128GB SSD for £499.95.The rotating equivalent of the HP x2 2-in-1 is the HP Pavilion x36011-k063naat £329.99 (Celeron N3050, 4GB, 500GB HD) but there’s a faster11-k057naversion with a terabyte drive for £379.99. However, HP’s current “hero product” is the Core i5-based 13.3in Spectre x360 at around£799.95 (128GB SSD)to£899.95 (256GB SSD), which is very competitive with the Surface Pro 3.As mentioned, these machines convert into rather large tablets, and I’ve never owned one, so I don’t know how the hinges survive five years of use. The best you can do is visit a PC Warehouse, John Lewis or good computer store, wiggle a few, and see what you think.Windows 10 updatesAll of these machines should get an immediate free upgrade to Windows 10, if it’s not pre-installed. However, models with only 32GB of storage can run out of space. The solution is to plug in an SD card, USB thumb drive or external hard drive for Windows Update to use as temporary storage, so have one ready. You will need to plug in same temporary storage if you want to revert to Windows 8.1.Have you got another question for Jack? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Anyone with a 3D printer can now unlock every single TSA-approved padlock, thanks to a security lapse by the American government agency.The Transportation Security Administration, created following the 9/11 attacks to ensure the safety of travellers into and around the US, requires any lock on bags to be branded as “travel sentry approved”, to enable them to carry out searches without having to break the lock or bag.The master keys for those locks are kept under close guard – but a photograph of seven of themaccompanied a Washington Post article about the TSA published in November 2014. It took almost a year foranyone to notice, but once they did, lock pickers moved fast to take advantage of the breach. The Washington Post took the picture down in August, but it was too late.While copying a key from a photograph remains tricky, one security researcher, going by “Xyl2k” has lowered the barrier to entry considerably. They posted the necessary files to 3D print all seven master keys on code-sharing site Github – and others who have printed them off confirm they work.OMG, it&#39;s actually working!!!pic.twitter.com/rotJPJqjTg&mdash; Bernard Bolduc (@bernard)September 9, 2015Xyl2k used the breach to preach against the use of master keys in general, citing a research paper by AT&amp;T’s Matt Blaze. “Virtually all master keyed mechanical lock systems are at least theoretically vulnerable,” Blaze wrote in 2003. “Unfortunately, at this time there is no simple or completely effective countermeasure that prevents exploitation of this vulnerability short of replacing a master keyed system with a non-mastered one.”Security researchers have also highlighted the breach as a reason to be wary of calls for a similar approach to cyber security. Just a month before it published photos of the TSA’s master keys, the Washington Postcalled on tech companiesto “invent a kind of secure golden key they would retain and use only when a court has approved a search warrant”. Following the call, the Electronic Frontiers Foundationwarned: “There is no way to put in a backdoor or magic key for law enforcement that malevolent actors won’t also be able to abuse.”The campaign group continued: “Any key, even a golden one, can be stolen by ne’er-do-wells. Simply put, there is no such thing as a key that only law enforcement can use – any universal key creates a new backdoor that becomes a target for criminals, industrial spies, or foreign adversaries.”
Teaser trailers for Star Wars: The Force Awakens have left fans speculating on events within the sci-fi universe since Return of the Jedi, based on less than four minutes of heavily edited footage.Now they’ll be able to spend a few hours exploring the period in a mobile game, Star Wars: Uprising, releasedfor Androidandfor iOSby publisher Kabam, a company with form when it comes to mobile games – and colon-infused titles – based on popular movie franchises.The US firm’s previous releases include The Hobbit: Kingdoms, Lord of the Rings: Legends, Fast and Furious: Legacy and The Hunger Games: Panem Rising. The new Star Wars game is its most high-profile yet.Star Wars: Uprising is set in between Return of the Jedi and The Force Awakens, making it an official addition to the Star Wars canon. That is a significant moment for mobile gaming, which until recently has more often been a source of licensing dollars rather than new stories for the franchise.The massively multiplayer game will let players create their own characters – “become the next Han Solo, Boba Fett or entirely unique hero of your own design” runs its blurb – and exploring familiar environments such as the planet Hoth, as well as new scenes.Like Kabam’s other games, it is free but funded by in-app purchases of virtual items including tips for the Cantina Band or goods from Kashyyyk (both £3.99) and hazard pay for Stormtroopers (£14.99).Uprising’s release a few months before the premiere of The Force Awakens is no coincidence: it is a key part of the advance promotion for the new film, with Kabam and Disney well aware that fans will flock to the game looking for more hints on the movie’s plotlines and characters.“It’s extremely exciting. Being the first canon thing that was worked on at all post-Jedi was a huge opportunity,” the game’s director Daniel Ericksontold VentureBeat earlier this month.“The respect and sort of trust that it shows from Lucasfilm that hey, we’re going to let this come out as in a game format, says a lot about what we’re trying to do with it.”Uprising may be new canon, but it is just one of a number of Star Wars mobile games released recently. It joins strategy gameStar Wars: Commander; card-battling title Star Wars: Force Collection; tower-defence game Star Wars: Galactic Defense; RPG Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic; and cartoon spin-off Star Wars Rebels: Recon Missions.Related:Star Wars meets Clash of Clans in free-to-play Star Wars: Commander gameThere are also spin-offs including two Angry Birds Star Wars games, and several Lego Star Wars titles.The new game is a big moment for Kabam, whichreported $400m (£260m) of revenues in 2014from its mix of movie and original brands, and raised a funding round of $120m that it claimed valued the company at $1bn.It has been positioning itself as a creative partner – rather than simply a licensing partner – for film studios for several years now.“In the past, these films would have $100m marketing budgets, and they’d carve out $500,000 to make a low-quality Flash advergame or something to be played online for free,”chief executive Kevin Chou told the Guardianin 2013.“But the kind of games we’re making become massive revenue and profit generators that engage people 365 days a year, in between the movies. We’re not trying to recreate the movie in a game, we’re trying to create a parallel track that fits within the overall function of what the movie is trying to do.”
Nintendo is working with a team of former Google developers on a new location-based Pokémon game for smartphones.The game will involve going to real world locations while playing on your phone in order to catch Pokémon monsters.Pokémon Go will be released in 2016 for iOS and Android, developed in partnership with The Pokémon Company and Niantic, which as a Google subsidiary made the location-based game Ingress.The game will include in-app purchases, which given Pokémon’s status as a popular children’s game – although it has many adult fans too – could prove controversial.Nintendo is hoping that the involvement of the Pokémon series’ game director Junichi Masuda will assuage any concern among fans. There is already a freemium Pokémon game available for mobile devices:Pokémon Shuffle, which recently launched for iOS and Android.Related:Mario on your smartphone: Nintendo strikes mobile games deal with DeNAThe new game marks Nintendo’s second mobile games partnership, followinga deal struck with fellow Japanese company DeNAin May to make a series of games based on its characters and brands.Nintendo had previously resisted calls to make some of its games – whether old or new titles – available on smartphones and tablets, rather than purely on its own consoles and handheld gaming devices.There’ll be a device for Pokémon Go, though. Nintendo is making a gadget called the Pokémon Go Plus that will connect to players’ smartphones using Bluetooth, vibrating and flashing when a Pokémon is (virtually) nearby, so they can press a button to attempt to catch it.The partnership is a big deal for Niantic, which spun out of Google in August as an independent company. Science-fiction game Ingress has been downloaded by 12 million people on Android and iOS so far.“Our partnership with The Pokémon Company and Nintendo is an exciting step forward in real-world gaming and using technology to help players discover the world and people around them,” said the company’s chief executive John Hanke.
Apple has announced a range of new products, including a new larger iPad, two new smartphones and a long-awaited update to Apple TV.In a now traditional September event, this time held at San Francisco’s 7,000 seater Bill Graham civic auditorium, 2,000 engineers, advertisers, executives and journalists saw Apple’s marketing chief Phil Schiller reveal anew 12.9-inch screen iPadthat the company hopes will appeal to both professional creatives and committed tablet users.The new iPad Pro with a smart keyboard.Photograph: Eric Risberg/APiPad Pro, which will be available from November, will have a 10-hour battery life, and be priced from $799 (£520) in the US.“This is the clearest expression of our vision of the future of personal computing, a simple multitouch piece of glass that instantly transforms into anything you want it to be,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive.It includes a faster, more efficient A9X processor and is being launched, for the first time, with Apple Pencil – despite vigorous statements by now-deceased former chief executive Steve Jobs as recently as 2010 that the stylus is awkward and not as intuitive as a finger.The iPad Pro is a product designed for illustrators, designers and editors who need maximum precision, Schiller explained.Tim Cook announces the release of the iPad Pro.Though widely leaked, Wednesday’s announcements beefed up Apple’s product line and the hope will be that investors’ confidence is bolstered after a rocky period for international markets.The new Apple TV has been widely anticipated for several years; the original product launched in 2007 and has stayed static since a 2010 revamp selling over 25m devices since launch. For the last two years, the Apple TV has been in need of feature upgrades to compete with rivalAmazon Fire TVandGoogle Chromecastproducts, which introduced voice search and smart assistant funcationality in 2014.“TV has been standing still while mobile has been changing, led by iPhone and iPad,” said Cook. “We’re going to do something about that. Our vision for TV is simple and provocative: we believe the future of television is apps.”Apple debuts its new Apple TV box and remote.Photograph: Monica Davey/EPATheApple TV, which will be available in the UK from late October, includes Apple’s voice command feature Siri, a touch-controlled remote and a simplified navigation that offers programmes initially from iTunes and Netflix, and US networks Hulu, HBO and Showtime. It will also have its own operating system, tvOS, with purpose-designed apps for the screen including games, shopping and sports.Dan Cryan, a senior analyst at IHS, said: “Apple TV has graduated from being a ‘hobby’ to being a fully-fledged product in its own right. The great strength of the new Apple TV is the connection to Apple’s existing ecosystem and in particular the App Store.“The gaming element features are undoubtedly important but perhaps as important, it should make it much easier for the new Apple TV to offer local TV experiences for a truly global customer base.”Members of the media gather around a lineup of the new apple iPhone 6S.Photograph: Stephen Lam/Getty ImagesApple also announcedtwo new iPhones, with a 3D touch gesture that accesses extra features on screen, a new rose gold colour, faster processor and high resolution 4K video.In a nod to ferocious competition against Google’s Android phones, Schiller also introduced a new import feature that makes it easier to copy content from Android phones, while Apple also invited rival firm Microsoft on stage to preview improvements to its Office apps.•Apple iPad Pro and iPhone 6S launch: key points at a glance
Taxi drivers have staged rallies in Melbourne and Sydney demanding state governments outlaw the ride-sharing service UberX.Around 400 drivers and their supporters gathered outside the New South Wales parliament chanting, “Shame on Uber”, and demanding the state transport minister, Andrew Constance, resign.“We don’t want [Uber] regulated, we want them out,” one driver told the raucous crowd. Another warned: “If the minister won’t stop Uber, then we will stop Uber. If he doesn’t have the balls, we have the balls.”From cabbies protest outside NSW parlpic.twitter.com/mhp4AyzXi5&mdash; michael safi (@safimichael)September 10, 2015Traffic on Macquarie Street in Sydney slowed to a crawl during the protest, with some rally organisers offering to pay drivers’ fines if they parked on the street.Another demonstration outside the Victorian parliament, timed to coincide with astrike by tram operators, saw similar gridlock on Spring Street in Melbourne.More than 350 drivers marched down Bourke, Exhibition and Swanston streets carrying signs that read, “Stop illegal Uber” and “Victorian taxi families and hire cars want justice”.“All the drivers as acknowledged by Roads and Maritime to be driving illegal, and Uber, through their app, are aiding and abetting them to drive illegally,” one driver, Graham Sprigg, said.“There’s not a level playing field. The taxi industry has a lot of fees to comply with the regulatory environment, and Uber has cut a lot of those costs.”https://t.co/WZa7avp5Eq&mdash; michael safi (@safimichael)September 10, 2015A taskforce commissioned by the Baird government said in a discussion paper last month that Uber “appear[s] to meet the criteria of a public passenger service” and should be subject to existing taxi regulations.It noted the industry was in transition, existing regulations were “difficult to enforce”, and that “the regulatory burden on taxis has led to high costs, and ultimately to higher fares for customers”. The final report is due in October.The state opposition leader, Luke Foley,has endorsed UberX as a way to ease congestion, and called for serviceto be legalised and regulated. “The NSW government is perfectly capable of providing these rapidly developing industries with certainty if it has the will and the vision,” Foley has said.Some more sign based outragepic.twitter.com/gULlXdi8HM&mdash; michael safi (@safimichael)September 10, 2015The San Francisco based company has attracted controversy for its UberX feature, which allows private vehicles to pick up passengers and track fares through its app. Budding drivers are required to have a licence and personal car insurance, and undergo criminal background checks.But critics such as the NSW Taxi Council have erected billboards claiming the service is “no safer than hitchhiking” and exposes passengers to “significant risk”.Nonetheless, the company announced in May it had been used more than one million times in Sydney alone, and claimed more than 15,000 people around the country had signed up to be UberX drivers.In May the Australian Tax Office issued a ruling that Uber drivers were providing taxi services and should charge GST on fares, a decision Uber’s Dutch parent company, Uber BV, is challenging in the federal court.Larger protests have been held in France and Brazil over ride-sharing, and the service has been banned in Italy, Belgium and the Netherlands, but continues to operate.A global day of action against Uber is planned for 16 September.
The United States government has the right to demand the emails ofanyone in the worldfrom any email provider headquartered within US borders, Department of Justice (DoJ) lawyers told a federal appeals court on Wednesday.The case being heard in the second circuit court of appeals is between the US and Microsoft and concerns a search warrant that the government argues should compel Microsoft to retrieve emails held on a Hotmail server in Ireland.Microsoft contends that the DoJ hasexceeded its authoritywith potentially dangerous consequences. Organizations including Apple, the government of Ireland, Fox News, NPR and the Guardian have filed amicus briefs with the court, arguing the case could set a precedent for governments around the world to seize information held in the cloud. Judges have ruled against the tech company twice.Counsel for Microsoft contends that the US search warrant should not have been used to compel it to hand over emails stored in Ireland. “This is an execution of law enforcement seizure on their land,” Joshua Rosenkranz, counsel for Microsoft, told the court. “We would go crazy if China did this to us.”Related:Decision in Microsoft case could set dangerous global precedent, experts sayThe DoJ contends that emails should be treated as the business records of the company hosting them, by which definition only a search warrant would be needed in order to compel the provision of access to them no matter where they are stored. Microsoft argues the emails are the customers’ personal documents and a US warrant does not carry the authority needed to compel the company to hand it over.“This notion of the government’s that private emails are Microsoft’s business records is very scary,” Rosenkranz told the court.The three-judge panel hearing the appeal consists of judges Victor Bolden, Susan Carney and Gerard Lynch, the last of whom successfully prosecuted commodities oil magnate Marc Rich in the late 1980s. Rich counted among his clients embargoed Iran, apartheid-era South Africa and Chile under Pinochet.Lynch’s case against Rich hinged on subpoenaed documents from Swiss companies, a fact both he and assistant US attorney Justin Anderson were quick to point out. When Rosenkranz said the warrant constituted a violation of national sovereignty, Lynch said: “That’s exactly what the Swiss said we were doing in Marc Rich. I stood there and argued it to this court.“We don’t do foreign relations,” Lynch said. “If Congress passes a law and the executive wields it like a blunderbuss in such a way as to cause international tensions, that’s for them to worry about.”But Lynch also expressed reservations about the government’s contention that this was a particularly powerful search warrant. “I have a lot of experience with search warrants,” said Lynch. “I’ve signed a few of them, and they don’t require you to disclose things.”Warrants give law enforcement the right to enter and search premises; subpoenas compel their targets to disclose information. “It’s a subpoena dressed up as a warrant that also has the powers of a subpoena?” Bolden asked Anderson, who told him it was indeed.Anderson said that a warrant required a very high legal standard, and said that the case wasn’t about who ultimately had the intellectual property rights to the emails. “It’s not about ownership, it’s about custody and control,” he told the judges.He further said that the US couldn’t reasonably be expected to know the nationality of someone committing a crime. “It is highly unlikely at the time the government is issuing a warrant in a narcotics case that it knows the nationality of the persons involved,” he said.Judge Carney grilled the government counsel on his interpretation of the statute in play, the Stored Communications Act of 1986, which Microsoft contends could not possibly have foreseen international cloud computing.“The warrant doesn’t care where these records are,” Anderson told Carney.She asked: “And what indication is there in the statute that Congress didn’t care, either?”Lynch seemed fascinated that there were so few American regulations on what Microsoft could choose to do with its clients’ emails. He asked whether the company could take everyone’s emails “to some briefcase-bank country that has no regulations and disclose them to the National Enquirer” and Rosenkranz acknowledged that legally it could. (“Our business model would evaporate,” he said in answer to a similar question earlier in the hearing.)“Both sides are in agreement that there are not as many protections on electronic communications as electronic communicators might like because the providers can do whatever they want with those communications, so long as they do it abroad,” Lynch concluded.At the end of the hearing, Lynch echoed Rosenkranz’s call for legislation from Congress to clarify the decades-old law – Microsoft hascalledfor Congress to pass the Law Enforcement Access to Data Stored Abroad (Leads) Act, though he observed to Rosenkranz that the legislature isn’t known for its speed. “It would be helpful if Congress would engage in that kind of nuanced interpretation,” he said, “and we should all be holding our breaths for when they do.”A ruling in the case could come as early as October or as late as February.
Apple has unveiled the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, the next generation of its smartphones, with faster processors, longer battery life, improved cameras and new “3D Touch” gestures.Apple chief executive Tim Cook took to the stage in San Francisco’s Bill Graham Civic Auditorium to announce the new iPhones, along with a series of updates to the company’s other products including theiPad Proand Apple TV.As with all previous iPhone updates, the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus have faster, more powerful processors – the Apple A9 replacing the A8 from last year’s iPhone 6.Apple CEO Tim Cook talks about the new iPhones at an event in California, 9 September 2015.Photograph: Monica Davey/EPAThe new A9 processor will have 70% faster performance and 90% faster graphics, but will also boost battery life in conjunction with Apple’s new version of the iPhone’s operating system, iOS 9.The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus will alsosupport LTE Advanced, a faster version of 4G currently supported by EE and Vodafone in the UK and rival manufacturers Samsung and LG. The new iPhones will alsoWi-Fi callingthat can be used when no mobile phone signal is available, which currently supported by EE in the UK.Pressure sensitivityThe standout feature of the new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus is the new touchscreen technology called 3D Touch. First introduced withthe Apple Watch as Force Touchand then theApple MacBook trackpad, the pressure-sensitive touchscreen can detect various types of tap. From a single traditional tap to heavier presses, each gesture can produce a different interaction with the smartphone.“We’ve fitted brand new glass, the strongest in the industry X-ion. And we’ve improved on multitouch with 3D touch, a tremendous breakthrough in interacting with the smartphone,” said Phil Schiller on stage. “It took our unique combination between our hardware and software developer teams to make it work.”New gestures, peek and pop, allow users to lightly touch to get a preview of media or other item such as an email – a peek – and press longer and harder to pop out the content for a full view.The gestures can also activate an activity menu to jump to particular places within an app. The pressure-sensitive touches are accompanied by Apple’s Taptic engine, first introduced with the Apple Watch, vibrating with short, tap-like feedback.Apple has also improved the Touch ID fingerprint sensor to make it twice as fast for unlocking the device and authenticating purchases with Apple Pay.Better cameraApple has also improved the 8-megapixel camera of the iPhone 6, fitting a new, more powerful 12-megapixel sensor on the back. The new addition is capable of shooting 4K video andtakes on Samsungand other rivals with their 16-megapixel, feature-rich cameras. Apple’s iMovie app on the iPhone 6S can also edit video in 4K.Apple executive Craig Federighi demonstrates taking selfies on a new iPhone.Photograph: Beck Diefenbach/ReutersThe front-facing selfie camera has also been improved with a new 5-megapixel sensor, Apple’s first upgrade to the front camera since the 1.2-megapixel sensor of 2012’s iPhone 5. The phone will use the screen to mimic a camera flash for front-facing photos.The new iPhone can also shoot so-called Live Photos, which capture video and sound along with a photo for 1.5 seconds each side of the capture event, very similar to HTC’s Zoe feature introduced with itsOne M7 smartphone in 2013.Following the apparentbending of the iPhone 6 Plus within user pockets, Apple has used a new stronger aluminium for the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus frames. The “7,000 series aluminium” was first introduced with the Apple Watch Sport and is 60% stronger than standard aluminium alloys, according to Apple.The stronger aluminium should help prevent the iPhone from bending, but could also increase the smartphone’s scratch resistance.The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus will also be available in a new rose-gold colour, the pink gold will be sold in addition to the gold variant, which was first introduced with the iPhone 5S in 2013, primarily toappeal to the Chinese market. Apple claimed 9% of the smartphones shipped in China in the second quarter of 2015 ranking it third in the country, according to data from Strategy Analytics.Tick, tockApple’s traditional release schedule for smartphones has seen a bigger redesign every two years – the “tick” in the cycle – with improved processors and a few new features every other year making up the “tock” in the cycle. Intel and others also use thetick, tock product cycle, traditionally displaying improved battery life on the tick.Related:Why is Apple customers' appetite for its products insatiable?The iPhone 6 was the tick, which means the iPhone 6S is the tock. Whether a few improved specifications and a few new features, some of which will come to 2014’s iPhone 6 through software updates, will be enough to continue to woo customers remains to be seen.Apple is locked in battle with its chief rival Samsung, where onlyaround 20% of users ever switchbetween the two manufacturers in the UK. Apple’s iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, the company’s largest smartphones helped to attract more to switch. They will hope it has done enough with the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus to continue that trend.Apple secured 18.2% of the global smartphone market with 61.2m sales in the first quarter of 2015, putting it second behind Samsung with 82.4m smartphones and 24.5% according to data from IDC. Both companies lead Lenovo by some margin, which sold 18.8m smartphones securing 5.6% of the market and in third place.The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus will cost the same as last year’s iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, £539 and up and £619 and up, respectively. Apple is also rolling out a monthly instalment plan costing $32 a month in the US.Both will be available to pre-order from 12 September and will start to be released in the US, UK and Europe on 25 September, with other markets following later.•Apple supersizes its tablet with new 12.9in iPad Pro•Apple TV upgrade brings App Store into living room
Apple has announced a major upgrade to its Apple TV set-top box, bringing in voice control, a new motion-sensitive remote with a built-in touch pad, and the device’s very first App Store.The new features combine to make the device a potential games console as well as media player, with Apple’s Eddy Cue taking to the stage to discuss a raft of video games playable on the new hardware, including Disney Infinity and Guitar Hero.Inside the device, the Apple TV contains a variant of the A8 processor, the same chip found inside the iPhones 6 and iPad Air 2. It’s a jump of three years over the A5 chip found in the previous model, which hadn’t been seen in mobile phones since 2011’s iPhone 4S. The new device will ship in two variants, with 32GB and 64GB of internal storage, costing $149 (£97.57) and $199 respectively, and will go on sale in “late October”, the company says.A redesigned remote control took front and centre, with a touch-pad at the top allowing it to be used to control apps and games. The remote also features a dedicated Siri button, allowing voice control of the device, and a Wii-style accelerometer and gyroscopes letting developers make use of motion-sensitive input.Apple CEO Tim Cook discusses the Apple TV product at the Apple event in the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco, Wednesday, Sept. 9, 2015.Photograph: Eric Risberg/APThe new App Store allows developers to create and upload native apps to Apple’s servers, similar to the app stores already available for mobile devices. Jon Carter, of Rock Band developer Harmonix, took to the stage to demonstrate an Apple TV-exclusive game, Beat Sports, which gives a music-game gloss to a Wiisports-style motion-controlled baseball game. Also demonstrated were shopping app Gilt and baseball’s MLB.com.It’s a marked change from previous models of the Apple TV, which offered a limited portfolio of apps built using javascript and hosted remotely. Those apps, or “channels”, were closer to fancy webpages, and developers needed an explicit invitation from Apple to produce them, greatly limiting the selection available.Notably, major UK TV services BBC iPlayer, ITVPlayer and Channel 4’s All4 were unavailable on the platform. In the US, the situation was slightly better, thanks to Apple’s high-profile partnership with premium cable channel HBO.Eddie Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of Internet Software and Services, discusses Apple TV pricing during an Apple media event in San Francisco, California, September 9, 2015.Photograph: BECK DIEFENBACH/REUTERSAlong with the redesigned remote control, the app store allows the new Apple TV to be positioned as a rudimentary games console, taking the company’s commanding position in the mobile games market into the living room. But Apple has often been criticised fortaking its success in games for granted.Apple chief executive Cook said “Our vision for TV is simple, and perhaps a little provocative. We believe the future of television is apps. In fact, this transition has already begun. We’re spending more and more time on our computers and mobile devices enjoying great content through apps such as Netflix and Hulu.”Fitting with Apple’s theme for the event, the Apple TV also features tight integration with the company’s Siri voice control system. By speaking into a microphone on the remote, users can control the device, and a system-wide search lets them play content from any supported app through the voice.A user saying “show me funny TV shows”, for instance, will receive a list of comedies sorted by popularity. “Today, when you’re looking for a TV show or movie, you have to open each and every app to see which have them. With Siri, you can search across multiple content apps and see all the results on a single screen,” said Cue.The voice controls carry on into the playback itself. Asking the device, “what did she say?”, will skip video back 15 seconds, and temporarily turn on closed-captions.The Apple TV has had a troubled history in the company. Initially announced in 2007 as the “iTV”, the name was changed before launch following a legal threat fromthe British broadcasters of the same name. A few months after its launch, Apple chief executive Steve Jobs described the new platform as a “hobby”, explaining that “a lot of people have tried and failed to make it a business”.It took until 2014 for new chief executive Tim Cook to recant that hobby title, revealing that lifetime sales of the line had topped 20 million units.
Apple has announced a new iPad Pro with a larger 12.9in screen and a focus on productivity.The company’s chief executive Tim Cook took to the stage of San Francisco’s large Bill Graham Civic Auditorium to announce the new iPad, alongside a series of updates to the company’s other products including the iPhone.Cook said: “We asked ourselves, how could we take iPad even further? Now we have the biggest news in iPad since the iPad – the iPad Pro the most powerful and capable iPad we’ve ever created.”The new stylus that Apple has named Pencil.Photograph: AppleThe iPad Pro is the first iPad since the first iPad’s launch in 2010 to have a screen larger than 9.7in and has the same width screen as the iPad Air 2’s height.The iPad Pro, similar to Apple’s MacBook Pro and Mac Pro computer lines, is being marketed as a business or professional tablet, capable of running two full-sized applications side-by-side on the screen.Measuring 12.9in diagonally, the iPad Pro’s screen offers 76% more screen area than the current 9.7in, with the same 4:3 ratio for its width and length.The new tablet will use Apple’s new A9X processor, which is 1.8 times faster than the previous generation A8X used in 2014’s iPad Air 2. It’s graphics performance is twice that of the A8X, which will help drive the large, high-density screen with 5.9 million pixels.“It’s faster than 80% of the processors of portable PCs that were shipped in the last 12 months, and faster than 90% of the graphics of the portable PC shipped,” said Apple’s Phil Schiller on stage.The new iPad Pro comes with a boosted speaker setup.Photograph: AppleThe iPad Pro also has 10 hours of battery life,matching the iPad Air 2, is 6.9mm thick (0.8mm thicker than the Air 2) and has four speakers creating stereo sound. The iPad Pro will be available in November in silver, gold and space grey for $799 with 32GB of storage, with versions with 128GB of storage and 4G connectivity costing $1,079.Keyboard like the Microsoft Surface tabletsApple also released their own version of Microsoft’s Touch Cover, which was released with the original Surface Tablet. The Apple Smart Keyboard costs $169 magnetically attaches to a new Smart Connector port on the bottom of the iPad forming a screen cover when closed.Apple also released a pixel-accurate pressure sensitive stylus for the iPad Pro called the Apple Pencil, again similar toMicrosoft’s Surface stylus. The Pencil is charged via the Lightning Connector directly from the iPad Pro and costs $99.Microsoft demonstrated its Office suite on iPad Pro on stage, including using the Apple Pencil. Adobe also showed off new additions to its creative applications for iPad, which now support the Pencil.Apple chief executive Tim Cook unveils the iPad Pro- link to videoEnterprise chargeThe larger iPad Pro, which joins the9.7in iPad Air 2and the 7.9in iPad Mini lines, runs the risk of cannibalising Apple’s laptop sales, reaching similar costs at the tablet’s highest specifications with 4G connectivity as the MacBook Air line. It could be more attractive to business users, who have already started to use Apple’s 9.7in iPad as a cheaper, more secure and longer-lasting laptop alternative.The NHS, publishers and other office-based industries have adopted the iPad as a work machine, but a larger tablet combined with a deal Apple signed in July with IBM could be crucial to reviving flagging sales.IBM released a collection of business applications for Apple’s iPad in December for banking, retail, governments and the telecommunications sector.Apple has seen five straight quarters of declining sales of its iPad line, despite the launch of a thinner iPad Air 2 and iPad Mini 3, both introducing Apple’s Touch ID fingerprint sensor.Consumers have cooled on tablets, with the global shipments of the devices falling since the fourth quarter of 2014. A slower rate of tablet-replacement compared to smartphones, and cannibalisation by larger-screened smartphones including Apple’s own 5.5in iPhone 6 Plus and phablets such as the 5.7in Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ and 6in Google Nexus 6, have been blamed.Apple’s share of the global tablet market was also down 5% year on year in the fourth quarter of 2014 at 28.1%, according todata from research firm IDC.•Apple iPad Air 2 review : Apple’s best tablet yet, but is that enough?
The terms of service of hacked extramarital dating service Ashley Madison allow the company to run fake accounts, protecting it from at least some user lawsuits in the wake of its massive data breach in August.The company hadpreviously denied allegationsof a “fembot army”, but according to information in the data dump, it actually ran tens of thousands of fake female accounts to send millions of messages to users.However,in the terms and services of the site, it explicitly warns would-be cheaters that many users of the site subscribe “for purely entertainment purposes”. It continues:You acknowledge and agree that any profiles of users and Members, as well as, communications from such persons may not be true, accurate or authentic and may be exaggerated or based on fantasy. You acknowledge and understand that you may be communicating with such persons and that we are not responsible for such communications.The language in the current terms and conditions is toned down from a previous clause, present in February of this year, which was more explicit about the presence of fake accounts. The document explained that the accounts were created “In order to allow persons who are Guests on our Site to experience the type of communications they can expect as Members”.The terms state:The profiles we create are not intended to resemble or mimic any actual persons. We may create several different profiles that we attach to a given picture. You understand and acknowledge that we create these profiles and that these profiles are not based on or associated with any user or Member of our Service or any other real person. You also acknowledge and agree that the descriptions, pictures and information included in such profiles are provided primarily for your amusement and to assist you navigate and learn about our Site. As part of this feature, the profiles may offer, initiate or send winks, private keys, and virtual gifts. Any one of these profiles may message with multiple users at the same or substantially the same times just like our users.Our profiles message with Guest users, but not with Members. Members interact only with profiles of actual persons. Guests are contacted by our profiles through computer generated messages, including emails and instant messages. These profiles are NOT conspicuously identified as such.According to Gizmodo’s Annalee Newitz,who identified the presence of the clausesbased on emails contained in the leaked data, the site’s managers “struggled internally with the legality of what they were doing”.She writes that users made numerous complaints about bots, and that chief executive Noel Biderman had discussions with various attorneys about how to disclose the bot accounts to users without admitting wrongdoing. Apparently, the disclosure in the terms and conditions is the compromise the company came up with.Related:Hackers release new Ashley Madison data targeting site's CEO and operatorsRegardless of whether the disclosure protects the company from disgruntled users angry at being duped, the dating site still faces a lawsuit of almost half a billion dollars over its data breach. Two Canadian law firms, led by Ted Charney of Charney Lawyers, filed the class action suit in August, on behalf of Canadians whose personal information was disclosed in the breach.“They are outraged that AshleyMadison.com failed to protect its users’ information. In many cases, the users paid an additional fee for the website to remove all of their user data, only to discover that the information was left intact and exposed,” Charney said.
Apple has held a launch event in San Francisco to unveil new products including the iPad Pro, which can be used with the new Apple Pencil, as well as revamped Apple TV and its latest smartphones, the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus. Here’s what they launched and what you need to know.iPad ProiPad ProPhotograph: PRApplehas announced a larger iPadwith a 12.9in screen. The width of the Pro is the same as the height of the iPad Air. Its screen is 2732x2048 pixels, the body is 6.9mm thick and it weighs 1.57lb.It has an A9X chip, 1.8 times faster thank the iPad Air 2. Apple says the battery will last 10hrs. The iPad Pro starts at $799 for the 32GB model and goes up to $1079 for a 128GB with 4G.The iPad Pro will be compatible with the new Apple Pencil, a powered device which will need recharging and costs $99.Apple Pencil.Photograph: PRThe point of the Apple Pencil.Photograph: PRThe announcement of the pencil was made without a nod to Apple founderSteve Job’s mention of a stylus eight years ago.A full sized Smart Keyboard will be attachable to the iPad Pro and cost $169.Smart Keyboard and the iPad Pro.Photograph: PRiPhone 6S and 6S PlusiPhone 6S available in four colours.Photograph: PRTheiPhone 6 and 6 Plus get bumped to the “s” versions, adding a new colour – rose gold – as well as 3D Touch.There’s a new iSight camera with 12 megapixels, 50% more than before. It’ll be able to film 4K video and the phones come with an A9 processor. It comes a 5-megapixel FaceTime camera, for high quality selfies.3D Touch is a new pressure sensitive screen which recognises gentle and forceful touches to do different things on the phone. 3D Touch can be used to more quickly preview images.3D Touch being used to preview a selfie.Photograph: PRApple are also lunching an Android app to help users switch to iPhones, which will be available in the Google Play store. The iPhone 6S and 6S Plus continue to start at 16GB size and are being released at the same prices that the 6 and 6 Plus launched as. The 6 and 6 Plus will continue to be sold, but there’s no “c” version in this time around. In the US, you’ll also be able to subscribe to the iPhone upgrade programme: pay $32 a month and get a new iPhone every year, AppleCare included.The new iPhones will be available from 25 September with pre-orders from 12 September.Apple TVApple TV comes with voice search.Photograph: PRApple TV has been revampedto include voice search, a touch surface remote control and an App Store. Apple Music has also been added to Apple TV.Apple TV comes with a new based on iOS called TVOS. Apple’s hoping developers will build apps for it like they do for iOS.Apple plans to bring console games to Apple TV, with the new Guitar Hero coming to the new OS, as well as casual games which are popular on phones, likeCrossy Road. The new Apple TV will be available in October in 32GB and 64GB versions costing $149 and $199.Guitar Hero on Apple TV.Photograph: PRApple WatchApple Watch Hermes.Photograph: PRWatchOS 2 will be coming on 16 September. Meanwhile, Apple have done a partnership with Hermes and it has added more colours and bands to the range.It also says there are 10,000 apps available for the Apple Watch and will soon be getting a Facebook Messenger app.One more thing …One Republic played on stage at the end of the event, but there was no Apple Car.Here’s what our readers predicted Apple would announceiPad: supersized tablet with new 12.9in iPad ProiPhone:faster processors, better cameras, 3D TouchApple TV: upgrade brings App Store into living room
There will be a new iPhone, an iPad Pro and a new Apple TV announced on stage in San Francisco on Wednesday – at least if the combined wisdom of 5,000 Guardian readers is to be believed.We asked you to tell us what you expected from the world’s biggest company, and the answers were surprising.First up, the iPhone. An overwhelming majority expect a simple “tock” update to the phones, with the iPhone 6S being a speed bump and a few new features, not a radical redesign like the iPhone 6 was. That matches the pattern the company has set since the iPhone 3GS, so it’s not too surprising that there’s unanimity on the question.But readers were much more split on what the new features would actually be, with no single option getting more than 15% of the votes. But the top five were all yawn-worthy, suggesting no one will be jumping out of their chairs in surprise: faster processors, better cameras, a “force touch” screen, better battery life, and a wider array of colours for the phone.That last guess is based on rumours that the company will be launching a fourth colour for the iPhone: rose gold. If they do, almost 20% of you said you’d fork out for the shiny pinkish hue, vulgar or not.On pricing, the majority of you expect prices to stay the same, although 40% thought the company might sneak in a price-rise for the line. An optimistic 5% hoped for a price cut. Good luck, guys.And finally, pour one out for the iPhone 5C, that unloved, primary-coloured baby of the iPhone line. Introduced in 2013 as a recased version of 2012’s iPhone 5, it’s now the lowest-powered iOS device the company still sells following the surprise redesign of the iPod Touch in July this year. As a result, 39% of you expect the phone to be quietly shuffled off this mortal coil, in the same way the iPod Classic was ruthlessly executed last year. But almost as many think that the company will keep the 5C on sale and cut the price still further, leaving Apple with a super-cheap entry level phone.As for iPads, there’s again agreement that there will be a new one (72% say yes) and that it will be a larger “iPad Pro” (64% say yes). That larger screen will, you think, be between 12 and 13in diagonal (43% think so), or maybe between 11 and 12in (33% think so).That megaPad could be pricy. The most expensive model is pegged by 24% of you as being priced between £700 and £800 (for comparison, the iPad Air 2 maxes out at £675), but 21% think it could reach £800, 18% think £900 and 15% think that the iPad Pro could be a staggering £1000 or more.The older iPads might both get a speed bump and a new number – meaning we’ll see an iPad Air 3 and iPad Mini 4, if you’re keeping track – and 36% of you think that’s a possibility (though a further 29% think there will be some change in at least one iPad, and 12% of you think there might be a full redesign in one or both of them).Related:iPhone 6s or iPad Pro? What is Apple launching? Tell us your thoughtsThe Apple TV is likely to be front and centre of the event, and everyone agrees: There will be a new one (84% say yes), it will have an App Store (85% think so), it might have an Apple-branded Netflix competitor (64% say yes) which might make original programmes (69% say yes), or maybe it will focus on gaming (63% say yes) with a fancy, motion-controlled remote (54% think that will happen).The bad news? Even all those changes won’t be enough to make the damn thing interesting, according to 58% of you.As for the rest of the event: more people think there will be dad jokes on stage than a woman on stage (44% to 35% respectively), only 23% expect new laptops to be announced, and just 8% are holding out hope for the Apple Car – iCar? iDrive? Whatever, it’s not happening today.You also expect an update on the Apple Watch (72% do, at least), which is likely to get a new range of accessories, perhaps including its first solid-gold band, as well as the second version of its OS.Oh, and one more thing: two-and-a-half months after the launch of Apple Music, don’t expect anyone on stage to repeat their acknowledgement of the service’s painful teething problems. While the companyacknowledges in interviewsthat it has “homework to do” with the service, 65% of you expect pure puff on stage. “It’s been our best launch yet”, Tim Cook might say.
Chinese technology company Baidu, often labelled as China’s Google has launched a digital assistant to take on rivals from Apple, Microsoft and Google.Unveiled at the company’s Baidu World conferencein Beijing on Tuesday, the new Siri-like virtual assistant called “Duer”, which roughly translates to “Du Secretary”, is built into the Baidu Android search app installed on millions of smartphones across China.Baidu has pioneered artificial intelligence research, rivalling US tech companies including Google, Apple and Facebook, and is the only company of its scale to operate within the space from outside the US.Duer will allow users in Chinese users to order food and access other services via the app, while the company is planning to make the voice control system part of its internet of things push. Baidu is working on a system to allow Duer to control devices in the home and allow them to connect to healthcare and other service providers.The virtual assistant will follow a similar path to Google’s Now and voice search, becoming integrated into Baidu’s other apps including Maps and Nuomi, a group buying service.Baidu showed off AI capable ofrecognising imagesmore reliably than humans and better than both Microsoft and Google’s technology.The company also recently announced plans to release a self-driving car with automotive manufacturerBMW by the end of the year, based on its AI, machine learning and mapping technologies.The Chinese company has rapidly become a real challenge to the American technology companies, seizing on their absence from the world’s largest consumer electronics market.Google is expected to re-enter China in the near future with a limited version of its Play Store and version of Android, which dominates the western smartphone market.But the company will have to overcome Baidu and incumbent Chinese players including Xiaomi, which have flooded the market with customised versions of Android with their own app stores and services.•Facebook M virtual assistant will compete with Siri and Google Now
The US government takes on Microsoft in a Manhattan court on Wednesday morning – and if the verdict goes badly for the software giant, the decision could set a dangerous legal precedent across the world, experts warn.Thelong-running caseconcerns a single Hotmail email account, stored on a Microsoft server in Ireland and of interest to the Department of Justice (DoJ), which tried to force Microsoft to recover the emails from its foreign facilities without working with the Irish police.Related:Nationality in the cloud: US clashes with Microsoft over seizing data from abroadThe case associated with the email account involves narcotics. But the decision about the validity of the DoJ’s warrant could signal to national governments across the globe whether they can compel tech companies with a local presence to turn over private correspondence to law enforcement.Craig Newmanof the law firm Patterson Belknap Webb &amp; Tyler, which regularly deals with issues of cybersecurity, said: “If you take this case and you flip it over, when you’re dealing with a European or an Asian ISP that has a service arm in the United States and there are emails of American citizens on that server, does that create the risk that a foreign government can simply send a subpoena to them and force them to turn over journalists’ emails?”Jim Kinsella, a former Microsoft executive who now runs a company providing secure cloud storage in Europe, said a loss for Microsoft would also be a loss for citizens in countries like Germany and France who have voted to drive back incursions into their own private data and have much stricter data laws than their counterparts in the US do.“Private citizens of democratic governments should be able to influence those laws,” Kinsella said. “A European citizen has no influence when he uses a Google account that goes through sets of servers the US says they get to reach into.”Last year, technology companies including Apple and Amazon; privacy groups; leading computer scientists; and media companies, including the Guardian,filed legal briefsbackingMicrosoftin a case the company has described as “fundamental to the future of global technology”.Microsoft has so far lost twice in court but is challenging the order in the US court of appeals for the second circuit in New York.Brad Smith,Microsoft’s top lawyer, told the Guardian last year that a win for the US will also encourage other governments to follow suit. “The US government cannot expect to have one model that it follows without anticipating that the rest of the world will follow that model,” Smith said. “And this is a model that encourages governments to reach into other territories. That does not seem like a sound approach to international stability or mutual respect in the 21st century.”Related:What will the privacy and security landscape look like in 2025?Electronic Frontier Foundation’s senior staff attorney Lee Tien said a win for the US would make everyone’s data “fair game” for governments outside the US. “Maybe your data goes to a country where they’re not as protective of data as the United States and they decide they don’t even need a warrant,” said Tien.The trial comes after US attorney general Loretta Lynch vowed at her confirmation hearings to make the DoJ the standard-bearer for US response to cybercrime. Despiteconsiderable oppositionfrom Apple’s Tim Cook and others in the tech community, the DoJ has been adamant about its desire to see tech companies, especially email providers, give backdoor access to governments, both by providing the same kinds of personal information those providers use to target advertising and by weakening encryption.Smith and others have argued that the US could have used existing law to obtain the emails, in particular the mutual assistance in law enforcement treaty (MLAT, a legal device for ensuring international cooperation between police departments). “The government of Ireland filed an amicus brief, which is pretty unusual,” said Newman. “They said they stood ready to consider use of the treaty.”This month represents an inflection point for digital lawmaking. The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (Cisa) is due to return to the floor of Congress soon, after emphatic public objections to it on privacy grounds from many different corners, and the European Union is likely to pass General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which would force tech companies to safeguard their data or face heavy fines.Ultimately, if the case doesn’t break Microsoft’s way, things may become harder, not easier, for law enforcement. Yahoo, said Newman, has non-US Yahoo companies that house its servers overseas. “[Some foreign Yahoo businesses] are a separate stand-alone entity, so that if there’s a subpoena or warrant addressed to that entity, serving it in the US would be a fool’s errand,” said Newman. Yahoo itself would have to work through a law enforcement treaty in order to get that information, since email account holders own their emails. If the tech world sees government overreach along the lines proposed by the US in this case, many other international providers may follow suit, he said.
In space, no one can hear you scream. But on the plus side, you may be able to sip your glass of whisky without splashing it all over the cabin.The alcohol brand Ballantine’s has revealed a prototype design for “space glass”, a whisky glass designed to be used in a galaxy not so far away.The receptacle includes 3D-printed plastic and gold sections, with a design that holds the liquid at the bottom of the glass before running it up to a mouthpiece to be drunk.“We are using inertia and the notion that the whisky will stay at rest while the bottle and the glass is moved around the resting liquid,” said James Parr from the Open Space Agency, which designed the glass,in a blog post unveiling it.“Motion one pulls the whisky into the base of the glass, then motion two is to roll the whisky in your hand and let the heat transfer through the metal base into the liquid itself.Step three involves then moving the glass down prior to moving your nose into the space where the vapours are resting. The final motion is to move the glass upwards to capture the liquid in the base plate and let it enter your mouth.”Related:Whisky goes where no dram has gone beforeThe glass is unlikely to make its way into space in the near future – astronauts aboard the International Space Station (ISS) do not drink alcohol – but in the meantime it will make a useful marketing tool for Ballantine’s, which has blended a “Space Whisky” to match it.It promises a flavour of “sweet honey and creamy vanilla intermingled with fragrant clementine oranges, old fashioned barley sugar sweets with a hint of liquorice spice”, although recent research by Scottish distillery Ardberg suggests the effects of zero-gravity may change that.The company sent a vial of unmatured malt whisky into space and back to explore the effects on its taste, andclaimed that the returned sample had an aftertastethat was “intense and long, with hints of wood, antiseptic lozenges and rubbery smoke”.
Donald Trump may be making the early waves in the US 2016 presidential election race, but he is set to be joined by an equally eccentric figure: technology veteran John McAfee.The founder of antivirus software firm McAfee filed paperwork with the Federal Election Commission to enter the race, and launched anofficial McAfee 2016 website, with plans to launch his own party to support the bid.Political site The Hillbroke the news of the paperwork filing, and secured confirmation from one of McAfee’s advisers that he would be “founding a new party yet to be announced”.McAfee himself had initially told tech site Wiredthat he was hoping to find someone “smarter and more charismatic” to run for president with his backing, while strongly hinting that he would take the plunge instead.“My advisors are pressing me to run. I have many thousands of emails saying please run for President. It’s not something I would just choose to do on my own,” he said.Related:John McAfee: 'Bad people are still after me'McAfee certainly has the most colourful history of all the presidential candidates for 2016. In 2012 hefled his home in Belizeafter being sought for questioning by police over the murder of a businessman,going on the run in Guatemalabefore beingjailed then deported to the US.Since then he hasworked on an “NSA proof” peer-to-peer networking tool; beenevicted from his Oregon apartment and hit with a civil stalking complaint; andclaimed in an interview earlier this year that “bad people are still after me”as he continued his focus on developing privacy-related software.McAfee’s chances of becoming president are slim, to say the least – although he may take heart from similar views on Trump until recently – but he is likely to make technology the centre of his campaign.“It’s clear that the leadership of our country is illiterate on the fundamental technology that supports everything in life for us now, that is cyberscience, our smartphones, our military hardware, our communications,” he said.
