The organisers of the text lottery for tickets for Bob Geldof's Live 8 concert have cleared the networks to make way for up to 55m entries expected between now and Sunday's closing date.In a novel double-whammy aimed at shifting tickets and raising money for the charity, the only way to buy tickets to see the line-up, which includes Madonna and Robbie Williams, is to text.Fans hoping to win one of the 150,000 tickets for next month's Live 8 concert have been texting the ticket line in record numbers since lines opened at 8am today.Although official figures won't be available until this afternoon, a spokesman for O2, the mobile phone operator that is organising the lottery on behalf of the other UK mobile networks, said it had built a contingency plan to cope with peak levels similar to New Year's Eve.According to the Mobile Data Association,  111m text messages were sent between midnight on December 31 and midnight on January 1 this year - or over 55m a day."While we won't know officially until later this afternoon we built the text platform to deal with the demands we see at New Year there have been no problems so far," said an O2 spokesman.O2 and the other networks are waiving their usual premium text fees, but mobile users will still be charged standard text rates plus the £1.50 that Live 8 organisers are charging for each entry.Widespread media coverage of this morning's launch, coupled with significant media interest in Live 8's official launch last week, is likely to have persuaded many people to set their alarms and text in early this morning.Normally around 1bn texts are sent every month in the UK with peak days like News Year's Eve seeing numbers soaring to more than 50m.If demand for Live 8 tickets matches this peak then the organisers can expect to raise tens of millions of pounds by the end of the first day alone.Organisers say the first £1.6m raised will go to the Prince's Trust, which gave up a planned event in Hyde Park to make way for Live 8.Once the costs of staging the five Live 8 concerts have been met, any remaining funds will pass to the Band Aid Trust.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Telecommunications watchdog Ofcom will this week reopen the debate on how much it should cost customers making calls to a mobile phone from another network or a fixed-line phone.Four years ago moves by Ofcom's predecessor, Oftel, to cap the price mobile companies can charge other operators to call one of their customers resulted in a high court challenge.Eventually Ofcom forced through a ruling that the four "traditional" networks - O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone - should cut their charges by 30%, wiping out hundreds of millions of pounds of revenue.The price cap regime expires in March next year and this week Ofcom will suggest retaining the status quo for another year, a victory for the mobile phone operators which had feared a tightening regulatory regime.But Ofcom's consultation on call termination charges, expected to be announced tomorrow, will infuriate consumer groups, which had hoped the regulator would further reduce the cost of calling a mobile phone.The regulator is able to demand price cuts from the four operators because it has ruled they have what is termed "significant market power" in the call termination market.The regulator has also ruled that new mobile telephone company 3, which operates a 3G network, has significant market power - although it did not include the company in the original price caps because it did not want to hinder take-up of the network's new technology.Regardless of the fact it had been left out of the price cap regime, 3 challenged Ofcom's ruling about significant market power, and the case is still to be decided by the Competition Appeals Tribunal.If 3 loses the case it opens the way for the regulator to include the company in any future price cap regime, reducing its revenues and potentially jeopardising next year's proposed flotation of the business, which is owned by the Hong Kong-based conglomerate, Hutchison.Some in the industry believe Ofcom has suggested retaining the price caps for another year while the legal dispute with 3 is resolved, in the hope that the company's termination rates can be included in the next set of price controls from March 2007. By that time 3 will have been operating its network for over three years.Ofcom refused to comment.
It has been a while - thank God - since I have heard the phrase "dumbing down" in relation to the media. It was always an ugly phrase: elitist without being elegant, alliterative rather than analytical. It represented knee-jerk criticism of emerging freedoms, the last rallying cry of an elite who thought that culture (let alone government) was too precious to leave to the masses, down to whose level the media were supposedly dumbing.Cultural critics are finally catching up with new realities created over the past 10 years of the new communication model. There is a startling contrast between Steven Johnson's new book, Everything Bad is Good for You, which praises popular culture for making us smarter, and Neil Postman's famous 1985 polemic, Amusing Ourselves to Death, which blamed television for all the ills of American life. It would be easy to caricature Everything Bad as the Atkins diet of cultural criticism, but it is an overdue counterpoint to Postman's worldview. In Amusing Ourselves, Postman wrote: "Huxley feared we would become a trivial culture, preoccupied with some equivalent of the feelies, the orgy porgy, and the centrifugal bumblepuppy. Orwell feared that what we hate will ruin us. Huxley feared that what we love will ruin us.'For Postman, culture (high seriousness, profound artistic intent, and political rationality) was being supplanted by technology, whereas for Johnson, new media technologies engage us in more complex relations with media content. Johnson points out that IQ levels have risen and violent crime has fallen since new media arrived.One of the key differences is the cultural and technological climate in which the two books were written. Postman was writing in an era of spectrum constraint and editorial chokepoints, where a few men in each country decided what was media. By contrast, in the new media world, publishing is a universal right (except for the videogame industry, which resembles the conservative world of mid-80s TV).If anything, the internet is a toolkit for new cultural freedoms. I was struck by this recently when Adobe, whose core business is enabling publishing, bought Macromedia, creators of Flash. The point of the acquisition was to create an industry-defining technology platform. The benefit for consumer is the emergence of an easy-to-use publishing tool factory that handles video (Flash is already blurring into video, look at the Volvo ad on Macromedia.com). And we know from the rise of blogs, vlogs and podcasts that once people have the means of video production and simple means of distribution, new cultural tribes will emerge.Postman's terror that mass media lead to a decline in public discourse still finds echoes with commentators who believe blogs are the irrational speaking to the illiterate. Or that we have entered solipsism and postmodernity, where any view is worth as much as any other and the Crazy Frog is as "good" as Coldplay, because it was scratched together, virally distributed, and bought by more people.The internet should not change the terms by which we establish critical judgments. Just because the definition of what counts as media is no longer in the hands of the few, does not mean that the many should abandon standards that look beyond opinion to truth, and beyond the vlog to Scorsese.It looks as if the web, IRC and other net-based communication have led to fragmented tribes, turning inwards, drawing round the wagons, sitting by isolated campfires and judging one another only by campfire standards. But the new tribalism is more porous than that. We are not allocated a communication or cultural tribe by birth, status or wealth, we volunteer to join, choose to leave, and that means that tastes are constantly forming, fragmenting then reforming under the impact of syndication feeds, peer-to-peer networking, scratch culture, viral and linear marketing. Modern tribes are temporary.The glory of the internet is the rise of new voices and cultural forms, but we cannot ignore the view of the German critic, J&#252;rgen Habermas, that we should seek communicative competence by utilising our rational understanding of other people's positions. This applies as much to new media as to old, but the web makes it possible. More people communicating, more views expressed, more means of mutual respect. That is a tribalism to aspire to. I hope Postman would have agreed.&#183;David Docherty is chief executive of YooMedia
There's an interesting discussion underway atTerra Nova, the leading forum on the potential and the significance of virtual worlds, about what would happen if the Massively Multiplayer Online Game genre started including features of non-gamesocial softwarelikeOrkutandFriendster. The idea posed is that not only would you know that the fellow members of your group are level 20 orcs, but they're also into black comedy, long walks on the beach and the early works ofAleister Crowley.I wonder if MMOs can learn from social worlds (or more usefully social software) in this regard. MMOs -are- a form of social software but maybe there are things that they could do within the information space to help.In fact even social worlds might learn from social software. Second Life has its clubs and groups but the kind of social network information space provided by the likes of Orkut or Linked-in would be handy.But would the addition of this soft of information be a welcome or useful addition to a traditional MMO? For example one could optionally include social meta-data to one's character profile and optionally have this information displayed.Would this work, creating stronger ties between proximal strangers, or would it get in the way of the game, like when you're on a quest and some random joker pings you 'cause he or she likes the same books you've listed on your profile? Further, would it limit the possibilities of interacting with people whom you'd never have come across in the first place because players would seek group members that "match" them in real life as well as online life?While I'm a huge proponent of virtual worlds as social worlds, I don't know if this would be in the best interest of game makers or game players because it could reduce the immersion of the games. For the same reason that speed dating in the dark works (ha ha ha), there's something magical about meeting a person about whom you know absolutely nothing and getting along with them in an utterly un-real world. The relationship can then unfold as the associated partners disclose more and more information about themselves - as they see fit. Otherwise, I see this inclusion as something that might restrict the unique aspects of anonymity in virtual spaces.Introducing meta-social network services in a world likeSecond Life, which is less a game than an online space, could work depending upon your motivation for using it. In a game likeWorld of Warcraft, having it as an optional extra might be the best solution.
When Caractacus Potts (aka Dick van Dyke) pushes home the mortal remains of Chitty Chitty Bang 
Bang (or 'Beng Beng' as Jemima pronounces it), Grandpa (played brilliantly by Lionel Jeffries) takes a long puff on his pipe and mutters: 'Cars! Nasty, dirty things...'And Chitty, like most of today's cars, is a nasty, dirty thing. Owned by a professional clown who specialises in building cars that fall to pieces (a skill clearly shared by many at Lada), the flying car can 
do 100mph, has a V6 Ford engine and does less than 16 miles to the gallon. However, if Potts had managed to get his hands on one 
of Honda's Insights, it would have been a very different story.The Insight is (officially) the nicest, cleanest car you can buy. The £17,100 vehicle is an electro-petrol hybrid which uses Honda's Integrated Motor Assist (IMA) system. This is an electric motor which boosts the power and efficiency of what's essentially 
a fairly weedy petrol engine by capturing energy normally wasted as heat in the brakes and re-using it. This coupled with an aerodynamic shape and feather-light construction means it can do up to 90 miles on a single gallon. It also produces less CO2 than any other car on the road. It's so clean, even Max Clifford would struggle to find any dirt on it.However, decreasing our fuel consumption is just one prong in the battle to reduce the impact our cars have on the environment. The average age of a car on Britain's roads is eight years old, yet they're built to last twice that. Modern engines also are capable of vast distances, yet many of us believe once a car breaks the 100,000 barrier it is well on its way to the great landfill in the sky. This is rubbish, of course, in more ways than one. Mercedes recently tracked down a Greek taxi driver with 3m miles on the clock of his 1976 diesel.To help prove the point, the Insight I'm driving this week has already done 109,000 miles. Usually, test cars turn up with a mileometer barely into double figures, so to have a six-figure sum on the dash shows real confidence from Honda.The car's green credentials mean that in that time, 13 tonnes of CO2 have not been released into the atmosphere when compared with that produced by a standard hatchback. That's equal to 17 times the car's weight. The driver will also have saved about £4,500 in fuel costs, so it isn't all eco-altruism.The Insight is a low-slung two-seater - though I'd have thought 
a true 'eco car' should surely be able to carry more than one passenger - with stand-out good looks. You might even have mistaken it for one of Professor's Potts's whackier inventions as it has a touch of the prototype about it. Which is, in fact, what it was. Honda, having used it to perfect its IMA technology has now rolled it out in its new Civic, and will only be taking orders for the Insight until Tuesday. So why not buy a piece of green history?
"My case mod is a scale model of a Star Wars TIE Fighter, with a computer built right into the cockpit. And, it's also a desk! The whole case is built from scratch. As a die-hard Star Wars fan, I knew my first mod would have to incorporate something from Star Wars, and I could think of nothing cooler than a TIE Fighter. I got the blueprints online and got to work," writes 23-year-old David Barry of Brooklyn, New York.The design has wonExtreme Tech's first Science Fiction case modding competition. You can see a couple of nice big pics on the site.
In the summer of 1939, an MIT engineer named Vannevar Bush wrote a paper entitled 'Mechanization and the Record'. In it, he brooded on the subject of how humans handle information. What concerned him was the inadequacy of paper-based indexing systems for retrieving information. 'The human mind does not work that way,' he wrote. 'It operates by association. With one item in its grasp, it snaps instantly to the next that is suggested by the association of thoughts, in accordance with some intricate web of trails carried by the cells of the brain.'Just as he was discussing publication of the paper with the editors of Fortune magazine, the war intervened and Bush was summoned to Washington to head up the United States' wartime R&amp;D effort. In 1945, he dusted off the article and published it in the Atlantic Monthly under the title 'As We May Think'. It's an extraordinary read (the text is widely available on the net) because it lays out the central ideas of what Tim Berners-Lee implemented 45 years later as the world wide web. Underpinning it all is Bush's concept of what he called 'associative trails': those chains of links that lead us from one idea to another - and explain why you can spend hours just browsing the web.Here's an example of just such a trail. Two weeks ago, I attended a religious ceremony in Ireland. Sitting in a vast church, I counted eight confessional booths set into the walls, and remembered from my childhood the queues of people outside each on Easter Saturday evening. Given the decline of the Catholic church in my native land, I fell to wondering how many of those booths would be manned on a Saturday evening now. My guess is that the demand for old-style confession is down; and that the supply-side has also suffered, because there are no longer enough priests to go round, even in what my mother used to call 'holy Catholic Ireland'.So is confession on the wane? When I got back to a broadband link, I began to explore the question with the aid of Google. This led in all kinds of intriguing directions, including an article in the Register about a Welsh vicar who has addressed the problem of falling congregations by offering his flock a quiet wireless hotspot. The Rev Keith Kimber, of St John's in Cardiff city centre, has installed a wireless node in his church. 'The church has to move with the times,' he said, 'and I wanted to make St John's a sanctuary for everyone, including business people with laptops and mobiles'.The most interesting trail, though, led via the New York Times to a series of online confession sites. Many of them have the glib implausibility characteristic of online ventures. But one stood out - a site called PostSecret (postsecret.blogspot.com). What makes it special is that it doesn't permit online postings. If you want to have your confession singled out for publication by the site's editor, you have to compose a physical postcard explaining your guilty secret and snail-mail it to him. Every Sunday he chooses a few, scans them and updates the site.I can't quite make out why the entries are so affecting, but they are. Is it because each one represents some tangible artistic effort with real materials, rather than a quick burst of casual key-tapping? Or because they offer an unexpected window into the soul?They range all the way from the whimsical to the poignant to the positively malevolent. Here's a whimsical card covered in metal staples with the words: 'I save all the staples I pull out at work. They're in a box in my desk. It weighs over a pound and a half.' Another card is covered with strips of photographs with the simple legend: 'I shredded all my photos.'A poignant card has a picture of a house and two hot air balloons. 'I am so grateful,' says the scrawled caption, 'to the psychiatrist I saw when I was 19 who told me I would be fine again.' Another confesses: 'I cried for Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars Episode III, but not for the tsunami victims.'Some of the secrets shine a light into the darker reaches of the human psyche. A photograph of the Twin Towers smoking after the 9/11 attack, for example, carries the caption: 'He should have been at work that day. I wish he had been.' Another says: 'My older sister has tried to kill herself three times. Sometimes I wish she'd succeeded.' 'I spread rumours about my gay classmate,' says another (over a sweet picture of two little girls), 'to see how people would react if they ever found out about me.'There are lots more in that vein, and they make one wonder if confession is good for the soul. In the meantime, bless me father, for I have Googled.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
"Apple Computer plans to announce Monday that it's scrapping its partnership with IBM and switching its computers to Intel's microprocessors," claimsCNet.Apple has used IBM's PowerPC processors since 1994, but will begin a phased transition to Intel's chips, sources familiar with the situation said. Apple plans to move lower-end computers such as the Mac Mini to Intel chips in mid-2006 and higher-end models such as the Power Mac in mid-2007, sources said.The announcement is expected Monday at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference in San Francisco, at which Chief Executive Steve Jobs is giving the keynote speech. The conference would be an appropriate venue: Changing the chips would require programmers to rewrite their software to take full advantage of the new processor.Comment:Although Apple has considered moving to Intel chips before, the latest set of claims has been reported by publications such The Wall Street Journal. This time around, the idea was first floated by Paul Thurrott in his WinHEC blog onApril 26. It remains unconfirmed.Mac users might consider such a switch a sell-out, but it can hardly be worse than the U-turn Apple performed before, when switching to PowerPC chips supplied by the Evil Empire it had attacked in the 1984 and 1985 TV ads for the Mac.
It might have moved to Theatreland, but there's little sign of drama at the new European headquarters of the internet giant Yahoo! Wander into the gleaming glass and white-walled offices in London's West End and you could be forgiven for thinking you've stumbled into a corporate finance centre rather than a thrusting dotcom company.Its new headquarters are a physical manifestation of how far the internet bellwether has come, and how much the sector has changed, since the heady days of five years ago when the dotcom bubble burst. There's no sign of table football, silly haircuts, stress balls or the other accoutrements that came to be associated with the grand follies of the era.And the over-excitable missionary zeal of the early days has been replaced by a calm, focused energy. It's a quality embodied by Yahoo!'s newly appointed European vice-president, Dominique Vidal, who was group managing director of the shopping site Kelkoo until it was snapped up last year by Yahoo! in its ongoing acquisition spree.As if to emphasise the shift from hyperbole to understatement, the glass room in which we meet has the unglamorous moniker of "Croydon". Vidal's own career over the last five years has followed a similar path from internet innocence to experience. After graduating in engineering and working at Schlumberger, the oil and gas technology company, in France and the US, he came home to work for the venture capital group Banexi Ventures in 1998. "Straight away I thought, hey, this is what I want to do," he says. As his decision to sell Kelkoo to Yahoo! later proved, he has impeccable timing."It was exciting; when you're in it, you feel like it makes a lot of sense," he recalls of the late 1990s lunacy. "When you look back at the history you feel differently. At the time what was good was the number of projects we were working on. What we discovered afterwards was that a lot of them were crap," he laughs.But one project in particular - comparison technology developed by a French research centre - caught his eye. Having met Pierre Chappaz, then European marketing director for IBM, he persuaded him to take a look and before long the pair did what hundreds of other wide-eyed executives were doing and quit their jobs to develop Kelkoo. Unusually, they made a success of it. "We knew the technology was good. At the same time companies were starting to pop up in the States like MySimon and Shopping.com. So I hired him and then he hired me."Swiss ToniThe pair carved up Europe and the running of the firm between them and after a rocky start Kelkoo became the pre-eminent shopping comparison site on this side of the Atlantic, covering nine countries and making its money from the retailers who paid for each customer sent their way.Vidal talks wistfully of their partnership, his Gallic charm just about letting him get away with observations that veer close to the Fast Show's Swiss Toni: "The joke was that we were like Palm Pilots, synchronising at least once a day. It's like a relationship. When you are sensitive to the pleasure of the other, one plus one can make two and a half, or three."Six months after Yahoo! bought Kelkoo in April last year, Vidal and Chappaz were appointed to jointly run Yahoo!'s European operations. Soon afterwards Chappaz unexpectedly quit to go travelling and spend his millions, blogging as he goes at kelblog.com, and leaving Vidal to oversee Yahoo!'s 50 million-plus European users."During the course of the sale there's a lot of tension. The sale happens and the question after that is: what do you do? The good thing is that you spend a lot of time with the management of the company," he says, pointing to the number of other Yahoo! executives in the US who have stayed with the company after being bought out."It's a big decision for me - what do you want to do with the next four or five years? Pierre decided to travel; it was very important for me to continue to work."The purchase of Kelkoo in a &#163;319m deal was just one of a series of acquisitions made by Yahoo! in the past two years as the giants of the online world limber up for what Vidal calls "the second phase of the internet". He is convinced that development of the medium is at a pivotal point, with high-speed broadband access reaching mass acceptance, the amount of time spent online rising accordingly and users at a stage where they are becoming more sophisticated in using the internet.The challenge for Yahoo! and its rivals, then, is to continue to invest and innovate in a wide range of new interactive services from video content to music sharing to online photo albums while continuing to develop their core search, email, news and communication offerings."The first phase was to take content, aggregate content and push this content to people. But if you are very user-centric, people do not want to just receive information but decide what sort of information they want to receive, and not just on their PC, they want to receive information on their phone, they want to create their own information and share it. Personalisation in terms of information - personalisation in terms of access," is how he sums up the Yahoo! philosophy.Desperate to catch up with Google, the California-based company has splashed out billions of dollars on the music download company Musicmatch, the photo-sharing start-up Flickr, the search advertising firm Overture and the search technology company Inktomi among others.Meanwhile, Microsoft has invested huge sums in developing its own search tool and Google, post- flotation, is aggressively expanding into new areas such as blogging, news and portals that build on its search heritage. The second wave of internet consolidation is in full flow, with Barry Diller's InterActive Corp paying &#163;1bn for AskJeeves in March and just this week eBay shelling out &#163;340m for Kelkoo's biggest rival, Shopping.com.With the battle taking place on so many fronts across the globe, Vidal admits that his hardest task will be to keep the plates spinning. "It is a bigger challenge in Europe than it is the US, where we have critical mass," he says. "We have to pick our battles. There is no reason why we should not be as good as most in all areas. But we need to give two or three good reasons to stay with us. It's a great challenge."It is clear that Vidal has been promised more autonomy from the US than his predecessors, who sometimes complained that the international operations were too reliant on Californian purse strings. As the internet develops and broadband proliferates, the suite of services and content on offer is such that there will be an increasing need to differentiate in local markets."We're in a business where the level of investment required on most products is huge. People in different markets want things that are slightly different. So if you are able to get the back-up from the US to do this, it's great because you're getting the best of both worlds," he says.Most analysts agree that Yahoo! is now well placed to compete. Google is no longer the undisputed king of search technology and, with the growth of broad band, they expect users to go through a period of promiscuity until they settle on a service they feel comfortable with. "In most countries we are now on parity with Google in terms of search. This is the first good thing. Is it enough? No. What happened four years ago when Google changed the market, the perception was that our users were not getting what they wanted. Today, the level of satisfaction is much higher," he says.Last week Yahoo! unveiled yet another new product that should close the gap with Google: a trial version of search software called Mindset, which allows users to weight search results in favour of commercial or non-commercial sources.Dotcom arroganceIt was the arrival of an old media luminary in the former Warner Brothers chairman, Terry Semel, as chief executive in 2001 that sparked Yahoo!'s revival from the post-slump doldrums. One of his first acts was to declare dotcom arrogance dead. "Cooperative relationships are in and the 'my way or the highway' attitude is out. The customer is in and arrogance is out," the sales chief, Wenda Millard, memorably declared soon after Semel's arrival.It is a philosophy to which Vidal clearly subscribes. "This vision applies to many different areas. The community aspect is very important, the personalisation aspect is very important," he says, noting the recent launch of a service called Y360 that builds on the personalised My Yahoo! home page. The partnership with BT in Britain and SBC in the US that led to Yahoo! supplying content for their co-branded internet service providers will also be repeated across Europe, he adds.This idea of building communities, while not new, takes on a different hue in the broadband era, Vidal says. For example, Yahoo! recently caused panic among US competitors when it launched its music subscription service, offering un limited access to hundreds of thousands of tracks for less than $5 a month. "What we really enjoy here is the idea that you can share and discover music through friends and people you trust," he says, confirming the launch of a European download rival to Apple's iTunes and Napster.All this investment in new services will be funded chiefly by online's ever-rising share of advertising. Strong growth in ad revenues helped double Yahoo!'s first-quarter profits to $101m (&#163;56m). Search advertising, where companies pay to have links displayed next to search listings, has been a cash cow for Yahoo! since it acquired Overture in a &#163;1.1bn deal in 2004.But Vidal also believes there is room for growth in other areas of advertising as broadband users spend more time online."Online advertising spend in Europe represents between 1% and 4% of overall advertising spend. Usage is around 15%, so we need to close that gap. Three years ago, after the bubble burst, everyone said 'forget advertising, it's not going to happen'. Now, it has happened. You feel there is a tipping point - it's happening now in France," he says.Vidal claims that he thrives on the speed of change and has wasted no time in overhauling his senior management team in Europe. "Don't be afraid to hire people who are better than you," he says. A consummate European, having spent most of his career in departure lounges and living out of suitcases, he says that he relishes the global melting pot that companies such as Yahoo! have become as they invest in local offices around the world. "I spent 20 years of my business life travelling and I love it."He now spends four days a week in London, with his wife and three young children joining him from Paris in September. But pushed for his interests outside work and family, he falls silent for the first time in an hour before shrugging. "My passion is my business. My work is my life."The CVBornSeptember 25, 1964EducationEcole Sup&#233;rieure d'Electricit&#233;, graduated in 1988Career1988-1989: FIEE (F&#233;d&#233;ration des Industries Electriques et Electroniques); 1989-1999: Schlumberger, business development manager; 1999-2000: Banexi Ventures Partners, partner - telecoms/internet; 2000-2004: Kelkoo, group managing director; 2004: Yahoo!, regional vice-president and Yahoo! Europe managing directorFamilyMarried with three children
Trivial Pursuit Star Wars Saga EditionDVD GameI know what you're thinking. If Anakin Skywalker's face was that badly burned just before his heavy breathing hat was bolted on at the end of Revenge Of The Sith, how come he still had eyelashes? If you often think along such lines, you could do worse than to seek out the latest addition to the Trivial Pursuit family of games, which comes with two DVDs featuring 600 multimedia questions, in addition to 1,800 card questions. Disappointingly, it's only when there's a chip at stake that a DVD question comes into play, and given the difficulty of many of the card questions for the non-hardcore fan - "What hangar bay on the Death Star is the Millennium Falcon drawn into?" - this could mean that the disc will be left to whirr away for quite some time. However, the overall presentation is polished and the discs are spared the obtrusive, over-elaborate menu animations that dog the Fox DVD releases of the films themselves. If you were among the devoted throng that queued through the mid-May showers wearing a Chewbacca suit, you'll while away many quiet weekends with this.Stuart Goodwin&#183;Hasbro, &pound;45Pac-PixNintendo DSUsing the stylus that comes with the Nintendo DS as the game's "magic pen", you have to draw yourself a Pac-Man and guide him towards the game's various species of ghost by scrawling lines on the screen. As well as Pac-Men, you can also draw arrows and bombs to shoot down awkwardly positioned ghosts and activate special switches. Although undoubtedly an innovation, the limited gameplay this allows soon becomes tiresome. What you'll learn, though, is that drawing a Pac-Man is no easy task, and watching your usually hideously disfigured Pac-Progeny limping across the screen in search of ghostly sustenance can actually be quite disturbing. Despite its admirable devotion to doing something new and inventive, Pac-Pix offers nothing like the joy or entertainment value of Yoshi's Touch &amp; Go and Wario Ware: Touched.Nick Gillett&#183;Nintendo, &pound;25PariahPC, XboxIt must be a thankless task writing first person shooting games for Xbox, inviting as it does inevitable comparison with genre-definer Halo and its sequel. This is no exception: like Halo, Pariah places you and a carefully selected set of enemies and weapons in a series of different environments. Unlike Halo, though, the enemies tend to lean towards suicidal aggression or rank cowardice, and the weapons selection is particularly dull. Happily, Pariah's action and faintly confusing plot prove surprisingly engaging,  if not at all in the same league of excellence as Halo 2.NG&#183;Hip Interactive, &pound;30-&pound;40
The bean, it seems, is mightier than the leaf as last month it was announced that sales of coffee in the UK had overtaken tea. Anyone whose caffeine consumption is a passion will enjoy The Coffee Odyssey (bloggle.com/coffee), which includes links and tales about one person's voyage in search of java heaven.The stunningly namedwholelattelove.comis similarly entranced by coffee machines. Those who like frothy coffee from the world's biggest cafe chain will lovestarbucksgossip.typepad.com, a blog with a constant stream of news about the warm beverage sellers, including a report about a couple who married amid the creme frappucinos in their local branch.Meanwhile, proper formica caffs are celebrated atclassiccafes.co.uk, and drinkers with a conscience can find out about co-op growers atwww.fairtrade.org.uk
Compact and bijoux. Check out what gamesblog has been thinking about this week.TuesdayJapan's take on next-gen consolesTen interesting ideas in videogame construction unveiledKojima worried about PS3WednesdayPlay fightThursdayTamagotchi comes to mobile: it was bound to happen sooner or laterKid friendlyIs hard-core the answer?FridayHalf Life comes to real-life, in picture form onlyNolan Bushnell feeding fantasy may be the key to the mainstreamPSP threatsWill sex in games ever actually be sexy?
Yesterday Digital Jesters announced that it would be sponsoring a new site namedShagster.net, which seeks to create online social groups through shared sexual partners – sort ofMyspacemeets… some grotty contacts mag. The company's involvement is all to do with publicising a forthcoming adult strategy title:7 Sins, set in the hedonistic haven of Apple City, allows players to immerse themselves in the world of sex, celebrity and greed as they compete in a series of risqué and adult challenges in order to climb their way up the social and economical ranks of the neon-drenched metropolis.Throughout seven distinctive chapters, players will need to carefully build the right relationships with the city's many flamboyant characters and indulge in each of the classic Seven Sins. By finding the right balance for their rampant emotions and conquering a series of fun-filled mini-games, players can manipulate, cajole, seduce and backstab their way through the city.Yep, it's another vaguely saucy combination of The Sims and American Pie-style teen sex comedies. You may remember that last year we 'enjoyed' the return of Leisure Suit Larry, plus, the sequel to Couples, a shagfest soap opera sim, was recently released on PC. Mildly more entertaining were Sprung and Project Rub on the Nintendo DS – better games but still rather silly and inconsequential.So, is this the only way that videogames will ever be able to deal with sex?Historically, you can understand the reasons behind the industry's adolescent handling of adult themes: a younger audience, a male-dominated development environment and, of course, basic pixilated visuals which only ever really allowed a nudge, nudge, wink, wink, 'Confessions of a Bitmapped Bikini Lady' approach to portraying sex. Furthermore, videogames are – or at least have been - primarily about action, and this necessitates a fast-moving narrative. Often, there's just no time to stop for an incongruous shag. Arnold Schwarzenegger once said that he hated the sex scene in Terminator because it was totally at odds with the rest of the film - the same complaint would no doubt be levelled at sex in, say, Metal Gear Solid. Although 'stealth sex'isan intriguing concept.But with the next generation consoles courting a wider social demographic and promising (I almost dread writing this) photo-realistic graphics (there, I did it), perhaps things will change. There's a chance we will begin to see Japanese dating games that graduate from high school. Or an evolution of the social gaming introduced by The Sims. I visited Lionhead on Thursday where Peter Molyneux chatted briefly about his latest ridiculously ambitious project, Dimitri, in which players will get to re-live their own teenage years in intricate detail with all the sexual angst that will inevitably include. Lord knows how that will work, and he refused to elaborate, but we can perhaps expect more than a few smutty encounters in a youth club (come to think of it that actuallywasmy teenage years).Alternatively, sex could be incorporated into adventure titles as a genuine gameplay element rather than a quick diversion. It has happened before. The Nintendo Entertainment System spy gameGolgo 13allowed you to use seduction as an element of the espionage storyline. Later, in the cyperpunk adventureOmikron: The Nomad Soul, one of the playable characters clearly has a sexual relationship with his girlfriend, which is reasonably well handled.Some might say that the missing link in the GTA dynamic is some kind of emotional content, an ongoing love interest rather than a quickie with a hooker in the back of a Transit van. After all, evenTony Montanahad a girlfriend. All too often any kind of emotional subplot is hurried out of the way as quickly as possible – the dead wives avenged in Max Payne and The Getaway. Couldn't they perhaps hang around for a while before being riddled with bullets?Somewhere, somehow there is an alternative to tacky sex comedies. The industry just needs to fumble around for a while to find it.
"Andrew Westley had high hopes for his iPod, when he purchased the digital music player in 2001 and loaded more than five hours' worth of music for a cross-country flight. But the music died before the San Francisco attorney reached the East Coast — despite claims by Apple Computer Inc. that a fully charged iPod would play continuously for eight or more hours. Disappointed, Westley called a consumer rights attorney and later became one of eight people who sued the computer maker in 2003 over the iPod's battery failures.," reportsAP."As part of a tentative settlement announced this week, Apple agreed to give $50 vouchers and extended service warranties to as many as 2 million customers whose older iPods had batteries that needed to be replaced or didn't fully charge."The story says: "According to the settlement's terms, people who fill out a claim form are entitled to receive $50 redeemable toward the purchase of any Apple products or services except iTunes downloads or iTunes gift certificates. They can redeem the voucher within 18 months of final settlement approval at any bricks-and-mortar Apple Store or online."
"Dell has launched two OptiPlex desktop computers for the medium and large enterprise markets in an international webcast from Monte Carlo in Monaco," reportsIT Web."The new OptiPlex desktops both feature a lead-free chassis, motherboard and power supply, putting Dell ahead of deadlines set by recent environmental protection laws."AP, reporting from Texas, gives the lead-free aspect more prominence in its story,here.
"The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers said on Wednesday that it had approved a new 'top-level domain' specifically for adult-oriented Web sites that voluntarily agree to adhere to a set of "industry best practices." Sites with addresses ending in .xxx, for example, will agree not to carry material that exploits minors. Other conditions for the new Internet address are still in the works, according to a statement from ICANN," reportsThe Washington Post."The decision by ICANN to sponsor an adult-content domain is a reversal of the group's previous stance; the organization turned down a proposal to create a .xxx domain in 2000."
Today'sMCV- the games industry mag - reports that Sony have launched legal proceedings against importers selling the PSP. "We are enforcing our IP rights" said a SCEE spokesman to the magazine. Somesiteshave already removed the handheld from sale, but others remain defiant. I think Sony have missed the point here.A few thousand hardcore gamers importing the console will have minimal impact on the Euro launch. The PSP will be a mainstream proposition, appealing to 20 and 30-something iPod owners who enjoy games but wouldn't class themselves as "gamers".So Sony, let the early adopters have their fun. These are the guys who are playing the PSP now on the tube and train, the ones who are fielding questions from interested punters. They are at the vanguard of the marketing campaign, stoking demand for the PSP.Yes, there is a strong argument against sites who import and then charge silly money (not helped by the dollar-pound exchange rate). But SCEE need to look at the bigger picture. Every enthusiastic importer, happily showing off his new toy in public, is only going to increase desire for the device. Of course, if the PSP had launched in March, as expected, this wouldn't be an issue...
Gotta loveNolan Bushnell. He's the clever guy who brought Pong to our arcades, and then Pac Man (and Missile Command, Pitfall, Combat and Breakout) to our living rooms. Arguably the father of the home computer entertainment phenomenon in the US, during the late 1970's he branched out into a series ofnationwide arcade eateries(parodied asWall E. Weaselfor confused non-USSimpsonsfans) with terrifying animatronics, dodgy pizzas, sticky soda-covered floors, arcade machines and hundreds of thousands of screaming kids. I loved it. Had a birthday party there once. Thanks Mum!He's at it again, at the age of 62, with a forward-thinking vision of dinnertime that might revolutionise the culture of computer gaming, bringing flavours of the East to the West. Fingers crossed it does the trick. Fingers doubly-crossed that we he exports it over here.According to theNYT(reg. req'd), Bushnell's latest great idea is a restaurant called "Media Bistro" that has - wait for it - computer games at the tables, movies projected onto the walls and automated waiters to take your order. The intended age group is 21-35 year olds, giving an idea of what kinds of products will be on offer. Nolan's not playing with Pong anymore.In an interview last week, he described how the 300-seat restaurant and bar would combine food and drink with ubiquitous interactive media. Touch-screen monitors, installed at every table, booth and barstool, will allow diners to place food orders, play some 70 different video and trivia games, and even take instant pop culture polls.The monitors at the tables will be two-sided, so that two people, or two couples, will be able to play video games against each other. The restaurant will be divided into two sections, one with more casual gaming at the tables and another where games can be organized for large groups, as in bingo halls.Aliceand Ispokea few weeks ago at the University of Cambridge's Computer Science Lab about women and gaming, and afterwards the subject ofPC Bangscame up. PC Bangs are a South Korean phenomenon which has pretty much insured that computer games are widely accepted by the general public. They're ubiquitous internet cafes with high-speed broadband and libraries of comic books where groups of mates congregate to play games together and with people they link up with across the country, and to just hang out. They're a model which for some reason hasn't made it over here, but is replicated in Japan and many parts of China. So what if somebody developed a PC Bang-esque games-related media cafe in the style that a wide Western population would view as cool, sleek and stylish? What massivley successful technology has captured the imaginations of young trendy things and has successfully branched out into consumer "spaces" on the high street? Apple Inc, of course.Combining their sleek sense of fashion with interactive entertainment in a neutral space could break down the stereotypes of gamers as solitary teenage boys locked in their bedrooms, and open it out to a broader audience.Video games today "are about social isolation," Mr. Bushnell said. "There needs to be a place that brings a little more balance and brings people together."Couldn't have said it better myself.Arcades like the Trocadero and Brighton Pier don't do that. They're cheap and nasty with rubbish food, no chill-out zone and a rabid, in-your-face, money-grubbing sensory overload vibe. Put some nice sofas in, cater to an older population, offer alternatives to just computer gaming (and fruit machines don't do the trick) and shazam you have something that might appeal across the generations.Media Bistro sounds like a great idea; a modern twist to the roller-diner.If the first restaurant succeeds, he said, he will add others, possibly in states like Minnesota and Michigan, where cold weather increases demand for indoor entertainment.Hey, we require indoor entertainment too!
Although I've already directed people to this via ourdel.icio.uslink log over there on the right, I had to post it in full technicolour, 'cause it's possibly the best thing ever. Photos infiltrated by Half Life 2 characters. The suburbs will never be the same!If you're technically adept, clickherefor info on how to create such madness yourself, and please send the results togamesblog. Half Life 2 need not be the only game imported into the real world.
EBay has agreed a $620m deal (&#163;340m) to buy Shopping.com, as part of an effort to offset slowing growth in its core business of online auctions.The deal is eBay's largest acquisition since it paid $1.5bn for the online payment firm PayPal in 2002.Shopping.com is a price comparison website, allowing users to hunt down the cheapest prices for whatever they are trying to buy. EBay hopes that by merging the listings on its online marketplace with the product listings on Shopping.com, it will drive further traffic toward its sites.It may also go some way to mollify eBay's army of sellers, who have complained bitterly about a recent increase in listing fees. Shopping.com had 14.6m unique users in April according to market researcher Nielsen/NetRatings.Bill Cobb, head of eBay North America, told the Wall Street Journal that sellers would be introduced to a new pool of potential buyers because of the deal. "This is about continuing to fuel our biggest business," he said.Revenues in America and Germany, eBay's two biggest money-spinners, have been slowing as the market begins to mature. Revenue growth in the US during the first quarter slowed to 20%, down from 40% in the same period a year earlier.In January, the company unnerved investors when it missed Wall Street forecasts for its fourth-quarter results for the first time since it became a public company. In April it reported first-quarter earnings of $256m, up 28%, which appeared to calm Wall Street's worst fears, but the shares are down by a third since the beginning of the year.EBay is paying $21 a share in cash for Shopping.com, a 20% premium. Founded in 1998, Shopping.com resisted the lure of the stock market during the boom years and finally floated in New York last October at $18 a share. The price peaked at $32 later that month and has since been falling back.It earned $12m on revenues of less than $100m last year. The service is free to usersbut charges retailers for referring shoppers to their websites. It has operations in the US, Britain and France.EBay has also been investing heavily to develop its American model of online auction sites around the world. It has made a string of acquisitions as well as building some sites from scratch.Shopping.com could also attract a different type of buyer and seller to eBay, traditionally focused on used or difficult-to-find items.
I'm at Dell's annual product showcase event for journalists and analysts, which this year is being held at the Meriden Hotel in Monte Carlo. There are people here from all over the EMEA region, which stretches from Finland to Israel and South Africa, including some old friends and/or contributors such as Karlin Lillington from the Irish Times, Rupert Goodwins from ZDnet, Tim Danton from PC Pro and Online freelance Ken Young. Although we've seen a few things, we've all signed NDAs (non-disclosure agreements) so we're not allowed to talk about them yet. However, if we get any time off, I could always write about the pool....
In 1998 a California porn princess commissioned a 25-year-old Indian computer wiz to write a piece of software. Trained as a lawyer, Ruth Parasol had made a small fortune in online pornography after starting, according to legend, with a couple of sex phone lines given to her by her father as an unorthodox teenage birthday present.She had sold all her porn interests and it was time to invest the proceeds. Online gambling was the new buzz and she found a friend of a friend, Anurag Dikshit, a computer engineering graduate from the Indian Institute of Technology, to create a programme for casino games such as roulette.The extraordinary result of that meeting was seen yesterday when PartyGaming, the company they created, announced plans to float on the London stock market. Its PartyPoker website is the dominant force in the explosive online poker market and the business will be valued at up to $10bn, or a shade over &#163;5bn - only a little less than Marks &amp; Spencer, or the combined value of British Airways and EMI.At the top price, Mr Dikshit, who owns 42%, will be worth &#163;2.1bn at the age of 33. Ms Parasol, in her late 30s, and her husband, Russ DeLeon, each own 20%, worth &#163;1bn apiece. Billionaire status has rarely been achieved so young or so quickly.If the valuation seems implausible, look at the numbers. In three years PartyGaming's pre-tax profits have jumped from $5.8m to $89.2m to $372m. In the first three months of this year it made $125m, or $1.4m a day. That works out at $58,000 an hour, or about &#163;500 a minute.Those statistics illustrate how poker, a game which grew on the 19th-century Mississippi steamboats, is now a 24-hour global phenomenon. When players are logging off in San Francisco, they're logging on Singapore and Sydney, and then everywhere from Stockholm to Sidcup. PartyGaming and its rivals make their money by taking a small slice - the "rake" - from each hand of poker they host for real money. The rake is typically only 1% or 2% of the pot, but a dollar here and a dollar there add up. More than 70,000 people regularly play simultaneously at PartyPoker and the site has captured half the market.Perhaps the most extraordinary part of the story is that Ms Parasol and Mr Dikshit, pronounced Dixit, were latecomers to poker. It was only in 2000, after seeing the success of the rival Paradise Poker, that they switched their focus from roulette and blackjack to poker.PartyPoker launched with a stunt that will become a marketing legend. It announced a poker tournament with a first prize of $1m, bigger than anything seen on the internet. Players would battle to qualify in small-stakes online tournaments, with the finalists competing for the cash on board a cruise ship in the Caribbean. "We put 100 people with their partners on board to play in a live   final," says Vikrant Bhargava, Mr Dikshit's college chum from Delhi who joined as marketing director. "We said live, even though we were an online site, because that was the only way people could believe that a new company had paid out $1m. It was good PR."From 2003 American TV has fed the frenzy, showing tournaments played for multimillion prizes. PartyPoker's coup was to sign as its public face Mike Sexton, an old-time Vegas pro enjoying a second career as the Gary Lineker of US televised poker. Hollywood climbed aboard, with the likes of Nicole Kidman and Ben Affleck playing in celebrity games. The number of online players mushroomed. It has enraged a fringe of moral-minded US senators who would like to see the industry legislated out of existence. Stopping PartyGaming and its peers, though, looks an impossible mission - these are 21st-century internet businesses that simply bypass problems of geography.PartyGaming's head office is in Gibraltar; its computer servers run from there and from Kahnawake, a Mohawk Indian reserve within Canada; its marketing office is in London but most of its 1,000 staff work in a call centre and software development site in Hyderabad, southern India. The appeal of Gibraltar is its low taxes and gambling-friendly regulators. The online casino 888.com operates from the same building   as PartyGaming, as does the online business of Ladbrokes. Kahnawake keeps the hardware out of reach of irate politicians.Investors in London are more relaxed about investing in gambling. British company Sportingbet bought Paradise Poker last year and saw its share price treble; poker is also the fastest growing part of the online operations of William Hill and Ladbrokes. By contrast, old-fashioned Vegas casinos, fearful of the politicians, left the internet wide open for newcomers.PartyGaming's flotation is not yet a done deal, and its biggest problem is the virtual refusal of its main owners to talk about themselves. Mr Dikshit, says his friend Vikrant Bhargava, is simply a shy, modest workaholic who still wears sandals to work. "He prefers to stay away from the media," he says.The reason for Ms Parasol's and Mr DeLeon's invisibility is their lack of day-to-day management involvement, according to the company, not her previous involvement in "adult entertainment." Instead, highly regarded outside directors are now in place, led by the chief executive, Richard Segal, a former boss of Odeon Cinemas, and the non-executive chairman, Michael Jackson, the chairman of the software group Sage.But the original shareholders will be allowed to sell only 23% of their shares in the flotation, which means all will still be substantial investors in a large publicly   traded company. Whether Mr Dikshit, as operations director, can sustain his subterranean profile is questionable.Mr Bhargava, who has a stake of almost 15%, hints at the way in which the ride has left them breathless. "When we left university in 1994 - and you have to remember that the Indian Institute of Technology was one of the best schools in all of India - quite a lot of people went off to the US and got involved with dotcoms," he says. "So many people wanted to do something big, but I don't think we ever thought it would be this big. But the motivation was not money. We have done well at something we enjoy doing."To their credit, the founders are recognising the efforts of their employees to a degree many other self-made tycoons would not. Some 5.6% of PartyGaming, worth $560m or about &#163;300m at the top end of the flotation price range, will be gifted to an employee trust. All staff, from call centre staff in Hyderabad to London techies, will get the chance to earn two or three times their salary in free share options over the next four years.By then, this borderless company plans to be conquering new territories. A wired-up China, home of the world's most enthusiastic gamblers, is the view on the horizon.
Nigel Payne, the chief executive of Sportingbet, yesterday played down the emerging dominance of its poker business within the group's stable of online gambling products."We are not trying to sell a single product, like HMV might do. We are trying to be an online gambling version of Tesco," he said.Sportingbet's share price has soared since the group acquired poker website operator Paradise Poker last November, giving it the biggest market valuation of an Aim-listed company, peaking in recent months at just over &#163;1bn.Yesterday, however, this growth stalled a little as shares closed down 18.5p at 301p.Paradise Poker controls about 8% of the rapidly expanding US market for online poker and 5%-6% of web poker in the rest of the world.Mr Payne said he expected the number of registered customers using the Paradise Poker site to exceed a million in the next two months after growing by 11.5% to 933,500 in the first four months of 2005.Sportingbet's original US-focused sports betting business also performed well, with operating profit for the three months to the end of April more than doubled to &#163;9.1m. Operating profit from Paradise Poker was &#163;6.2m.Across all the group's online betting products, underlying turnover was up 26% at &#163;376m. Registered customers rose 11% to 2.5 million while the number of sports bets placed rose by more than 50% to over 100m and the number of poker games rose by 42% to more than 100m.Sportingbet is the main international rival to PartyGaming, which yesterday announced it plans to float in London. Mr Payne said he welcomes the move. "I will be delighted not to have to shoulder the burden of being the only large, listed online poker business," he said.Mr Payne said fixed costs at Sportingbet, like those of rival poker operators, were leading to "hikes in profits without us really having to do all that much more". He said costs as a proportion of gross profits had fallen by almost 12%.Sportingbet is introducing a transferable "online purse", allowing customers to move cash easily between its range of products. This is expected to present substantial cross-selling opportunities for the group, though they are unlikely to feed through before the US season starts in the autumn.
To appreciate the size of the poker explosion, talk to Anthony Holden, the journalist and royal biographer whose classic book Big Deal chronicled a year he spent as a professional poker player in 1989 and 1990."When I played in the main event at the Word Series of Poker in Vegas in those days, there were 170-odd starters. Last year, there were 2,500 and this year they are talking about 8,000," he says.The internet is responsible. Poker, as played in old-fashioned casinos, can be tedious. The game can be slow, the air full of smoke and the locals puffed up with machismo.The online experience has opened up a game that is about skill not luck over the long term. Women represent about 30% of online players, and hotshots play three or four tables at once, raising and folding at the pace of a Nintendo game.Most poker sites have their share of grinders, highly competent players who know their odds of hitting a straight on the river and win consistently. For many, though, it is about the dream of qualifying online for a major tournament and walking away with a life-changing sum of money.The "big one" at the world series, the unofficial world championship, is the one they dream about. It costs $10,000 to enter, beyond the means of most, which is why online sites run thousands of small-stakes qualifiers."Of the 8,000 who will start this year, maybe 75% to 80% of them will never have played face-to-face with human beings," Holden says. "Irritatingly for oldtimers like me, one of them will probably win it."They have for the past two years. In 2003, the perfectly named Chris Moneymaker won $2.5m, having worked his way up from a $40 online qualifier. His story was a gift for the poker websites.The hidden story is the 60% or so of online players who lose consistently, and the 20% who merely break even.
PartyGaming, the world's biggest online poker company, announced plans today to float on the London Stock Exchange in what is likely to be the City's biggest new listing for four years.Based in Gibraltar, PartyGaming barely existed four years ago but riding a wave of popularity in online gaming, the operator of the PartyPoker website is set to be valued at £5bn, bringing a major windfall for executives and employees.With that sort of valuation, PartyGaming would immediately enter the FTSE 100 share index. The flotation would be London's biggest since insurer Friends Provident in 2001.PartyGaming said the initial public offering would provide it with money for acquisitions in a fragmented industry."This is a young business in a young industry that is highly fragmented, and consolidation is inevitable," Richard Segal, the chief executive, told reporters. "In terms of opportunities, we would look at any companies involved in online gaming, and particularly those areas we are already involved in."Mr Segal, who joined the company less than a year ago, added that it would also look at companies that drive traffic to its site.PartyGaming said its revenues in the first quarter of this year were $222m (£122m), up 93% from a year earlier. Operating profit in the quarter jumped 81% from a year earlier to $128m.Online poker has boomed in recent years, appealing to a wider audience - including women - than traditional casino gambling. The spread of broadband, coupled with the convenience of playing at home has contributed to the popularity, boosting revenues at companies hosting the sites, which also have low costs.The flotation will mean a bonanza for executives and employees. Mr Segal, who was chief executive of the Odeon cinema chain, will have shares and options representing about 1% of the company and estimated to be worth at least $80m.PartyGaming said that as part of the listing, its owners had given 5.6% of the company in options to current and future employees. The options will be redeemable in four or five years and include options for management.The company currently employs about 1,100 people, with 126 at its head office in Gibraltar, 57 in marketing in the UK and 925 in customer and IT support in India.The windfall is worth an estimated two to three years' salary for the average employee. PartyGaming will not sell any new shares in the IPO, and stock will be sold by its founding shareholders.Anurag Dikshit, the group's operations director, is the biggest shareholder. Other major backers are Vikrant Bhargava, the marketing director, and consultants Russell De Leon and Ruth Parasol.The flotation will seal London's status as the de facto listing centre for internet gambling companies, partly because online gaming is strictly regulated in the US but welcomed in Britain, even though most players are in the US.Other possible listings include Cassava Enterprises, the owner of 888.com and one of the world's biggest internet gambling groups, valued at about $1.6bn.The Treasury is thought to be in the final stages of a review of tax treatment for gambling businesses following the Gambling Act, which passed through parliament in May.The government, determined to make Britain a hub for gambling businesses, dramatically reduced the tax on online sports bets in a deal with the major bookmakers three years ago. In exchange, they brought their online sports books back from offshore tax havens.PartyGaming has been discussing an appropriate tax rate that would attract other online betting businesses to the UK. The Treasury is believed to be keen on a tax rate of 2% to 3% on operators. However, PartyGaming is believed to consider British corporation tax at 30% too big a burden for it to consider a move from Gibraltar.
Sony has been making deals with porn dynasties. Thier partnership withPlayboywas announced soon after the machine's release in the US and now they'veannounceda partnership with Japanese distributors GLAY'z to release their films on UMD for the PSP. What does this say about their faith in the quality of the console's software? I've heard a rumour that DS software kicked the PSP's rump last week in Japan by a whopping 160,000 units. Are Sony trying to embrace a tried-and-tested, enormously successful industry to ensure their own success? Is this what they mean by "PlayStation Freedom"?
Digital cameras are a summer holiday essential, but if you are thinking of spending &pound;500 or more, you want to choose wisely - you need good, clean prints, a top-notch lens and lots of features for your money. If you can't stretch that far, you may be surprised by a few models at less than &pound;200, which can still take quality pictures. For all the advice you need, read our selection of 10 of the best digital cameras on the market, in price order.1 - Canon EOS 350D c/w EF-S 18-55mm Lens, &pound;700A wide choice of interchangeable lenses is just one of the benefits awaiting users of Canon's newest digital SLR. Being a good deal smaller and lighter than its predecessor, the well-received EOS 300D, it's barely larger than some of the prosumer types on sale. Image quality is sublime, with low noise (film grain) and little need to process images on a PC. Moreover, an increase in resolution to eight megapixels allows you to make large prints, even after some cropping.www.canon.co.uk2 - Olympus CAMEDIA C-8080 Wide Zoom, &pound;550One for enthusiasts, but quite capable of being used as a point and shoot. The serious-looking C-8080 packs an eight-megapixel sensor in a tough magnesium body. But what's most appealing is the versatility of the wide-angle zoom; it's ideal for interiors and portraits alike. With great handling, quick auto-focusing and intuitive controls, the C-8080 is a must have for the discerning user.www.olympus.co.uk3 - Sony Cyber-shot DSC-V3, &pound;500Failry big and chunky, the DSC-V3 is surprisingly comfortable to hold and simple to use. Build quality is exceptional and you will surely earn looks of admiration from your friends. Then there's the range of features; a quality 4x optical zoom from Carl Zeiss, large 2.5in screen and seven-megapixel CCD are all invaluable. Manual control isn't as extensive as some, but an ISO800 setting for low-light photography and negligible shutter-release lag mean you need never miss a photo opportunity again.www.sony.co.uk4 - Panasonic Lumix DMC-FZ5, &pound;350At this price, the FZ5 is a tempting proposition, thanks to its built-in 12x optical zoom. Not only does the lens have the power of some of the white-coloured optics you've seen at sidelines of football matches and other sporting events, the Leica-made zoom features image stabilisation to reduce blur too. And it really works well. Considering the FZ5 is just as comfortable with everyday scenes as well, and is not much bigger than most digital compacts, the added versatility makes for a compelling choice.www.panasonic.co.uk5 - Fujifilm FinePix F10, &pound;280A new point-and-shoot model from Fuji that is earning a great deal of respect is the elegant six-megapixel FinePix F10. Thanks to some clever CCD sensor and processing technology, the F10 is one of the few cameras that can carry on shooting without a flash when the lighting dips. Simplicity of operation and image quality are the key points here, but the ultra-fast response, giant (2.5in) display and impressive battery life make a big contribution to the overall appeal.www.fuji.co.uk6 - Sony Cyber-shot DSC-W5, &pound;245At less than &pound;250, Sony's chic W5 is certainly good value, coming with a classy Carl Zeiss lens and five-megapixel sensor. You'd be hard pushed to call it a pocket camera, but the chunky aluminium body is well finished and sits comfortably in the hand. Primarily, the DSC-W5 is a point-and-shoot camera with seven scene presets, but there is a manual shooting mode for purists. Performance is all you would expect from Sony, and the flicker-free movie clips (only available with Memory Stick PRO media cards) are an added bonus.www.sony.co.uk7 - Canon Digital IXUS 50, &pound;220Apart from the looks, the IXUS 50 is desirable for its compact form, superbly crafted body, tiny 3x optical zoom and big five-megapixel image. Canon have also managed to shoe-horn in 10 shooting modes including a panorama stitching feature (which requires supplied software) and a tempting video clip option. Naturally, there is a fairly large (2in) screen, plus Canon's nine-point auto-focusing system, which rarely misses an off-centre subject. With some of the online prices available, this is a great choice.www.canon.co.uk8 - Panasonic Lumix DMC-LZ1, &pound;180One of the major attractions of the Panasonic DMC-LZ1 is an optical image stabiliser that reduces blur from camera shake, and not only does it require minimal input from the user but it also works rather well. Other worthwhile features include a much wider than average 6x optical zoom (equivalent to 37-222mm) as well as a four-megapixel sensor for plenty of detail in prints up to A4 size. There is no optical viewfinder with that zoom range, but the 2in TFT screen is both crisp and clear.www.panasonic.co.uk9 - Nikon Coolpix 4600, &pound;150Pick-up the four-megapixel Nikon Coolpix 4600 and you'll immediately notice just how small the camera feels in the hand. In spite of the compact size and low price, this Nikon is surprisingly well-equipped. The 3x optical zoom (equivalent to a 35-105mm lens) is pin-sharp and exposure is rarely poor in any of the 16 shooting modes. Nikon's framing assist helps you to compose shots, with on-screen guidance for the less technically able. There is advanced red-eye reduction technology built-in for worry-free flash.www.nikon.co.uk10 - HP Photosmart M417, &pound;130A little more than &pound;100 can still buy you a camera with an optical zoom and in this case, one with a 3x range. However, HP's Photosmart M417 also adds a five-megapixel resolution for large prints and there's even a movie-clip option with sound. Handling and performance isn't handicapped as a result, with the M417 standing head and shoulders above the crowd. Innovative in-camera red-eye removal can be performed on stills using the 1.8in screen without a PC, plus HP's clever adaptive lighting technology improves shadow detail.www.hp.com/ukOnline:  guide to buying a digital camera&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Interestingarticlein the Online today, although it only confirms what, lets face it, we already know. Namely that computer games are beneficial to children. The usual suspects - Sim City, Civilisation - are highlighted, but so is Nintendo's wonderfulAnimal Crossing. All these offer a beneficial "cognitive workout". Of course, the only problem for kids who play a lot games is the threat of RSI in later life. I'm certainly suffering from PlayStation Wrist - formerly known asNintendo Thumb- at the moment.
Identity crisisPlans to introduce biometric ID cards and passports are suffering from "teething problems", according to the UK Passport Service (UKPS). The eight-month trial, run by Atos Origin and involving 10,000 volunteers, shows that facial recognition only has a 69% success rate, and that wide or scarred digits reduce the success rate of fingerprint recognition to 81%. Even iris scans, which had a 96% success rate, are proving less reliable for older people or those with dark complexions. The UKPS trial aims to measure reactions to biometric data collection, but the technical problems will have to be studied before biometric passports are introduced in 2008.http://tinyurl.com/dpptsDual-core duelAt the Computex trade show in Taiwan, US chip-maker AMD announced the immediate availability of the Athlon 64 X2 dual-core processor, plus support from more than 20 PC motherboard manufacturers, including ABIT, AsusTeK, Elitegroup (ECS), Gigabyte, MSI, Shuttle and Tyan. AMD also congratulated itself on its foresight in making the dual-core Opteron and Athlon 64 X2 processors "work cooperatively with existing AMD64 939- and 940-pin processor-based motherboards with a BIOS update". The dual-core chips are aimed at prosumers and digital media enthusiasts, and feature "Enhanced Virus Protection technology" that works with Microsoft Windows XP SP2 and Windows Server 2003 SP1. Meanwhile, Intel launched its second assault on the nascent dual-core market in the form of the Pentium D processor, which the head of Intel Japan described as "a major foray into the volume zone". Intel hopes to sell millions to home PC users. The Pentium D and its 945g support chips include DRM (digital rights management) features that initially help support Microsoft's copy protection system. They are also said to provide extra security against hackers and other attacks, though details are scarce. Pentium D chips run at speeds from 2.8GHz to 3.2GHz and cost from $241 (&pound;132) to $530 (&pound;291).Palm offPalmSource, which is responsible for Palm operating systems, has sold its rights to the Palm name to PalmOne, which makes the hardware, for $30m. PalmSource will now move gradually "to adopt a new brand identity". The announcement came with the shock resignation of David Nagel, PalmSource's founding president and chief executive officer, and the public face of the company. Although PalmOne also renewed its licence for Palm OS, the company says it is not necessarily tied to the operating system, and rumours suggest it has been experimenting with Microsoft's Windows Mobile, which has overtaken Palm OS in the PDA market. PalmOne and PalmSource were created by splitting up the original Palm company to try to make Palm OS more appealing to other PDA and phone manufacturers. However, Sony, its biggest outside -supporter, withdrew from the global PDA market.http://tinyurl.com/a2jruViva voceBroadband provider Viatel has launched a new range of VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) services that it claims will help businesses save money on phone calls. The company is touting cost savings of up to 50% on traditional telephony, and is trying to appeal to large and small companies alike. The deal, dubbed Hosted IP Voice, offers a &pound;10 monthly "per seat" fee that is augmented by either additional pay-as-you-go fees, or a flat rate of &pound;6.50. It is also pushing the deal to companies who are put off employing home workers by prohibitive telephony costs, saying it will help them cope with both voice and data.www.viatel.comCutting edgeInsinger De Beaufort, an Anglo-Dutch private banking group, is swapping its desktop systems for PC blades from Clearcube. Blades effectively remove PCs from the desktop and relocate them in a rack system in the server room, leaving only the keyboard and screen behind. Insinger chose this rather than installing "thin clients" (semi-intelligent terminals) because it reduces network latency, a vital requirement for online trading. The system replaces 150 separate PCs. The company hopes to reduce IT costs through the centralisation of the hardware and storage systems, and the ability to switch to redundant boards if a system fails or needs upgrading.http://tinyurl.com/dw5hl&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Yes, Bandai America announced yesterday that it would be releasing a mobile phone version of its virtual pet phenomenon - sadly no European plans have been revealed, but it's just a matter of time. Originally released back in 1996, these beeping keyring creatures went on to shift 40 million units worldwide and for a while you couldn't open a newspaper without reading about allegedly Tamagotchi-related accidents, divorces, fights, psychological breakdowns or military coups. Can those heady days of simplistic digital pet addiciton really be revived? There have been several unofficial Tamagotchi-style titles on mobile phone but none have captured the hearts and 'minds' of users quite as surely as the original plastic gadgets. Bandai is clearlytryingto modernise the formula:"Exclusive special features have been added to the mobile version, including two new mini games to keep both parents and children entertained, a journal mode to record parenting endeavors and a facts feature to offer insight into your pet's personality. For those who are hesitant to take the step toward parenthood, the mobile version of Tamagotchi is now resilient enough to withstand prolonged neglect."But I feel they've missed a few tricks here. Does the new Tamagotchi employ GPS technology, dressing appropriately depending on where you are in the world, or the current time and weather conditions? Will you be able to send cute photos or movies of your pet via MMS? Will you be able to download new habitats from a dedicated portal? Bandai is just so out of touch.Oh and, 'Resilient enough to withstand prolonged neglect'? How's that for a grim selling point!
In just a few minutes last month, Google went from being a technology leader to being a trailer, well behind rivals such as Yahoo and MSN, the Microsoft Network. While Google is still top in the world of web search, Google Labs' unveiling of a personalised version of the engine cast new light on the company's attempt to become something more: a portal. In this market, Google has taken its first baby step, while the opposition is miles ahead.Portals were the driving force of the internet in the second half of the 1990s. The theory was simple: giant websites needed to display lots of banner advertisements to make money. To create the opportunity to show those ads, they had to attract and retain lots of "eyeballs". The obvious way to do this was to give users lots of reasons to stick around.Search sites such as AltaVista and Lycos, and directories such as Yahoo, bulked up to compete with more obvious portals such as MSN and AOL. The extra features included email, instant messaging, chat rooms, news, photo albums, home pages, groupware systems, calendars, address books, maps, shops and, most recently, blogs.Then Google arrived, like a breath of fresh air. By this time, the portals had messy, feature-packed front pages where the search and directory functions had become smaller and harder to find. Google's front page was, by contrast, clean and spacious, with a big search box that left users in no doubt about its function. Best of all, its search was noticeably faster and better than its main rivals.Google solved the advertising problem just as brilliantly. Instead of selling mass-market ad banners that were boring and slowed pages, it created AdWords. These small text ads were targeted to the search each user was making, and could be as useful as the search results. Instead of reaching thousands of people who were not interested, AdWords reached the handful who were. They also made Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, billionaires.But searching web text was not enough for Google, which says its mission is "to organise the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful". It started to search images and other documents; it also added a directory, Deja.com's database of Usenet posts, mail order shopping catalogues, a news service and, most recently, books and scholarly papers. It even produced software to extend search to users' PCs, plus a Google appliance to search government and company data.The company has also expanded into other areas, by creating new services or buying other companies. These include Google Answers, Gmail email, Orkut social networking, the Blogger blogging service, Picasa photo album, Keyhole satellite imagery, and a language translation service. No doubt there will be more to come.Now Google is bringing these different services together in portal form - and, below, we walk through those on offer. Though Google's track record suggests it can do these things much better, it is now playing catchup with Yahoo, MSN and AOL. And, unlike last time, they are awake to the threat.Personal portalsDespite the plethora of services owned by Google, some of them are poorly integrated with each other, or not integrated at all. Google admits that regular users may not even know they exist. Hence the need for Google Fusion, the personalisation service that could eventually bring most of the services together on a single portal page.Fusion lets you select from a dozen things you could have on your personal Google page, such as Gmail messages, news stories, local weather and films, and a quote of the day. However, it doesn't recognise if you are already logged on to Gmail, so you have to log on again. Further, neither Google Fusion nor Gmail appears to know that either Blogger or Orkut exist. It also means that Google's famously uncluttered search page has gone - though you can click Classic Home to revisit it.www.google.com/igImage searchGoogle's Classic home page still focuses on search, although the clutter has increased with the number of alternative options. These grew from none to four at the end of 2001, and now there are eight.Image search is probably the most useful, after web search. It is also dangerous because it can bring up pornographic images. To reduce this, click on preferences and set Google's SafeSearch for either strict or moderate filtering. You can also set it to display 20 instead of the usual 10 results but unfortunately it won't display more than 20 results, even if you set it to 100.Google Images also has a useful link for advanced image search. This makes it easy to restrict the size of the images (small, medium, large) and "coloration" (black and white, grayscale, colour). Results are, at best, mixed. Yahoo's image search and the Search-22 metasearch engine are also worth a try.http://images.google.comhttp://images.search.yahoo.comwww.search-22.com/downloads/images.phpLocal servicesNews, Froogle and Local are localised services, and all are slowly being rolled out to the different international versions of Google. News is now available in about 20 countries, including the UK. Froogle and Local are less common, and Local has yet to appear on Google UK's front page.Google News provides an automated news display where stories are sorted and grouped by software algorithms. The clustering program has access to about 4,500 news sources (including the Guardian), updates the display every 15 minutes, and keeps stories for 30 days.If you use Google News often, it may be worth clicking the option labelled "Customise this page". This lets you change the order of the blocks of stories, and delete a section you don't want. You can also create a custom section based on up to three keywords if you want news about a favourite subject. Clicking the News Alerts link on the left hand side lets you sign up to get email notification of new stories on a chosen topic.You can also search Google News in the usual way, by typing in a search term and looking at the results.Froogle is a shopping search engine: you type in the name of a product to find shops and prices, and usually a picture of the product. You can limit the search to a specific price range, and have the results sorted with prices listed from low to high, or vice versa. The results page usually lets you search a specific store such as Tesco or John Lewis, but Froogle's major drawback is that it doesn't includeAmazon.co.uk.While Froogle targets mail order buyers, Google Local covers local outlets. It provides two search boxes, one for what (eg pizza) and the other for where (eg Chicago). Rather cleverly, it puts virtual pins in Google Maps to show you where the various suppliers are, although the maps are not always completely accurate and can be slow to download. When you have chosen a supplier, you can also get driving directions to make your journey a little easier.Although Google Local has not been launched properly in the UK, it is undergoing beta testing, so you can search for a pizza in Cherry Hinton or Cheam. Again, examples found by searching the web, rather than taken from a local directory, may not be very useful. For example, searching for a brothel in Brentford suggests the National Archives in Kew.http://news.google.co.ukhttp://froogle.google.co.ukhttp://local.google.co.ukhttp://maps.google.co.ukApplicationsClicking the "more" link on Google's front page takes you to a screen full of icons that provide access to the less common services, such as Google Answers, Catalogs, Maps and Print (printed books). Beneath that is the Google Tools section, which includes Desktop Search and the Google Toolbar. Blogger, Keyhole and Picasa are also featured here, though neither Gmail nor Orkut gets a mention.Gmail has been in beta test for more than a year. Access is still by invitation only, though there is no shortage of those. However, Gmail's initial selling point - a gigabyte of storage - has since been matched elsewhere. Yahoo Mail now offers a gigabyte, so Gmail's latest offer, 2GB, is no longer such an attraction.Gmail scores because it has a good user interface, works quickly, has good spam filtering and because you can use Google to search your email. But Gmail has drawbacks, too, such as the lack of integration with other services, and the AdWords down the right hand side. It is now roughly equivalent to Yahoo Mail, though Microsoft's Hotmail remains consistently horrible.www.gmail.comwww.google.co.uk/options/Overall, however, the quality of individual services is less important than the fact that there are so many of them. Google has changed from a search company into a media firm, whether it's willing to admit it or not. If it tackles this larger market with the pace and panache it applied to search, it should do very well, but the future is not guaranteed.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
'Why is everyone phoning me today?" asks Bram Cohen, creator of distribution software BitTorrent. The 29-year-old programmer's work has been successful beyond expectations - hailed for making internet publishing cheap and easy. His software, downloaded more than 20m times, accounts for a significant portion of internet traffic.But BitTorrent also draws critics over its illegal uses. Most recently, pirated copies of Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith hit the net via BitTorrent, concurrent with its cinema release. BitTorrent "Tracker" sites, offering access to pirated files, are the target of lawsuits by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA). One, elitetorrents.org, was seized last week and is now covered in seals from the FBI and Department of Homeland Security.On the same day that elitetorrents.org was shut down, Cohen launched a new service on BitTorrent's website, which helps you find files - both legal and illegal. Type in "Star Wars", and you get a link to a pre-screener of Revenge of the Sith. Scroll down the page and you start encountering independent Star Wars community fan fiction. If you are BitTorrent's creator, that sort of service will get your phone ringing.BitTorrent solves a technical problem with social success on the internet. As your site becomes more popular, your server, and therefore your wallet, suffer: the more popular you are, the more you pay. Peer to peer (P2P) protocols such as BitTorrent change this by letting newcomers obtain files from previous downloaders instead of the main server.But most P2P services need a central server to coordinate downloaders. BitTorrent is different: there is no central point. Anyone can put up a link to a small ".torrent" file on their website, host an initial "seed" file, and set up an independent "tracker" that points downloaders to each other. If the file becomes popular, copies begin to sprout up around the internet, at no extra cost.This, while unpopular with the MPAA, was great for Shane Felux, maker of the fan movie Star Wars: Revelations. Felux and his wife, Dawn Cowings, worked with fans all over the world for three years to make a surprisingly beautiful 47-minute movie, complete with Star Wars-quality special effects. Revelations has moved thousands of gigabytes a day of 250MB movies and a DVD version. George Lucas is fine with fan creations as long as they don't slander his original and are free. Since Felux and Cowings can't charge, paying for hosting wasn't an option. BitTorrent allowed that burden to be carried by fans downloading and sharing the files themselves.Between Revenge of the Sith and Revelations, however, is a vast grey area. In the UK, BitTorrent is often used to watch missed TV shows. In the US, it was used to spread leaked memos on Diebold's faulty electronic voting machines and suppressed pictures of flag-draped coffins returning from Iraq. For every fan movie or site like outragedmoderates.org or torrentocracy.com providing political media, there are dozens providing illegal content.Despite past confrontations, Dean Garfield, director of legal affairs for the MPAA, is hopeful. "We're pleased that &#91;Cohen&#93;'s engaging us in a conversation and that's he willing to address any infringing that comes from his service," Garfield says, although he also confesses he doesn't know how to stop the illicit use, or even what will satisfy the MPAA.Responding to the availability of the Revenge of the Sith torrent at BitTorrent.com, Garfield sounded pensive: "I'm disappointed ... &#91;Sith is&#93; clearly a copyrighted work." But that's not all that worries the MPAA.Publishing via BitTorrent normally requires someone to set up a technically difficult "tracker" telling downloaders where to find each other, which the MPAA targets for shutdown. Cohen also recently created a new trackerless BitTorrent to make publishing easier: it is now possible to have a torrent up in minutes, with a file, a website, and no understanding of how it works. The MPAA interprets the trackerless effort differently, raising questions about BitTorrent's legality.So far, it has proven impossible to build powerful publishing without piracy. That's nothing new, says Jason Schultz, lawyer with Electronic Frontier Foundation, an American internet civil liberties group. "Piracy has contributed to BitTorrent's adoption, but it has also contributed to the success of Xerox machines, CD burners, the iPod and so on," he says.Whatever Cohen's original intentions, BitTorrent highlights questions about fostering expression versus defending copyright. But, as Schultz notes, it's not Cohen's fault: "Once it's out of the gates and people are using it, you can't control it any more."For now, BitTorrent is both an elegant publishing platform and a piracy dream come true. But, unlike Star Wars, no one knows how this saga ends.How to use BitTorrentwww.guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Insight into IranIt may be 2005 here in the UK, but according to the Iranian calendar it's 1384 - hence the title of Iran Scan 1384, a new blog covering Iran's election campaign. As voters prepare to go to the polls in a couple of weeks, online magazine opendemocracy.net is hosting this English language group blog written by Iranians living both inside and outside the country. Contributors include Toronto-based blogging activist Hossein Derakhshan of "Editor: Myself", and popular Tehran-based blogger Mr Behi. Iran Scan 1384 provides a window into a largely obscured political scene an introduction to the country's thriving blogging scene, which Derakshan estimates is 75,000-strong. Fascinating stuff.http://iranscan.nethttp://opendemocracy.nethttp://mrbehi.blogs.com/ihttp://hoder.com/weblogRules of the writeWith more than 300,000 employees, IBM has decided to take preemptive action and ask any existing staffers who have blogs to help write a blogging policy to guide other workers thinking of putting their thoughts online. IBM's James Snell describes the document as "designed to guide IBMers as they figure out what they're going to blog about, so they don't end up like certain notable ex-employees of certain notable other companies". Rather than seeing bloggers as a problem, IBM thinks employees could become online brand evangelists. The guidelines should help to prevent problems - such as leaks of confidential information or someone blogging all day rather than doing their job - but could also cause conflicts with the company's prominent bloggers, some of whom may balk at having to put a disclaimer on their blogs.http://snellspace.comhttp://106.ibm.comThe real deal?"Has blogging jumped the shark?" asked one blogger recently about a new site called Blogebrity, home of a list of "top" bloggers divided into A, B and C categories. Of course, Blogebrity has its own blog, where its creators swear that the list and accompanying online magazine project - soon to be launched featuring "IMterviews, blog-offs, and a bunch more stuff" - is real and not a joke written at bloggers' expense. But is Blogebrity really real? No one is certain, but the fact it has been entered in the Contagious Media Showdown, a contest to find which new website can attract the most hits, is strong evidence of a spoof. Regardless of whether Blogebrity is real, the attention this site's been getting might just convince its creators that a weblog-themed magazine - tagline "Isn't it about time that someone talked about bloggers?" - isn't such a crazy idea after all. So far, however, it has impressed few bloggers, even those named on the list. A-listed blogger Glenn Reynolds of Instapundit says, "This is parody, right? Please let this be a parody."www.blogebrity.com/bloghttp://showdown.contagiousmedia.orgwww.instapundit.comStreetwiseWeblogs written by those at the sharp end of local government and public services are among the most compelling British blogs around. They detail the reality of dealing with the British public and provide an insight into professions most of us only see through TV dramas or the occasional brush with our local council tax office or hospital. The trend was kicked off by ambulance blogger Tom Reynolds, but now there's a pretender to the throne in the form of Walking the Streets, written by a traffic warden under the pseudonym Bill Sticker. His posts are a one-man manifesto for the rehabilitation of the traffic warden in the public consciousness.http://parkingattendant.blogspot.comhttp://randomreality.blogware.comPax is backAfter an extended hiatus, the charismatic Iraqi Salam Pax has begun blogging again. He first brought blogs to the masses with Dear Raed, written during the build-up to the 2003 war, which was spotted by mainstream media organisations, including the Guardian. Since the war, he has written a book, been a Guardian columnist and worked for Guardian Films. His latest virtual home is Shut Up You Fat Whiner! Expect the usual mix of whimsical comments, serious political analysis and the occasional rant, plus some audioblogging, too. Welcome back, Salam, we missed you.http://justzipit.blogspot.comSix of the best - art blogsDrawnwww.drawn.caAn Artsy Fartsy Bloghttp://sthig.typepad.comA Painting a Dayhttp://duanekeiser.blogspot.comRob Pepper's Daily Drawing Diarywww.robpepper.co.uk/blogStretch Dailywww.stretchdaily.comIDFuelwww.idfuel.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Arguing that pop culture is not dumbing us down, but making us more intelligent, is guaranteed to generate media buzz. And in the US, Everything Bad is Good for You, the new book by American pop science writerSteven Johnson, has indeed sparked a flurry of comment, much of it centred on his claims about the beneficial effects of watching reality TV and The Sopranos.In the UK, media attention has focused more on Johnson's observations that modern computer games require concentration, forward planning, lateral thinking and sustained problem solving - and, as such, offer a "cognitive workout" that can benefit overall mental development.This may be news to parents - and journalists - who don't play games, hence the media buzz. But over the last few years, many in the educational research community, from academics and teachers to software developers, have come to the same conclusions as Johnson, and begun to experiment with different ways to harness the cognitive innovations of games in more directed ways.MIT's Education Arcade has played a leading role, along with James Paul Gee, author of What Video Games Have to Teach Us About Learning and Literacy. He argues that the best games offer a model learning experience and suggests teachers can learn useful lessons by looking at how games draw players in and motivate them to concentrate and tackle complex problems."Academic areas, like biology or history, are themselves like games," says Gee. "Scientists act and interact in terms of certain identities and values and use knowledge and information to accomplish certain sorts of goals. So learning science should be about learning how to 'play the game' of science. Games could do this as well, since they are based on taking on distinctive identities in order to act and value in certain ways."Gee is critical of "skill and drill" teaching, which focuses on lists of facts and repetitive testing. He points out that this is what a lot of "edutainment" games do - game content is used to sugar the pill of fairly boring tests. Of course, many parents assume that edutainment games are better for their children than Zelda or Grand Theft Auto, but because they don't grapple with the potentials of the form, many edutainment products are less educational than the best of the big commercial hits, Gee suggests.Johnson agrees, though he is less critical of edutainment titles, such as the Carmen Sandiego series. These do a good job of conveying facts and helping children memorise information, he says."But the great opportunity is to do simulations that take Sim City, Age of Empires and Civilisation but use real information about what did happen, what the variables were and what social forces were at work and let people play out alternate versions of history."It would be great, says Johnson, if games companies opened up "the underlying architecture of these games and let educators load it with real historical information, or alter the model slightly, so you have different theories of how cities work".As he says, Sim City has its biases. "It is geared to traffic and subways. But if it was open source, you could build a model more geared to pedestrians and sidewalks, the urban model advanced by Jane Jacobs, and teach her theories with it." Gee points out that universities and companies are experimenting with educational simulations."The New York-based company Tabula Digita is making a 3D game to teach algebra, and at the University of Wisconsin &#91;where Gee is based&#93; we're making a game to teach urban planning and the ecological, social, economic, and cultural issues connected to it."Ian Bogost, a games designer and theorist who blogs about "games with an agenda" atWater Cooler Games, is also working on games that teach in a smarter way than standard edutainment. Via his studio,Persuasive Games, Bogost has worked on a series of games designed to help voters and citizens get to grips with policy issues in the US. He has just finished working on a series of seven games, called Project:Connect, designed to "teach how telecommunications technology works"."Good educational games teach differently than contemporary classrooms," says Bogost. "Games could play a part in integrating real use of abstract knowledge; that's what I try to do when I design such games."The best educational games are procedural representations of systems, he adds. They let people play around with elements of a system to see how they combine to generate effects and structures."Civilisation is a good example; it teaches about material and geographical contingency in the progression of history. Nintendo's Animal Crossing is another - my five-year-old learned almost everything he ever needs to know about long-term debt by figuring out how to pay off his home mortgage in the game."The last example begs a question. If commercial games can offer such cognitive benefits, why bother designing educational versions? Why not just use commercial games in the classroom? Many teachers here and in the US are experimenting with this, and Civilisation and Sim City are the games of choice.Gee says this only works "when the curriculum into which the game is built is a good one. Games, like textbooks, do nothing or less than nothing when they are not used well."Jane M Healy, educational psychologist and author of Failure to Connect: How Computers Affect Our Children's Minds - for Better and Worse, agrees. Though a fan of some simulation games, Healy's book criticises badly designed edutainment and the assumption that children need to be started on computers at an early age.For kids to get the educational benefits from games suggested by Johnson and others, Healy says they need to be supervised by an adult who understands learning and games and can encourage them to reflect on what they're doing when they play. This takes time, she says: "sometimes more teacher time and energy to do it right than it would to teach a standard lesson".However, despite her misgivings, Healy says she can see a time when games become just one more tool that teachers use, along with the blackboard and textbooks. Steven Johnson agrees, and argues that schools need to figure out how to use games and their cognitive benefits as a matter of urgency."What's our children's working environment going to be like in the future? Will it look like their gaming life, where they're checking five emails while having a conversation, while moving through these virtual worlds? Or is it going to look like reading a book?"As much as I love books, I just don't think that's what the future looks like. If we're going to train kids for that future we probably need environments that are going to reflect what it's really going to be like."&#183;Everything Bad is Good for You, by Steven Johnson, is published by Allen Lane, price &#163;10. To order a copy with free UK p&amp;p, call the Guardian book service on 0870 836 0875 or go toguardian.co.uk/bookshopLinksSteven Johnsonwww.stevenberlinjohnson.comWater Cooler Gameswww.watercoolergames.orgPersuasive Gameswww.persuasivegames.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Do you feel like a dinosaur for using Office 97 in 2005? Wait until Office 12 comes along next year. Bill Gates is promising "integration, simplification, and a new breed of software applications and services that manage complexity in the background, and extend human capabilities by automating low-value tasks and helping people make sense of complex data".Translation: a simpler interface will reveal more of the tools already in Office, and PowerPoint will turn your bullet points into sleek graphics. Also, Outlook will finally put tasks into the calendar view and let you choose times for them.There's also more control for administrators. The Information Rights Management feature that lets you choose who can view, print and forward documents will cover InfoPath as well as Word, Excel and PowerPoint. Admins will also be able to create central policies for expiring and archiving documents, and preset workflows for document approval.But don't expect all the new tools to be in Word and Excel. Office 12 is, like Office 2003, part of theOffice System- a mixture of applications supported by services built into Windows Server 2003, SharePoint Portal Server and Live Communications Server. There are also rumours of new servers similar to Project Server, but for Excel, Visio and InfoPath, SharePoint will still be key for collaboration.Excel 12 will have tools for real-time dashboards and scorecards that users can publish to a SharePoint portal site. SharePoint will probably get peer-to-peer collaboration features from Groove, a company Microsoft bought recently. Users will be able to create workspaces to share with people outside the company without worrying about the firewall, and connect to SharePoint sites without needing a VPN (virtual private network) connection. Users who can't get online can use offline versions of file shares and SharePoint sites - this works like email synchronisation in Outlook.Microsoft is still keen to push Office as a development platform. Partly this is to allow for extra features, such as Smart Tag from Cyence, which lets you request a credit check on a company from inside a Word document. It's also about using familiar Office documents as the interface to information from back-end systems. Microsoft is already working on Mendocino - the codename for software it's developing with SAP, which lets Excel and Outlook access SAP data - and Project Elixir, which will turn Outlook into a tool for viewing CRM (customer relationship management) data from systems such as Siebel.Some of the pieces will be available this year, including Mendocino, Elixir and version two of Outlook's Business Contact Manager (this will be a free download in July). However, Office 12 is further away. The first beta test version is due late this year, probably October, and the second beta in the first half of next year. That version will probably be available to end users, as with Office 2003.The final Office 12 is due in the second half of next year, and even if Microsoft doesn't get it out at the same time as the Longhorn version of Windows, most businesses will probably wait to deploy them together. Spreading the word this early may be an attempt to get us to plan ahead.How many will decide not to follow Microsoft is another issue. So far, there just aren't that many companies moving to alternatives such asStarOfficeorOpenOffice.org. According to Gartner researchers, these accounted for just more than 1% of business installations in Europe at the end of last year. And while plenty of businesses have told Gartner they're planning to move to newer versions of Microsoft Office by the end of this year, only 2% are planning to install open source alternatives.StarOffice 8 is due out this summer, probably in July, and there's a new version of OpenOffice.org on the way, too. Simon Schouten of Sun Microsystems, which owns StarOffice, hopes it will tempt power users. The new features include, he says, a presentation tool to compete with PowerPoint, a database "that's close to the capabilities of Access", and improved "look and feel".But Gartner's Michael Silver thinks even the migration and compatibility tools that tell you how complex it will be to switch documents to the StarOffice format won't be enough to tempt most businesses. "We've been seeing a big interest for the last three years, but there have been very few moves. The reason is the pain that they can expect in terms of the move. Take macros: a business may only have a few people writing macros but they'll have hundreds of people who run them. In finance departments there are business-critical internally written macros, and it's a totally manual process to redo them."Silver says Excel macros, Access databases and complex Word documents are typical sticking points, especially when the company will have to keep Microsoft Office for some users. Savings on Microsoft licences then have to be balanced against the complexity of a mixed environment, plus the costs of migration, training and support for open source users.Silver doesn't think there are compelling reasons to move to open source yet. "They need great compatibility - at this point, it's good and getting better. But beyond that, what are the visionary features that open source offers that Office doesn't have? There's nothing in open source that's changing the way I work."Microsoft's Nick McGrath claims Office has unmatched advantages for mobile users, and for collaboration. "There is no open source equivalent to SharePoint, and people are saying 'no, we want collaboration'. That's extending down to the smaller businesses. They don't just want standard file and print solutions, they're moving more towards document storage that gives them versioning and revisions, tracking and control. You don't have to have pronounced IT skills to get the most out of SharePoint. Communication and collaboration on open source is in its infancy: we have a robust solution that customers get at commodity pricing."Graham Keitch at software resellers Grey Matter is seeing growing interest in SharePoint and CRM. "Now you can use Office as a presentation layer, and I don't think companies yet realise that you can do a lot of the development yourself, especially with InfoPath."All of a sudden, the IT department has to let go. Users are much more familiar with their own work patterns and what they need to achieve from day to day. Office has the tools to enable people to suck in customer and billing information and work with that in a Word document, not a complex back-end system."Silver sees businesses getting those advantages almost accidentally. "The majority of those moving to Office 2003 move for Outlook," he says. "A smaller percentage plan to do business integration, but when they get it in place, they end up doing more."As usual, the biggest competition for the new features and improved integration in Office 12 will be older versions of Office.LinksMicrosoft Office Systemwww.microsoft.com/uk/officeOff-the-shelf Office applicationswww.softwareoven.comOpenOfficewww.openoffice.orgStarOfficewww.sun.com/software/star/staroffice&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
One of the many interesting things about the national identity card scheme is its potential to become the mother of all government IT disasters. All the ingredients are there - large-scale, highly visible political deadlines, unproven technology (especially biometrics) and hostile stakeholders.The government has yet to reveal how it plans to avoid the quagmire. It may, however, look for inspiration in another mega-programme that was widely tipped for disaster: the &pound;6bn computerisation of the NHS. Of course, it's still far too early to pronounce whether the NHS national programme for IT will succeed. But two of its innovative principles are already proving their worth.One was the decision to break up England into five regions and award separate IT contracts for each. This was quite bold because four out of the five regions thus created were wholly novel and did not follow existing NHS boundaries.The overt reason for splitting the programme up was to create contracts of a manageable size. A more subtle benefit, however, was to create a mechanism for judging progress. This is important. When big government IT projects run late, it is hard to crack the whip because managers can claim that what they are doing is unique. International comparisons ("They didn't seem to have your problem in Singapore") are useless because of differences in scale, culture or administrative structures.What the NHS has done is to create a five-horse race on a fairly level course. The race is now under way. While we have no way of measuring whether the lead horse is running at its best, we can at least encourage the other four to catch up.In practice, the field is opening up between three leaders and two trailers. Government's ability to crack the whip at the back of the field relies on another key principle of the NHS contracts, which is not to rely on a single supplier. If one firm fails to deliver, there is provision in the contract for it to be replaced by another. Barring a remarkable breakthrough, this "step in" provision will be brought into force within the next few weeks to replace a supplier to the two trailing regions.On the surface, the national ID card project cannot easily emulate these innovations. By definition, it has to impose a single infrastructure on the whole country, moving at the same speed in Pimlico and Polperro.Significantly, the component of the NHS programme most resembling the ID infrastructure - the interconnecting health records "spine" - is also the part that is causing the most grief. Following tough negotiations with contractor BT, the spine is being redesigned to create a "fail to local" mode - in other words, creating a buffer system so that an outage will not bring the whole health service to a halt. This is sensible because the majority of NHS transactions occur between local "health communities" of GPs and hospitals.No such fallback is available to the ID card. Either it works nationally, or not at all. An interesting challenge.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Police raids, fire engines and tax bills will be less likely to arrive at the wrong house when a new database announced by the government last week becomes reality. It is the UK's first centrally maintained definitive list of addresses.The so-called National Spatial Address Infrastructure (NSAI) is being created to end a turf war between different public agencies over who owns the intellectual property in addresses. It should end the farcical situation of many homes having several different official addresses while some have none at all. It may also enable a long-promised one-stop service through which people moving house can notify government agencies.However, the national address plan is causing controversy because of its cost and ownership. The scheme will also come under intense scrutiny because of its likely role in the proposed national identity register, part of the ID cards programme.At least four publicly owned bodies maintain nationwide lists of addresses: the Post Office, Ordnance Survey, the Valuation Office Agency and local authorities, which have created a "national land and property gazetteer". Most public bodies tap into these databases to keep their mailing lists up to date. There is, however, no mechanism for checking whether a home described as "garden flat" in one database is the same as the one described as "35A" in another. There are also many "objects without postal addresses", ranging from churches to public lavatories.Consequences range from petty inconveniences and uncollected taxes to, potentially, lost lives. Because agencies such as the Post Office and Ordnance Survey earn revenue by selling their data, there was no incentive for them to work together. Last year, an initiative called Acacia ran out of steam after spending nearly &pound;1m on consultants because the parties could not agree on who should own a single list.Last week, ministers claimed to have brokered an agreement between two of the stakeholders, Ordnance Survey mapping agency and the Improvement and Development Agency, which acts for local government. Phil Woolas, the local government minister, said the new infrastructure will "help to drive the knowledge economy as well as improve the quality and efficiency of vital public services".The infrastructure will resolve differences between different address lists and compile data to a common standard, called BS7666. The first "cut" of the new database is due to be available eight months after a final agreement is signed. However, that may be some way in the future. Last week's announcement formed part of a complex agreement between Ordnance Survey and local government. In effect, it transfers local government's gazetteer to Ordnance Survey, which will run the new national database. But it is not yet clear whether Royal Mail will join in, and on what terms.Experts in geographical information welcomed the plan but warned that many questions remain unanswered. Dr Bob Barr of Manchester University described the announcement as "very welcome indeed - it has come at the end of a very acrimonious war". He also says that with Ordnance Survey the database will be "in the right hands".However, Ordnance Survey, as a self-financing trading fund, has to pay its way by charging users for its data. The prospectus document for the NSAI warns that improved addresses will cost more money. "Additional datasets will be supplied as enhancements to the current Ordnance Survey Addressing Products. For central and local government users these enhancements will be supplied at an increase of approximately 50% of the current prices for addressing products." The document also says that Royal Mail, which has not yet joined the agreement, may expect its own royalties for data originating in its "postal address file".Barr says the whole idea of paying for the database at the point of use is "daft", as it will encourage agencies to keep their own lists. Instead, he called on central government to set up a system similar to that for internet addresses - anyone registering an address or making a change would pay a one-off fee, and data would then be free for anyone else to use. "All the costs of preventing leakage to people who haven't paid, and billing people for it, as well as the unnecessary duplication of multiple copies of the data could be avoided if it was financed in this way."One prominent critic of government land information policy, Liberal Democrat councillor Tony Vickers, also welcomed the address plan, with reservations. "I am pleased that the government has taken a positive and strong step towards giving one agency responsibility," he says. "But a lot of questions remain to be answered. The timetable is very ambitious and the intellectual property issues are not easy."Vickers shares Barr's concerns about the complications of different branches of government buying and selling data from each other. "They're laying a minefield for themselves by playing at traders in information which really should be free."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Over the next few weeks, thousands of Britons will buy a digital camera to take on their summer holidays. For many, the key criteria for deciding which camera to purchase will be how many megapixels it can capture. But is there more to buying a camera than totting up its megapixels?"There is a false perception among consumers that the more megapixels a digital camera has, the better," says Tim Potter, image capture manager HP UK &amp; Ireland. "For everyday photography, three-to-four megapixels is more than enough to achieve the desired photograph and indeed enlarge the image to A4-plus size."So what else should consumers look for when buying a digital camera? Just follow our top tips.&#183; Useability"There's little point in having a large camera stacked out with facilities if you are not going to take it anywhere," says Vic Solomon, product intelligence professional at Canon UK. "It might be worth considering a compact model if you are going to use it more." John Dickins, marketing manager imaging systems Pentax UK, agrees, citing "styling, size and ease of use" as the key factors for consumers to consider.&#183; ZoomsIt is easy for companies to add powerful digital zooms, but they are largely irrelevant unless users want to home in on a subject from a significant distance. Solomon believes "a good 3x optical zoom will be more than enough for most digital camera users".&#183; LCD monitorsWhile a large LCD monitor, such as the one on Sony's DSC-T7, can be a strong selling point, resolution is arguably more important than size. This is because the user needs a sharp monitor to be able to read menu instructions, sometimes in poor lighting.&#183; Image processorAll digital cameras have an image processing system that takes the images from the chip and then, by adjusting elements such as exposure, colour balance and sharpness, delivers the image. However, some are more sophisticated than others, and it is hard to judge a camera's processor without seeing the images it takes.&#183; FlashThere are essentially two types of flashes on consumer digital cameras. Strobe flashes, which fire a series of lights, and constant light. If you intend to use the flash heavily, go for a constant light - these deliver more natural images as subjects tend to react less to them.&#183; Intelligent facilitiesMost cameras boast a range of auto-exposure modes, such as sports options for capturing fast-moving objects. There are, however, some intelligent modes that are worth investigating, such as Nikon's Face Priority, which automatically senses the presence of a face and adjusts the focus accordingly.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Personal audioLittle voiceCreative has unveiled its smallest hard disk-based digital music player so far. Set to take on both the iPod mini and the Samsung YH-820, the Zen Neeon features a 5GB hard disk in a unit that has dimensions of 8cm x 4.7cm x 1.6cm and weighs 75g. It is compatible with MP3 and WMA files (including copyright-protected ones) and boasts an FM radio, a microphone for voice recording and a line input so music can be transferred directly to the device from a CD player. Battery life is rated at about 16 hours. It will go on sale in the UK shortly and is expected to retail for about &pound;140.www.creative.comWater musicDue in shops any day now, the H2O Audio SV iMini (&pound;115) turns your iPod mini into an underwater music player. The American see-through case works much like a camera case, and is cleverly designed to let you access all of the player's controls. Meanwhile, the supplied waterproof headphones slide alarmingly far up your ear canals to deliver decent sounds at depths of up to 3m. Waterproof cases for regular iPods are also available, as are neoprene armbands and swim belts, so you don't lose your 'Pod while you swim, surf or snorkel. For stockists, call Channel Dynamics on 0870 607 0540.www.h2oaudio.comMobile phonesSea viewYou could be forgiven for not wanting to use your mobile phone while playing in the sea. Sadly, the new WaveCase waterproof housing for mobiles won't allow you to make voice calls or surf the web underwater. It does, however, enable cameraphone owners to take pictures of the deep. The casing, which is impervious to a depth of about 20 metres, also comes with a strap that hangs around your neck. The case works with any phone that is no larger than 110mm x 55mm x 22mm. It is available for &euro;49.90 (&pound;33.80).www.wavecase.de/en/index.htmLow-key LGFollowing on from the launch of the feature-free easy-to-use Simply phone from Vodafone last week, LG has announced its own basic mobile aimed at technophobes, which is available via T-Mobile. The B2050, which LG is billing as a talk and text handset, is a very small upright phone with a 65k colour screen. There's no camera, Bluetooth or music player, but it does have Wap facilities, games and an alarm, all of which are controlled by a four-way rocker switch and large-ish buttons. It is on sale for &pound;39.99.www.tmobile.co.ukHardwareEye podElgato's EyeTV Wonder was one of the hits at the Macworld expo in San Francisco earlier this year, but it has only just started rolling out to consumers. The palm-sized add-on may look rather ungainly - it certainly doesn't chime with Apple's dominant aesthetic - but it packs a powerful punch. Built as a plug-and-play device to let Mac users watch TV on their computer screens, the Wonder's built-in ATI processor takes the heat off your desktop system, allowing you to run live television easily alongside other applications. It has a friendly online TV guide, onscreen controls, and can record shows - although that is not its primary function.www.elgato.comCamcordersDiddy camSanyo has launched the latest in its series of flash memory-based camcorders. The Xacti C5 is smaller and lighter than its predecessor, the C. It also boasts more storage because of its 1GB Secure Digital card, which Sanyo claims can house an hour's worth of MPEG4 standard footage. The camera can take five-megapixel still images, plus it has a 2in LCD monitor, a digital image stabiliser and 5x optical and 12x digital zooms. It is available in silver, bronze or white and retails for about &pound;500.www.sanyo.co.uk&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris, Bobbie Johnson and Caramel Quin&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The NW-HD5, Sony's third attempt at a hard disk-based Walkman, is its most successful yet, and in certain key areas leaves the opposition trailing in its wake. It is both smaller and lighter than its equivalent 20GB iPod, and unlike the Apple player, it is compatible with Windows Media Audio (WMA) as well as MP3 and ATRAC files. It is also a bit cheaper, at &pound;200. Its main advantage over the iPod, however, is its battery, which runs for 40 hours if using ATRAC, and just less than 30 if using MP3.The NW-HD5 also boasts a couple of new facilities: a large display that works in landscape or portrait mode, and a menu option that lets users see the tracks most recently transferred to the device. The sound quality is exceptional for a hard disk player.However, while its large, slightly recessed buttons are simple to use, they are not as fast or as accurate as Apple's superb scroll wheel. Apple also still has two ace cards: its intuitive iTunes software, and its popular online music store. But as for the hardware, this device just about gives Sony the edge.www.sony.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Backing trackIs there any PC software that can separate lyrics from the tune, ie take out the singer and leave the backing?Ken PriceJack Schofield replies:This is possible if the vocalist is located centre-stage in a stereo mix. The basic procedure involves reversing the signal polarity of one of the tracks and adding it to the other. Anything that is equally present in both should cancel out. Sound On Sound magazine has an explanation atwww.soundonsound.com/sos/apr02/articles/qa0402.asp. However, according to Ethan Winer, this may not work with computer-based sound files: "MP3 encoding processes the two channels separately, so they are not identical enough to cancel" (www.ethanwiner.com/novocals.html). Winer recommends Vogone software (www.mtu.com/basics/vocal-eliminator.htm), which costs $54.95 (&pound;30). Searching for "vocal eliminator" will bring up other options; you could consider the Thompson Vocal Eliminator Model VE-4 (www.ltsound.com). This site says: "You can create a simple free L-R eliminator without any equipment. Just connect the Left Plus (L+) and Right Plus (R+) speaker outputs on your amplifier to a single speaker and the centre channel will be removed. You can use the balance control to fine tune the voice."Secure stepsThe Yahoo login page has an option for a Secure Login. Is this actually more secure, and if so, how? By the way, I read Online every week and think it's great. I just wish there was more space for the Ask Jack section.Simon LanariaJS:Secure login does make logging in more secure, but that is as far as it goes. Most web data is sent as unencrypted text, which means email and passwords could be read en route. Secure login systems usually use SSL, Netscape's Secure Sockets Layer protocol, to encrypt the data using a private key. When this is being used, the web address conventionally starts with https:// instead of http://, and a small image of a lock should appear at the bottom of your browser. You should never send things like credit card details except via an encrypted link. When you log on to Yahoo using the secure option (https://login.yahoo.com), this helps protect your password. However, once you have logged in, you will find you are using the usual non-secure option to read and send mail.Credit checksI'm a 13-year-old girl who loves her music, but my dad is worried about me downloading illegal music. Is there a legal service at a reasonable price that he can trust with his credit card number?Jasmin BlackJS:At the moment, the market leader is Apple's iTunes Music Store, which is easy to use and can be trusted with a credit card. However, in my view, the music companies are charging far too much for tracks that are of limited audio quality. Unless prices come down, subscription services (where you pay a monthly fee and can download as much as you want) such as Napster 2 look a better option, but these are also too expensive in the UK. In the US, Yahoo has bought Musicmatch and launched Yahoo Music Unlimited, which costs $4.99 a month if you buy an annual subscription. The low price is only guaranteed during the site's beta test, but it's probably worth waiting for reasonable subscription prices to reach the UK. In the meantime, it's easy enough to rip tracks from CDs, and some portable players can record tracks from a built-in FM radio.Legal loopholesWhen I listen to tracks from a famous band's website, an MP3 file of each track is deposited in my Temporary Internet Files folder. I could burn these files to CD, rather than buying the album, but is this legal?James BellingerJS:Sound and video streams commonly create temporary files that you can copy into a standard folder, and there are also programs that will capture these streams. Not being a lawyer, I'm not qualified to say that it is illegal, but I'd expect it to be a breach of copyright, and it is certainly against the spirit in which the band has made its tracks available. If the site was offering downloads, it would have download links.Backchat&#183;Last week, Peter J Laszlo asked if he could run the old Lotus Symphony program under Windows XP. Roger Macy confirms that it does run, but adds that if the files are large he may need to fiddle around with the parameters for expanded memory.&#183;Chris Williams, technical director of Copycat Software Ltd, didn't like me calling XP's Command Prompt a DOS emulator. It is, he says, "a fully 32-bit console (cmd.exe, not command.com). Using it to launch a program, whether originally intended for a 16-bit version of Windows or not, is no different from using Windows Explorer." He recommends using the Compatibility tab to generate "what looks like a shortcut (and is actually a .PIF file)" to run old programs such as Symphony.
Top drawPac-PixNintendo DS, &pound;29.99Nintendo/Namco, ****The tech demo of Pac-Pix at last year's E3 caused many people to fall in love with Nintendo's DS, so there has been a lot of curiosity about how the full game would turn out.The concept behind the game, which really shows off the DS's capabilities to the full, is to draw various shapes on the touchscreen, which then spring to life.Central to this is Pac-Man himself, who can be drawn facing in four directions and will pop into existence and start chomping on ghosts (no pill-popping for this Pac). Walls can be drawn to help guide him around and the bigger or smaller you draw him dictates the speed at which he moves.Later in the game you get to draw arrows, which can knock down floating ghosts and pop balloons, and also bombs that will blow a luckless ghost out of its protective shell. There are also a few environmental considerations, including reflector shields, ink splodges (which can't be drawn over) and a neat back alley that you can unlock and direct Pac down when you need some breathing space.There is something unnerving about seeing your mutated Pac-Man drawings come to life before your eyes. But while the Pac symbol is forgiving of wobbly stylus movement, the arrow seems to be a lot more hit-and-miss. There isn't a multi-layer mode, which is a little bit of a shame, but Pac-Pix is crackingly good fun, not to mention a rather good spatial workout for your brain.Rhianna PratchettSterling risesCold WinterPlayStation 2, &pound;39.99Vivendi/Swordfish, ***With videogames, the script used to be the weak point, but times have changed for the better, and Cold Winter is a case in point. While the setting is cliched - cold war and Bond-esque - the plot and cut scenes add gravitas to the proceedings.As former MI6 agent Andrew Sterling, your aim is to, eventually, save the world. Cold Winter is a first-person shooter on the PS2 - a platform not graced with the best of the genre. At first glance, the graphics are underwhelming, with slightly anachronistic looks. The action, initially at least, feels generic, but soon develops into something quite interesting. Nice touches abound, such as the ability to scavenge armour from slain assailants. You can also create items - such as Molotov cocktails - from what you snaffle, and you can interact with the scenery, using items as cover.When you do encounter the enemy, the Artificial Intelligence makes for a tough opponent. The blood and body splattering when you register a hit is excessive, but satisfying.This is a perfectly enjoyable first-person-shooter, even if the visuals are a little rough. But there is nothing here that really drags the game on to the highest level. However, as a new, non-sequel game that contains a well-written script and enjoyable action, Cold Winter is a solid contender.Greg HowsonMonster rucksMonster HunterPlayStation 2, &pound;39.99Capcom, ***Few games make use of the PS2's online capabilities, so the fact that Monster Hunter can be played online instantly makes it stand out from the crowd. It has an interesting premise, too: you find yourself in a beautiful prehistoric world, in which humans live in villages and dinosaurs roam the countryside.In the single-player game, you work your way through quests that become steadily harder. But as you complete those quests, you earn money to buy new equipment and upgrade your existing weapons and armour (you can even use the skin and horns of beasts you have killed). As the quests become more involved, the game becomes more tactical. Online, you can play through quests with up to four friends, working collectively to, say, distract a monster's attention while one of the party escapes from its nest.Given the basic nature of the single-player game, and its slow pace, you would have to say that the online game provides a better gameplay experience. But, since hooking up to the PS2's online service is far from straightforward, this will only interest dedicated online console gamers. Monster Hunter is no Everquest-style persistent world, but a four-player cooperative game. At least it dares to be different.Steve BoxerTop 5 gamesMobile java downloads1.Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?2.Steve Davis Snooker3.Tetris4.Golf Club5.LemmingsSource: Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Right after New Labour re-announced its plans for a national eID (electronic identity) card, Hewlett-Packard launched an all purpose platform called NIS (National Identification System) and flew a dozen of us journalists to Geneva for a four-hour press conference.The timing wasn't deliberate, of course. HP was just following the tried and tested IT strategy of standardising and packaging its experience in introducing eID cards in countries such as Bulgaria, Italy and Switzerland and, in particular, developing Schengen Information System 2 for the European commission.The UK is five or 10 years behind the curve in smartcards, and using experience from other countries should make it easier and cheaper to introduce a system here - though we should never underestimate the ability of the IT section of UK government to screw up.HP's NIS is a platform, not a product. It is assembled from numerous parts supplied by many partners, and is designed to cover most eventualities. Some countries may go for citizen-friendly systems that don't even contain names and addresses, whereas others will take an Orwellian approach. The platform has to provide the building blocks for all of them without making any political decisions.HP also claims NIS has been developed in Europe. It requires a wide range of software, including digital certificates and databases, plus hardware that ranges from biometric sensors (face and fingerprint scanners, etc) to smartcard printers. Much of this comes from European partners such as Wisekey, Datacard, Monet+ and Hermes Softlab. But what has surprised some people is that HP has built NIS on Microsoft.net software rather than open source and Sun's Java. HP is, after all, one of Linux's main supporters, and -according to IDC research - is now the biggest supplier of Linux servers.However, Forrester Research reckons Microsoft.net has overtaken Java, and has two thirds of the public sector market against J2EE's one third. HP's security and defence systems director, Jim Ganthier, says the company will supply whatever governments mandate, but adds: "The bulk of the requests we're getting are Microsoft."It seems not too many Linux hackers are developing large-scale national security systems on their kitchen tables, and even if they were, governments tend to balk at the idea that, in Ganthier's words, "they've got my code".Either way, HP hopes to grab a large slice of the &euro;127bn (&pound;87bn) that the 25 EU countries will spend on e-government this year. There are already four countries with compulsory ID cards (Belgium, Germany, Greece and Spain) and many more have voluntary systems. Others will follow because, as HP's European public sector marketing boss, Pascal Detemmerman, says, "it's more than a tool, it's the political agenda".The move to electronic ID systems is global and inevitable. The real arguments should be about design and implementation. Whether anyone buys HP's NIS or not, at least the platform design makes the range of options visible.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
How far has parallel computing moved on since the days of the Connection Machine?The funny thing is how quickly it went from being impossible to obvious. Everybody had "proof" that it was going to be impossible but now it is hard to get yourself in that mindframe. In the first Scientific American article I wrote about the Connection Machine (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connection_Machine), I suggested that some day, big kernel computers would serve a city and everyone would use the same computer. That seemed a crazy idea but now, whenever anybody searches Google, everybody in the world is using it.Where is parallel computing headed?Part of the problem is that people don't understand how often they use parallel computers. Like all good technology, it is reaching the point where it is becoming invisible. My definition of technology is "the stuff that doesn't really work yet". Parallel computing has almost crossed the line into not being a technology any more ... it's just the way things work.How about artificial intelligence?The interesting thing about AI is that a lot of the things we thought were going to be hard turned out to be easy and vice versa. We assumed the things that were hard for us were going to be hard for computers. Playing chess is hard for us but it turned out to be pretty easy for a computer. We hardly notice understanding a voice or recognising a face, yet those things are on the cutting edge for computers. AI has taught me how much of what the brain does is at the unconscious level.So is the voice recognition we see in movies some way off?We will see steady improvement in speech recognition, machine-movement vision and so forth. There won't be a sudden breakthrough, but before too long we'll be talking to computers on the phone and they will have fewer limitations. Increasingly, you'll talk to appliances. Initially, you'll say simple things like "on" or "off". After a while, you'll have more complex conversations about, say, whether their warranty has expired.Will it get less infuriating talking to an automated switchboard on the phone?It'll probably get more infuriating before it gets less infuriating. In some sense, having machines with a little bit of intelligence is infuriating. The name for a little bit of intelligence is "stupidity". No doubt you have interacted with machines that were just smart enough to screw you up.Does the digital realm mean a book like Pattern On The Stone could be upgradeable?It is a terrifying concept to some authors that a work is a living thing. It would be more interesting if everyone could contribute to it, add to it and extend it. People have found mistakes in that book, so I could incorporate their notes into another printing. But more interesting would be if I could put it out electronically and they could add their own notes to it. That would begin to get some of the things I'm talking about with making humans smarter through collaboration.Visit:www.appliedminds.comandwww.longnow.org&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
It makes sense to have a printer, scanner and copier all in one device, but until recently, it was too expensive for manufacturers to include laser printing in systems aimed at small and medium-sized businesses. But now, thanks to the decline in cost of laser printing engines, that is changing.Last month, Epson announced a colour laser multifunction printer with the Aculaser CX11N series that cost about &pound;500. This was followed by Hewlett-Packard's similarly priced LaserJet 2800 series. The 2800 AiO (All-in-One) is network-ready and prints 19 pages per minute (ppm) in mono and 4ppm in colour.The multifunction printer (MFP) or all-in-one is one of the fastest-growing sectors of the printer market. Typically, these devices combine print, scan, copy and sometimes fax features in one unit. At the higher end, they also offer network connectivity, the ability to email scanned or copied images to other users, and to print on both sides of the paper.Several manufacturers have launched colour inkjet MFPs that are raising the bar on speed and quality while blurring the line between inkjet and laser. For example, Xerox's WorkCentre 2424, which costs &pound;1,900, is the first MFP based on the company's solid-ink technology, which can produce high-quality colour prints. Meanwhile Oki's C5510, priced at &pound;869, uses single-pass printing to deliver 12ppm in colour and 20ppm in mono.Such is the confidence of the manufacturers that Lexmark predicts all MFPs will be colour by 2007. But their success will depend partly on whether people think they can afford to print more in colour, which is typically about seven times the cost per page of printing in mono.With MFP prices ranging from about &pound;200 to &pound;2,000, buyers may be confused about the relative merits of different devices. Most buyers consider print speed, price and form factor, but experts say the cost of ownership should be taken more seriously now manufacturers sell the hardware almost as loss leaders.Peter Maude, an analyst with Charisco Printer Labs, says manufacturers are beginning to wage a war over the cost of consumables such as ink cartridges. "One of the most impressive characteristics of the HP device is that consumables, unlike those for the Xerox 2424, have not been keyed to create an artificial monopoly," he says. "The same consumables fit both its LaserJet 2550 and the new All-in-One device."Maude says Oki and Xerox have adjusted the price of toner so that black and white printing is cheaper on the MFP than on their printers, but colour is more expensive.When it comes to print speeds, consumers are right to be cautious about advertised figures. Many manufacturers, including Xerox, admit that print speeds given in brochures are misleading. "There is no agreed standard, which makes it very difficult to compare," says Ken Salmon, manager of Xerox's monochrome business unit. "We refer buyers to independent tests that look at a range of tasks to get a better comparison."Xerox's MFPs compare particularly well in tests by the US-based Buyers Laboratory, which runs 15 different print jobs when comparing printers.It's even harder for buyers to evaluate an MFP's ability to perform more than one task at the same time. The cheaper products can only handle one task at a time, but some high-end MFPs can juggle printing, scanning, copying, and faxing simultaneously. They can also save paper costs by printing on both sides.But one of the biggest changes in the printer market is the shift to online sales. All the manufacturers are keenly aware that with Dell's arrival, they must now prune their costs and compete directly with online sales.Dell began selling printers in the UK two years ago, and now offers a dozen printers aimed at consumers and small businesses. However, it does not have a laser colour MFP. "We are keeping an eye on how this market grows and will review our range as the market develops," says John Kelly, printer business manager at Dell UK.Whatever the sales model, MFPs are beginning to make inroads into medium-sized firms that would traditionally use separate devices. For example, Bournemouth-based law firm Lester Aldridge, which has a staff of 350 across five sites, has gone from using a mixture of different printers to MFPs from Canon. IT director Neil Prevett says there are many benefits: "It makes organising consumables a lot easier and more predictable, and because the devices are fully networked, we are able to accurately measure printer usage and integrate digital scans into our document management system."But another IT manager, who prefers to remain anonymous, suggests MFPs have some way to go. "There is no point giving colour MFPs to most staff - they hardly ever use most of the functions," he says. "Besides, if I give them colour, they will just waste money printing out party invitations and the like."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Satellite tracking - which can locate you to within a metre - is going to be a huge success, but, as with so much new technology, reality takes a long time to catch up with the hype.I've been testing two new devices for in-car navigation that are a big improvement on previous ones. They were both linked by software in the phone's memory card to small bluetooth (wireless) devices that can sit on the shelf in front of the driver. This eliminates the spaghetti junction of wires that have hither hampered smooth operation. Both link to ordinary phones rather than personal digital assistants, and both were surprisingly accurate in locating where the phone was.I first tried the TomTom version on a (widescreen) Nokia 7710 in a tiny road near the office, which it located immediately. It was good on long journeys, giving clear instructions both onscreen and aurally in a non-Dalek voice. It was moody keeping satellite signals among London's high-rise blocks but it steered me safely home.The second device used an even smaller Navicore 111 positioning device (cost &pound;199) linked to a Nokia 6630 phone (though it works with some other Symbian phones too). When it worked well it was a joy. It recalculates journeys quickly, even finding routes to familiar places I hadn't contemplated. It fits snugly into a small purse on your belt and can work without a direct line of vision to the satellite.But the user interface was disappointing, wiping out instructions that I had typed in and being choosy about how destinations were described. I had to stop twice on the way to a funeral to re-input instructions. Another time, it kept giving instructions even though I had long been at home.This gap between hype and reality is familiar to early adopters. As with Wap, which has now overcome well-publicised teething problems, and 3G phones, the problems will be solved. When they are - quite soon - global positioning will be huge. It is already in use around the world, tracking offenders and even suspected murderers. As price and size shrink, in-car navigation will prove more efficient than maps and pinpoint accuracy will one day make a big impact on traffic congestion charging, as well as tracking goods on the move and boosting mobile games.Some companies are already marketing novel uses such as devices in underwear so partners can monitor infidelities, and in some developing countries, satellite navigation is being used to help fishermen find shoals. Many parents will be glad they will be able to keep track of children, and people involved in accidents (discovered by automatic analysis of traffic flows) could have their location transmitted automatically to an ambulance.Soon satellite navigation will be given a big boost by the EU's Galileo project, which will have 30 satellites in the sky providing fierce competition for the existing American GPS system. A competition is to be held to discover new uses. It is also interesting that while Europe's proposed constitution is falling apart, projects such as the Airbus and Galileo are steaming ahead. There is a moral there somewhere.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Ageless concernWho needs this patronising "Silver Surfer" nonsense (Second sight, May 26)? Being over 50 might mean a few more aches and pains but it doesn't mean your brain falls off. I can't think why, at 55, I should be regarded as having fundamentally different computing needs from those of the average 20-, 30- or 40-year-old. Nor do I believe there is any justification for making access to vital services dependent upon the use of a technology that people of any age might choose not to adopt. It would improve the situation if internet service providers gave everyone a reliable broadband service for the same price as their dial-up service, and one which doesn't exhaust your patience as rapidly as it drains away your life savings. Crap service is crap service whatever one's age.Roor CartwrightRadlett, HertfordshireThose who can, doAm I the only over-50 who feels patronised by this article? I have used computers for more than 20 years. I have had broadband almost since the day it came out. I used Mosaic long before Internet Explorer. I used to code my own internet pages in raw HTML. I can maintain and extend my computer. I have a wireless home network. And I am a woman over 50. I am prepared to believe that there are many older people who have not yet been introduced to the wonder of computers, but some of us can hold our own with any youngster.Sandra SempleSeaton, DevonSafety barrierSorry, but Victor Keegan hasn't got it right. I had an Oric and ever since I've been at home with computers. I'm now 77, and I still won't do anything involving money on the internet. The net compounds all the horrors one reads of: there are so many stories of con artists waiting at every click of a mouse to lure you astray, steal from you or deny you service, while myriad viruses are waiting to pounce. The elderly don't want the trouble of lots of new stuff to learn or how to cope with problems. There is no way that most over-65s will take to the computer until it is as simple and safe, and as well understood, as using the telephone - and very nearly as cheap.Roy ChivertonEckington, WorcestershireFancy freeVodafone is right to recognise that many mobile phone users don't want expensive gadgets stuffed full of useless functions (Simply does it, May 26). But it's not just the "oldies" who prefer a simple phone. I consider myself an early adopter of most technologies, but I want a mobile with a high contrast monochrome screen, good speech quality, long battery life, sturdy design and none of the expensive services mobile operators are so keen on. "No, we don't do those," is the unanimous reply I receive in mobile phone shops. I wonder why?Frank JordansLondonCrime watchSo Jack Schofield wants someone to show Tony Blairwww.chicagocrime.organd tell him we want the same thing (Web Watch, May 26)? Well, in West Yorkshire we've already got it, and have had it for some time. Visitwww.beatcrime.infoand punch in your postcode, then select a crime and you can see a map showing what offences have occurred nearby.Stuart BruceWakefieldHappy shopperRecent letters have criticised ebuyer for poor service. This is entirely contrary to my experience of the company. I have used ebuyer for both small and large purchases for about three years and they have delivered the goods, both metaphorically and literally, on every occasion. I did once have to return a monitor that had been damaged in transit, and while the replacement was slow in arriving, it nevertheless arrived as promised.Denis ChambersHuddersfieldMore BT bluesWe recently moved from our rented house to the one next door, and it took BT three weeks to move our broadband from one side of a party wall to the next. The process was made worse by having to deal with people who would answer simple questions with vague, anti-technological explanations - one helpline person told me the delay was due to "moving your emails over". After a cumulative eight hours on the phone to the helpline, and a huge bill on dial-up, I finally got a call telling me that broadband had been re-enabled. Of course, it didn't work: another hour on the line eventually revealed that, for some reason, my username had been changed. "They'll probably have sent you out a letter to tell you," suggested the helpdesk man. As yet, no official confirmation has arrived.Simon Hayes BudgenMilton KeynesDownload deficitWith regards to Martin Burstyn's letter (Feedback, May 12), I deposited &pound;20 with MSN Music UK in December 2003 and downloaded eight tracks at 99p each. I recently returned to their updated service and found that my credit had disappeared. Are their actions legal?Peter FaulknerLondononline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
EU antitrust authorities were today assessing Microsoft's proposals for complying with last year's landmark antitrust ruling.The software giant submitted its proposals to the European commission close to a midnight deadline after being hit with a record &amp;euro:497m (£335.6m) fine in March last year."We received all sorts of documents," an EU spokesman said, although he refused to discuss the contents of the proposal. Microsoft also declined to talk about any aspect of its submitted papers.The commission last year ruled that Microsoft was using its Windows software - the world's dominant operating system for personal computers - to block competition in video and audio software.It threatened further fines of up to 5% of Microsoft's global turnover - &amp;euro:4m a day - if the company failed to take remedial action.Under the imposed penalties, or remedies, Microsoft was ordered to make its ubiquitous Windows operating system available without Windows Media Player, meaning computer makers could choose to incorporate alternative software for films and music from RealNetworks and Apple.Microsoft was also directed to share information with rival makers of servers used to run printers and retrieve files, an issue known as interoperability, and propose an acceptable trustee to monitor compliance as well.The commission said it would take weeks to analyse Microsoft's proposals.The issue of compliance has been a long-running sore - Microsoft was supposed to have taken action in the spring and summer of 2004. Instead, it took the commission to court in an attempt to delay implementation of the remedies until a broader challenge to the decision was settled in 2006 or later.When a judge rebuffed Microsoft in December, the company was not ready to submit versions of the remedies acceptable to the commission.Neelie Kroes, the competition commissioner, lost patience and issued a deadline of midnight last night for Microsoft to come up with proposals.
PC buyers have consistently declined to buy small computers (well,the Shuttle has sold a few), but some manufacturers are going to have another go, following the appearance -- literally -- of the Mac Mini.InIT World, Tom Krazit of IDG News Service reports from Computex in Taiwan:The AOpen product, which is modeled on its XC Cube product line and is being shown at Intel Corp.'s booth, is part of a larger effort backed by Intel to promote the use of the Pentium M processor in small PCs designed for living rooms and entertainment centers, an Intel spokeswoman said. The company is working with several PC manufacturers and vendors on similar PCs, which should be released later this year, she said.The new mini PCs will generally use the Penium M range of low-power processors, originally designed as part of Intel's Centrino "think and light" chip set. The M chip, formerly code-named Banias, is highly regarded, of course, but it has a major drawback: it's damned expensive.In apress release, AOpen says:Measuring 15 cm by 15 cm by 5 cm, Mini PC is not only the world's smallest Intel PC platform, but also smaller than a similar model on the market," says Vincent Cho, VP and GM of Solution Products Business Unit. "What is more important, billions of Wintel users in the world no longer have to tolerate the hassle of switching operating systems just to take advantage of the miniaturized and stylish personal computing devices."AOpen launched several other PCs at Computex, including the ePC (entertainment PC) range, Media Center Server and the AOpen XC REC6 AV system -- detailshere. It already offers theXcube, among others.
Gaming may have grown up, but it seems the console manufacturers have yet to do so. A recentarticlein the Japanese press quoted the heads of Nintendo, Sony and Microsoft as they discussed the next generation. And it wasn't pretty. "The other two companies' (Sony and Nintendo) presentations at E3 weren't surprising." said Microsoft's Robbie Bach. Sony's Ken Kutaragi was even bitchier. "Just like with their operating systems, they (Microsoft) might come out with something good around the third generation of their release." Opting out of the fistfight was Satoru Iwata of Nintendo. "We're not about selling new kinds of TVs or taking control of the living room", he said.So why all this now then? Clearly the post-E3 fallout has started, with Sony and Microsoft already squaring up. I have a bit of sympathy for Microsoft. Xbox 360 was totally outshone at E3 by some stunning PS3 demos, despite being the only next-gen machine to show proper playable games. And the PS3 tech demos, of course, are likely to bear little resemblance to the finished product.Meanwhile, the E3 360 titles like Call of Duty and Ghost Recon showed the undoubted graphical oomph of the new Xbox. But how Bach can say, "we will become the market leader with our next-generation console", and keep a straight face, is beyond me, even if the quote was lost in translation. I can see the gap narrowing, especially with the increasing take-up of online gaming, but PlayStation 3 is certain to retain leadership. Its brand and reach are simply to strong. The danger for Sony lies in overconfidence. "We will be advancing to the next level with revolutionary technology." said Kutargi. Those who were burned by the ridiculous "emotion engine" hype for PS2 will be warier this time round.And what about Nintendo? The Revolution was briefly shown at E3, mainly to remind everyone they were still at the table. But Nintendo are now fighting a different battle. By letting Sony and Microsoft satisfy the techno-lust of 20 and 30-something males, Nintendo are pitching themselves even more at those who wouldn't know a joypad from a memory card. Thesuccess of Nintendogsin Japan may vindicate this approach. "We're aiming to increase the population of game players with these new kinds of games", says Iwata. My experience of DS - and its appeal to "non-gamers" - suggests that Nintendo are definitely onto something.Whatever else happens, expect more top brass gaming spats over the next 12 months.
