Hey there, it's Wednesday. Anyone stay up for the Sony conference at the Tokyo Game Show last night?
The digerati mostly greeted the iPhone 5 last week with a collective yawn. So much was already known – a longer, larger (yet not wider) screen, thinner body, a new connector offering instant obsolescence for hundreds of accessories – that its Tom Daley-like lack of splash was declared, in this Olympic year, to lack enough of the technology motto citius, grandior, vilius (faster, bigger, cheaper) – even if it is the first two.Like statisticians poring over Olympic outcomes, they declared too that it didn't break any records – not the biggest screen, not the world's thinnest phone, not packing the most features. But as anyone who watched the Games would tell you, it's not the record-breaking that matters; it's the experience.That starts when you hold it: raw specifications (18% thinner than last year's 4S, 20% lighter, 12% less volume) don't explain how it seems to float in the hand, and how typing or swiping feels like touching the very pixels. (New processes have removed one layer of glass from the touchscreen.) The tactile pleasure is second only to Nokia's beguilingly curved (and largely overlooked) Lumia 800. And while the 4in screen is longer, but not wider (enough for six rows of icons rather than five), you can still swipe across it with your thumb, unlike giants such as Samsung's whopping 4.8in Galaxy S3.Software and services, not just specsIn truth, it's the software that makes this phone amazing. In a world dominated by "specifications" – how fast, how far, how many, many commentators think the Olympics of smartphones is measured, like a race, by how fast you do things. Does this phone run at 1.6 GHz and that one at 1.61GHz? Award the medal!What photos and specifications can't tell you is what it's like to hold in your hand. While Apple can show you endless photos and promo videos (and critics can endlessly snort at how feeble its measurements are compared with bigger rivals), it's only by picking it up do you understand what Sir Jonathan Ive is on about. He speaks in his quietly rapturous tones about "chamfered edges" and "unique object" – and "seamlessly". (And "aluminium", correctly.)The first surprise is that it's really light, making the year-old iPhone 4S feel like a paperweight. There's also a subtle friction to the edges and the metal back that makes it far less likely to slip from your grasp (a complaint often made of the iPhone 4 and 4S).Next, although the screen is longer (4in diagonally rather than the 4S's 3.5in; 1136x640 pixels, compared with the 4S's 960x640, both at 326ppi), fitting in six rows of icons instead of five, you can still operate it by sweeping one thumb across the screen, from home button at the bottom to power switch at the top.Among smartphones, bigger screens abound, but most are compromised because as they grow, they need two hands to operate. Somehow Apple has evaded this pitfall. The HTC Titan, for example, with a 4.7in screen, is unusable because (like the iPhone) its power button is on the top; you can't hold a phone in your palm and still reach all the way across the top. (In contrast the Samsung Galaxy S3 – hereafter the SGS3 – has its power button near the top of the right-hand side, so you can work it.)Another element you can't see from the pictures: when you start typing, or swiping between apps, it feels as though you're touching the pixels; the production process has eliminated a layer of glass in the touchscreen. It's spooky at first; after only a short while other phones feel thick.Down from the iCloudFor existing iPhone owners who have an iCloud account to which they have backed up their phone, there's a nice welcome that didn't exist last year. If you activate a new iPhone with that iCloud account, you can set it up with everything – including photos, apps, settings and passwords for email and calendars and Wi-Fi, and even details such as your alarm times.Everything is as it was on the old one, seamlessly. That's better than either Android or Windows Phone, the two principal contenders, which will download your apps but leave you to fill in the settings and recreate your alarms and app settings.Sure, you might not set up an iPhone more than once every couple of years – but having it work like this (new since last year, because iCloud backups were only introduced with the 4S) is a definite plus.4G/LTE, battery life and signal levelIn the UK, only Everything Everywhere (Orange/T-Mobile) will have4G connectivityat least until 2013, when 3 will have some of its 1800MHz spectrum. I couldn't test this as I was using an O2-enabled model (and couldn't just swap in my own Orange/T-Mobile SIM, because the iPhone 5 uses the new nano-SIM). The expectation is that it will offer connectivity of up to 100Mbps over long distances; if it does, it will transform the whole experience of using this phone and others like it, as you'll see.I couldn't directly comparesignal receptionof the 4S and 5 because the two models I was comparing were on different networks (Orange and O2), rendering any comparison moot.Battery lifeon the iPhone 5 seemed better, though it wasn't possible in the time available to make a precise comparison. Apple is certainly promising more – 225 hours' standby time on the iPhone 5 against 200 on the iPhone 4S, though that's still less than the 300 hours originally offered for the iPhone 4. But it's promising more 3G browsing and talk time (8 hours v 6 hours), plus 8 hours of LTE use – which is colossal, given that early versions of LTE chewed through battery life. By biding its time and not offering it last year, Apple may have given itself the best chance to benefit from 4G. But the proof of the pudding will be in the eating.The flipside – how quickly it charges, rather than discharges – is positive: the iPhone 5 is a power sponge, charging even more quickly than the 4S, which was no slouch itself.Panoramic cameraThe "Panorama" camera functionality is truly remarkable. Start moving the camera, take a picture, and it will keep going until you have a 28MP scene. Yes, other cameras have had panorama systems – including, yes, Samsung. Those limit you to staying in one place and moving the camera around. This is different: you can move yourself, you can move around or up and down and object, or whirl completely around – 360 degrees of freedom. Then once you're done, the software stitches it together, with no fisheye distortion and no stitching. I tried circumnavigating a colleague's head, and whirling the phone around in a field: the results are really interesting.I anticipate devices to which you can strap a panorama-capturing iPhone that will keep steady, or macro pictures showing things in huge details. Onesardonic tweetafter the iPhone 5's introduction, looking at the billion-dollar valuation put on photo-sharing service Instagram by Facebook, said "Don't call yourself an entrepreneur if you haven't yet formed your next startup, Panoramagram". You laugh now. All I can say is: just wait. And if you make picture frames, expect some orders.Maps and mappingThe news in May thatGoogle was sidelined as the provider of maps for the iPhone(in any phone that runs iOS 6, to be released later on Wednesday 19 September) caused a fair amount of hand-wringing and worry. Would it be as good? Or would it just use some in-between rubbish?Don't worry – it's very good. Here we need to distinguish between the maps themselves, and the maps app. The maps don't have all the highlighting of Google's, but the amount of detail such as road names seems to me greater. The 3D view (which you can yaw by sliding two fingers up or down on either end of the screen) is entertaining – more so if you turn on the satellite imagery – and you can also rotate the maps with two fingers, or bring them back to true north by tapping a compass.The Guardian offices in London viewed on the new iOS 6 software on the iPhone 5That all brings feature parity with Android – as does the introduction of turn-by-turn voice navigation, so that your satnav can now play music and make or receive phone calls.Hello, SiriWhat really catapults the iPhone 5 past its rivals is the combination of features and services. In particular Siri, the voice-driven "assistant", is transformed in the UK from something quite useful for sending texts or emails, or making phone calls without unlocking the phone, into a real virtual assistant.Siri knows football scores on iOS6 running on the iPhone 5In its new incarnation, Siri can find and book restaurants (or subvariants – you want Thai restaurants, it will find them) near you, tell you football scores, offer turn-by-turn navigation to anywhere, open apps (handy if your phone has so many you can't find them), post comments to Twitter or Facebook, and find film times and reviews. (It does other stuff too including weather forecasts and stock prices.)Siri can't do everything: cricket flummoxes it stillI've been using an iPhone for the past few months, after about a year only using Android phones, and found the earlier incarnation of Siri increasingly useful. For example on Monday I had to make a number of calls and send texts while driving. Sure, anyone can make voice-dialled calls with a Bluetooth headset. But write texts? From a locked screen? With a headphone/mic combination, I could. You dictate, Siri translates, reads it back, and will then send when you say "send it".But the new one is dramatically better. Here's why. Until this month, if you wanted to find a nearby restaurant, you'd have to unlock your phone, go to the browser, type in "restaurants", and hope that you'd get some related results in your search. Or you might have had an app like TopTable, where you'd still have to type in some details and wait for a response.With Siri now, you simply say "Find Thai restaurants near here". It thinks for a bit and comes back with a list. I tried this even in my rural location – and it offered six, five of which I didn't know existed. (Sadly, a Siri-driven restaurant reservation system is only available in the US, Canada and Mexico. Ay caramba!)Or you need to get directions to a location: you tell Siri "give me directions to…" and, after some ruminating, it will transform into a satnav. So now you've got a satnav that can play music and make and take phone calls – it will interrupt those with directions as needed. (As a security note, it might be a good idea to use a different name for your home than "Home", just to avoid opportunist thieves navigating back to your house.)Siri is voice control done right, because you don't need to think about the context of what you're asking; you simply give the command and it works it out. True, it doesn't transcribe everything perfectly, but then typing on a keyboard isn't perfect either. It will do football results (and it doesn't think that's American football), so "what are the football results from this weekend" gives you the Premier League results. Or you can be specific – "did Tottenham Hotspur win?" (But nothing's perfect: "did Spurs win" gives you details of some American football team, and for now, at least, rugby and cricket fans are out of luck.)VideoThe iPhone 5 gets a rear camera capable of 1080p video recording, during which you can also shoot stills. (Some Android phones, including the SGS3, have had this for a while.) The front-facing camera gets 720p recording, and FaceTime – Apple's video call protocol – works on both Wi-Fi and mobile, if your carrier allows it.Do Not Disturb, and other messagesiOS6 introduces the idea of Do Not Disturb – times between which you don't want phone calls or notifications such as texts to bother you, although you can elect to let those numbers picked as "Favourites" through at once, and determined callers on the second call.Rejecting an incoming call on iOS6 on the iPhone 5: sliding up the "reject" icon on the right offers three pre-written messages, or you can send a custom oneSimilarly, when someone calls and you can't respond, you get a choice of rejecting the call, or sending a pre-prepared text message from a selection, or creating one on the spot – all from the lock screen if needed. Yes, HTC and Samsung have offered this already. This is an elegant implementation, though.Let them PassbookThe growing number of QR-style tickets and other items that accrue in one's email inbox can seem alarming. Apart from anything, they're difficult to find and organise (we've all had the moment running a server search on our email for that ticket at the airport or rail check-in, surely?). The answer that some companies are trying to push is NFC, or near-field communications. Apple's answer however is not NFC but Passbook, an app which collects special versions of those tickets (they're not just email attachments).Passbook on iOS6 on the iPhone 5 pulls together vouchers and tickets from different companies and locationsThe "passes" can be location-sensitive, and show in your lock screen (convenient). It wasn't possible to test this (developers have yet to write many apps, though it will only be a matter of time) but the interaction is very smooth. Certainly, not having to dig through emails will be a bonus.Passbook voucher on iOS6 on iPhone 5Almost all shall have updatesIf you bought an iPhone 4S last year, most of the improvements in software from the iPhone 5 are available to you too. From Wednesday, the new iOS software is available for any of the iPhones released since 2009 (3GS, 4, 4S), as well as the second-generation iPad and iPad 3.That brings many of the software features to those older handsets free of charge (though not all; Siri and Panorama are only for the iPhone 5 and 4S, for example) – and it will all happen at once. While Android users who have the newest phones can certainly boast that they have had better software than Apple (particularly on the mapping side, where turn-by-turn has been standard for two years), many are stuck waiting for their operator, or handset maker, or both, to update their handsets to newer software. (Google's own statistics show that57% of Android phones that connect to its Google Play service use Android 2.3, released late in 2010.)Now, Siri in particular is dramatically better than anything on offer on Android – and shows that Apple is sliding, ever so subtly, to a world where the screen plays second fiddle to other functions.Only connectOh, that new connector. By dumping the 30-pin analogue connector it had been using since 2003 (introduced to connect either to FireWire or USB 2.0 sockets, as iPods did) for its 9-pin digital "Lightning" Apple has caused gigantic upheaval in the accessories market. Though a 9-digital-to-30-analogue adaptor does exist, it willcost £25, so you'll probably not want many. But Apple seems to be directing accessories companies towards wireless connections such as its AirPlay system – and accessory makers meanwhile have decided that 30-pin is dead: they've already switching almost their whole production (save 20% or so) over to the 9-pin connector.Happily, the 9-pin can be plugged in either way, halving your chances of frustration while plugging in the USB lead. Obsolescence is ugly – no other word for it – but Apple is never one to be tied to the past.ConclusionsIt's worth recalling that a smartphone isn't a package of specifications. It's that, plus features (the software that drives the onboard camera, say) and services (such as the software that runs Siri or the maps). Those who were quick to dismiss the iPhone 5 based on its specifications – but no experience with its features or services – made the mistake of thinking that a phone is just components. But it's the gestalt that makes it a pleasant experience – or otherwise. For those who insist on NFC, or direct access to the phone's file system, or the option of opening web pages in multiple different browsers, the iPhone and iOS will never be satisfactory.But Apple doesn't care. Steve Jobsonce saidthat interfaces which spawned a lot of windows meant that "you get to be the janitor" – a post he didn't relish. Android lets you be the janitor, air-conditioning chief and managing director; the iPhone lets you be the user. It's a key difference in philosophy. You can't do as much on the iPhone – but sometimes fewer choices mean faster decisions. Siri in particular is a revelation; expect to hear much more of its C#-listening-to-G#-acting pings around you.As for the iPhone 5, it's a lovely piece of equipment. Boring? Lacking wow? With its market value now crossing $700bn and iPhone 5 pre-orders through the roof, Apple might disagree.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAmazon Cloud Player launches in parts of Europe &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyCloud Player, Amazon's music storage system, has made it over to Europe, 18 months after the service launched in the States.The service - free space for 250 songs - is available in France, Germany, and the UK. Customers wanting thePremium service, which ups the storage capacity by 1,000, will, as in the US, have to pay for the privilege.The UK price for up to 250,000 imported songs is £22 per year.Then again, you have to import them, where Apple's iTunes Match just matches without import. (Then again, it obliges you to use Apple devices.)Correction: like iTunes Match, Amazon's system can "match" songs in your library without uploading them. Google Music next?How to create your own vocal-free karaoke tracksProvided as a public service. Begins with the promising line:I'm sure you will agree with me that there's nothing better for the spirit than karaoke.RIM licenses Microsoft's exFAT file system to stuff extra-large files into BlackBerry devices &gt;&gt; EngadgetRIM has big ambitions for media on BlackBerry hardware - really big. Accordingly, it just reached a patent licensing deal with Microsoft that lets it use the exFAT file system on "certain BlackBerry devices." We have a hunch that's a reference to future BlackBerry 10 phones and tablets rather than retrofits of existing (and likely incapable) mobile gear.RIM who?May 2011: Google promises Android updates will get better, new devices will get updates for 18 months (update: partners still figuring out how it'll work) &gt;&gt; The VergeMay 2011:Google I/O might have been full of showstopper announcements like Google Music Beta and Ice Cream Sandwich, but the most important announcement might be the most prosaic: Google's formed a committee of Android OEMs and carriers to improve how and when Android updates are distributed to customers. And it's a pretty impressive committee: the founding members are Verizon, HTC, Samsung, Sprint, Sony Ericsson, LG, T-Mobile, Vodafone, Motorola, and AT&amp;T.Because committees always get everything done they were set up to do.Can Google's 'new Motorola' break free of Verizon? &gt;&gt; The VergeAt the outset of Motorola's "On Display" event last week, new CEO Dennis Woodside declared the arrival of a "new Motorola." That's not exactly true yet, though. It's only been three short months since Google officially completed its acquisition of Motorola, and the Droid RAZR HD, RAZR Maxx HD, and RAZR M were certainly in the works long before that. But beyond the devices, Google's vision of a future "new Motorola" failed to address the most important part of Motorola's recent past: Verizon.Most of MMI's handset business is in the US, and it is withdrawing from Europe. Verizon and MMI need each other.Newsweek: Is Asking Inane Questions the Future of Journalism? &gt;&gt; Prospect.orgA spoof of the magazine's infamously sensational cover stories, which often prove that just because a question can be asked, that doesn't necessarily mean it should be.It's funny because it's deeply scary.Apple avoids the temptation of jetpack design &gt;&gt; FJPThe Newton was a double-edged sword for Apple. On one hand, it had a big "wow" factor and reminded the world of Apple's innovative DNA. On the other hand, it was expensive and Apple had to spend considerable time and energy explaining why a "portable digital assistant" was necessary. It failed.Now Apple waits for markets to mature a bit before they enter. They've de-emphasized "first" in favor of "best". Facetime is just video chat. Retina Displays are just higher resolution. Siri is just voice recognition. But in all three cases, they grabbed a tremendous amount of mindshare in a short time.These days, Apple generally lets other people build the jet packs.Apple's iPhone 5 pre order sales record is only an "as expected" &gt;&gt; Show me numbersAdam Parker:2m [preorders] in 24 hours sounds very impressive, and it is in absolute terms.But all things are relative and when you put this number in context it loses its shine a little. To do this we need some data and a couple of assumptions.Secrecy surrounding 'zero-day exploits' industry spurs calls for government oversight &gt;&gt; The Washington PostJames Ball (on a break from The Guardian:the use of such tools, known as "zero-day exploits," is not reserved exclusively for the intelligence community. Instead, through a little-known and barely regulated trade, researchers around the world are increasingly selling the exploits, sometimes for hundreds of thousands of dollars apiece.It is a trade, analysts say, that is becoming more controversial, one that even some of those in the business think should be regulated.Windows 8: the boldest, biggest redesign In Microsoft's history &gt;&gt; Co.DesignWindows has long been Microsoft's bread and butter: 336m Windows PCs were sold in 2011 - roughly 10 per second - a large chunk of which went to corporate customers, who are constitutionally resistant to change. The Surface could add to the disruption, as third-party hardware makers will soon be in the awkward position of having to compete with the company they support. But Microsoft has no choice other than to bet on its new software design. For if Apple has proved anything, it's that design has become big business in the technology world."It's the ultimate design challenge," Moreau says. "You've got 25 years of Windows behind you. There's a responsibility to preserve it but also to evolve--knowing that when you change something, you're changing how computing works."Minor quibble: Windows is the bread, Office is the butter - for years they have both contributed slightly more than 50% of Microsoft's profits. (That's correct, more than 50% each.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
GCHQ, the government's electronic intelligence-gathering centre, is to encourage members of the public to help combat the growing threat of cyber-attacks by testing their skills and applying to join the once-secret Cheltenham-based agency.A GCHQ official, identified only as Karl, has designed a competition to protect a simulated government computer system from online crime. "There is no such thing as a completely secure system – businesses will always need to balance where to spend a limited budget, to manage risks and provide opportunities," he said.The competition will test the skills of people tasked with preventing attacks from hostile states, organised criminal cyber gangs, or individual hackers.The competition is being run in conjunction with Cyber Security Challenge UK.Earlier this month GCHQ warned the chief executives of Britain's biggest companies about an unprecedented threat from cyber-attacks. Intelligence agencies for the first time confronted senior private sector company figures over their failure to protect their businesses from cyber threats to their personal data, online services and intellectual property."GCHQ now sees real and credible threats to cybersecurity of an unprecedented scale, diversity, and complexity," said Iain Lobban, the agency's director.GCHQ has warned the parliamentary intelligence and security committee of a shortage of skilled recruits to combat cyber-attacks.
There is plenty of creative and commercial potential for second-screen apps and websites designed to be used by TV viewers while watching their favourite shows, but challenges include budgets and rights issues.These were the main conclusions from theSecond Screen Experiences: Your New Companion?debate, held by the Royal Television Society in London, focusing on how people are using smartphones, tablets and laptops while watching TV."81% of people sit routinely in front of the TV with their tablet or smartphone," said Anthony Rose, chief technology officer of Zeebox, by way of introduction.He outlined the four key drivers for second-screening. First: people want to find something to watch. Second: they want to get information about the show they're watching. Third: they want to chat to friends. And fourth, they may want to buy things that they see on-screen.Rose highlighted the latter as increasingly important for the future. "Although it doesn't sound very sexy, for advertisers that's the next big thing," he said. "Advertising I think ultimately will fuel this whole business."Zeebox took investment from BSkyB in 2011, which will soon be bearing fruit. "The new Sky+ app will shortly have Zeebox enhancements," said Rose, who also showed a "sneak preview" of a new version of the standalone Zeebox app, which will launch in the US and UK next week.It includes a "What's Hot" page showing shows that are currently trending, or coming up later that day, but a separate tab provides a more traditional-looking channel guide.A third tab is Activity, providing a stream of what friends and other Zeebox users are watching and "booking" (planning to watch). However, Rose noted that social features are just a part of what Zeebox does, and do not appeal to every user."People get very obsessed with social TV," said Rose. "What we realised very quickly is that many people have very basic aims: 'help me find something to watch tonight, and never mind the social'… They may not want to login."Rose was asked how many people are using Zeebox, and said that its app has been downloaded around 1.5m times in the UK. How many of those users are active, though?"I don't have the latest figures, but it's three or four hundred thousand monthly uniques," he said.'Move the story along'The debate zeroed in on the creative potential for second-screen apps and content, with Jody Smith, Channel 4's multiplatform commissioning editor, entertainment and comedy, saying that the broadcaster is keen to go beyond the "play-along" games that have been successful for gameshows like Million Pound Drop."From my point of view as a broadcaster, our doors are open to producers to come and pitch second-screen formats," he said."A lot of indies, they probably look at what we're doing already and pitch the same, so we do get a lot of play-along formats pitched. Which is great, but unless you can move the story along… why do we just want to repeat it?"Producer Shed Media's group head of digital Juliette Otterburn-Hall talked about her company's work on second-screen formats, including The Voice, and a partnership with Zeebox for a new show on Sky Living that includes animated GIFs and polls within Zeebox's app."In general we're very keen to enhance the multi-platform offerings at Shed… Any idea, before it goes out the door, we're thinking about what platform it should be on," she said, while admitting that not every show needs whizzy second-screen content."The key thing is deciding what your IP is, what the relevance is creatively, and trying to give a seamless experience wherever your audience are," she said, before adding that whether the broadcaster is commercial or non-commercial (i.e. the BBC) also has a big impact on Shed's second-screen strategy.Neil Mortensen, research and planning director at Thinkbox, talked about his company's research into second-screen behaviour, and what he claimed was the most exciting discovery: "It all revolves around extensions of their current behaviour," he said. "We try to frame it for our advertisers simply: chat, play and buy."Zeebox's redesigned iPad app, which is about to launch in the US and UK'The creative piece is the most important'Gareth Capon, emerging products director at BSkyB, was also bullish about the commercial potential for second-screen apps and content, although he stressed that "the creative piece is the most important" element. "If we don't have any audience, there's nothing to commercialise."Sky worked on its Got To Dance series with Zeebox, helping viewers buy the music that featured in the show on iTunes, and also running a separate second-screen show during the downtime in the main broadcast, where previous winners gave their views on the current contestants.The business model for broadcasters in second-screen can be as simple as more people watching their shows at the time of the original broadcast because of the social chatter around them. Not just good shows, either. "Second-screen definitely makes bad television watchable," quipped Rose.One thorny question: how to pay for all these second-screen apps and content without taking budget away from the core TV show? Smith said that Channel 4 has specific budget for this, which Otterburn-Hall welcomed."It's tricky to know how we pay for this. We've got great ideas for this content," she said. "Production companies are really keen because it is very exciting… but obviously there's got to be revenue there."She cited data ownership and rights as another grey area: who "owns" the second-screen app or site. "We're used to making programmes that you sell," she said. "This adds a whole myriad of complexity."Capon agreed that rights and funding are the two key challenges facing broadcasters, producers and second-screen technology startups, but warned that it's too early to start setting models in stone either creatively or commercially."We don't yet know exactly what's going to work. We have to try out different types of experiences," he said.'Facebook are making all the right noises'Two looming elephants in the second-screen room are Facebook and Twitter, and the question of if and when they will try to have more of the playing and buying (as well as the chatting) happening within their own smartphone and tablet apps, rather than those of companies like Zeebox.Twitter in particular seems very keen at the moment to bring its users back to its own apps, shown by the restrictions it's placing on third-party Twitter clients. Both social networks are forging relationships with broadcasters, too. Won't they try to muscle the likes of Zeebox out at some stage?"Facebook are making all the right noises that they want to be a platform. Twitter, on the other hand, perhaps went platform-wide a bit too early in their life, and now it seems to me they're trying to pull back," said Rose.He maintained that Zeebox's "deep knowledge" of the TV schedule and related content that viewers are looking for will continue to set it apart from the big social networks.Fear of the 900lb social gorillas disrupting his business? "Of all my problems in a given day, that doesn't rise to the top ones," said Rose. Channel 4's Smith agreed: "That doesn't feel like it's their core business model at the moment."Which, of course, doesn't rule out it becoming so in the future. The point which came across throughout the debate is that it's still too early for second-screen experiences to draw many hard conclusions about how they may evolve.Or as Rose put it: "Today what we're seeing is just beginning to scratch the surface of what's possible."
Back in the early 1940s my grandfather had a great idea. Noting the obsession Californians have with perfectly green front lawns, he decided that what they needed was an automatic sprinkler system. He lavished time and love on it, inventing this and fine-tuning that, and eventually came up with what was essentially an electric clock that could be timed to turn water valves on or off at given times of the day and night. Patent number 2311108 was duly filed in 1943, at which point my grandfather started knocking on manufacturers' doors. It was a long, arduous process. Finally, in 1950, after endless discussions, the Moody Rainmaster hit the stores. It earned my grandfather a modest income.Recently, I decided to follow in his footsteps, but apply a little 21st-century know-how to the mix. Online I found a few like-minded souls interested in producing an improved water sprinkler. We used open-source software to help us create a sprinkler system not only capable of being operated remotely via an app by worried gardeners on holiday, but also sophisticated enough to factor in the latest local weather forecasts before deciding whether to switch the system on or off. We then sent our designs to an assembly house who duly came up with a smart-looking finished product. It has proved quite popular. It took my grandfather a decade and a small fortune to perfect his device and market it. It took us a few months and $5,000.And that in a nutshell is the Maker movement – harnessing the internet and the latest manufacturing technologies to make things. The past 10 years have been about discovering new ways to work together and offer services on the web. The next 10 years will, I believe, be about applying those lessons to the real world. It means that the future doesn't just belong to internet businesses founded on virtual principles. but to ones that are firmly rooted in the physical world.This has massive implications not just for would-be entrepreneurs but for national economies. The fact is that any country, if it wants to remain strong, must have a manufacturing base. Even today, about a quarter of the US economy rests on the creation of physical goods. A service economy is all well and good, but eliminate manufacturing and you're a nation of bankers, burger flippers and tour guides. As for software and information industries, they may get all the press, but they employ just a small percentage of the population.The nascent Maker movement offers a path to reboot manufacturing – not by returning to the giant factories of old, with their armies of employees, but by creating a new kind of manufacturing economy, one shaped more like the web itself: bottom-up, broadly distributed, and highly entrepreneurial. The image of a few smart people changing the world with little more than an internet connection and an idea increasingly describes manufacturing of the future, too.It's almost a cliche that anyone with a sufficiently good software idea can create a fabulously successful company on the web. That's because there are practically no barriers preventing entry to entrepreneurship online: if you've got a laptop and a credit card, you're in business. Manufacturing has traditionally been regarded as something else entirely. But over the past few years, something remarkable has begun to happen. The process of making physical stuff has started to look more like the process of making digital stuff.Various innovations are helping to make this possible. The first, of course, is the crowdsourcing power of the internet – if you don't know all the answers, there is someone out there who will. Put out a call for help on a blog or online forum, and somewhere there will be an expert prepared to help you. The second innovation is the increasing sophistication of design programs that can take raw ideas and transform them into executable files. Just as word-processing software has become ever simpler and more intuitive for the user, so Cad (computer-aided design) programs are becoming simultaneously more sophisticated and easier to handle. You design something; the Cad program works out how it can be&nbsp;produced.And then there is the first generation of 3D printers. These take "geometries" on screen (3D objects that are created with the same sorts of tools that Hollywood uses to make computer generated movies and turn them into objects that you can pick up and use. Some 3D printers extrude molten plastic in layers to make these objects, while others use a laser to harden layers of liquid or powder resin so the product emerges from a bath of the raw material. Yet others can make objects out of any material from glass, steel and bronze to gold, titanium or even cake frosting. You can print a flute or you can print a meal. You can even print human organs of living cells, by squirting a fluid with suspended stem sells on to a support matrix.What's important here is not so much current reality as potential. 3D printers, laser cutters and "CNC" (computer numerical control) machines, which use a drill bit to shape a block of material, are already sophisticated devices – a few years ago they would have seemed distinctly sci-fi – but I suspect that they resemble the technology of 10 years hence in much the same way that the primitive single-colour dot matrix printers of the 1980s resemble the colour laser printers we having sitting in our homes today. Even now scientists are talking about creating manufacturing tools that use "structural DNA" to create physical objects. In other words, the technology still has a long journey to make. However, its liberating implications are already there, and I believe that when they are combined with other online innovations, a very powerful manufacturing force is created.First of all, such technology helps remove the shackles from innovation. Until now, the creative process has been beset with obstacles, from the problems inherent in creating a prototype, to the difficulties of persuading a third party to become involved, to the expense of the final launch. And, of course, there's no guarantee of ultimate success.Now, however, things are looking rather different, both at the innovation and the selling stages.Take Alex Andon, for example. After graduating in 2006, he moved to the San Francisco Bay Area for a biotech job. But his real passion was jellyfish, which he had first encountered while sailing in the British Virgin Islands as a teenager. He quit his job and set up a company in a friend's garage to make custom jellyfish tanks with special pumps (a conventional pump will suck in a jellyfish and rip it to pieces), custom water-flow systems to keep the jellyfish off the sides and colourful LED lighting. That in itself was no small feat.Alex Andon's jellyfish tank.Where Alex also scored, though, was in his ability to test the market before he launched his product. He opted to go via the crowdfunding websiteKickstarterto see whether people were interested in what he could offer them. If they were, he invited them to help fund his start-up in return for one of his Desktop Jellyfish Tanks at a discount. His aim was to raise $3,000. After a month he had raised more than $130,000. He had managed both to market-test his idea and find his first customers without having to go to the risky expense of first filling a warehouse (or his bedroom) with jellyfish tanks.It's not difficult to see how Maker technology suits this sort of niche enterprise. The chances are that a savvy and committed market already exists for the right product, and, thanks to the internet, it's relatively easy to find it. What's more the current manufacturing technology that supports Makers is ideally suited to small batches of bespoke products – from customised plastic toys to tailored clothes. With a conventional factory, you fix on a design and mass-produce it; start up is expensive, but mass-production involves compensating economies of scale. With a 3D printer, start up is cheap, but there are no economies of scale to&nbsp;be gained: product number 150 will&nbsp;cost&nbsp;you precisely the same to create as product number 1. That precludes success in the mass market, but does set you up to succeed in a niche market that by its very nature is&nbsp;less price sensitive.Moreover, you can, if you choose, make every item bespoke: number 150 does not have to be precisely the same in appearance as number 100. And you can manufacture at home, perhaps using your own 3D printer (in the US prices are already dropping to $1,000) or sending your files to a third party fitted out with the necessary kit.Having said that, I don't believe that Makers enterprises have to remain small-scale. Many, of course, will opt to do so, creating customised goods for a specialist market. Others, though, can utilise all that the Maker technology has to offer to get an enterprise off the ground, road test its products, respond to customer feedback, and then build a larger-scale company. What they'll have going for them in addition – and it's something that many larger companies lack – is agility and flexibility built into their DNA.Imagine a new company, WindCo, making its first product: a small backyard wind turbine generator. They&nbsp;make the first prototype themselves, as well as a handful of others. Then, it's time to go into serious&nbsp;production. WindCo is small, and they don't have sufficient manufacturing capacity themselves, so they outsource to a factory in China that can handle small batches cheaply.If the product is successful and demand builds, they may well opt to move production back home to cut out delays. If it's astonishingly successful, then they may decide to move production to a different factory in China that specialises in bulk manufacturing. They have to be flexible because their business is constantly evolving. They are able to be flexible because their design files are digital, the tooling costs of setting up a new manufacturing operation are minimal, and they all use the same robotic machinery.This adaptive business of the future will need to be accommodating in other ways, too. It needs to be in constant contact with its customers and be prepared to respond quickly to their feedback and criticism. It needs to be able to draw on skills wherever they are, not merely on people who happen to be close to home. The co-founder of a small robot aeroplane enterprise I run, for example, is not someone who answered an ad, but an enthusiast who came to my attention when he started posting inspired ideas for improvements on a online forum I&nbsp;was hosting.That this can work is demonstrated by the success of a Colorado-based company,Sparkfun, which operates in one of the most ruthlessly cut-throat of all areas of business – electronics. Back in 2003 its founder, Nathan Seidle, was an undergraduate engineering student, who was finding it frustratingly difficult to locate electronic components that he needed for his projects. Today, Sparkfun designs and manufactures specialist printed circuit boards, using sophisticated pick-and-place robot machines to assemble them. Its website makes a major feature of its blog, with chatty tutorials and videos from employees, and forums that are full of customers helping one another.Its employees are young, passionate and appear to totally love their jobs. Dogs and hobbies are indulged at work (though not on the production floor); tattoos and indie punk rock reflect its culture. It's a far cry from the "dark satanic mill" vision of manufacturing – much closer in fact to the maverick image of software companies in their startup days.And it works. Today Sparkfun has more than 120 employees and annual revenues of around $30 million. It's growing by 50% a year. A basketball-court-sized ground floor is dominated by robotic electronic production lines, running day and night. Daily blog posts and tutorials have turned its retail website into a high-traffic community, with more than 50,000 visitors a day.The Maker movement has a long way to go before it can really be said to have come of age. But that doesn't mean it should be ignored or regarded solely as a hobbyist's or niche manufacturer's paradise. It represents the first steps in a different way of doing business. Rather than top-down innovation by some of the biggest companies in the world, we're starting to see bottom-up innovation by countless individuals, including amateurs, entrepreneurs and professionals. We've already seen it work before, in bits, from the original PC hobbyists to the web's citizen army. Now the conditions have arrived for it to work again, at even greater, broader scale, in atoms. If the Second Industrial Revolution was the Information Age, then I would argue that a Third Industrial Age is on its way: the age of&nbsp;the Makers.Makers: The New Industrial Revolution by Chris Anderson is published by Random House Business Books, priced £20. Anderson will be speaking for Intelligence Squared at 7pm on Wednesday 19 September at the Royal Institution.www.intelligencesquared.com.
Twitter has relaunched its website and mobile apps to give users the opportunity to showcase their own photos.In what appears to be a bid to take on Facebook, users' new-look Twitter profiles will have more visual interest, with their photo stream now shown on their page. The stream will also appear below their most recent tweets.Users' profile pictures will move from being a small icon at top left to a large header photo at the top of the Twitter stream.The move is in line with the company's plan to make the website more of a destination page.Facebook enlarged the display size of its images last year as part of a major overhaul that included the introduction of a timeline, streaming users' posts from the day they joined.Twitter said its move was designed to "make your presence on Twitter more meaningful".The new look will apply to  Twitter's website, its iPhone and Android apps and its new iPad app.
Do you know what my favourite gun is at the moment? The Jakob Ornery Law. It's a pistol holding nine rounds with what looks like a bread knife soldered to the underside of its slender barrel. The name may sound a little silly, but I tell you, it's a work of art.This is a new one for me, as I don't usually take to pistols in shooter games. They aren't as pleasing either sonically or physically to use as assault rifles or shotguns and they usually don't cause as much damage. Not so, the Ornery Law. Pull the trigger on this baby and you're rewarded with a satisfying crack, the control pad kicks in your hands and the target in front of you takes 293 points of damage. At close range, this unassuming little handgun is capable of doling out more pain than a couple of the shotguns I have in my possession.Over longer range, though, it's fairly useless, which is why I have the Jakob Skookum Muckamuck sniper rife. This is a sleek, beautiful instrument of death capable of putting 245 points of damage into targets at a fair distance. Unless, of course, you score a critical hit and then you're looking at 1,345 points of damage; in most instances, the target's head simply goes away.Yes, it could be said that Jakob is my favourite weapons manufacturer on Pandora. Not only do their guns bring the pain, as it were, but they all have a classic, wild-west-meets-steampunk look to them. I prefer them to, say, the rockabilly blasters made by Bandit, or the hi-tech, yet soulless-looking stock of Hyperion. And don't get me started on Tediore; their guns may be effective, but their garish day-glo colours mark them out as the sort of guns you'd take to a rave. Nope, I'm a Jakob man, through and through.The fact that I've spent four paragraphs talking about my favourite weapons in Borderlands 2 should give you some sense of the loving care that inhabits every pixel of this title. A rudimentary appraisal of the game is that Gearbox is simply super-sizing their 2009 sleeper-hit, giving players more – well, a super-tanker-load more – of guns to shoot, enemies to kill and trinkets to pick up. There's a kernel of truth to that, sure, but the game's most immediate impact is made by Gearbox fleshing out the overall character of the universe they created in the first Borderlands.The world of Borderlands 2 is a place where irreverent space-western sci-fi collides with trailer-park horrorshow hostility and all of it is shot through with rambunctious playground humour. The planet of Pandora is equal parts Firefly and Mad Max, with all of the dialogue and plotting taken care of by the creators of South Park.Gearbox paints in broad brushstrokes, sure, but they don't rely on cardboard cut-out characters or run-of-the-mill mission structure. For example, the fact that Pandora's resident big-game hunter sports a monocle and a plummy British accent shouldn't surprise anyone, but if you could predict this character would send you on a mission that involves sifting through mounds of alien dung for voice recorders, you're a more visionary gamer than I.There's a plot of sorts, but it's mainly used as a framework to hang a ton of gun battles and looting opportunities off. As the game begins, Pandora is in the grip of a war between an entity known at the Hyperion Corporation and a rag-tag band of prospectors. Hyperion's man on the ground is a sneering bucket of contempt and hair grease known only as Handsome Jack, who has taken it upon himself to wipe any non-Hyperion personnel – including the player – off the face of Pandora. In swift succession, the player finds themselves joining up with a rebel movement – led by the four characters from the original game – who want to stop Jack from unleashing some sort of unstoppable weapon upon the planet's inhabitants. Hilarity ensues.Like the first Borderlands, players have a choice of four character classes to pick from. There's Salvador, the Gunzerker, a raging slab of muscle and testosterone whose special powers is dual-wielding weapons. There's Maya, the Siren, who is able to project a forcefield around enemies and haul them out of cover. There's Axton, the Commando, who can deploy a machinegun turret with a barrel that can swivel in a 360 degree arch. Finally, there's Zero, The Number (or assassin), whose powers involve turning invisible in order to slide up close to enemies and then dismembering them with a katana.Essentially, Zero, Axton, Maya and Salavador are steroid-enhanced versions of the four characters (Mordecai, Roland, Lilith and Brick) from the first Borderlands, and as before they all have a set of three talent trees. Each time the player levels up, they're assigned a point to spend as they wish, and since it's fairly impossible to fill up all three talent trees before the game's level cap of 50, it pays to specialise.Talents start off as fairly rudimentary – more health, more shields, more gun damage and the like – but at high levels, they turn the player into a vicious two-legged wrecking ball. At high levels, for example, Salvador's dual-wielding expands to encompass any sort of weapon he can get his hands on, so if you fancy taking aim at a target with two massive rocket launchers, have at it.Zero has the ability to tag critical points on targets on his HUD, which makes his sniper shots and blade swipes incredibly lethal. Axton becomes able to deploy his turret on any surface – wall, roof, you name it – while Maya can turn entire gangs of enemies against each other.Alongside their skills, the player also has a list of Badass Challenges to complete – such as scoring headshots or blowing enemies up — which are, roughly put, Gearbox's way of encouraging players to do as much and shoot as much as humanly possible in the game. This Badassery rewards players with Badass tokens they can spend on improving abilities they'll use all the time, such as reducing gun-recoil, gun damage, health levels and shield recharge rates. The amount each Badass token improves a skill by is tiny, so players who want to beef their character up better load up on guns and bring some friends.Speaking of friends, like its predecessor, Borderlands 2 supports four-player co-op and the more players who join the party, the tougher Pandora's collection of robots, alien creatures and hockey-mask-wearing nutjobs become. Friends don't have to pick different classes to each other – especially if they've specialised differently – but it's arguably more fun if you do. A team of Axtons with missile-flinging turrets can do a ton of damage, but a Gunzerker's ability to flip off enemies and act as a decoy can provide the rest of his squad with a veritable turkey shoot.It's also worth noting that it's best to play this game only with players who you trust to work as a team, as there's no mechanic to stop greedy so-and-so's hovering up all the best loot and cash.Of course, one of the main reasons to play Borderlands 2 – aside from the compulsive nature of its loot drops – is the insane arsenal available to the player. Guns here come in all shapes, sizes and colours. Some shoot electrically charged bullets. Some fire incendiary rounds or bullets filled with corrosive acid. Some transform into a grenade when you reload them. Still more come loaded with AI pacifist chips that plead with the player not to kill anyone with them.Each target the player shoots and each container the player opens has the potential of dropping yet another weird and whacky firearm, the stats of which they can immediately check against those of the weapon they're carrying in their hands. Since backpack space is limited, occasionally players are forced to toss out items they aren't using to make room for a shiny new toy. Pack rats, you've been warned.There are also a ton of mods, class augmentations, grenade mods and shields in the game. Some are fairly standard, while others are as weird as the game's weaponry. How about a shield mod that tosses out shield recharge batteries if the player takes too much damage? Or how about a grenade mod that splits grenades into bouncing bettys that produce multiple explosions? My personal favourite, for the moment at least, is a mod that spews acid from grenades that eats through flesh and metal – particularly handy against robotic or shield-carrying foes.If the size of the game's arsenal sounds impressive, you should get a load of its environment. To put it bluntly, Pandora feels even bigger and more varied than it did in the first Borderlands. Whether players are ploughing through icy tundra, driving across a desert, picking their way through a goop-filled cavern or blasting through a gang's blood-daubed hideout, Borderlands 2 feels consistently fresh. This is a world to lose yourself in – and thanks to the addictive quality of the game's loot-drops, it's likely many players will do just that. It's not just the size and scope of the place that is likely to seduce them, however, it's the fact that this time round, Pandora feels more like an actual place than a virtual battleground, thanks to Gearbox's attention to detail in this game.I mean, when was the last time you cared about the name of any gun manufacturer in any shooter you played recently? Listen, I've played the heck out of the COD: MW titles, and I've used a TAR-21 more times than I care to mention, but I couldn't tell you who manufactured it (not without looking it up, at any rate). The gun-makers in Borderlands 2 don't even exist, for goodness sake, and I'm already brand-loyal to one of them. That would be Jakob, who proffer the most stylish firearms in the galaxy. If you want to take down a Badass Spiderant Burner, be a Gentleman about it, and use Jakob ordnance. (Hey, Gearbox, you can have that one for free!)• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks KrotoskiandCharles Arthur, we take a hands-on look at the iPhone 5 and ask why Acer cancelled it's rumored Android mobile phone launch.Also, we ask why Google'sLarry Pagehas made it to the No 1 spot on theMediaGuardian 100power list.Finally, Charles meetsBrian Spector– the chief executive of Certivox, a company specialising in cloud computing security – to discuss the technology of online encryption.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 15 September 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)52 (–)Tekken Tag Tournament 2(16+)PS3 (57)Xbox 360 (43)13 (5)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (28)Wii (13)DS (6)134 (3)New Super Mario Bros 2(3+)3DS (100)55 (4)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)PC (1)126 (2)The Sims 3: Supernatural (12+)PC (100)27 (6)Guild Wars 2(12+)PC (100)38 (8)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (34)PC (1)119 (–)Nhl 13 (12+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)110 (–)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (46)PC (7)1211 (7)Madden NfFL13(3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)312 (12)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Xbox 360 (30)PS3 (27)Wii (20)DS (19)1413 (11)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (62)3DS (39)4214 (10)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (46)PC (3)Wii (1)4115 (13)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (33)PC (8)1716 (–)Spec Ops: The Line(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (37)PC (6)517 (9)Darksiders II(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)PC (2)418 (15)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)DS (2)Wii (2)1219 (18)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (33)PS3 (30)Wii (15)3DS (10)5120 (17)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (38)PC (2)14UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Sony's Japan Studio has a reputation for making completely out there games, and never more so than when they are designed to be downloaded from the PlayStation Network. But even so, Tokyo Jungle reaches a whole new level of sheer, delicious nuttiness.After it first surfaced at E3 2012, it swiftly became known as "the dog-shagging game" and while it does indeed feature dogs and they do, ahem, couple, any attention-seeking that implies shouldn't be allowed to detract from its considerable merits as a game, which include originality and a fearsome level of addictiveness.Tokyo Jungle is a proper sandbox effort with an irresistible premise: something has happened in Tokyo that has caused its entire human population to disappear. So the city has been left to the animals, and the law of the (urban) jungle applies.Initially, you can choose between two animals to play as: a cute Pomeranian, representing carnivores, or a Sika deer, representing herbivores. Your mission is to traverse Tokyo district by district, surviving as long as possible.As a carnivore, you progress by killing animals (a matter of sneaking up behind them and timing your attack to when a purple icon showing a pair of jaws goes red) and marking out your territory via pre-positioned flags. Once you've marked all the flags in a given district, you can procreate: the map shows you where potential female mates are, and you must take them to a designated nest.Once there, when you press the Mate button, you're treated to an animation showing some exploratory bottom-sniffing, followed by the initial stages of a mounting – before the camera discreetly pans out.On top of the simple premise, there are plenty of embellishments. For example, potential mates are rated between Desperate and Prime, and it's dead handy to find the latter as they will produce more offspring, thereby giving you a pack of siblings to mooch around with.The latter are necessary since the more territory you conquer, the greater the threats you encounter, and no matter how dexterous you are, it requires a pack to survive a pack attack. And when the animal you control dies, you'll automatically acquire control of another pack member.Controlling a herbivore brings completely different gameplay. While you can attack predators by kicking them, it's more sensible to proceed stealthily, hiding yourself in long grass or underneath plastic containers. You can only eat plants, but you can run faster and jump higher than the carnivores.As you make progress through Tokyo's different districts, you find memory sticks (bizarrely, given that they're of no earthly use to animals) which fill in details of the back story explaining why the humans disappeared, and which open chapters of the story mode.These are essentially set-pieces confined to small areas of the game – for example, you start off as a Pomeranian which must leave its ex-owners' flat and start to fend for itself in the wild. Story chapters are checkpointed, but the main survival mode isn't: when you die, it's back to square one.There are also objects (in gift boxes) to find throughout the districts, which can be handy items such as food or medicine, or preposterous clothes with which to dress up your Pomeranian. More or less all animal life is in the game – you unlock new species by performing specific challenges in survival mode and encounter everything up to dinosaurs as you roam around.As you may have guessed, Tokyo Jungle doesn't take itself too seriously – and it sometimes makes you laugh despite not intending to. Once you become accustomed to its peculiar logic, you can do things such as create killer Pomeranians – I had one which took out an entire population of alley-cats, before succumbing to a panther.It constantly plays incredibly cheesy music, and bleeps when you level up in the manner of a retro arcade game. And there are some annoying aspects – the map, for example, is more or less useless, and you need to accumulate certain objects before even attempting the more difficult areas, such as the more or less food-free sewers beneath the city.But despite its tongue-in-cheek nature, Tokyo Jungle is a superb game. It feels quite unlike anything else (the best description of it would be a stealth-action-survival-RPG), it's laugh-out-loud funny and incredibly moreish. And because of its rigorous, sandbox construction, it's unusually meaty for a download game, with plenty of replayability. If you fear that modern games play it too safe, Tokyo Jungle will restore your faith.• Game reviewed on PS3
London's City Hall is set to host a major exhibition of video game art. Running between 22 and 26 October, the free event will feature rare pieces donated by a huge range of publishers and developers: concept art, storyboards and digital images will all feature.The works will be auctioned off at the close of the exhibition, with the proceeds going toSpecialEffect, a charity specialising in making games accessible to people with disabilities.Among the items on show will be game art produced by well-known developers such as Guerrilla Games (Killzone) and Media Molecule (LittleBigPlanet) as well as major publishers like Konami and Warner Bros.The free exhibition will be part of theLondon Games Festival, a month-long celebration of game culture, which is being supported by The Guardian."The exhibition will be a stunning fusion of art and interactive entertainment, offering a very different view of an industry pioneered by this country," said event director Kirsty Payne.We will be hosting a series of events at the Guardian, including a workshop for prospective video game journalists and a Q&amp;A with the makers of the forthcoming stealth adventure, Dishonored. More details soon.
Microsoft is urging Windows users to install a free piece of security software to protect PCs from a newly discovered "zero-day" security flaw in its Internet Explorer browser which hackers are already exploiting to take remote control of computers."We're aware of targeted attacks potentially affecting some versions of Internet Explorer," Microsoft said in a statement.The bug is found in IE 7, 8 and 9 and can be exploited on computers running XP, Vista and Windows 7, according to the security company Rapid7.With versions of IE in use on those platforms by hundreds of millions of people, Microsoft has taken the interim measure of offering free security software on its website (the Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit, EMET, athttp://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=29851) while it works on rolling out an update to harden the program.Zero-day vulnerabilities are rare, mostly because they are hard to identify – requiring highly skilled software engineers or hackers with lots of time to scrutinise code for holes that can be exploited to launch attacks.Security experts only disclosed discovery of eight major zero-day vulnerabilities in all of 2011, according to Symantec.Eric Romang, a researcher in Luxembourg, discovered the flaw on Friday when his PC was infected by a piece of malicious software known as Poison Ivy that hackers use to steal data or take remote control of PCs.When he analysed the infection, he learned that Poison Ivy had gotten on to his system by exploiting a previously unknown bug, or zero-day vulnerability, in IE.He suspected that it was the work of a hacking crew dubbed "Nitro" by the company because they had previously used zero-day exploits to hack into PCs used at chemicals companies, apparently to steal corporate data."Any time you see a zero-day like this, it is concerning," said Liam O Murchu, a research manager with antivirus software maker Symantec. "There are no patches available. It is very difficult for people to protect themselves."But that makes zero-day flaws valuable to commercial and government hackers, and there is known to be a thriving underground business in which companies discover and sell zero-day hacks to others,sometimes for hundreds of thousands of pounds.Efforts by Microsoft, Google and Mozilla, whose IE, Chrome and Firefox browsers respectively make up the majority of desktop use, to offer bounties for telling them about zero-day flaws has had little effect on the business – althoughtrading in them or distributing them for free is illegal in Germany.Internet Explorer used to be the world's most widely-used browser, thanks to its position as the default on Microsoft's Windows software. But Google's Chrome, launched only in September 2008, has overtaken it, according to the web monitoring company StatCounter, which says that Chrome has 34% of the world market.IE has 33%, it says, and Firefox 23%. The next largest is Apple's Safari at 8%, it says.Symantec and other major antivirus software makers have already updated their products to protect customers against the newly discovered bug in Internet Explorer. Yet O Murchu said that might not be sufficient to ward off adversaries."The danger with these types of attacks is that they will mutate and the attackers will find a way to evade the defenses we have in place," he said.Some security experts said computer users should avoid Internet Explorer, even if they install Microsoft's EMET security tool."It doesn't appear to be completely effective," said Tod Beardsley, an engineering manager at Rapid7.Rapid7 released software on Monday that security experts can use to simulate attacks that exploit the security flaw in Internet Explorer to see whether corporate networks are vulnerable to that particular bug.But in a world where many businesses rely on software written specially to run on IE to carry out corporate functions, avoiding IE may simply not be feasible.And Marc Maiffret, chief technology officer of the security company  BeyondTrust, pointed out that it may not be feasible for some businesses and consumers to install Microsoft's EMET tool on their PCs.He said the security software had in some cases proven to be incompatible with existing programs already running on networks.Dave Marcus, director of advanced research and threat intelligence with Intel's McAfee security division, said it might be a daunting task for home users to locate, download and install the EMET tool."For consumers, it might be easier to simply click on [Google's] Chrome," Marcus said.
Tuesday! What's going on with you this week?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPhone 5 v Samsung Galaxy S3 &gt;&gt; TwitpicA comparison of specifications.Samsung GS3 v iPhone 5 &gt;&gt; TwitpicAn alternative listing of features.Kindle Fire HD Teardown &gt;&gt; iFixitChips from Samsung, Elpida, Texa Instruments - plus a big screen and big battery. That's it, basically.I'm Going to Spend the Next Month Using My Smartphone as a Wallet | Gadget Lab | Wired.comNFC and other e-wallet technologies promise a future when we can all live without cash or credit cards, moving all those functions to our smartphones. Sure, the experts say that future is about 10 years away. But I'm betting we can make it happen sooner.So for the next month, I am going to live without credit cards, cash, transit passes, card-based ID, or just about anything else you'd find in a wallet. From Monday, Sept. 17 to Wednesday, Oct. 17, all of my daily monetary transactions will take place through smartphone-based technology and apps.I'll be outfitted with a Samsung Galaxy Nexus so I can use Google Wallet and NFC, as well as my regular iPhone. (Hey, I'm not ditching my wallet and my own phone!)Started 17 September. Let's watch how it goes. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)The software patent solution has been right here all along &gt;&gt; InfoWorldThere's no simple excerpt, so you'll have to read it really. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)iPhone 5 is such a disappointment! &gt;&gt; Joy of TechNitrozac and Shaggy, in fine fettle as always.The iPhone 5's A6 SoC: Not A15 or A9, a custom Apple core instead &gt;&gt; AnandtechAs we learned during the Pentium 4 days, simply relying on frequency scaling to deliver generational performance improvements results in reduced power efficiency over the long run.To push frequency you have to push voltage, which has an exponential impact on power consumption. Running your cores as close as possible to their minimum voltage is ideal for battery life. The right approach to scaling CPU performance is a combination of increasing architectural efficiency (instructions executed per clock goes up), multithreading and conservative frequency scaling. Remember that in 2005 Intel hit 3.73GHz with the Pentium Extreme Edition. Seven years later Intel's fastest client CPU only runs at 3.5GHz (3.9GHz with turbo) but has four times the cores and up to 3x the single threaded performance. Architecture, not just frequency, must improve over time.At its keynote, Apple promised longer battery life and 2x better CPU performance. It's clear that the A6 moved to 32nm but it's impossible to extract 2x better performance from the same CPU architecture while improving battery life over only a single process node shrink.For those who were asking the other day.Wood + Tech + Design = Keyboard &gt;&gt; OreeYour long search for a Bluetooth-equipped portable wireless keyboard made of walnut is over.The Data Journalism Handbook &gt;&gt; European Journalism Centre and Open Knowledge FoundationAvailable on a CC-ShareAlike licence. Includes contributions from The Guardian, New York Times and many others. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)Inebriator servers up all the cocktails &gt;&gt; Hack a DayAn Arduino-powered cocktail maker. Voice operation next?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Since the announcement of the Wii U launch date and price last week, everyone has had an opinion on the next console from Nintendo. Today, the Sun effectively wrote the machine off as outdated and overpriced – but what do developers think?Firebrand Games is a Scottish developer specialising in racing titles. Having produced conversions of titles such as Need For Speed and Trackmania, it is currently working on an unannounced multi-platform title, which will appear on Wii U. We got some questions to creative director Peter Shea about the machine and what it may offer in the year to come.So, having worked with it, what do you think of the Wii U technology? Are there aspects and possibilities that aren't really being mentioned right now?The Wii U technology is certainly interesting and unique in many ways. People in the gaming press have become very focussed on its power at the expense of its most unique aspect, the DRC controller. I've heard conflicting comments in the media on the Wii U capabilities, some more accurate than others, but suffice to say it's running our multi-platform HD game just fine. As with all new consoles it's too early to say just how far people will be able to push it once they get to grips with the hardware and work out the best way to make things for it, so it's unlikely you'll see any astonishing titles in the first year or so – but they will come. The differences in power and graphical fidelity are going to become much harder to distinguish in the coming years and this should hopefully bring about greater focus on gameplay and experience – something Nintendo have always excelled at.So you think the most interesting possibilities of the hardware won't be realised for a while?There is still a degree of uncertainty about exactly what you can, should and must do with the Wii U, almost as if Nintendo is still working this out for itself, or not quite ready to show all its cards. Even though we have the hardware in house, we won't really know what it's all about until we see the first wave of first Party Titles, and see and play what Nintendo have been working on.It definitely has a lot of scope for experimentation. The combination of a second viewport on handheld screen, very accurate gyroscopes and accelerometers, and front and back cameras seems to offer a lot of possibilities – and you're seeing some of the more obvious ideas already in titles like ZombiU. The Controller itself is light, nice to hold and has a great display on it – it feels impressive and natural in the hand; once you hold it and play with it, it does make sense – perhaps not in the revolutionary way Wii Remote made sense, but it is intriguing nonetheless.What most interests you as a developer?Even though it might not apply to the games Firebrand are working on right now, I'm most interested in the possibilities the Controller offers. The idea of local multiplayer with different viewpoints is exciting as is the scope for co-operative or asynchronous tactical play or just for combining regular control with touch screen input with motion control and even potentially with AR or near field communications.I think games that manage to use or bring these things together in ways beyond the gimmicks we saw in some early Wii products stand the best chance of offering compelling experiences not available on any other platform. I do remember similar optimism around the potential of the Wii when it launched, however, and this was never really fulfilled the way perhaps some people imagined. What's also not entirely clear is just how games can make use of two screens simultaneously, but also allow for players to play on DRC alone with the TV off. Again, we are waiting to see exactly what Nintendo does here and what it expects or encourages others to do.What is the biggest challenge for Nintendo in making Wii U a success?I think there are two main challenges. The first is getting the message across that this is more than "just" a Wii with better graphics and HD output. I think there is a danger here of the message getting confused, especially to the casual market. Nintendo needs to charm the mass market in the same way it charmed people so successfully with the Wii. You could almost argue that the unprecedented success of the Wii makes it almost impossible for Nintendo to compete with its successor. I do believe that with the right titles, the right price and Nintendo's excellent marketing they can do this but I expect it to be the focus of next year – Christmas 2013 – rather than at launch or in the coming months.The second big challenge is selling the machine to Gamers who already own one or more HD consoles, and handheld devices and smartphones capable of gaming. I don't entirely subscribe to the view that Apple and Android are Nintendo's biggest rivals from here as I think the different devices will always offer different experiences and there is still high demand for both those experiences at differing price points, be it £40 or 69p, even in a recession. The traditional markets we have grown up with are definitely in a state of flux but to me that doesn't mean there isn't scope for at least one more generation of traditional gaming device under the telly.And presumably first-party software will be vital...Nintendo is still among the best game developers in the world, and you can only play Nintendo games on Nintendo consoles – as much as the market changes these facts remain. People still need Nintendo, its popularity has not waned despite the growth of new devices, platforms and franchises – it's bigger than ever.It's this fact alone that makes me optimistic for the Wii U despite the difficult times and the ever changing market. The majority of the game development community wrote off the DS before launch and almost everyone wrote off the Wii on first look too – both went on to be extraordinarily successful. The lesson is clear: never underestimate Nintendo!
Mobile firm Shazam has hit its latest big milestone – 250m users of its mobile app – while expanding its social TV features in the US to allow all shows to be tagged, rather than just those whose networks or producers have a marketing deal with the company.It's the latest sign of Shazam's determination to become as big a player in the emerging social TV market as it is for music identification, which was the company's original focus."With more than a quarter of a billion people who have used Shazam worldwide, no other app has our scale when it comes to offering the opportunity to engage with the media that interests them the most, whether it's music or television," said chief executive Andrew Fisher in a statement.Shazam's app can be used to tag – identify – any music track that's in the company's database. Now the same applies for TV shows in the US, with Shazam saying that it has more than 160 channels covered from cable, satellite and terrestrial networks.Viewers who tag shows using Shazam's iOS and Android apps will be served cast information, trivia and news, feeds from Twitter, links to show data on sites including IMDB and Wikiepdia, and song details from the soundtrack.Shazam says that the expanded features will launch in the UK, France, Germany, Italy and Spain "in the coming months". Until then, Shazam's TV features in these countries will continue to be focused on tagging advertisements from partner brands including Renault, Reebok, Unilever, Pepsi and Microsoft.Also coming soon to Shazam are changes to the way its app's social networking features work. Users will be able to link the app to their Facebook account and automatically publish their tags to the social network's news ticker, although the feature will be optional. New users will be invited to sign in using their Facebook login when they first open the app."With our expansion into television, we've seen a surge of activity due to recent Shazam-enabled events such as the NBC Olympic broadcast, where more than one million people tagged the closing ceremony, as well as the US Open tennis grand slam event on CBS earlier this month," said Fisher."We think that broadening our television service and offering more comprehensive social features will continue to drive activity and engagement."Shazam is already pretty engaging: recently the company reported that its users were generating 10m tags every day, helping it break the 5bn mark since its launch. The companylaunched its Shazam Friends featurein March 2011 that included basic Facebook integration, but the latest change is likely to give Shazam a big profile boost through the social network's news ticker.The company's TV expansion comes as it aims to stake its claim to a big share of the emerging social TV market in the US. There, it faces competition from local startups like GetGlue, Miso and IntoNow – the latter is now owned by Yahoo – with fellow UK firm Zeebox also crossing the Atlantic with its own app.Shazam claims to have generated $300m sales of digital goods for the music industry in its history – it says that between 8% and 10% of its music tags lead to purchases from stores like Apple's iTunes. The TV industry will be hoping the company can help producers and broadcasters boost their own digital revenue streams.Correction: Intro paragraph changed from "downloads" to "users" – the 250m figure relates to people who have ever used Shazam, rather than just downloaded it.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHacking legend Charlie Miller signs on with Twitter &gt;&gt; V3.co.ukLegendary hacker and security reacher Charlie Miller is set to begin work with the security team at Twitter.Miller said in a Friday Tweet that starting Monday he would be working with the security team at the Microblogging service. Miller made no mention of how long or in what capacity he would be working with the company.A legend amongst the hacking and security research communities, Miller has become a favourite presenter at the Black Hat conference for his extensive investigations into the fundamental security structure and potential security vulnerabilities in platforms such as NFC hardware and notebook battery packs.Miller is ex-NSA and indeed legenday.Don't buy the Amazon Kindle Fire HD hype &gt;&gt; Seeking AlphaWhy would you want to buy a 7-inch Kindle Fire HD with a laggy, old weak performance dual-core Texas Instruments processor, only 50,000 apps in the Amazon app-store, ad-supported home-screen and lock-screen, and a dumbed-down user interface with less operating system functionality?......Compared to a Google Nexus 7 tablet with a speedy quad-core processor, 600,000 apps in the Google Play store, access to the Kindle app, full Android 4.1 operating system functionality, and no-ads - for about the same price? (Google Nexus 7 comes with a $25 content credit currently, and a wall charger, while the Kindle Fire HD doesn't have a wall charger, but has more built-in flash memory. All-in-all, in the same ballpark price if you net things out.)It's a very thorough takedown. And that's before he gets into his expectations for an "iPad mini". (The writer discloses that he's shorting Amazon. However, the points made aren't dependent on a stock position.Intel brings voice search to ultrabooks &gt;&gt; ZDNetBy partnering with voice specialist Nuance, Intel will let ultrabook buyers use speech to control their laptop, Dadi Perlmutter, general manager of the Intel Architecture Group, said in a keynote speech at the Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco on Tuesday.In an onstage demonstration, attendees saw an Intel developer instruct a Dell XPS ultrabook to search the web, look up a product on Amazon, tweet a link to it, and then play some music. All of this was done with voice control.The software "is running native on the platform. This is not a cloud service, this requires the high-performing CPU and the capabilities inside", Perlmutter said. Intel has worked with Nuance to tune the application for its processors to maximise performance, he said.Hands up who wants it? (And: Nuance must be coining it.)The Olympics, Hillsborough, technology and a dislocated truth &gt;&gt; The Theatre of ReasonStephen McGann:I can't escape the thought that if the Hillsborough tragedy had occurred years later, then mobile telephony might have borne witness to a truth that the authorities would have been unable to suppress. A thousand images, texts, calls and facebook posts from supporters inside the stadium would have scattered the message to the world before a cover-up could be concocted. Technology might have dignified the innocent and the young dead in a way that the authorities were unwilling to do. The powerful might have been persuaded of the futility of their deceit, and reminded of their duty of care. Technology might have summoned medical help. And some of the innocent might still be alive...I'd have given anything for a mobile phone that day. If only so I could have called home to tell my mother that her two sons were still alive. When we left the stadium, every telephone box in Sheffield was crammed with supporters trying to relate their private truth to loved ones. We eventually found a phone box on the high moors outside of Manchester. It was late. My mother was relieved beyond belief to hear us safe. Landline telephony from an earlier age had stepped in to deliver a small mercy.Preliminary ruling by ITC judge clears Apple of infringement of four Samsung patents &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsAdministrative Law Judge E. James Gildea just issued his preliminary ruling on Samsung's ITC complaint against Apple. At this stage of the investigation, four Samsung patents, including a couple of allegedly standard-essential ones, are at issue. Samsung had dropped one of its five patents-in-suit, a kind of streamlining that is expected in ITC investigations and also performed by Apple in its own offensive cases.Judge Gildea identified no violation with respect to any of the asserted claims of the four patents...Judge Gildea furthermore concluded that no domestic industry exists for any of the four patents. The domestic industry requirement is indispensable for ITC complainants - without it, there is no way to win an import ban.iPhone 5 blueprints &gt;&gt; AppleJust a rectangle with rounded corners. (It's actually posted as an aid to accessory makers.)How to save NFC: Kill the idea of mobile payments &amp; operator involvement &gt;&gt; Disruptive WirelessDean Bubley is a mobile consultant:I've never had a problem buying a sandwich &amp; thought "what terrible experience taking £3 out of my pocket". I can use cards anywhere on the planet with a pretty good acceptance rate. Chip &amp; pin means it's more secure than before. And I never see anyone bothering to tap their cards on the contactless readers either.The idea of your purchases "going on your phone bill" completely ignores the fact that most people on the planet use PAYG prepaid and don't get a bill. Average outstanding prepay balance is something like $5, I believe. Most contract users won't want a sandwich or a flight on their phone bill - especially corporate expense managers. It just doesn't fit with our mental model of "phone bill", which many people don't both looking at anyway as they're on a standard plan. Linking purchases to credit cards stored virtually in your phone just seems pointlessly geeky &amp; needs interruptive apps to be useful. I don't buy all this couponing &amp; analytics hype either - it's just putting lipstick on the pig.Keeping time on the PC &gt;&gt; Coding HorrorPCs aren't very accurate timekeepers. The distribution of times reported here is a little disturbing, as are the giant peaks on the extreme left and right of the graph. The PCs with wildly inaccurate clocks outnumber those with accurate clocks about 2:1.And can make a difference.Smart Toaster on the Behance Network &gt;&gt; JamyA French toaster that burns the weather forecast into your toast... just likethis British design did in 2001. Between this and the Closer photos, how long before war breaks out between Britain and France? (Thanks @angusthebull for the link)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Monday again! Any gaming this weekend, then? I did an hour of Minecraft with my sons, then some nostalgic Battlefield 1943 and a little Spelunky. How about you?
By any standards, Twitter is one of the wonders of the digital world. A service that didn't exist seven years ago has somehow become a central part of our media ecosystem, old and new: I can't remember when I last heard a radio programme that didn't invite me to "follow" it on Twitter, while at the opening of every conference I attend nowadays, after the obligatory notices about the location of the fire exits, there is the unveiling of the event's Twitter&nbsp;hashtag.So Twitter is huge. It has more than 500 million active users who send 340m tweets on an average day, and is consistentlyone of the top 10 websitesin the world. Two-thirds of the world's top companies have anactive Twitter profile. And yet when it first appeared in July 2006, it provided instant corroboration of Naughton's First Law of Innovation, which says that if theDaily Mailis baffled and/or infuriated by a new piece of technology, then the odds are that it is a really significant&nbsp;development.Twitter spread like wildfire for various reasons: it was easy to understand and use; it was quirky; and, most importantly, it wasasymmetrical. If you chose to "follow" someone's Twitter stream, they were under no obligation to follow you. As one of the service's co-founders (Jack Dorsey) put it, Twitter's attraction was founded on "connection with very low expectation". This lack of reciprocity turned out to be seductive to people who were intimidated by the expectations implicit in other social&nbsp;media.For most of its short life, Twitter has had a good press, partly because of the way it has stood up to attempted bullying by lawyers and security authorities seeking the personal details of users. During the attacks on WikiLeaks after the release of US diplomatic cables, Twitter functioned as a way of bypassing the withdrawal of Domain Name Services (DNS) for the site, providing a workaround that allowed access to WikiLeaks. It also played a significant role in the Arab spring, especially in Egypt – all of which persuaded the world that Google might not be the only internet corporation that had "Don't be evil" engraved on its corporate&nbsp;DNA.Recently, however, Twitter has come in for some heavy criticism on two fronts. During the Olympics itsuspended the accountof Guy Adams – theIndependent's man in Los Angeles – who had been posting hyper-critical tweets about the awfulness of NBC's coverage of the Games. Twitter claimed that the suspension was because Adams had broken its rules about not revealing people's email addresses. Critics alleged that it was because of the fact that Twitter had a commercial arrangement with NBC, and that this had led it to curtail Mr Adams's freedom of speech. "Twitter is becoming old media," fumed one venerable netizen,Dave Winer, echoing the sentiments of some other&nbsp;netheads.But in fact, many techies had become disenchanted with Twitter before the Olympics. The reason was that the company had begun to constrain their freedom to buildapplicationsthat interacted with the service – eg by creating software (such as HootSuite and TweetDeck) that allowed people to tweet without visiting Twitter's website. From very early on, Twitter's co-founders had sussed that the way to expand rapidly was to design the service as a "platform" on which other developers couldbuild things, and so published an application programming interface (API) defining the technical protocols that enabled external developers' software to communicate with Twitter's.Currently there are about 100,000external applicationsthat use the Twitter API, so its ecosystem is a really big deal. What's raised techie hackles recently is Twitter's decision torestrict the freedomsof those who use its API – for example by limiting the number of users they can have, or the frequency with which their apps can interact with Twitter.This new disenchantment with Twitter seems daft to me. The suspension of Adams's account looks more like an error of judgment rather than the onset of old-media control freakery. Twitter is unlikely to abandon its First Amendment principles, if only because to do so would be commercially disastrous in the long run. And as for the API restrictions, well, Twitter isn't a charity. Those billions of tweets have to be processed, stored, retransmitted – and that costs money. Twitter has already had more than $1bn of venture capital funding. Like Facebook, it has to make money, somehow. Otherwise it will disappear. Even on the internet there's no such thing as a free lunch.
This year's digital day event from Ubisoft, a chance to sample the company's newest titles, was a strong showcase for the ambitions of a publisher clearly keen to embrace the future of gaming.With free-to-play (F2P) games proving more profitable than some retail releases, there's an impending shift in how the games industry does business. It's understandable, then, that Ubisoft is extending its biggest brands, includingAssassin's CreedandGhost Recon, into the new arena.Launching later this year, the tablet-basedAssassin's Creed: Utopiaoffers a distinctly different take on the historical action game, meshingSimCity-style town building and resource management with strategic combat, while conversely,Ghost Recon Onlinedelivers a full-featured squad-based PC title emphasising stealthy commando raids.Most promising, however, isThe Mighty Quest for Epic Loot, its delightfully blunt title the first hint of its sense of humour. Tasked with raiding friends' castles to steal treasures, it features a mix of strategy and real-time combat, with a heavy dose of community-made content. Its blending of gameplay genres bodes well for this 2013 release.With other series such asRaymanandCall of Juarezgetting a similar push on mobile and download platforms – Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Network for the latter – Ubisoft is making bold steps to secure its place in a disc-less future.
Price £27,600MPG 74.3Top speed 131mphYears ago, having owned a string of scrap-yard survivors, rusted hand-me-downs and persistent MOT offenders, I decided the time had finally come to buy a "grown-up" car. One that would cost four figures (just), have a number plate in the current run of the alphabet and which wouldn't bring a tear of disappointment to my father's eye. I headed for my local garage where the salesman looked me up and down before pointing towards the far corner of his yard: "What you want is flash but not much cash. And no car does that better than a Citroën BX…" He was dead right, both about me and the BX.The now defunct BX was a disarming mixture of luxury (electric windows, hydraulic suspension, tinted sunroof), wrapped in a stylish package and propped up on a&nbsp;mechanically unimpressive foundation.It was a template that worked brilliantly for Citroën and millions of drivers (including myself) were delighted, though often frustrated. But hey, it was a proper car.The latest generation of Citroëns, however, is messing with this blueprint. For the price, they're still gadget-heavy and unexpectedly luxurious… but their underpinnings are no longer as dubious.The most recent car to buck the trend is the innovative DS5 Hybrid4 – the world's first mass-produced diesel-electric hybrid car. It will do a wallet-tranquillising 74mpg and its CO2emissions dip below the magic 100g per km mark, which means it avoids both road tax and London's congestion charge. These figures are all the more impressive when you consider that the DS5 is both large and posh. It's a five-seat premium motor, not some green-conscious bandwagon with hemp seats and a whiff of eco-smugness.From the outside it's a bit of a&nbsp;shape-shifter: part saloon, part estate, part MPV, the DS5 is unlike any other car you'll see in your local multi-storey. Two long swishes of chrome whip up from its front corners to a&nbsp;steeply angled dark windscreen, like a pair of metal ice-hockey sticks. There's plenty more chrome along the sills and snaking around the front valance, bracketing the headlamps like the silver glints on the arms of designer sunglasses. The bonnet is as heavily creased as a linen napkin and the flanks are sculpted and shapely.The interior is a banquet of high-grade rubber, leather and soft-touch plastics. Controls sweep around the driver, spilling down the central console and studding the ceiling.  The digital dash scrolls information past you with dizzying graphics. It all feels a bitTop Gunat times.But what really sets the DS5 apart is its groundbreaking power unit. A&nbsp;161bhp, two-litre turbo diesel drives the front wheels and a 36bhp electric motor the rear. The result is a&nbsp;four-wheel-drive set-up with 200bhp. You can switch the system around and choose sport, 4x4 or all-electric drive, or you can do what most of us will – select auto and let the smart car decide.Pioneering though the car may be, there are still a few touches to remind you of the Citroëns of old. The gearbox feels jerky and uncertain at times, the weight of the car means it takes a heavy foot to get you going, and the satnav is maddeningly inept. The lack of a central cubby also means every time you turn a corner the keyless fob slides off the polished surface. But there's more than enough flash to blind you to any faults.
Very much like the sport on which it is based,Madden NFL 13is both a game that takes itself seriously and is&nbsp;devilishly intricate, which might make it as off-putting as the real thing to many gamers.Crammed on to the disc are numerous game types, managerial and player career options, and online modes. It is bewildering at first, especially considering that the core game doesn't shy away from aping the strategic complexity of its source material, and rarely panders to players who don't have at least a reasonable understanding of the rules of gridiron.And yet, behind the statistics and jargon lies a remarkably instinctive sports simulation.Madden NFL 13isn't easy to master, but for those who know the difference between a playbook, a snap and a "wardrobe malfunction", it will likely be simple to pick up. Its greatest strength, however, is in capturing a sense of the physicality of American football – no easy task for a virtual medium. Vindicated in mirroring reality so closely, the latest Madden console outing may just the slickest yet.
There have been plenty of video games about the end of the world. Until now, however, none of them have featured feral pomeranians warring with zebras for control of Japan's streets.Set after a mysterious catastrophe has wiped out the city's human population,Tokyo Jungleis a free-roaming eat-'em-up in which players pick from a menagerie of pets, zoo animals and beasts of burden and then&nbsp;try to survive for as long as possible. If it sounds daft, that's because it is – gloriously so.But beyond the four-legged fisticuffs there's a surprisingly deep and demanding game here. Like every camp classic, it has some rough edges – the controls are a little spongy, the graphics boxy and the action can get unfairly hectic. But for the most part, the glitches add to the charm. In another, better world, David Attenborough is signing up to voice the&nbsp;sequel.
Given thatTekken Tag Tournamentis&nbsp;one of the all-time great fighting titles and is still played today, it is a little surprising that it has takenNamco Bandai12 years to create a sequel. But it has been worth the wait.&nbsp;Hardcore fans will find plenty to enjoy here, with more than 50 fighters, a plethora of modes, stunning visuals and new tag mechanics, including satisfying double-team moves.There's plenty for newcomers, too, including an impressive training section called Fight Lab. This story-driven, challenge-based mode is designed to turn amateurs into veterans, and while it can be tricky and frustrating at times, players who make it through will feel capable of taking on the best in the game's robust online modes.By no means a reinvention of the beat-'em-up,TTT2does stand toe-to-toe&nbsp;with the best, which with any luck means it won't be another 12 years before Namco releases a third&nbsp;instalment.
Bill Binney believes he helped create a monster.Sitting in the innocuous surroundings of an Olive Garden in the Baltimore suburbs, the former senior National Security Agency (NSA) official even believes he owes the whole American people an apology.Binney, a tall, professorial man in his late 60s, led the development of a secret software code he now believes is illegally collecting huge amounts of information on his fellow citizens. For the staunch Republican, who worked for 32 years at the NSA, it is a civil liberties nightmare come true.So Binney has started speaking out as an NSA whistleblower – an act that has earned him an armed FBI raid on his home. "What's happening is a violation of the constitutional rights of everybody in the country. That's pretty straightforward. I could not be associated with it," he told the Guardian.Binney, a career NSA employee who first volunteered for the army in the mid-1960s, has now become a high-profile thorn in the side of NSA chiefs when they deny the programme's existence.At a hacking conference this summer in Las Vegas, NSA director General Keith Alexander said the NSA "absolutely" did not keep files on Americans."Anyone who would tell you that we're keeping files or dossiers on the American people knows that's not true," Alexander told an audience of computer and security experts. But Binney himself was at the same conference and publicly accused Alexander of playing a "word game"."Once the software takes in data, it will build profiles on everyone in that data," he told a convention panel there.Binney's outspokenness has earned him media appearances on shows across America's political spectrum ranging from ultra-conservative Glenn Beck's TV show to the liberal radio icon of Democracy Now."This is not a political issue. People on both sides are concerned," Binney said.The story Binney tells is one of extreme over-reaction by America's national security establishment post-9/11. He recounts developing a small software system, called ThinThread, in the late 1990s at the NSA where he was the technical director of the organisation's 6,000-strong World Geopolitical and Military Analysis Reporting Group.ThinThread correlated data from emails, phone calls, credit card payments and Internet searches and stored and mapped it in ways that could be analysed.Binney wanted to use ThinThread to track foreign threats but it worked too well and kept catching data on Americans too.So Binney's team built in safeguards that encrypted that data. But, by 2000, the NSA decided to go with developing a larger scale programme called Trailblazer to be built by outside contractors (that eventually failed to make it past the design stage) and ThinThread was effectively mothballed.Then September 11 happened. Within a few weeks, Binney says, he realised parts of ThinThread were now being used by the NSA in a massive and secret surveillance operation.But his safeguards had been removed allowing for far more targeted surveillance of American citizens. "I knew the dangers so I built in protections. And you could still find the bad guys with the protections in it. But that wasn't what they wanted so they took those things out," Binney said.Binney quickly left the agency and kept his silence. But that was not the end of the story. In late 2005, the New York Times broke the story that the NSA was engaged in large-scale warrantless electronic surveillance.The scandal eventually led to the passing of amendments to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act in 2008 which, many critics say, simply gave legal protection to the agency's data-mining operations.The programme has thus effectively continued under the Obama administration, which has launched a ruthless crackdown on national security whistleblowers, especially those leaking NSA secrets.Binney gradually began to protest behind the scenes. Yet that earned him an FBI raid by armed agents as he showered at his home. "Here's a guy coming into my shower and pointing a gun at me. I'd been co-operating with these people. Why are they doing this?" he said.Over the past year Binney has gone fully public, detailing what he believes is a massive effort under the Obama administration to collect virtually all electronic data in the country, from Facebook posts to Google searches to emails.It is a deeply secret programme, Binney says, that is called Stellar Wind. He points to the NSA's creation of a giant data centre at Bluffdale in Utah as part of the system.The gigantic building is set to cost $2bn and be up and running by 2013.It is being designed to store huge amounts of accessible web information – such as social media updates – but also information in the "deep web" behind passwords and other firewalls that keep it away from the public.As an example of Stellar Wind's power, Binney believes it is hoovering up virtually every email sent by every American and perhaps a good deal of the people of the rest of the world, too."I didn't expect it from my government. I thought we were the good guys. We wear white hats, right?" he said.For Binney, Bluffdale is a symbol that the national security policy conducted by Obama has been little different than that of Bush.Obama has renewed the Patriot Act, tried to broaden the powers of detention of American citizens for national security reasons, and deployed the anti-spy Espionage Act more times than all other presidents combined."They are still continuing the same programmes – actually, Obama is doing more in some areas," Binney said. Nor is Binney optimistic of rolling back the surveillance.Last week the House of Representatives voted for a five-year extension to the controversial 2008 FISA amendments.Yet Binney believes there has been too much of a sacrifice of civil liberties in order to fight terrorism. "People should feel the ability to go out there and and do anything that they want to without being looked at all the time. Monitored. Watched," he said."The terrorists win, OK? We've lost because we have destroyed our society just to combat them and there was really no reason to do that."Binney is also determined to keep on speaking out. "I don't see any other recourse. Everybody needs to wake up to what we are doing here and whether we want it or not. There is a big hole at the end of this tunnel and it drops off to nowhere." he said.
LittleBigPlanet, VitaThe evil Puppeteer is taking over formerly merry planet Carnevalia and it's up to your sackboy (or girl) to help Colonel Flounder take it back.That means exploring its gorgeously textured, secret-laden levels. Each one is a manic collect 'em-up of new materials, useful objects and stickers with which to decorate the places you visit and, more excitingly, create your own little worlds. Relentless playfulness pervades, this time with the aid of Vita's front and rear touch panels. Playing it is wonderful, but those who dabble with the level editor will discover what may be the world's most joyously complex interactive toy.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £34.99Dogfight 1942, Xbox 360Starting on Midway, thereby avoiding Pearl Harbour and its cliches, Dogfight 1942 takes in the white cliffs of Dover, London and occupied France before heading back to finish off "the Jappos", as your casually racist pilot delicately puts it. Despite its simulator mode this is really an arcade game, putting action ahead of realism and inserting ill-conceived kill cam shots of your quarry spiralling down in flames. It's middling stuff, if not as feeble as last month's Damage Inc, and is disappointingly incompatible with that game's excellent flight stick.City Interactive, approx £10.20Skyrim: Hearthfire, Xbox 360Hearthfire, the latest downloadable content for epic adventure Skyrim, doesn't add any new quests or places to explore. Instead you get the ability to build your Dragonborn a house. Starting as a one-room hut, you can expand it with a library, armoury, trophy room, kitchen, greenhouse, stables or apiary if you fancy going down the Grand Designs route. In an unsettling piece of realism, your house soon turns into a massive money pit and time sink, hoovering up carefully hoarded resources and keeping you away from dragon hunting and dungeon plundering; you're a homeowner now, so no more messing with the Draugr. Limited customisation options and an adopt-an-orphan mechanic that feels like an afterthought make Hearthfire an insubstantial departure. Still, you'll have a house that might impress a virtual Kevin McCloud by the end of it.Bethesda, approx £3.50Games newsCrysis 3Eurogamer Expo 2012 has finalised its exhibitor list, which includes playable versions ofCrysis 3, the first-person shooter that turns New York into a more literal kind of urban jungle;Dishonored, a steampunk extravaganza from the Skyrim people;Resident Evil 6, the self-described "dramatic horror"; andHalo 4, the first instalment to emerge without creator Bungie in charge. There will also be fan-meets and sessions with developers from Metal Gear Solid legendHideo KojimaandDean Hall, maker of indie zombie-apocalypse game,DayZ...Games out this week includeArmoured Kill(Xbox, PS3 &amp; PC); downloadable content forBattlefield 3featuring new tanks, artillery and enormous maps; more online martial arts action withTekken Tag Tournament 2(Xbox, PS3); andDisney Princess: My Fairytale Adventure(Wii, 3DS), a sparkly tiara-strewn vomit-a-thon.
Some cars are inextricably linked to the people who drive or drove them. I'm thinking about thePorsche 550 Spyder to James Dean,Aston Martin DB5 to Sean Connery,Mark II Jaguar to John Thaw, etc. It's not always cool cars and cool people, though.Alan Sugar single-handedly stripped the Rolls-Royce Phantom of all credibility and kudosjust by stepping out of the back of one (that's when I cancelled my order, anyway). And as for the hybrid Lexus GS 450h? Well, it will always beassociated with David Cameron.Remember? He had one when he was in opposition. Sometimes he was actually in it. Other times, if there were photographers around, he'd cycle to work and the Lexus would follow with his briefcase. Yes, OK, that was the previous generation GS 450h and this is the new one, but&nbsp;you can't shake off that kind of baggage (Dave, not his briefcase) simply with an update.It wasn't really a surprising choice of car for the man who would go on to become PM, and I don't mean because it used to be known in Japan as a Toyota Aristo. I think the Lexus GS 450h is more about being seen to care (about the old planet) than actually doing something about it. Image over substance. Yes, its emissions and fuel consumption figures are impressive – and the new one is better than Dave's was. But they're impressive for this type of car (powerful executive saloon) rather than for a car full stop. And anyway, if you drive it like it's capable of being driven, you won't achieve anything like those figures.Because the GS 450h is quick, a&nbsp;proper luxobarge, to rival its German, well, rivals (it should be for 50 grand). It will run on electric power, when you brake the batteries are charged, it's a proper hybrid. But put your foot down and the batteries and electric motor start to work with the 3.5 litre V6 engine, combining to give nearly 340bhp, 0-60 in less than six seconds, a top speed of 155mph.Clever, certainly. And very comfortable. Posh but not overstated. It's quite drivable, too, more dynamic than you'd expect from a car of this size and weight. It's just that I don't quite trust it, just as I&nbsp;don't trust the man with whom I&nbsp;associate it. Meaning I don't believe its eco credentials. Seems even Dave's old chum Boris is with me there. Whereas back in the day it used to ferry a briefcase around town, exempt from congestion charge simply because it was a&nbsp;hybrid, now the GS 450h – even the new, cleaner one – has to pay. Not that that affects Dave, who these days travels in a custom-built, armoured, supercharged 5-litre V8 Jaguar. And at least that's not pretending to be anything it's not.Lexus GS 450hPrice£50,995Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 5.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption45.6mpgCO2 emissions141g/kmGreen rating6/10Cool rating3/10
In 1902, the caustic American satiristAmbrose Bierce– who once reviewed a book by observing that its covers were "too far apart" – proposed a&nbsp;new social convention. Modern life, he complained, involved being introduced to far too many people: you'd meet a friend in the street, then a friend ofhiswould stroll by, and before you knew it you'd have a new, unasked-for acquaintance, with all the obligations that entailed. Bierce blamed the democratic spirit of the 20th century: in the older, more formal days, stricter rules governed who could form acquaintanceships with whom. "It is to be wished," Bierce wrote, "that some great social force, say a billionaire, would set up a system of disintroductions." He imagined a generous gent, a&nbsp;Mr White, resolving to disintroduce two friends of his, Mr Black and Mr Green. "Mr Black," he might say, "knowing the low esteem in which you&nbsp;hold each other, I have the honour to disintroduce you from Mr Green." Mr Black (bowing): "Sir, I have long desired your unacquaintance." Mr Green: "Charmed to unmeet you, sir." Mr White: "I'm sure you will become very good strangers."It's probably best, for Bierce's sake, that he never lived to seeFacebook's People You May Know.Ever since the widespread adoption of email in the 1990s, in fact, the phenomenon he bemoaned has reached a scale he could never have imagined. Technology exposes us to vastly more opportunities for making social connections, and far more effortlessly than even a stroll down the street and a handshake. Yet an etiquette for terminating those links, should they outlive their mutual benefit – if they ever had any – remains as absent as ever. Even "unfriending" someone on Facebook, the closest equivalent to Bierce's proposal, feels like delivering a slap in the face (and not even a well-timed slap, since you can't be sure when they'll find out). Facebook itself hates unfriending, for commercial reasons, and thus makes it easy to hide updates from tiresome contacts without their knowing – a deeply unsatisfactory arrangement that leaves you at constant risk of meeting someone face-to-face who assumes you must already know they've got engaged, or had another baby, or been dumped, or fired, or widowed.The result – at least for anyone who can still recall friendship before the social media age – can be an awkward hodgepodge. There are Facebook friends with whom you want to share everything, those you've grown apart from, and those you've barely heard of. (You can assign them to different lists, but then you've introduced a whole new layer of decisions: who belongs where? What qualifies someone to be switched from one list to another? And so on.) There are Twitter followers with whom your acquaintance is strictly professional, those you know from school, but didn't necessarily like, and those who are your dad. Not long ago, I realised, with a feeling of dismay, that I'd started to think of some of these contacts – not most of them, but some – as clutter.If that sounds a heartless way to think about other people, consider the parallels. Physical clutter, as a widespread problem, is only as old as modern consumerism: before the availability of cheap gadgets, clothes and self-assembly furniture, it wasn't an option for most people to accumulate basements full of unwanted exercise bikes, games consoles or broken Ikea bookshelves. We think we want this stuff, but, once it becomes clutter, it exerts a subtle psychological tug. It weighs us down. The notion of purging it begins to strike as us appealing, and dumping all the crap into bin bags feels like a liberation. "Friend clutter", likewise, accumulates because it's effortless to accumulate it: before the internet, the only bonds you'd retain were the ones you actively cultivated, by travel or letter-writing or phone calls, or those with the handful of people you saw every day. Friend clutter exerts a similar psychological pull. The difference, as Bierce understood, comes with the decluttering part: exercise bikes and PlayStations don't get offended when you get rid of them. People do. So we let the clutter accumulate.Or most of us do. Last year, a writer of romance novels from Illinois namedArLynn Presserembarked upon what you might call an audit of her so-called friends – the social equivalent of picking up each old gadget and scrutinising it, before keeping it or throwing it out. She was recently divorced, and her adult children had left home – "If your kids don't call you a lot, that's a&nbsp;sign you've done a good job," she told me – and she was spending hours every day on Facebook. "I was keeping up with everybody's news, noticing what they were doing, staying up to date, and I&nbsp;began to think, 'Seriously though, whoarethese people? If&nbsp;I was in college with you, and we weren't particularly good friends then – why are you suddenly someone I message back and forth with at least once a day?'" Politeness, she knew, was the reason she'd accepted some of her online friends: "Say someone sends a request and you look at your mutual friends and you wonder, 'Wait – were you the person I was talking to at that wedding?' You don't want to ask, 'How, exactly, do I know you, and why would I want to be your friend?'" Presser had 325 Facebook friends, a little money stashed away, and a fear of flying that she wanted to overcome, so she decided to combine all three: she made a New Year's resolution to visit them all, to find out why – or, indeed, whether – they were friends."I don't think I realised," Presser says, "that it was going to be quite as big a deal as it was."To recognise that friend clutter is a problem, it should be emphasised, doesn't mean condemning online friendship per se. It's commonplace, these days, to encounter the concern that social media might be making us lonelier – that online bonds can't be as fulfilling as "real-life" ones. The sociologist Sherry Turkle, author of the recent bookAlone Together, worries that "we have sacrificed conversation for mere connection. Email, Twitter, Facebook, all of these have their places… but no matter how valuable, they do not substitute for conversation." One frequently cited statistic, based on research among Americans, is that between 1985 and 2004 the number of people who said they didn't have a single "confidant" – someone to whom they could talk about anything –rose from 10% to 25%. A further 20% had only one such person. It might seem hard to avoid the conclusion that all the time we spend online, superficially connected but in a more profound sense isolated, must be to blame.Except that, according to an ever-growing body of evidence, social mediaisn'tmaking us lonelier or less deeply connected. Instead, study after study endorses the idea of "media multiplexity": people who communicate lots via one medium, it&nbsp;turns out, are the kind of people who communicate lots via others as well.Regular emailers are more likely also to be regular telephoners, one study found; people who use Facebook multiple times a day, according to another investigation, have9% more close ties in their overall social network, on average, than those who don't. Social media builds social capital, rather than degrading it: regular users of Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter, one major survey last year concluded,are 43% more likely to vote. Even that chilling statistic about more Americans lacking a confidant now looks dubious: a new analysis by the sociologistClaude&nbsp;Fischerconcluded that the finding arose because of a change in how the questions were asked. There's little other evidence to suggest that more people are feeling lonelier. Which makes it tricky to maintain that the new modes of friendship are&nbsp;eroding friendship itself.None of this means that friendship isn't being transformed by social media, though. It's just that the problems aren't those of isolation – of the replacement of face‑to‑face contact with screen-gazing in darkened rooms – but those of scale. The anthropologist and evolutionary psychologist Robin Dunbar famously calculated "Dunbar's number" – the notion that the largest number of meaningful social relationships that any one person can maintain is somewhere around 150. Before the internet, we kept things manageable by natural attrition: if there were people you didn't want to see any more, then by and large you didn't see them. "It's unnatural for us to drag all our past relationships with us into our future, as we do with Facebook," says Anjali Mullany, social media editor ofFast Companyand writer of its "social media agony aunt" column. "That's not how things have worked, in terms of friendship, for thousands of years."Online networks have a tendency to obliterate the nuances between different kinds of relationships. Despite Facebook's lists, privacy settings and the rest, Mullany points out, "ultimately, somebody is either your friend on Facebook or they're not. In real life, we're very political about our friendships, and I don't mean that in a bad way." There are friendships we'll let fade to nothing; others for which we'll put on a&nbsp;facade for a few hours at Christmas; or friendships of necessity, where we'll give the impression of intimacy without the reality. In contrast, "Facebook essentially doesn't allow us to be political." Its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, makes no secret of his belief that everybody sharing everything with everybody else would be Facebook's ideal state. (The site's more nuanced levels of user control are provided, his statements imply, only as a grudging concession to old‑fashioned attitudes that will soon die out.) It's no coincidence, of course, that maximal sharing means maximally lucrative opportunities for advertising. But this flattening of relationships is unlike anything we've called "friendship" before.When Presser set out to meet her Facebook friends, one of the first things she discovered was that about two dozen of them had no intention of letting her visit, which certainly answered the question of what kind of friends they were. More revelations were in store. Some people proved overly demanding, such as the woman with whom she'd grown up and who had moved to a&nbsp;remote part of Turkey – she said Presser could visit so long as she brought her a Mac computer and a printer. When Presser offered to help her have the equipment shipped instead, she says, she found herself unfriended. Then there was the childhood acquaintance with whom, Presser realised, she'd stayed Facebook friends mainly to&nbsp;avoid giving the impression that she had a&nbsp;problem with his having undergone gender reassignment surgery to become a&nbsp;woman. But when they met, they still didn't get along: "I&nbsp;didn't like her any more than I had done as a&nbsp;child." Another Facebook friend, whom she visited in Boston, seemed friendly enough: they went to a yoga class together and said warm goodbyes at the airport. Waiting for her flight, Presser blogged about the yoga class in a slightly facetious manner. "By the time I got off the plane," she recalls, "I'd been defriended and blocked."Presser is at pains to point out that her expedition, which she plans to use as the basis for a&nbsp;book, was a largely positive experience. In a&nbsp;remote corner of Alaska, she rekindled an old friendship; near Beachy Head, she was served a&nbsp;splendid Sunday dinner by people she'd never met; again and again, she was moved by the generosity of people "who, after all, hadn't signed up to my resolution". But her year of friend‑auditing was clarifying, too. The realisation that she didn't have much in common with certain Facebook "friends" meant they no longer needed to weigh on her mind; she could focus on the other ones instead.Not that it would be accurate to give the impression that Presser reduced her number of Facebook friends. Mentally, she had decluttered. But thanks to the publicity her quest attracted in the US media – and her seeming inability to decline new requests – her friend count stands at 5,000. Facebook won't let her add more.The more profound truth behind friend clutter may be that, as a general rule, we don't handle endings well. "Our culture seems to applaud the spirit, promise and gumption of beginnings," writes the sociologistSara Lawrence-Lightfootin her absorbing new book,Exit: The Endings That Set Us Free, whereas "our exits are often ignored or invisible". We celebrate the new – marriages, homes, work projects – but "there is little appreciation or applause when we decide (or it is decided for us) that it's time to move on". We need "a language for leave-taking", Lawrence-Lightfoot argues, and not just for funerals. A&nbsp;terminated friendship, after all, needn't necessarily signal a horrifying defeat, to be expunged from memory. One might just as easily think of it as "completed".Mullany recommends a friend-decluttering exercise that she admits sounds "weird", but that she predicts will become more and more widely accepted. She advises making a public proclamation on Facebook in which you specify the criteria by which you'll henceforth be defining people as "friends". Maybe you'll resolve only to remain Facebook friends with people you've met at least once in real life, or maybe you'll use a&nbsp;stricter standard, such as whether you'd invite that person to your wedding. Explain, in the same proclamation, that the consequent defriending shouldn't be taken personally, and that you're doing it to a number of people at once. Then start clearing out the clutter. Increasingly, Mullany argues, social media will force us to evaluate our friendships in this way – to take stock of our connections, so as to reserve our energies for those who matter most. She equates this to drawing up the guest list for a wedding: "It's stressful but, for many people, making that list is a really important, meaningful moment."A person involved in the music industry whom I'll call Andrew – because telling you his real identity would defeat all his efforts to manage his online presence – recalls the moment he realised he'd need two Twitter profiles: one for his public existence and one for his actual friends. (The problem is somewhat different on Twitter, since followers don't need to be approved.) "You forget that there's an audience," he says. "I'd be saying something to a friend, and then someone I&nbsp;didn't know would chip in, furiously angry about what I'd&nbsp;said. I thought, 'I can't be fucking bothered with this.' It was like dragging a&nbsp;busload of people behind you wherever you went." Andrew left Facebook for similar reasons. "Somebody I'd been at school with when I was 10 sent me a message to say, 'Are you still really into Adam And The Ants?' Of course I'm not. I'm in my 40s, and we knew each other when we were 10."If Zuckerberg's insistence that everyone should be friends with everyone prompts us, out of necessity, to winnow our lists to a smaller group of people we truly cherish, he'll have done something admirable, even if it's the opposite of what he intended.And what of Bierce, who was longing for a new convention of disintroductions as long ago as 1902? He handled his own exits unconventionally, to say the least. In 1913, at the age of 71, he took off for Mexico, telling friends he wanted to witness the revolution underway there. Some time later, he is supposed to have written, in a letter to a&nbsp;friend, "I leave here tomorrow for an unknown destination", though the letter has never been found. Then he vanished. There were rumours – one involved his execution by a Mexican firing squad – but nothing was ever confirmed. Gradually, it began to dawn on Bierce's friends that, one way or another, he'd disintroduced himself from them all.
Shipping dates for "unlocked" versions of Apple's new iPhone 5 were delayed by a week within an hour of it going on sale on the company's site, suggesting overwhelming demand once again for the company's iconic device.Analysts rapidly upped their estimates for the number that could be sold this quarter to more than 30m."Clearly, iPhone 5 fever is in full swing," Topeka Capital Markets analyst Brian White said. "When you do a pre-order, the last thing you want to do is upset customers, so obviously they are overwhelmed with the demand. No one wants to sell out in an hour."Analysts have expressed surprise at how quickly Apple planned to roll out the new model around the world, saying this suggested supply constraints that affected past releases would not be a problem this time.Though some commentators said the phone, unveiled on Wednesday, did not offer any knockout features, customers appeared to disagree. Demand in the US and UK pushed delivery dates from 21 September to the 28th.In the UK, all of the major operators are expected to sell the phone, the sixth iteration of the product, though the Orange/T-Mobile network is expected to benefit from the ability to offer high-speed 4G broadband that is compatible with the phone.Industry observers told The Guardian that UK operators indicated they suffered constrained supplies, despite putting in higher requests for stock than last year – and pointed to the fact that the UK variant uses the same 4G chips that work with networks in South Korea, where its arch-rival Samsung dominates, but where "Apple wants to kick them hard," in the words of one observer.The O2 network, which in 2007 was the first to sell the iPhone, suffered delays in setting up orders, while rival networks were quick to take advantage.In the US, AT&amp;T, Verizon Communications and Sprint Nextel Corp, the three US carriers who will sell the iPhone 5, continued to show availability for delivery next Friday, the announced first day of deliveries. Apple said on its website the new model would be available in its stores on that date.White said he is expecting 1.3m to 1.5m pre-orders, but added that the estimate now looked conservative. He said the iPhone 4s last year had seen 1m pre-orders, while the earlier iPhone 4, in 2010, received 600,000 pre-orders. Phil Schiller, Apple's head of marketing, said earlier this year that Apple plans on the sales of each phone being equal to the total of all its predecessors.Apple started taking pre-orders for the iPhone 5 at midnight Pacific Time (0800 BST) on Friday, with the first deliveries set for 21 September.Key to analysts' expectations is that Apple has set an aggressive rollout: on 21 September the phone will go on sale in nine key markets, including the US, Canada, UK, Japan and Hong Kong. The following week, it will bring the iPhone 5 to 22 more countries, and plans to have it in 100 markets by the end of the year. In comparison, the iPhone 4S was initially sold in seven countries., and in 22 more countries two weeks later. By the end of 2011, it was available in 70 countries. The iPhone 4 launched in only five countries, and by the end of its first month on the market it was still only in 18."We believe the fast sell-out indicates both high levels of demand and constrained supply," said Cross Research, an independent research house."However, given that the company announced an aggressive rollout schedule, we assume management's plan includes a rapid increase in production."Apple shares rose 1.9% to a new all-time high of $695.86 on Friday, before easing back a little to $694.77 in heavy early morning trading on the Nasdaq.Apple have declined to comment.
Twitter has relented in its fight with New York prosecutors to hand over three months worth of messages from an Occupy Wall Street protester ahead of the activist's criminal trial.Twitter had argued that the posts belong to Malcolm Harris and as such it would be violating fourth amendment privacy rights if it were to disclose the communications.But having lost a legal appeal against a subpoena, Twitter faced the prospect of steep fines if it did not comply with the judges order to turn over the tweets to the Manhattan district attorney's office.The firm handed over the tweets on Friday after being told by a New York judge that it would be held in contempt after that date.The activist has been charged with disorderly conduct in relation to a protest on the Brooklyn Bridge in October last year. He was among several hundred Occupy Wall Street demonstrators arrested during the protest march.Prosecutors say that messages posted by Harris – who goes by the twitter handle @destructuremal – could show whether the defendant was aware that he was breaking police orders relating to the demo.In January, the New York district attorney's office issued a subpoena to Twitter, calling on the firm to hand over "any and all user information, including email address, as well as any and all tweets posted for the period 9/15/2011 – 12/31/2011".Harris initially attempted to block the move, but was told that he had no proprietary interest to his own messages.Twitter countered that this contradicts its own terms and conditions, which explicitly states that users "retain their right to any content they submit, post or display on or through". Moreover, in its own legal challenge to the subpoena, the firm accused prosecutors of trying to force its employees to violate federal law.Lawyers for Twitter also argued that under the Uniform Act, prosecutors would need to obtain a subpoena in California before it could demand documents from a company based in that state.But a New York judge rejected most of the firm's arguments and ordered Twitter to hand over the messages to the court, which would review the material and hand over relevant tweets to prosecutorsNo one at the firm was available to comment, and the New York's district attorney's office declined to respond.Harris' lawyer, Martin Stolar, said the decision by Twitter to hand his client's messages "certainly doesn't help our case".He added: "I assume Twitter made a business decision, that they did not want to go into contempt. I would think they would be better off making a business decision to stick up for the fundamental privacy rights of their customers."Harris has pleaded not guilty. Mr Stolar said Friday that he would continue to appeal against the tweets being used as evidence in any criminal trial.
We're dropping the best-apps roundups down to 10 apiece for iOS and Android this week, as it was a bit slow for notable new releases. Hopefully it'll be back up to 20 next week.The separate Android roundup waspublished earlier, and as a reminder, games aren't included in either, since they havetheir own weekly roundup post.Here's this week's iOS selection:M&amp;S HomeMarks and Spencer already has a regular iPhone app, but this week it released a standalone iPad app for its home and furniture business. Expect lots of full-screen photography, swipeable, bookmarkable items and an in-app shopping cart for purchasing.iPadCBeebies MagazineA number of shows from the BBC's CBeebies pre-school channel have their own apps, but this is the first overall CBeebies app to be released in the UK. It's a digital magazine starring characters like Mister Maker, Bob the Builder and the Alphablocks, with puzzles, digital stickers and colouring, and reward charts. Four issues will be released a year through the app.iPhone / iPad2013 AA Pub GuideThe AA has actually released seven of its guide-book applications this week, covering hotels, restaurants, B&amp;Bs and other businesses. The Pub Guide is a good example of their features, providing listings, telephone numbers and website addresses, and detailed descriptions.iPhoneNextGuide TVStartup Dijit is one of many companies trying to disrupt TV viewing, albeit only in the US for now. It blends traditional TV listings with social-fuelled recommendations, alerts and reminders, and links to TV apps like Hulu and Netflix to watch shows on-demand.iPadVIA"Sat-nav but for runners" neatly sums up VIA, which is the work of a UK team trying to help joggers avoid slamming into lampposts while checking their iPhone's map app for directions. It gets you to set a route from A to B, then provides audio prompts while playing your music, and tracking distances, times and calories burned.iPhoneSkullabones Island: Pirates Ahoy!Penguin Books is on a bit of an apps tear at the moment, having released an impressive phonics app earlier in September. This is a collection of play-activities for children based on its Skullabones Island books, including steering a ship, matching piratical pairs and dressing up virtual characters.iPhone / iPadLego Minifigure Ultimate StickersThis week has seen a clash of big children's brands on the App Store, which is good news for parents. This is a digital sticker book based on Lego's Minifigure range, published by DK. Children can mix and match backgrounds and stickers, completing challenges to earn them for a freeplay mode, then share the results.iPadSong BeatsThis is the third music app from Yamaha, and aims to teach people to play drums – virtual ones, obviously – along to their favourite songs. Well, that's as long as they have those songs in the Yamaha MIDI format, or buy them from the in-app store. Glowing rings on the on-screen drums show what to hit and when.iPhoneUggie The ArtistRemember the dog from The Artist? He shoulda won an Oscar too... But the consolation prize for Uggie is his own official iOS app. That means video tricks, colour photographs, links to various spin-off products, and some photo-manipulation silliness. It's good fun for anyone with fond memories of the film.iPhone / iPadDumbo: Disney ClassicsI wasn't joking about the big children's brands. Disney has been steadily turning a succession of its classic films into book-apps for iOS, with Dumbo the latest to make the leap. The familiar story is complemented by animation and voice narration, as well as digital colouring, puzzles and a musical mini-game.iPhone / iPadThat's our selection, but what new apps have you been impressed by this week on iOS? Make your recommendations in the comments section.
As Apple's marketing chief Phil Schiller ran through the specifications of the new iPhone 5 on Wednesday, talking of A6 processors and IPS displays, there were three letters that some people were eagerly waiting to drop from his lips: NFC.They were disappointed: the new iPhone does not include Near-Field Communications technology, which almost certainly means that the prospective payment system will struggle for at least another year to gain traction and users.EBay's chief executive, John Donahoe, often quotes a merchant saying NFC stands for "Not For Commerce" – and dismisses the prospects of NFC being used to turn mobile phones into mobile wallets.Apple's failure to include it seemed to support that view, even though many rival smartphone makers, including Samsung, HTC and Sony, do put NFC in some models.NFC proponents had hoped Apple would endorse the technology, which passes encrypted data between devices at close range without contact. The idea is that instead of swiping a credit card, shoppers can simply wave their phones at a checkout terminal to pay for their goods.But its absence in Wednesday's launch left some thinking it will sit in the doldrums until the next iPhone revision. "Anyone hoping NFC would be a reality soon is disappointed," said Sanjay Sakhrani, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods. "Many in the industry were hoping inclusion in the iPhone would be a springboard for more adoption. This takes the impetus away."Tudor Aw, KPMG's European head of technology, commented that "the lack of an NFC chip to enable mobile payments is perhaps the biggest surprise and disappointment … The interesting question is whether this omission will mean further delay in mobile payments taking off or if it presents an opportunity for its competitors to take a lead in this field."Fred Huet, managing director of Greenwich Consulting, thinks it's the latter: "The decision to omit NFC in the iPhone 5 could cost Apple. It is just a matter of time before the smartphone replaces the plastic card, and by skipping this technology, Apple may have missed a valuable opportunity to take the lead in this market. With over 400m active credit card accounts on file, Apple had a prime opportunity to convert its customers using a sleek mobile payment system tied to the iPhone. Instead they could find that they have fallen behind closest rivals Samsung, Nokia and indeed Motorola, all of whom introduced the technology into their devices last week."Apple did not include NFC because it is not clear the technology solves any current problems, Schiller told AllThingsD on Wednesday.Instead of embracing NFC, Apple is developing Passbook, a mobile app that pulls together QR-based and smartcode-based loyalty cards, tickets and coupons on the new iPhone. Many analysts consider this an early version of a digital wallet, except Passbook does not let users link their credit and debit cards yet.No adoptionMeanwhile, there's no evidence yet of rival phones driving NFC's use, says Benedict Evans, who follows the smartphone and tablet business for Enders Analysis. "NFC has been around forever – and gone nowhere."He says "there might be half a dozen to a dozen NFC-capable smartphones on the market - Samsung Galaxy S3, new Nokia Lumias, Google Nexus range the new Sony Experia, maybe a couple of others. The key issue for a developer is that you have literally no idea how many of these have been sold." And the figure for all NFC-capable smartphones compares with 950 Android devices on sale worldwide in the second quarter of the year, according to figures from research company IDC."Nobody knows which device does have it and which doesn't," says Evans. "If you're an Android developer, do you target it in the device in the expectation it will be there, or not? Of course not."He contrasts that with Apple's single-device approach: "For the iOS [iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch software] developers, if Apple has it in the iPhone, they know there will be35m100m phones with NFC in a year's time. And all the people who might be interested in a new technology like that will have bought new phones. So for the developer, there's a clear value proposition once Apple includes it as a feature."In fact, the number of credit cards tied to Apple's iTunes account is a whopping 430m, according to Eddy Cue, Apple's head of internet software and services, speaking at the iPhone 5 launch. Apple is one of the 10 biggest holders of credit card details online, alongside PayPal, Microsoft's Xbox service, Sony's PlayStation Network, and Amazon.But even though NFC technology is backed by the largest US carriers and credit card companies, it has failed to take off in the US because merchants have been reluctant to spend money to upgrade their checkout terminals until NFC is more widely adopted.Evans says that the key point about Apple's unified approach – where each successive generation of iPhones and iPads gets all the features of the preceding ones – helps developers: "Apple provides a stable target for developers, and a stable product that consumers can adopt knowing it won't disappear."He says: "Other companies are just putting things into the phone to see if it will work. It means nobody has any confidence in that feature. But people know that if Apple puts NFC in the next iPhone, it'll be in the next iPad too. Compare Samsung, which has NFC in the Galaxy S3, but not the Note 10.1 tablet. The people at Apple, by contrast, doesn't put a piece of technology in unless they know what people are going to do with it. They don't just put a front camera in the phone until they have their own video calling system (Apple's FaceTime system) that they know will work."Experimental AndroidAndroid companies have more freedom to experiment, Evans says. "They'll put the technology in a phone and hope there might be some software support in time. The problem with something like NFC, though, is that to be worth having, it has to be consistent. So just sticking it in doesn't work."NFC (which has uses beyond mobile payments) is being backed in the US as a payment solution by Isis, a mobile wallet joint venture in the US between Verizon Wireless, AT&amp;T and T-Mobile on the carrier side, and financial companies including American Express , JPMorgan Chase and Capital One Financial.But like many new technologies, NFC is hampered by a chicken-and-egg problem. Mobile-phone makers like Apple are reluctant to take on the extra cost and engineering effort of embedding NFC chips because many merchants can't accept payments this way yet. Meanwhile, merchants won't install NFC until more consumers have the technology on their phones.After the new iPhone arrived – without NFC – Isis said it was delaying the launch of its NFC mobile payments service for the second time this year."Isis has placed a massive bet on NFC," says David Evans, founder of Market Platform Dynamics and an adviser to companies in the payments business. Apple's continued deferral "is another reason to believe that Isis doesn't have much promise of getting off the ground."Driving the marketSome might find the idea that Apple can drive or hold back a smartphone technology, when it only comprises about 20% of worldwide sales, ludicrous. Yet Google included NFC in its Nexus S phone, released in December 2010, and spoke then of the possibilities of payment systems, which it is building into its Android mobile software. Other digital wallets have already been developed by companies including eBay's PayPal and Visa – with the latter pushing their use at the Olympic and Paralympic games in London this summer. Widespread adoption has not followed.The latest digital wallets, though, aim to bring together credit and debit cards, bank accounts, loyalty cards, rewards and coupons in one place so that shoppers can pay for purchases mostly online, but increasingly in stores, too.NFC's advocates argue it eliminates plastic and cash and can be more secure than magnetic strips. But that alone will not persuade consumers to stop using credit cards in stores because plastic is already so convenient, experts say."It is a new technology and one that is unfamiliar to users. So that opens up new possibilities for abuse and naivety," says Charlie Miller, principal research consultant with Accuvant. But he says NFC allows for interesting security options that traditional credit cards don't, such as account numbers that change dynamically.PayPal is betting other services that make digital wallets more useful will encourage consumers to switch – it is designing a digital wallet that helps consumers do as many things as possible from one place, including buying flight or movie tickets, sending money to other people and tapping coupons, rewards and loyalty cards."Technology is not what's going to win this digital wallet war. It's going to be about the consumer value proposition," says Carey Kolaja, senior director for PayPal's product team.Others argue NFC still has potential, partly because merchant incentives from Visa and MasterCard are expected to spark a wave of payment terminal upgrades in coming years. These upgrades will include NFC capability."It is difficult to buy a new terminal that doesn't already have NFC technology, and soon it will be impossible," says Rick Oglesby of consulting firm Aite Group.But the software and service providers behind the terminals will also have to be ready to accept and process payments that come with coupons, loyalty cards and rewards programs.At the moment, most terminals can handle the amount of the transaction and the card number and not much else, Oglesby said.Until this is all sorted out, Apple will likely wait to enter the payments business aggressively, Oglesby and others say. Apple took a similar approach to 4G LTE wireless technology, waiting until coverage was wide enough this year to unveil an iPhone that uses it, Oglesby notes."They won't do something until they know a lot of their customers will use the service," he says.This article was updated: Apple has 430m credit card details, not 43m; Benedict Evans says that his estimate of how many iPhones would have NFC within a year is 100m, not 35m; he did not suggest that 200 Android models have NFC. The article has been corrected to reflect this.
One question a lot of British gamers had after the Wii U announcements on Thursday was: well, how much is the console going to cost?Although Nintendo provided retail prices for Japan and the US, the company's European head, Satoru Shibata, explained during his press conference that in his region retailers would be setting their own pricing for the basic White bundle and the premium Black edition.This, of course, goes back to 2002, when Nintendo was fined over £90m by the European Commission for colluding with suppliers to rig the prices of its consoles and games across the continent. Nintendo fought the allegations and managed to have the fine reduced several years later, but since then the firm has erred on the side of caution, allowing retailers to set their own pricing structures based on the trade cost."The trade cost prices of Wii U are at just over £200 for the basic unit, £245 for the premium unit and £270 for the ZombiU set," says Christopher Dring of industry news site, MCV.And what we're seeing today is a range of prices, hovering at between £249.99 and £259.99 for the basic edition (which comes with the console, one GamePad and AC adaptors) and between £289.99 and £309.99 for the premium Black edition (console, GamePad, copy of NintendoLand, sensor bar, HDMI cable, Nintendo Premium membership).There is also a ZombiU edition of the Black console, which comes with all the premium kit together with a copy of Ubisoft's zombie game – that's coming in at between £329.99 and £349.99.Right now, Amazon is at the lower end, with White at £249, Black at £299 and the ZombiU Black bundle at £329 – other online retailers will hover at the same price point. HMV is pretty competitive for a high-street chain, with £249.99 for White basic, £299.99 for Black and £329.99 for the ZombiU pack. Game is at the upper end on £259.99 for the basic pack, £309.99 for the premium and £349.99 for the ZombiU bundle.The big question is whether the big supermarkets will start trying to undercut each other on price. Chains such as Tesco and Asda will often sell big games like Call of Duty at cost or even at a loss to encourage shoppers into their stores, tying the prices in with minimum grocery spends. Will they follow a similar tactic on hardware?"It will largely depend on the stock level," says Dring. "3DS prices were cut quite severely when it launched, but there were quite a number of consoles in the channel so the big supermarkets and online retailers – Amazon, Tesco, Asda, etc – felt capable of going low on the price. Whether Wii U gets similar cuts will largely depend on how many consoles Nintendo will make available. Personally, I'd be surprised if there will be severe discounting pre-Christmas. Although perhaps £10 here or there."Potential buyers should also look out for special retailer bundles. Independent stores and smaller chains unable to compete on price will often create their own packs, complete with additional games, controllers or leads. It's worth keeping an eye on your nearest indie stores, or checking the local press.And now we know the price point, how is the console likely to fair? "I expect the Wii U to conduct brisk business over Christmas and into the new year due to pent-up demand from the original Wii evangelists," says Piers Harding-Rolls, senior principle analyst with IHS Screen Digest. "However, this is a significant premium on the original Wii, so more casual buyers that come to the product after the launch phase will need to be impressed with tons of value in content and services to take the plunge."IHS Screen Digest has estimated that global sales will be around 2.5m by the end of the year. As for the stores themselves: "I think retailer expectation for the Wii U will be realistic considering the general economic backdrop and competition from other consumer devices, such as new iPods, tablets, smartphones and handheld games consoles. But there will also be an awareness that the product is likely to sell well to early adopters over the Christmas sales season, so this Wii U launch period is an opportunity to push through some significant business if executed correctly."Retailers certainly need a hit. Sales at Game have been falling this year as consumers begin to tire of the current generation consoles, which have been around for over six years. A new console release can energise the whole market. Game and HMV will be thinking of ways to get interested customers into stores, such as fitting demo units and holding special events.It's likely that demand will outstrip initial supply, however, so pre-ordering may be a good idea. If a Wii U crops up on your child's (or partner's) Christmas list this year, it's probably better not to wait until 24 December before legging it around every game store and supermarket in the area.
It's been a slow week for notable new Android apps, so we're dropping down from the usual 20 to 10 – hopefully just a one-week measure.As ever, games aren't included because there's aseparate weekly postfor them. The weekly iOS roundup will follow later in the day, while the monthly Windows Phone roundup waspublished last week.Here's this week's Android selection:GrooveRunnerWho said iOS users should have all the fun with whizzy fitness apps? GrooveRunner is the latest run-tracking app, keeping tabs on time, speed, pace and distance, with a built-in music player and the now-standard brag-to-Facebook features.Drive To ImproveThis isn't quite ready for mainstream consumption yet – it's a beta – but Telefonica's driving app is definitely one to watch. Working with an in-car device, the app analyses your driving style, providing a score (yes, sorry, gamification ahoy) rating your acceleration, speed and braking skills. The theory being you improve over time, and at some point save money on insurance as a result.Boingo Wi-FinderAn established app, but now with an optimised version for tablets including the Google Nexus 7 and Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1. As with the smartphone version, the app finds Boingo Wi-Fi hotspots around the world, and auto-connects to them if you have a subscription.TechCrunchTechCrunch is another existing Android app that went native for tablets this week, bringing the tech blog's news and CrunchBase database to larger-screened Android devices. It follows the launch of a similar iPad app earlier in the year.Million MomentsSony's Million Moments is already doing well in Asia, where it's done 450k downloads and counting. Now it's getting a push in the UK. The app is for viewing and sharing photos, importing them from Facebook, creating new albums, and tagging images with labels for easier sorting.Sonar: Friends NearbyOkay, so the "app that shows me where my friends are nearby" genre continues to be a bit Marmite in the split between enthusiasts and haters. Android owners in the former category may wish to give Sonar a try though: it connects to various social networks and location services, then shows likeminded users in your vicinity.LiveSTRONG Calorie CounterHold the Lance Armstrong comments, please. While allegations continue to swirl about his cycling career, Armstrong's LiveSTRONG health site has built a decent brand in its own right. Now it wants to help Android owners count calories throughout their week, with this free version offering "Mobile Rewards".KIDO'Z OSIt's certainly not the only app of its kind, but KIDO'Z OS is the latest app that promises to make an Android device safe for children to use. That includes locking up apps you don't want your kids to access, while also serving up "pre-approved" online videos, a child-safe browser and a catalogue of games to play.John Cage PianoComposer and musician John Cage famously "prepared" a grand piano by placing objects under its strings to create different sounds. Now there's no need to give your piano-tuner a headache, since this app samples the sounds to provide a virtual version. It's to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Cage's birth.MasterChefThis app is US-only, to tie in with Fox's version of the cookery show. But it's included here 1.) because there are plenty of Americans reading, and 2.) because it shows that the trend for second-screen TV apps isn't just an iOS thing. The app will synchronise with the show when watched on TV – live or time-shifted – and serve up trivia, polls, photos, videos and recipes as the contestants serve up food on-screen.That's our selection, now tell us yours. What Android apps have been floating your boat this week? Make recommendations in the comments.
With autumn drawing in, it's time to forget about those long sunny days spent drowsing in the park (though if you did that, you clearly weren't in Britain at the time) and start thinking about video games again. And what better way to fire your enthusiasm than attending a games festival or two?As usual, I've collated a range of events, all of them absolutely worth visiting, either if you just want to play some new titles, or if you're interested in some sort of games industry career.Grab that calendar off the wall, scrub out all the boring stuff you were going to do, and scribble all of these on instead. Do it now or you'll forget.The Hide&amp;Seek WeekenderWhen:14-17 SeptemberWhere:Royal Festival Hall, South BankWhat:Hide&amp;Seek is one of the most innovative development companies in the country and their remit extends from Facebook games to urban adventures, with lots of fascinating experimental stuff in between. At their latest Weekender, they'll be showcasing a range of titles developed by artists, scientists and other non-traditional game makers. You can just drop in for free and sample the wares. From the press release: "Visitors will be treated to new games, like Romeoke's blend of avant-garde karaoke and Asteroids and Punch the Custard, which utilises the properties of non-newtonian fluids and Arduino technology to create a game about being the best at punching a bucket of custard". Plus you'll get to experience the astonishing Johann Sebastian Joust which is the best EVER implementation of motion controllers known to mankind.Wild Rumpus 3When:27 September, 7pm - midnightWhere:Cargo, 83 Rivington Street, LondonWhat:This regular video game-themed club night provides the best in offbeat, indie and experimental titles, all with a multiplayer focus. "Come scale the mighty cliff face of dancepads in MEGAGIRP," says the press release. "Strap an Atari 2600 controller to your crotch and get ready to duel in Swordfight and be prepared to make new enemies as you take on others in Barabariball, Kompendium &amp; UPROK". Tickets (availablehere) are a fiver each, and these nights are always amazing fun. Frankly unmissable (by the sounds of it, for Swordfight alone).London Games FestivalWhen:27 Sept - 28 OctWhere:various venues, LondonWhat:After a break last year, the London Games Festival is back, taking in a range of events around the capital – and the Guardian is a media partner! As usual, it encapsulates a series of self-contained treats including the excellentEurogamer Expo(27-29 September, Earls Court) (boasting hundreds of playable games, many getting their first ever public airing), Future's Golden Joystick Awards (26 October) and the always fascinatingMCM London Comic Con(26-28 October). Make sure you also look out for our own events including a meet-up for aspiring games journalists and an exclusive peek at the hugely promising stealth adventure, Dishonored. More details soon...Play ExpoWhen:13-14 OctoberWhere:EventCity, ManchesterWhat:Originally a retro gaming event, Re-Play has moved to EventCity in Manchester and is now offering four different themes: re.play, now.play, pro.play and cos.play. So you'll get a huge range of vintage coin-ops to play, as well as discovering some of the big Christmas releases for 2012 (the likes of EA, Konami and Namco will all be there). And you can do it all dressed as Link! If that wasn't enough, the founders of the iconic Britsoft developer Bitmap Brothers will be doing a talk. Dig out your copies of Speedball and Chaos Engine and get down there. Tickets are £13.20 for the weekend, or £8.80 for a day.GameCity 7When:20-27 OctoberWhere:various venues, Nottingham city centreWhat:The annual games event that I will go ahead and call 'utterly unmissable to anyone who has even glanced with ardour at a video game' is now a week-long odyssey, taking in the usual selection of inspiring talks, indie game expos and amusing evening shenanigans. This year Peter Molyneux will be taking over for a whole day and you can expect lots of insight and indiscreet comments about working for Microsoft. Gamesblog will there too, albeit in a reduced capacity, hosting one of seven different mornings at the Broadway Cinema cafe. We might well find something else to do as well, if the organisers let us.ExPlayWhen:31 October -2 NovemberWhere:The Assembly Rooms, BathWhat:Now into its second year, ExPlay is boutique conference aimed at small studios and game design students in the West of England. It features a bootcamp to guide start-ups through their first project as well as loads of interesting talks and discussion events. It was in Plymouth last year, but now its moving to Bath, and is being sponsored by Edge magazine, which will be hosting a quiz on the last night. And you get to visit the lovely Assembly rooms, where Jane Austen no doubt discussed the state of indie game development in Somerset, while supping tea and observing the stultifying cruelty of Georgian society.Launch conferenceWhen:13-14 NovemberWhere:Birmingham Science Park, AstonWhat:Aimed at developers, start-ups and students, this friendly and diverse conference showcasesG the most interesting work coming out of studios and academic institutes in the Midlands. There's a huge range of speakers including Rod Cousens (CEO of Codemasters and all-round industry veteran), Trevor Williams (co-founder of Playground Games, the developer of Forza Horizon) and Jo Twist (CEO of UK games industry trade body, UKIE), plus, I'll be there talking about games journalism! This is a really valuable event for wannabe developers in the region, with lots of access to movers and shakers in the region.
A court in Munich ruled on Thursday that Google-owned Motorola Mobility (MMI) must recall all the Android tablets and smartphones it has shipped in the country which infringe Apple's "rubber band" scrolling patent, which was key in its billion-dollar lawsuit win against Samsung in the US.The dramatic decision, the latest in an escalating war between Apple and the smartphone and set-top box company MMI, follows earlier cases in which Apple had to disable automatic "push" delivery of email to its iPhone and iPads after MMI won a separate patent fight in Germany.The recall will not take effect immediately because Apple will have to request a ban on specific products and provide a €25m (£20m) bond, while MMI can appeal.However, the court indicated that it was unlikely that an appeal against the validity of the patent would succeed. MMI, with Google's backing, is expected to continue the appeal.The court also ruled that MMI owed Apple damages for past infringement.Even if Apple succeeds in forcing a recall, it is unlikely to seriously damage MMI's business worldwide. But it is another brick in a patent wall that Apple is building up against smartphones and tablets using Google's Android operating system worldwide, and particularly in the US and Europe.Neither Apple nor Google responded to requests for comment.Judge Peter Guntz said MMI had infringed Apple's "overscroll bounce" technology, which enables users to move documents over the screen of their device and let them bounce back to the centre after releasing their fingers.Google bought loss-making MMI for $12.5bn (£7.7bn) last year, its largest acquisition ever, aiming to use the company's patents to fend off legal attacks on its Android mobile platform and expand beyond its software business.Other technology companies have also invested billions of dollars in buying up patent portfolios that they can use against rivals and have also ploughed money into litigation in the US and Europe.Samsung and HTC, two of the largest Android smartphone makers, are both suing and being sued by Apple in the US and Europe.In August, Apple scored a landmark legal victory over Samsung when a US jury found the Korean company had copied critical features of the iPhone and iPad and awarded Apple $1.05bn in damages.Apple is seeking injunctions against a number of Samsung smartphones and tablets, including its flagship Galaxy S3.Germany has become one of the major battlegrounds in the global patent war between makers of mobile phones, tablet computer devices and their operating software, as court actions there have proved to be relatively cheap and speedier than in other jurisdictions.
It's Friday, I'm in love... with games!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIn pictures: Volcanos erupt in Ecuador and Guatemala &gt;&gt; BBC NewsCan't beat a good volcano.100 homes destroyed, more than 800 damaged.Crack in Internet's foundation of trust allows HTTPS session hijacking &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaResearchers have identified a security weakness that allows them to hijack web browser sessions even when they're protected by the HTTPS encryption that banks and e-commerce sites use to prevent snooping on sensitive transactions.Oops.What Apple's new Lightning connector means for you &gt;&gt; MacworldContains useful info about video and audio for anyone who needs to know about how the new and old connect.BT bid announced as broadband project winner in Cumbria &gt;&gt; Think BroadbandOne of the more challenging counties to provide Superfast broadband across has put an end to the debate of whether they will or won't award the project to BT. Cumbria County Council has apparently after reviewing a report on a revised bid from BT awarded the contract to the firm. Fujitsu previously withdrew over worries it would not attract retail providers to actually sell the service they planned.More on the FRAND game &gt;&gt; GroklawRead the stuff in grey text: it's interesting, and suggests - but doesn't demonstrate - that Nokia has sold some standards-essential patents to a "patent troll" which could charge more for it. The commentary on the page sounds, at best, uninformed; Google's complaint letter though is informative.Chip and Skim: cloning EMV cards with the pre-play attack &gt;&gt; Light Blue TouchpaperMike Bond of the Cambridge Computing Laboratory:Let's go back to the start. Alex Gambin had his wallet pickpocketed in Palma, Mallorca, and within an hour of the theft five ATM withdrawals had been made using his card totalling EUR1350, yet he never wrote down his PIN.Early on Alex smelled a rat. He contacted us and we linked his case with a wave of others across Spain. Alex talks about his case (in Maltese), and investigative journalist Sabina Wolf timed the maximum speed of consecutive withdrawals for one of the other cases in the wave - of Anette Luckey (in German). She found that the ATM in question could not keep up with the withdrawal speeds which had been logged. Luckey has since been refunded but HSBC Malta has not done the same for Alex.Apple's magic is in The Turn, not The Prestige &gt;&gt; TechCrunchTo some, this repetition is now boring. But I think Apple looks at it the opposite way: they're perfecting their trick.&lt;pP Look at the mobile landscape right now. There are two companies that are making any money in smartphones: Apple and Samsung. Or, put another way: Apple and the company Apple just won a billion dollar-plus judgement against for copying their smartphone designs. So while some may find Apple's trick old hat now, no one else has figured out how to pull it off -- except for the company doing a mediocre copy of the trick. I'd argue it's because everyone is focusing on The Pledge and The Prestige, but Apple is the only one focusing on The Turn.If you haven't seen the Christopher Nolan film The Prestige, you're really missing a trick.Apple's Ping to cease operation Sep. 30 &gt;&gt; MacworldPing has ponged. Apple's social networking service for music, which debuted as part of iTunes 10 in 2010, has come to an end. A message on the service says that it will no longer be available as of September 30. The news was first reported by 9to5Mac.Apple's new smartphone: Five out of ten &gt;&gt; The EconomistThe device is thinner than its predecessors and boasts a bigger screen and connectivity to superfast 4G wireless networks. But it now competes against impressive offerings from the likes of South Korea's Samsung and other rivals, who are constantly churning out snazzier super-thin handsets of their own with stunning displays. They are unlikely to lose much sleep because of the incremental changes made to the iPhone 5.(Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)iOS 6 feature availability &gt;&gt; AppleSome iOS 6 features are not currently available in every country. Choose a feature below to see if it's supported in your country.Covers Maps (and subdivisions eg turn-by-turn - available in the UK), Siri, iTunes Store, Dictation, App Store. Someone needs to turn this into a view-by-country table though.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Nintendo's Wii U console will be launched across Europe on 30 November, the company announced on Thursday. North America will get the new machine first, however, with a 18 November release, while Japan must wait until 8 December.There will be two versions of the console at launch. The basic White pack comes with the machine, a GamePad, AC adaptors and an 8GB hard drive. The Premium Black edition features all that plus a Wii Sensor Bar, a copy of the launch game Nintendo Land and a subscription to the Nintendo Premium Network, which gives points to players for downloading games, and provides a 10% discount on digital titles.No prices have been given for the UK bundles, as retailers tend to set their own against the trade cost of the machine. However, in the US, the White bundle will be $300 (£186), while the Black is priced at $350 (£217).Industry watchers expect prices in the UK to be higher than a straight dollar to pound conversion. "Yesterday I was predicting a price of between £229 and £250 for the basic edition," said Piers Harding Rolls, senior principal strategist at IHS Screen Digest. "I expect the premium version will be at around £270. The big change is that Nintendo has replicated what Sony and Microsoft have done – having a tiered strategy to target different types of consumer. Doing that with a single price would have been difficult."While the Wii U console is reported to be 20 times more powerful than the original Wii and capable of displaying high-definition graphics, the console's big draw is its GamePad. This tablet-like controller has its own screen, which allows users to continue to play games if the main TV is unavailable. The GamePad screen can also be used as a companion to the main display, letting players view game maps, inventories, or other components."It definitely has a lot of scope for experimentation," said Pete Shea of Glasgow-based Firebrand Games, which is working on an unannounced Wii U project. "The combination of a second viewport on handheld screen, very accurate gyroscopes and accelerometers, and front and back cameras seems to offer a lot of possibilities and you're seeing some of the more obvious ideas already in titles like ZombiU."The Controller itself is light, nice to hold and has a great display on it - it feels impressive and natural in the hand, and once you hold it and play with it, it does make sense – perhaps not in the revolutionary way Wii Remote made sense, but it is intriguing nonetheless."This 'dual-screen' approach to gaming is not exclusive to Wii U, however. The Playstation 3 has similar connectivity features with the handheld Vita console, while Microsoft is looking to pair up smartphone devices with its Xbox 360, via a new application named SmartGlass.The European launch of Wii U will be accompanied by nine games on day one. Key titles include Nintendo's own New Super Mario Bros U and Nintendo Land, as well as the survival horror adventure ZombiU from Ubisoft and conversions of major hits Fifa 13 and Mass Effect 3.The big news of the European press event was that cult Japanese developer Platinum Games is working on a Wii U exclusive sequel to its critically lauded action adventure Bayonetta. Although many of Nintendo's more casual fans will not have heard of this title, it was hugely popular among hardcore gamers. Indeed, the message throughout the European press presentation, hosted by Nintendo Europe head, Satoru Shibata, was that Wii U would be as much for experienced gamers as it is for family and casual audiences.Whatever the case, the console needs to be a big hit for Nintendo. The veteran manufacturer has had a tough year, its 3DS handheld console failing to sell in the expected numbers leading to annual losses of £329m in 2011. It is now facing competition from both its console rivals, Sony and Microsoft, and the smartphone, Facebook and tablet sectors, which are chipping away at the casual gamer market."The Wii U will change the way you play games," promised Nintendo US head Reggie Fils-Aimes at the North American press launch. The company's clear challenge now is to communicate the unique aspects of its new hardware in a way that users understand – just as it did with the Wii Remote, a simpler technology in a far less competitive market.
Twitter has warned that government plans to record the internet and mobile phone use of Britons could expose it to a spate of privacy lawsuits from web users outside the UK.The social networking company said it was highly likely that the online activity of non-UK citizens would be unwittingly collected under the controversial surveillance plans, leaving communications firms vulnerable to legal action taken in foreign jurisdictions.Twitter's caution over the so-called "snoopers' charter" is contained in itswritten submission to the joint Commons and Lords committee on the draft communications bill, published this week.The draft bill has beenwidely criticised by internet companies, who have warned that it will infringe web users' right to privacy and is an abuse of the power of the state.Twitter said in its submission: "We would be interested to understand what consideration was given to issues of proportionality in the drafting of this provision as well as some cross-jurisdictional challenges which may arise."For example, it is possible and indeed highly likely that this type of monitoring would result in the collection and retention of data on users who are outside of United Kingdom."This has the potential to place us in a legally untenable position with respect to privacy, data retention and data protection laws elsewhere in the world."Twitter urged the government to explain how the proposals would work with foreign legislation, including data protection and privacy laws in the US and the European Union data retention and protection directives.The San Francisco-based company also raised fears about a perceived lack of transparency in the monitoring proposals. It said there did not appear to be a process for alerting members of the public when authorities had made a request for their data.Twitter's written submission avoided some of the more pointed language used by other internet companies, but did warn that the surveillance plans could hamper the UK's standing overseas.It said: "While it is one thing for a government which has incorporated the European Convention of Human Rights into domestic law to seek to assert authority over overseas companies, it would be of quite a different order for the government of a less democratic country to seek to exercise similar powers."In such a case, however, there is a risk that the standing of the UK government and UK companies in resisting such data collection from its own companies could be significantly diluted. Indeed, many dissidents abroad, such as Michael Anti in China, count upon Western democracies to lead by example and to pressure their own governments to uphold essential internet freedoms."Under the proposals, internet service providers would be required to store all details of customers' website visits and email exchanges for a year. The data would include the time and data of messages – including telephone calls and text messages – but not their content.Authorities have said they need the extended monitoring powers to keep pace with sophisticated modern crime. The security minister, James Brokenshire, told the joint parliamentary committee earlier this month: "Communications data plays a major role in virtually all counter-terrorism operations and about 95% of all serious crime investigations."It is the who, where and when of communication, not the content. The communications data bill will not give any new powers to the police, this will not introduce large-scale live monitoring of all emails sent and received. Instead, it will simply ensure current powers are adapted for modern-day communication maintaining strong safeguards."Twitter has more than 10 million active users in the UK, out of 140 million worldwide. The 140 character social network has exploded in popularity over the past two years as a flood of celebrities, sports stars and TV personalities have used the site to trade updates with fans.
The iPhone 5 will go on sale in the UK on 21 September. Although the handset can be pre-ordered for £529 from Apple, mobile networks and retailers have yet to reveal how much they will charge.Fear not though, if money is burning a hole in your pocket, you can indulge in some bling to pamper your new phone in the meantime. That's right – retailers are already ready and waiting to take money off consumers who love to liven up their iPhones. If you have the cash, they have the accessories. Here are some of our favourites:If your priority is to maintain the shiny  perfection of the screen and keep it unsullied by fingerprints, theSGP iPhone 5 Glas.tscreen protector at £33.95 may be just the thing. Boasting "chemically reinforced glass that maintains perfect image clarity", it claims that due to its anti-shatter film, the glass may crack but it will also collapse into a million pieces, making it safer to use than other glass products.Mobile accessories companyProportahas already announced details of its range of cases designed to fit the slimmed-down proportions of the iPhone 5. Itshard shell with free screen protector, in black, white, blue or pink, costs £14.95, while at £29.95 its blackleather pouchwith red stitching and pinstripe lining includes a layer of aluminium to take the brunt of any knocks and bumps.If you want your case to be a bit more Bet Lynch, how about a gold snakeskinCovert Branded PU leather back case? Also available in zebra, crocodile, leopard as well as more standard rainbow shades, the case is sold by Alpha Gadgets on Amazon for £5.99.If you prefer your animal-themed phone case to be fluffy rather than flashy, you may prefer Griffin's cute,animal-inspired cases– KaZoo and Animal Parade – which are made of soft silicone and cost £19.99. You can even download the free KaZoo and Animal Parade apps to make your screen background match your animal case.And for the Jack Sparrows among you,Clickjunkieis selling a pillar box red leather pocket case, complete with diamante and gold skull and crossbones for £9.99.Those who simply want to use their phone hands-free in their car, on their bike, or just about anywhere, theSpiderpodiumis a rubber-coated steel gadget grip. It can be bent into any shape, gripping your phone while holding on to your chosen surface. Available in seven colours, it costs £14.95 fromBreffo.The bad news is that the iPhone 5 features a  "lightning connector", which has eight  pins rather than the standard 30 for previous Apple products. This means many speakers, car kits and other accessories will be obsolete, unless you fork out £25 for an adaptor. Even worse news for Apple devotees,the adaptor won't be dispatched until October.
Ernest Doku, telecoms expert at price comparison site uSwitch"After the disappointment of an underwhelming iPhone 4S, there was a fair bit of pressure on Apple to deliver something very special. Fortunately for Tim Cook, his 'beautiful' iPhone 5 should put the bite back into Apple. Apple simply couldn't afford another lukewarm offering and luckily the iPhone 5 will ensure Apple doesn't lose pace with Samsung's dominant Galaxy S3. This time it had to be all about the hardware as much as software. In this regard, Apple has delivered and then some."Daniel Gleeson at research firm IHS, which is predicting Apple will sell 149m phones in 2012, compared with 93m in 2011"The fourth quarter this year will be Apple's biggest quarter for iPhone sales in history. This year's iPhone 5 announcement comes as a significant departure from previous models. The addition of a new, larger screen is a fundamental change in product design. Furthermore, the iPhone 5 is the first member of Apple's smartphone line to feature 4G connectivity, accelerating data speeds dramatically compared with previous models. These major improvements will drive strong sales for the iPhone 5."Fred Huet, managing director at telecoms specialist Greenwich Consulting"The decision to omit NFC in the iPhone 5 could cost Apple. It is just a matter of time before the smartphone replaces the plastic card, and by skipping this technology, Apple may have missed a valuable opportunity to take the lead in this market. With over 400m active credit card accounts on file, Apple had a prime opportunity to convert its customers using a sleek mobile payment system tied to the iPhone. Instead they could find that they have fallen behind closest rivals Samsung, Nokia and indeed Motorola, all of whom introduced the technology into their devices last week."Alistair Young at research firm Analysis Mason, on Apple replacing Google Maps with its own app on the home screen"Google Maps will lose up to a third of its mobile users in Western markets because of Apple's alternative map service. According to our recent study, 28% of Google Maps users in France, Germany, Spain, UK and the US are on iOS [Apple's phone software]. Three out of four iOS users used Google Maps at least once over two months. Location information and mapping are at the forefront of application innovation. By offering its own map service, Apple will not only gain control over one of the most popular applications on its devices but it will also offer developers better and more integrated location-based tools for iOS."Guy Potter of online market researcher Usurv"We ran an immediate poll to gauge people's instant reactions to the new phone and as with most Apple launches there seems to be a fair bit of positive excitement. The fact that 44% of existing iPhone users already want to upgrade – without needing to think about it – shows the loyalty to the brand. However, none of the new features seemed to instantly grab people – with 39% saying none of them really appealed."Francisco Jeronimo of research firm IDC"What Apple has been doing over the last few years is to improve each hardware and software feature of the iPhone to offer the best experience possible, rather than packing the handset with features that consumers don't use or don't understand. The devices continue to offer a unique premium feeling due to the design and materials, so we foresee a strong Christmas season for Apple. But Apple still faces some challenges. The iPhone 5 does not come with any unique service or hardware features that are not available on the high-end Android devices."Shaun Collins, founder of telecoms researcher CCS Insight"The announcement goes beyond just the launch of the iPhone5. With the iPhone 4S 8GB, Apple is now able to offer its products with iOS6 at ever more aggressive price points in the UK. As an entry level iPhone, it's a formidable competitor."Dan Russon of IT consultancy Xceed Group"The easier and faster devices are to use, the more employees will want to use them, and unless businesses start to provide the iPhone 5 or other 4G enabled devices as standard (this large outlay in tight economic times is likely to be unappealing), the momentum driving people to use their own devices will increase. The danger is that this demand will arrive before many organisations have fully got a handle on the security aspects of their own BYOD [bring your own device] policies, which could, in turn lead to even greater risks."
It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new games for smartphones and tablets, including iOS, Android and Windows Phone this week.Beach Buggy BlitzVector Unit's bouncy driving game is a good showcase for the capabilities of Tegra-toting Android devices, including Google's Nexus 7 tablet. It sees you racing through a beautiful-looking world smashing into scenery, collecting power-ups and unlocking new cars.AndroidCall of Duty: Black Ops ZombiesThis latest mobile game in the CoD universe has been out for a while, but restricted to Sony Ericsson's Xperia-branded Android devices. Now it's available for all, with a choice of solo and local-multiplayer modes, as well as a 50-level Dead-Ops Arcade mode to romp through shooting everything that moves. And some things that don't.AndroidGems With FriendsWe've had Words, Scramble, Matching, Hanging and Chess. Now meet the fifth in Zynga's mobile/social franchise: Gems With Friends. Yes, the title makes its inspiration clear: this is competitive match-three jewel-swapping following in the footsteps of Bejeweled Blitz. You can have up to 20 games on the go at once with friends or strangers.iPhoneSuper HexagonHardcore gamers are getting very excited about Super Hexagon, a game that many people will download, try and then give up on the grounds that it's too hard and a bit boring. If you can get to grips with the difficulty of rotating a triangle around a hexagon to steer between onrushing walls, it gets less boring and becomes engrossing. With chiptunes.iPhone / iPadVenture TownsAnother week, another new game from Japanese publisher Kairosoft – in this case, a port of the existing iOS Venture Towns game. The company's formula remains the same: ruthlessly-addictive simulation mechanics with lots of levelling-up and resource-juggling. In this case, you're making "your own metropolitan utopia".AndroidCrimson Dragon: Side StoryThis week's Xbox Live game on Windows Phones is already inspiring comparisons with Panzer Dragoon. It's a shoot 'em up, except with dragons rather than spaceships, and RPG-like elements where you breed the dragons and then level them up by playing the game, adding new skills along the way.Windows PhoneCivil War: 1863Talking of old-school games, Civil War: 1863 is a neat attempt to give the war game genre a 2012 touchscreen spin. It's a turn-based game where you control the Union or Confederate armies, with two eight-mission campaigns to play through, and a couple more available via in-app purchase for 69p a pop. A pass'n'play mode supports two-player battling too.iPhone / iPadWonderputtDamp Gnat's Wonderputt may be new on the App Store, but it's already won recognition in the Develop and IGF industry awards for its lovely visuals. It's a mini-golf game with a fantastical structure and feel: "Cows, toads, ski slopes, torpedos and a sprinkle of alien abduction for good measure". Its 18 holes will leave you wanting more, in a good way.iPadGalaxy EmpireKorean publisher Gamevil's latest Android game wants you to "conquer the galaxy, one planet at a time". Which involves a mixture of resource management, invasion and diplomacy, all wrapped into a science-fiction setting. The community features are what could give this long-term appeal for Android gamers.AndroidShufflepuck CantinaAgharta Studio is the developer behind the creative 1112 games on iOS. It's new game adopts a Space Western theme, but is focused on air hockey. The game promises nine alien opponents, more than 40 gadgets to collect and 250 missions to work your way through, with more to come in future updates.iPhone / iPadThat's our selection this week, but what new games have you been playing on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations by posting a comment.
Block 1Announcements set to include launch date, price and games lineupBlock 28.04am:After last night's iPhone 5 launch, the attention of the tech world now turns to Nintendo. The video game giant is announcing key details of its forthcoming Wii U console today, starting with a press conference at 8am (BST) and moving on to European and North American events at 3PM.We're expecting a launch date, a price (though an exact UK price is unlikely, with retailers expected to take the lead here) and some indication of the launch line-up. Lots of rumours sworling around about fresh game announcements. We'll see how it goes.You can watch the live stream of the Japanese press conferencehere.Block 38.09am:Nintendo president Satoru Iwata is presenting the Japanese event. He's currently running through the features of the Wii U console. It will support 1080p HD and is apparently 20 times more powerful than the original Wii.Block 48.13am:After chatting about the features of the GamePad and conforming that the Wii U will support all your Wii peripherals, Iwata is talking through some of the key titles including New Super Mario Brothers U and Nintendo Land, the mini-games collection shown off at E3. We;re also getting some Japanese price for joypads and accessories, which I'll run through later when I've had more coffee.Block 58.16am:Wow, the Pro Wii U GamePad, which looks like a mini-tablet and is the main selling point of the console, will retail at 13,440 yen, when purchased alone. £105!More exciitng - there are to be two bundles in Japan, a white basic bundle and a black premium bundle. The white will have 8GB of memory, the black 32GB.Block 6Japanese Wii U release date: 8 December.Basic set will be 26,250 yen (£209), and the premium is 31,500 yen (£251). This is in line with wehat everyone was expecting.Block 78.39am:So much of the debate at the moment is on the price of an extra GamePad, the tablet-like controller that is the key feature of the new console. Although one comes bundled with the device, if you want another one, it'll set you back around £107.Indie developer Brian Provinciano just tweeted:Wii U supports an additional tablet but due to its cost (thus how few people will buy it), can't imagine many games using this feature.It's a good point. All those ideas we had about, say, American football games allowing each participant to have their own mini-playbook on the tablet screen, or local co-op RPGs with everyone getting their own tablet-displayed inventory and map are looking less likely, perhaps?Block 88.38am:You can relive the excitement of the Nintendo Direct Japanese launch announcement righthere.Block 98.40am:During the press event Iwata also announced the Nintendo Network Premium scheme, only available with the Premium Wii U bundle. It will offer both points for, and 10% discounts on, digitally downloaded games. It looks like the company is looking to really push digital games distribution this time round.Block 109.07am:I asked Michael French, editor-in-chief of industry news site,MCV, to give us his thoughts on the Japanese launch announcement. Here's what he had to say:A lot of attention is going to focus on the price to start off with, and that's understandable. But the UK trade and retailers were always prepared for something around the £250 mark. Nintendo deciding to offer two SKUs suggests it is being mindful of price and trying to create models that are both as affordable as possible for families this Christmas and have appeal to the more dedicated or digital savvy consumer.Given Nintendo's profit-strapped financials in the wake of the 3DS launch price and swift pricedrop, I imagine this device is priced to include some decent margin for Nintendo to keep investors happy, too.Some of the other facts are pretty much in-line with Nintendo's last major console launch, but I think the question we still won't know the answer to until the Wii U is out is whether or not the market and consumers has moved on from the opportunities Nintendo software can create. Wii U's competition isn't really PS3 or Xbox 360 this Christmas, it's iPad, Kindle Fire and the host of kids' Android tablets out there. Price might not be the differentiating factor in that context – it might be the bounty of cheaper, high-profile apps versus the traditional games industry's excellent by expensive triple-A games.Block 119.18am:So, lots of debate now over the possible UK price. Here, retailers tend to get the final say, based on the trade price of the consoles, and we're unlikely to see a straight Yen-to-sterling conversion.Eurogamer hasjust tweeted:Our bet on a price? £229.99 for the 8GB Wii U, £279.99 for the 32GB Wii U. (Same as Vita)It also points out that the original Wii launched at just £179.99. Does a price of over £200 put it into a whole different affordability bracket for families?Block 129.29am:Wesley Yin-Poole has writtena useful articleon Eurogamer, trying to answer the essentially unanswerable question: is Wii U more powerful than Xbox 360 or PS3?"Where the Wii U outdoes the current generation is in RAM and GPU. The Wii U has, effectively, twice the RAM available to games that the Xbox 360 and the PS3 each have. And we hear much praise of the GPU.'The Wii U is a nice console to work with because it's got so much RAM in comparison [to the PS3 and Xbox 360],' another Wii U developer, who wished to remain anonymous, told us. 'For E3 we simply dumped the whole game into memory and never once used the disc after the content was loaded from it.'It is the RAM in combination with the GPU that means Wii U games have the potential to outshine Xbox 360 and PS3 games. Indeed, according to one source, the Wii U version of his company's game will be 'the smoothest console version'".The big question mark is over the CPU. Nintendo hasn't released specs but developers are saying it has a lower clock speed than the PS3 and Xbox 360 architectures. If the GPU is powerful enough, the impact of this will be negated, but running two GamePads is likely to have an impact on frame rate...Block 1310.38am:Some more comment now – I've just spoken to Piers Harding-Rolls, senior principle analyst atIHS Screen Digest."Yesterday I was predicting a price of between £229 and £250. I expect the premium version will be at around £270. The big change in strategy is that Nintendo has replicated what Sony and Microsoft have done – having a tiered strategy to target different types of consumer. Nintendo has always said it will target different users with the Wii U and doing that with a single pricing strategy would have been difficult."As the for the potential problems of a £220 price point:"It's all about the value proposition, it's not all about the headline price. It's the total package, including the content. The 3DS was a lesson for Nintendo; the game content wasn't there at launch to back up the price and offer value. If the games are there for Wii U, there's no reason it won't sell in substantial numbers."But will it sell as well as Wii?"We don't feel it will. We don't think the message is as simple, it won't resonante with the consumer as easily. And the competitive backdrop is very different. It doesn't mean it won't be a successful product."Screen Digest has produced forecasts on expected woldwide sales for the machine. They're predicting 2.7m for year end (although that is based on a predicted late-November launch date so needs adjustment), and 4m sales by the end of March 2013.Harding-Rolls also pointed out that we shouldn't assume the US launch will comeafterJapan. The North American launch for the Wii was 19 November 2006, with Japan following on December 2.Block 1411.23am:I have some more comment for you, this time courtesy of Matthew Castle, associate editor of theOfficial Nintendo Magazine.On the suspected £229 UK price:"It's certainly not as painful as it could have been. £210 (26,250 yen) for a 'home type' Wii U is pretty kind, especially considering how easy it will be to extend the 8gb flash memory with USB hard drives/memory sticks."That's an important point. A lot of people don't realise that the Wii U is likely to have an SD Card slot and up to four USB 2.0 ports, so there's plenty of potential for memory expansion.But how about that high price for a separate GamePad?"While I can see people getting riled by £107 for an extra GamePad, they have to remember that no games currently support two pads. Of course, at £107 for an extra pad, I wonder if any game ever will. That said, the reuse of Wii Remotes and Nunchucks is a smart move - Wii U happily slots into the Wii's spot in the living room, allowing current Wii owners to enjoy Wii U multiplayer straight out the box at no extra expense."And finally, games?"New Super Mario Bros U and Nintendo Land were the expected choice of launch games. Nintendo Land seemed like an obvious candidate to be bundled with the machine – it's very much Wii U's Wii Sports – but then Wii Sports wasn't bundled with Wii in Japan, so the same might go for the Europe/US release (announced later today).I'd also expect some new game announcements to trickle out over the next few weeks, especially with Tokyo Game Show on the horizon. Lots of Nintendo's regular Japanese contributors have yet to chime in – Level-5, Capcom, Tecmo Koei – so there should be some stuff from them. We should hear more in the software announcement tonight."Plenty to look forward to later, then...Oh and the Official Nintendo Mag's website has a very thorough guide to the console, the GamePad and the known specifications righthere.Block 1511.57am:While we're waiting for more things to happen, here are my five most anticipated Wii U titles:ZombiUA truly dark survival horror adventure set in London? Not quite the sort of thing we were expecting from Wii U, but a real highlight of E3 2012. The key feature is the 'perma-death' system: you control a survivor of a zombie plague, but if your character is bitten, they die and you re-spawn in a totally different person. Then you have to find the zombie version of your previous self to grab all your items back. Clever, tense and scary in the way the first two Resi Evil titles were.Game &amp; Wario(working title)A mini-game collection with some interesting uses of the GamePad. In one title you have to spot characters wondering around a town on the main screen, photographing them with your GamePad camera. In another multiplayer challenge, three participants have to spot the onscreen character of a fourth player as he or she uses the GamePad to hide in a busy city scene. Hard to explain, but really good fun.Project P-100This offbeat title from Platinum Games (Bayonetta, Vanquish) could be the sleeper hit of the launch line-up. Players control a huge group of super heroes as they save Earth from an alien invasion. Players swipe the GamePad screen to assemble their heroes into a range of formations in order to tackle particular enemies. It's hectic, stylish and eccentric; like a great Dreamcast game updated for the next generation.Nintendo LandAnother mini-game collection, and this is likely to be the 'killer app' of the launch period. Players wander around a themepark selecting game-like rides. All the challenges are based on classic Nintendo brands like Luigi's Mansion and Zelda, but my favourite is Animal Crossing: Sweet Day in which two players run around a maza trying to eat as many sweets as possible, while two others play as guards trying to stop them. It looks cute, but there are some pretty deep tactics involved.Pikmin 3Ah yes, Miyamoto's herding classic is back with some rather lovely visual flourishes, new Pikmin types and smart use of the GamePad controls. The tablet display also shows a map of the game world – a feature we can expect to see a lot more of as traditional RPG titles start to hit the console.Block 1612.37pm:Okay we're having a little liveblog break for lunch. Be back here for 2pm though as the countdown begins to the European launch event.Block 171.53pm:Right, back from lunch (three Ryvita, cheese, a banana, cup of tea – pretty disappointing really, but it's my fault for not going shopping), and before the European Wii U launch event begins, lets take a look at some more analysis.Gamespot hasa very quick piecegoing through the key questions hanging over the launch."Nintendo has not been shy about admitting it has done a less-than-stellar job at relating the novelty of the Wii U to consumers. In June, the company explained the message of the Wii U has been confusing relative to the Wii. Nintendo marketing executive Scott Moffitt said gamers may have a tough time 'getting it' until they try out the Wii U's GamePad for the first time. This is a problem that Nintendo no doubt wants to fix. But how will they do it?"Ina longer piece, Richard George of IGN concsiders Nintendo's imminent hurdles, one of which is communicating the benefits of the Wii U's Miiverse feature, which offers an online social network that lets players tell each other what they're playing, while meeting, connecting and chatting:"Miiverse isn't as much a hurdle as an opportunity. Direct social connectivity between gamers, a system and games is untapped territory. While Twitter and Facebook contain game conversation, they're also packed with politics, movies, television and every little detail about ordinary life. Filtering that to just focus on gamers that are being played right now is significantly challenging. At E3 Nintendo tipped its hand to its vision, and there's plenty more potential where those ideas are concerned."So far all we've seen about Miiverse is some sample footage. We've heard a bit of vague, overly-general discussion about its flexible application across different games, and the larger vision of creating an online destination for gamers to interact with other gamers – but not just to compete. The goal of Miiverse seems to focus on creating a culture around Wii U games. In other words, it's attempting to replicate some of the old school feelings many of us had when we used to tell all our friends about the latest NES or SNES games we were playing – before the Internet really hit its stride. If Miiverse actually accomplishes that – and maybe more – this service has the potential to eclipse the innovation provided by the GamePad itself."And here's a video of the Miiverse demo from E3 2012:So, a teeny bit like Xbox Live and PSN, but more visual.Block 182.11pm:I've just asked on twitter for any neglected Nintendo brands people would like to see brought back for Wii U.First response was from the Guardian's own Chris Moran who squeeled:Ooooh Oooh! Wave Race!Good start, there, Chris – the jetski sim would look lovely in 1080p, with those amazing water effects.Telegraph games writerAshton Razewrites:Not series, but sequels to Eternal Darkness and Geist would be nice.He is right. We've also had lots of votes for Starfox and F-Zero, of course. Oh man, F-Zero with HD visuals!Block 192.28pm:In our quest to locate forgotten Nintendo gems that could be revived for Wii U, we've had a sudden onslaught of Tweets about Duck Hunt. The old shooting game seems still to arouse strong passions in gamers who enjoyed blasting defenceless birds out of the sky.Gamesblog reader @timthemonkey81 makes the point:Without Duck Hunt, there would have been no Time CrisisI think we can all appreciate the gravity of that statement.The most obscure request so far has come from @RegularCraig, who'd like to see the GameCube and Nintendo 64DD god gameDoshin the Gianton Wii U. There's certainly some asymmetrical multiplayer potential there, with three participants controlling villagers and the chap with the Gamepad taking on the role of the eponymous giant.Block 202.55pm:There's 10 minutes to go, so we have time for a couple of comments from UK developers on the Wii U and its chances.I spoke to Simon Barratt of Bradford-basedFourDoorLemonearlier, and he reiterated a familiar concern: "The cost of the additional GamePad could prove prohibitive to games that are based on having two tablet displays, but no more so than multiple other dual-screen gaming solutions like iOS/Apple TV, Vita/PS3, etc."Meanwhile, Adrian Barritt ofSilverball Studios, who developed Mario Pinball back in 2003 and is nowKickstarting a new Pro Pinballtitle said: "The new controller really grabs my imagination. The idea of multiplayer titles in which one player has privileged information available on his screen is very interesting. There's an old parlour game called werewolf, where you play with a group of friends and a couple of people in the party are werewolves, while everyone else has to discover who they are. That type of idea could be brought to Wii U. For me, that's a very appealing concept."For pinball fans, SilverBall is planning on bringing Pro Pinball to Wii U; "We'll have the table on the main screen and the backbox with the dot matrix score display on the GamePad," he promises."It's easily got enough power to render games in hi-def to a very high standard. I've got no concerns about the power of the machine."Block 213.01pm:The Twitter votes for 'neglected Nintendo brands that should return to Wii U' are still coming in, with the lovely Dan Maher, previously of Inside Xbox fame and now doing amazingly good stuff with hisnew production company, has put in another vote for F-Zero as well as Pilot Wings. "The 3DS half-effort doesn't count!" he insists.Block 223.03pm:Okay, the European Event has begun.Block 23Nintendo Europe head Satoru Shibata is just explaining the two Wii U packs. The White basic pack and the Black premium pack. Both come with two AC packs (one for the machine, one for the GamePad), but the Black one has 32GB hard drive as opposed to the basic 8GB.The European version of the Black bundle will also get the Nintendo Network Premium offer, giving players points for game downloads as well as discounts of 10%. When you reach 500 points you can start claiming gifts.Block 243.07pm:The US launch has been confirmed as November 18.Block 253.09pm:The Wii U main memory is 4GB, 20 times bigger than Wii. Game discs will be able to hold 25GB of data.You can check out theWii U websitefor more information.Block 26EUROPEAN LAUNCH: 30 NovemberNintendoLand will be bundled with the Premium console.Block 273.15pm:Shibata is introducing the 12 mini-games that make up Nintendo Land. He's claiming that the tasks are difficult enough to challenge even hardcore gamers. It's interesting this has been pointed out – Nintendo is really keen to re-engage with its dedicated fanbase.He's showing the Metroid Blast mini-game, which has asymmertical multiplayer functionality and looks rather nice. Meanwhile, the Battle Quest mode of the Zelda game has nine stages with unlockable extras. "Single player is very challenging," he says.Shibata says we will disocver some Nintendo characters in the game that we didn't know every well before. Hmm, what can he mean?Block 283.19pm:Shibata is now showing New Super Mario Bros U. You can play with other players on the main screen, or you can have one player joining in on their GamePad, helping the others as they traverse the main game on the TV display. It's a new mode designed to let less experienced players get involved.There's also a Boost Rush mode, a fast-paced endless-running style option.Game &amp; Wario and Pikmin 3 will apparently arrive next year...Block 293.22pm:Ubisoft veteran Michel Ancel is on screen, showing off Rayman Legends. He shows how you can use the GamePad to drag objects across the level - you can also use the accelerometers in the controller to rotate the levels on the main screen, giving Rayman access to new areas.There's also some asymmetrical multiplayer - the GamePad player controls a sort of shield which can protect the other gamer who is playing as Rayman – it can also be used as a platform to leap on.The game also features an interactive orchestral soundtrack with musical elements reacting to onscreen moments. A nice cartoon-style effect. And it's a luanch title.Block 303.26pm:Now we're seeing a new location from the survival horror title, ZombiU. It'sthe Tower of London. Will there be zombie Beefeaters? Zombie ravens? Zombie tourists?There are 50 different items to hunt down to upgrade your weapons with better firepower and accuracy. Plus, the more you use a specific weapon, the better your skills become. However, if your survivor dies, the player loses all the skills.You can also leave messages around each level, using a spray can to insert a range of icons. Very Dark Souls.There are other online and social elements - when other players are killed in online modes, they become zombies and when you kill them, you get their items. You also discover their gaming stats, like grabbing dog tags in Battlefield.There will also be a limited edition ZombiU Wii U bundle available on launch dayBlock 313.27pm:Next up we have Fifa 13 and Mass effect 3, both coming to Wii U (we know all this of course). The Mass Effect 3 Special edition will include the extra narrative content at the end - it'll be a launch title.Block 323.33pm:Right now we're on the absolutely beautiful scrolling adventure Trine 2. Classic platform series Toki Tori is coming to eShop later in the year, complete with a level editor.We move on to Lego City Undercover, with the player taking on the role of an undercover cop, Chase McCain. It looks quite funny and the gamePad can be used to scan areas for hidden stuff, as well as to call in to HQ for new missions. The hero can disguise himself as other mini-figs including a miner who can blow up rocky areas to reveal new areas. There are 100 of these disguises in the game.There is lots of parkour exploration too, as well as over 100 vehicles. The first copies of the game will also come with a limited edition Chase McCain minifig.Block 333.36pm:Hurray, we're on to Platinum Games' Project P-100 in which one hundred mini-heroes must save the world from invading aliens. Players control swarms of heroes all with different abilities. the game is now called The Wonderful 101 (the extra one is YOU, silly).Block 343.38pm:Woah, Platinum Games is also bringing Bayonetta 2 to Wii U! Brand new and exclusive for Wii U and published by Nintendo. It's being overseen by the original game's directing and producing team, Hideki Kamiya and Yusuke Hashimoto!Block 353.40pm:After a bit of B-roll fun, we see Monster Hunter 3 Ultimate: HD Edition, which is coming to Wii U but will also be playable against owners of the 3DS edition. You can also save your game across 3DS and Wii U versions. It will be out in March 2013.Block 363.41pm:That's it. Short and sweet, but with one major announcement: Bayonetta 2. If gamers were worried that Nintendo wasn't going to take hardcore fans seriously this time round, that's a rather major statement of intent.Block 373.53pm:The US press event is still going on. Activision is talking about Skylanders coming to Wii U.The publisher's CEO of publishing Eric Hirshberg, is now introducing Call of Duty: Black Ops II on stage. They're demoing a level set in Singapore named Cargo. "We've never been able to acheive this level of graphical realism on a Nintendo platform before," says Hirshberg, as two staff fight amid the shipping containers. It's all running in 60fps, as per usual.Players can change their load-outs on the GamePad screen - it can also be used to view the mini-map or to call in air strikes. Also, you can have local co-op or competitive two-player with one participant on the GamePad screen and the other on the TV.The Wii U version will come with the full single-player campaign, the zombie mode and multiplayer. It'll be out in November.
I am interested in getting a media streamer that would allow access to all the catch-up TV services – BBC iPlayer, 4oD etc – plus some movie downloads such as LoveFilm. I see lots of boxes around, but none that support all the main catch-up services.Pat SweeneyCome back and ask this question in about two years and I expect I will have at least two good answers, which might be YouView and Roku. Other contenders could include Western Digital's WD TV, Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Sony's PS3, Google TV, BT Vision and a few others.It's confusing because the best answer could be a personal computer, a dedicated set-top box, a smart TV, a media streamer, a games console, an internet router or some other device. This should not be surprising because most of them basically consist of a processor, memory, software and perhaps a hard drive or other form of storage. They're all computers specialised for different applications, but their functions can easily overlap.At the moment, most people use a combination of different systems for different purposes, to suit their own preferences. Probably the simplest approach is to use a Freeview DVR (digital video recorder) for broadcast TV and for recording TV programmes, while using a PC for the internet-based stuff. This includes all the catch-up TV services, YouTube streaming, movie downloads and so on. A laptop is less than ideal for family viewing, but if both the laptop and TV set have HDMI ports, you can use the TV as an external screen.More serious enthusiasts tend to buy or assemble their own HTPC (home theatre PC). While it's possible to use Windows Media Center for this purpose – it wasintroduced a decade agofor precisely this purpose – the trend is to use an open source alternative such asXBMCwith theTVCatchupplug-in. (TVCatchup is alsoavailable for Windowsand as an app for iPhone, iPad and Android.) There's also aPleXBMCplug-in.XBMC is available for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, iOS, Apple TV and Linux. It has even been ported to the tiny Raspberry Pi: see the CNet article,How to turn your Raspberry Pi into an XBMC media centre. You can use a mobile phone as the remote control.Most consumers would probably prefer to buy a single box, or a single service, that does all they need. The services that come closest are Virgin Media cable and BT Vision, but both involve an expensive subscription. The rest often have two distinct problems. First, they might not handle all the popular movie and music formats, including MKV and FLAC. Second, as you have found, there's usually a limit to how many catch-up and streaming services a box will support. It looks as though the BBC is aiming to make its iPlayer available on every significant platform from the PC to the Wii, but some of the commercial providers are not that bothered.The box makers have the same problem in reverse. I expect they all want BBC iPlayer and Netflix or LoveFilm. They'd also like ITV Player, 4OD and Demand 5, if it's not too much trouble. Services such asSky's Now TV,BlinkBox, YouTube, Shoutcast, Spotify and Last FM are probably further down the list.Also, bear in mind that suppliers such as Roku and Western Digital are selling streaming media players in dozens of countries, not just in the UK. It would be a huge task for them to support all the local TV services.The obvious solution would be for the main British content providers, including all the TV stations and the major ISPs, to get together and offer a common services platform. That way, the box makers would only have to provide one application to access dozens of different services. The TV content providers would benefit from not having to support dozens of incompatible boxes (including the ones from Microsoft, Apple and Google), many of which have small audiences and limited lifespans. So far, their best effort has been the long-delayedYouViewproject. This started at the BBC as Kangaroo (blocked by the Competition Commission for being "too powerful") and continued throughProject Canvasto YouView.Today's YouView box, the £299 Humax DTR-1000T, plugs into your TV set and takes Freeview an important step further. The idea is that just as you can use Freeview's EPG (electronic programme guide) to look through future television programmes, you should also be able to scroll backwards and watch the ones you missed. It seems to do that pretty well. And since the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 etc were partners in the YouView venture, it supports all their catch-up services, which is what you want.In most other respects, the Humax DTR-1000T looks pretty much like a twin-tuner Humax HDR-Fox T2 Freeview box, which is a cheaper option if you are happy to get unsupported services via a computer.However, the YouView box has a number of limitations. It doesn't provide media streaming – which seems a bit daft, because the HDR-Fox T2 does – and it doesn't have Wi-Fi. If your broadband router is a long way from your TV set, you will probably have to buy a couple of fast HomePlug devices to connect the two via your home's mains wiring.As you would expect, it needs a reasonably fast internet connection to work, and YouView recommends 3Mbps or more. Best make it an unlimited service as well. Watching lots of programmes online is going to consume many gigabytes of bandwidth, and the YouView box doesn't tell you how many gigs a particular programme is going to use.You can search for past programmes via apps, but there's a different app for each service. The TV partners are evidently not pooling their programmes on a content farm to provide a homogenous and consistent user experience. Programmes don't start playing immediately, and programmes from the commercial channels may have unskippable adverts.Of course, YouView has only just been launched, and there is only one YouView box on the market. If it's reasonably successful, the glitches should be ironed out, and in a couple of years, there should be a selection of cheaper, better YouView boxes to choose from.For consumers who want to avoid technology, YouView looks like the simplest way to get the UK's catch-up TV services in one box, without using a computer. People who already have a computer and possibly a games console or media streamer will be paying quite a high price for convenience.UPDATE:I should have pointed out that, on YouView, you can search all of the on-demand and past programmes together from the search function. See the comments below for full details.
Perhaps the most valid criticism aimed at the excellent, but so far ignored by the gaming public, PlayStation Vita is that it hasn't yet been backed up by must-have games. Sony is furiously working to rectify that, and LittleBigPlanet is one of the first tangible fruits of those labours.For those who haven't bought into the PlayStation brand, the arrival of one of the company's biggest PS3 titles, however good it may be, is likely to breed nothing more positive than indifference.But LBP for the PS Vita is emphatically not a mere port from another platform. In order to make it, Sony enlisted two developers – Tarsier Studios and Double Eleven – and while it conforms to the general structural blueprint set by the two PS3 iterations of the game, it still manages to feel fresh and original.Indeed, it constantly gives out the impression that the PS Vita is a much more natural platform for LittleBigPlanet than the PS3. As with previous versions, the first voice you hear is that of Stephen Fry, although he enunciates a new intro, and his tutorials have been completely rewritten.Then, you're instantly plunged into the single-player game – it's a good idea to make some progress through it, as it provides a great source of useful objects with which to build your own levels.Happily, the conventional game side of LittleBigPlanet for the PS Vita massively outshines its equivalents in the two PS3 games. Taken merely as a standalone platform game, you'd have to say that it's up there with the very best; it's so wildly inventive and shot through with humour that you could imagine that Miyamoto himself might have created it.As ever, Sackboy has to save the world, which he achieves by flitting from area to area, meeting a bunch of deliciously unhinged characters and supplementing his familiar running, jumping, grabbing and swinging gameplay with driving, strategic bomb-chucking, rocket-firing and loads more.Apart from the great characterisations (Mrs Sunshine, for example, is strangely reminiscent of Jo Brand at her most lugubrious) and a storyline that manages to be madcap but surprisingly coherent, much of the pleasure in the conventional-game side of LittleBigPlanet emerges from the PS Vita's unique capabilities.Which have necessitated new conventions: whenever you see objects in a certain shade of blue, for example, you know you can manipulate them using the touch-screen, while green objects can be pushed towards you using the rear touch-panel.At times, the tilt-sensing comes into play, and of course you can take photos of things around you and bring them into the game. Unlockable sub-levels abound, many of which offer a new take on classic games such as air hockey and Tetris. And the desire to collect all the level-building objects (stashed, as ever, in shiny transparent balls) adds to the replay value.Which is something that those who got sucked into an obsession with LittleBigPlanet's level-creation tools have always craved. Those tools have surely reached their acme on the PS Vita.Tasks that were fiddly using the PS3's controller – cutting out shapes, for example – are a breeze on the PS Vita. You can, of course, delineate complex shapes by tracing on the screen with your finger, and even tasks like keeping objects on the right layers, when you graduate to more complex level-design, are considerably eased by the ability to drag and drop.Resizing, naturally, follows Apple's pinching convention. For those with previous level-creation experience, the old joystick-and-button interface has been retained, but it feels utterly superfluous.Some concessions to social networking have been made, with the ability to keep track of your friends and an updated Profile section. You often find co-operative areas into which a friend can jump (earning you both rewards).If you've never played LittleBigPlanet before, then this PS Vita version is the ideal introduction. In fact, it's the ideal introduction to games in general, as it will teach you the basics of how to make them, as well as providing you with a huge dollop of entertainment.And if you played the original game on the PS3, you'll find plenty on the PS Vita that is new – plus you'll be able to make the two versions interact via Cross-Play. Be warned, though – you may experience a tinge of regret that you didn't encounter the franchise for the first time on the PS Vita.• Game reviewed on PS Vita
Any committed foodie will wax lyrical about the value of provenance – the integrity of the food, the care and craft behind creating it. How long, then, before this middle-class preoccupation with quality, traceability and plain goodness of the things we buy extends into technology?We suspend our ethics when Apple launches a new phone. That unboxing is a virgin moment, as if the phone morphed inside the box from the tiny sparkling seed implanted by Jonathan Ive. Slide your finger through the&nbsp;Designed In Californiaseal and your phone takes its first  breath…It's a supreme piece of packaging design, but the reality is far from an immaculate conception. Foxconn, the Chinese manufacturer of iPhone, has faced a steady stream of criticism and concerns frompoor working conditionstosuicides.Now the Shanghai Evening Post has published a detailed diary of working life at the Foxconn production plant by undercover journalist Wang Yu. He lasted 10 days in the plant, seven of which were in training, and three on shifts "marking placement points on the back plate". Foxconn recruited 20,000 new workers in March to meet its production targets for iPhone 5, and has to produce 57m in one year, Wang's report stated.No doubt much of the nuance has been lost in this translation bymicgadget.com, (who bafflingly signed off from this piece by saying how excited they were about seeing the new iPhone 5) but Wang complains of having to work on 3,000 phones during a 10-hour shift, paid only 27 yuan ($4.27) for two hours' overtime."An iPhone 5 back-plate run through in front of me almost every 3  seconds. I have to pickup the back-plate and marked 4 position points using the oil-based paint pen and put it back on the running belt  swiftly within 3 seconds with no errors. After such repeat action for  several hours, I have terrible neckache and muscle pain on my arm. A new  worker who sat opposite of me gone exhausted and laid down for a short  while. The supervisor has noticed him and punished him by asking him to  stand at one corner for 10 minutes like the old school days. We worked  non-stop from midnight to the next morning 6 am but were still asked to  keep on working as the production line is based on running belt and no  one is allowed to stop. I'm so starving and fully exhausted."Dormitories smell of rubbish, sweat and foam, and the reporter wrote of cockroaches in the wardrobes and dirty bedsheets.chinalaborwatch.orgreports at least 18 suicides at Foxconn plants in two years, and as a result dorm windows have been barred, which gives the impression of a prison. The variousfacilitiesinclude a gym, canteen, hospital, library and playground, which Wang claims are under-resourced or rundown.Employees are told that if they set off the metal detectors in the high security production floor  they will be sacked on the spot, and claims one employee was dismissed for carrying a USB charging cable."When I walked into the production floor after passing through the metal detector door, I heard loud sounds of machinery engines and a very dense of plastic smell. Our supervisor warned us: 'Once you sit down, you only do what you are told.' The supervisor finally present us the back of the iPhone 5 and shows it to all of us and said: 'This is the new unleashed iPhone 5 back plate, you should be honored having the chance to produce it.'This is very far from being only Apple's problem, of course. Foxconn manufactures parts for just about every other consumer tech firm too (the company's most recent corporate social responsibilityreportfrom 2010 cites 935,000 employees, so it isenormous), including HP, Sony-Ericsson, Amazon and Dell. It makes the Kindle and Wii as well as iPhones and iPads, and until recently made Xbox consoles.There have already been pledges this year by Apple, as Foxconn's highest profile client, and Foxconn toimprovehousing and working conditions, followed by the latest concerns over the use ofstudent labourersto help meet production demands. The Guardian has asked Foxconn to comment.Samsungtoo is facing allegations of abuse and poor working conditions in its production plants including hiring 16- and 17-year-olds - again battling to meet deadlines for new devices.As long as there is massive demand, so suppliers will fight to cut costs and deliver those products as cheaply as they can. As consumers, our own attitudes towards the quality and the true price of those products is the one thing we cantry to address. There is no immaculate iPhone conception – just an exhausted team of Chinese labourers.
Nintendo has announced the Japanese release date and pricing details for its forthcoming Wii U console.The machine will launch in Japan on 8 December in two packages: a white basic bundle, priced at ¥26,250 (£209), will include the console, one GamePad and an 8GB hard drive; the black premium edition boasts a 32GB hard drive and will retail at ¥31,500 (£251).The new console – which comes with a tablet-style GamePad, complete with its own display – is thought to be slightly more powerful than the Xbox 360 and PS3 machines.The Japanese press conference only mentioned two potential launch titles, New Super Mario Bros U and mini-game collection NintendoLand.It is expected that a full launch line up will be revealed at European and North American press events being held on Thursday afternoon."A lot of attention is going to focus on the price to start off with, and that's understandable," said Michael French, editor-in-chief ofindustry news site MCV."But the UK trade and retailers were always prepared for something around the £250 mark. Nintendo deciding to offer two SKUs suggests it is being mindful of price and trying to create models that are both as affordable as possible for families this Christmas and have appeal to the more dedicated or digital savvy consumer."Given Nintendo's profit-strapped financials in the wake of the 3DS launch price and swift price drop, I imagine this device is priced to include some decent margin for Nintendo to keep investors happy, too."A likely UK price of more than £200 has surprised some industry pundits, especially as the hugely successful Nintendo Wii console launched ay £179.99."It's all about the value proposition, it's not necessarily about the headline price," says Piers Harding-Rolls,senior principal analyst at Screen Digest."It's the content and the experiences the machine will offer. I think there will be a large pent up demand from Wii users; they'll be excited by Wii U over the Christmas period, but it's down to games."The 3DS was an important lesson for Nintendo – the content wasn't there for that console. They need to get the games content right this time."Nintendo also has a significant challenge communicating the unique features of its machine. Wii U was first revealed under the codename Project Cafe in 2011 and was officially named at that year's E3 games conference in Los Angeles.However, there was some confusion over whether the console's controller was a standalone device. The publisher will need to tell mainstream consumers why they need a smaller screen in their hands while playing games on their television.Certainly, this is a vital launch for Nintendo, whichearlier this year posted its first annual lossesfor more than 30 years. Its 3DS handheld console performed poorly after launch and although sales have improved, it won't be enough to adequately boost Nintendo's bruised financials.A big Christmas hit, with Wii U sales in the region of 2m-3m before the end of the year, could ensure the veteran games company has a very happy new year.
