Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; It seems Facebook has riled the Republicans in the US: after comments made by Facebook exec Randi Zuckerberg atStartup2Startuplast week - to the effect that Facebook talked to the Republicans about interesting stuff they could do for last year's election, but the party didn't care, the director of communications for the Republican National Convention left a comment at Inside Facebook saying that,With all due respect, Randi Zuckerberg is totally full of sh*t on this one. His asterisk, not mine - and somehow, that little self-censorship makes his sentiment even less pleasant.&bull; Microsoft won't offer new search engine Bing as a default option for Windows users,according to Techradar. Not surprising, really - just imagine the antitrust outcry if that happened.&bull; Jack pointed this one out on Twitter over the weekend:photographs of the workspaces of science fiction writers, including Joe Haldeman and Harry Harrison. It's similar to the Guardian's ownWriters' rooms serieswith an SF twist. I'd also put a shout out forthe office of our columnist and science fiction author, Cory Doctorow, one of my favourite writer's dens.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Thousands of hopeful mystics will attempt to use psychic powers to locate an itinerant psychologist this week in a mass experiment into the paranormal.The volunteers will use Twitter, the instant messaging service, to try to pinpoint the whereabouts of Richard Wiseman, a psychologist at the University of Hertfordshire, in a supernatural version of the children's game Where's Wally?The experiment will test what believers in the paranormal call "remote viewing", the ability to describe what is happening at a distant location they have never been to.In the 1970s, the CIA began a dedicated research programme into remote viewing in the hope that it would help to gather intelligence about foreign nations and their military aspirations. The $20m (£12m) project was shut down 25 years later after government officials concluded it did not work."The people on the project claimed their viewers could zoom in to locations, like Russian submarine bases, and tell you what was going on there," Wiseman told the Guardian. "I am sceptical that they could."Wiseman plans to travel to a different location each day between Tuesday and Friday, and will invite people to describe where they think he is by sending "tweets" over the internet. Wiseman will then post five photos of places on a website and ask people to decide which one he is at."The instant nature of tweets allows thousands of people to take part in real time, making it perfect for an extra-sensory perception experiment," said Wiseman.To pass the test, Wiseman says the psychic participants must get his location right on three of the four days. The results of the experiment, which is being run with New Scientist magazine, will be announced daily.To take part in the experiment, visithttps://twitter.com/RichardWiseman.
With Twittergrowing so fast, people are once again turning their eyes on the service's Suggested Users List - the set of accounts that Twitter recommends to new users.When you sign up for the service, Twitter offers you the chance to plug a few people in to your network straight away - the idea being, as they have explained before, toencourage people start using Twitter fully.Each user gets pointed to a selection of 20 accounts, apparently drawn at random from a master list of more than 100 - largely a mixture of American celebrities (American Idol host Ryan Seacrest, rapper 50 Cent), US businesses (Whole Foods Market, Zappos) mainstream media outlets (CNN, New York Times) and friends of Twitter (chief executive Ev Williams, Googler Dick Costolo and so on).The list has caused controversy in the past, with people saying that it unfairly inflates the numbers of people on the list. I was even accused implicitly (and falsely) ofgaming Twitter back in February.The rhetoric has been fairly hot at times, with some even suggesting that it iscorrupt. More recently Dave Winer, the RSS pioneer, suggested that being on the listwas tantamount to a kickback- after all, many thousands of Twitter followers gives you the chance to push more people towards, which in turn drives revenue.So how is the list compiled? And what's the real value of being on it?First, a disclaimer: we are on the list with an account that I set up a couple of years ago,guardiantech. It's been that way for a few months, and it's certainly done wonders for our follower count, which has just crept over 600,000. According to Twitterholic, @guardiantech is now the 59th most popular account on the service, with afairly steady growth curve.For the first question - how is the list compiled - I spoke to Twitter briefly a couple of days ago, and they confirmed that it's essentially a series of editorial picks of accounts that are deemed interesting and/or recognisable. No money changes hands.Fortunately, the company has addressed the specifics of how the list is compiled a couple of times, most recently inthis blog post:We've explained that the Suggested Users list is a bit like your local book store's staff picks but there's a little more to it than that. Our Chief Scientist developed a program that scans active Twitter accounts for a bunch of key ingredients such as how much of the profile is filled out, certain indications that the account is interesting to others in some respects, and a few other signals.This program then generates a list of potentially interesting Twitter accounts that myself and some product team folks here at Twitter take a look at for another set of criteria. For example, is the account a good introduction to Twittering for a new user? Does the person or organization running the account have a fairly wide or mainstream appeal? If they are a celebrity or business, have we confirmed it's really them?The second question - what value is there in being on the list? - is a bit more esoteric. There's clearly a numerical boost from being on the list,  something that's been quantified by Ben Lorica at O'Reilly Rader, who has has done a little digging to find outprecisely how much more popular being a suggested user makes you(the answer? An extra 51,000 followers in the first week, on average).However, from experience, I can say that the actualvalueof having more followers is less obvious. Your messages do get seen by more people, but our brief investigations into how much traffic @guardiantech drives show that there's definitely not a 1:1 correlation between growing followers and pushing through.Quality, not quantity, is vitally important here.So what irks people about the list? Partly, it's because it's a human decision. The vocal minority seem to dislike that:they want an algorithm, which would be less inscrutable (never mind the fact that algorithms aren't neutral entities - they are written by people).Plus, some of the resentment is driven - even if they don't admit it - by the fact that a lot of people really consider Twitter as a competition to gain the biggest audience. It's professionally useful to them to have more followers than other people - and, in many cases, they believe that they are being cheated out of their rightful position inside the social network.It strikes me that this antagonism comes from some more philosophical spigots, too: from web libertarians who see celebrities getting traction on Twitter and get annoyed, because it undermines their belief in an everyone-is-equal web 2.0 democracy (or, in a few cases, an I-am-more-equal-than-you version).There's also the fact that the list shows a tendency towards the mainstream that some fringe players find distasteful - the equivalent of a band's earliest, most dedicated fans getting upset when they score a big hit and get popular with casual listeners.And some have too much of their personal or professional reputation staked on being successful in these sorts of arenas. Hard to sell yourself as a social media guru if any old celebrity can get more Twitter followers than you without even trying.The value, the importance of the list, all depends on how you frame it.Winer, who always has plenty of interesting ideas, says it creates a dangerous inherent bias in the system. "It's as if Google seeded their search engine so that every web newbie, when they searched for anything, got 20 of 200 sites in every response".If Twitter was your only window to the world, maybe. But I think it's much more like being a default feed in an RSS reader, or perhaps regularly getting a link from a massively popular blog - it's guidance from the hands of a curator.(I remember the boost in traffic blogs got back in the early days ofBlogger, when the site picked out a blog of the day and highlighted it on the home page. Oy! What dizzy joy that caused)But those things are human, and they are inscrutable to some extent. That's part of the point. Algorithms follow a straightforward set of rules, but they're more easily broken because clear rules, once understood, can be gamed.So would the Suggested Users List be better if it were machinised?It would definitely help to have a more intelligent way of offering suggested users. And, possibly, it would also offer a more democratic spread of attention.But Twitter's playing the mainstream game now: it cares about giving Joe Bloggs what he feels comfortable with - not in handing out the prizes and recognition that Silicon Valley insiders crave.&bull;Footnote: -100 points to anyone who leaves a comment decrying our coverage of Twitter - particularly if they never even got far enough through the post to see this message. We write about it because we're interested in it, and lots of other people are. If you can't bear it, then you don't have to read it: and, luckily,I can offer you a fine selection of other stories about technology.
Google data centres planned and built in Europe. source:Flickr/Royal PingdomNeed to find a Google data centre? Help is at hand, thanks to Royal Pingdom, which has analysed aGoogle Data Centre FAQand used it to figure out where those centres - usually kept very close to the Googlechest - are.If you include data centers that are under construction, Google has 19 locations in the US where they operate data centers, 12 in Europe, one in Russia, one in South America, and three in Asia. Not all of the locations are dedicated Google data centers, since they sometimes lease space in other companies' data centers.(There are plenty more maps and pictures on the Royal Pingdom blog, if you need to know where the Google data centres in the Pacific are.)It's interesting though perhaps not surprising that the US is so important to Google. And as Royal Pingdom points out,According to Google's earnings reports, they spent $1.9 billion on data centers in 2006, and $2.4 billion in 2007. Google unveiled four new data center projects in 2007. Each has a cost estimate of $600 million, which will include everything from construction to equipment and computers.Don't forget this is at a time when server sales havefallen off quite a steep cliff, where Microsoft, Yahoo and Amazon areamong the biggest buyers(though Google is reckoned to buy very cheap kit which it configures itself -including the use of Velcro). Google's a big buyer - but it's not helping server sales much.All this also feeds into the question ofhow much energy gets used by each Google search(still unresolved), andhow fast the power demands of the net are growing. Having more data centres isn't likely to reduce it any time soon - though Google says going carbon-neutral will. Are we sure there are enough wind turbines and hydroelectric dams to power all those new centres?
Cadillac CTS&pound;26,430Miles per gallon:25.7CO2 per km:263 GramsGood for:Road tollsBad for:Exit tollsBrown opted for a Jaguar, Sarkozy favours a Citro&euml;n and, for the past 20 years, America's presidents have always been driven in a Cadillac. For his epic 1.7-mile journey from the Capitol to the White House for his inauguration, Barack Obama was transported by Cadillac 1, a purpose-built monster nicknamed the Beast. The official registration was 44 - Obama's number in the roll call of US presidents - and it reportedly has 8in tank armour, a bomb-proof floor, reinforced truck tyres, tear-gas cannons, night-vision cameras and an independent oxygen supply. It is always trailed by a medical backup car containing pints of BO's blood. But, for all these extreme modifications, the Beast shares many superficial features with the latest car to come off Cadillac's troubled production line, the CTS.The most obvious similarities are up at the front: a vast shield-like grille, split into three lines, sits between two stacked headlights. Barack favours a pair of flags above these - you probably won't, but there's nothing stopping you. Both of you also have the same low-slung spotlights and sporty air vents perched over the front wheels. Barack was only offered his Beast in black, but your CTS, with its diode light strips, glinting alloys and magpie-luring chrome flashes, can easily carry off a brighter shade. Crystal red, for instance - a real show-stopper.The CTS is up against BMW's 5-series, Audi's A6, Volvo's S80 and the Mercedes E-class. Ultimately it does fall short of the very high standards set by these old pros, but then it is cheaper. Engine-wise there are two to choose from - a 2.8 and 3.6-litre, both V6. The smaller one shoves you up to 62mph in 8.4 seconds and on to a 140mph max, which is more than enough for a big, squishy car that's been built to cruise rather than to thrash. However, a supercharged CTS-V, with an enormous 6.2-litre V8 engine, the most powerful Cadillac has ever built, has just gone on sale for &pound;56,495. It set the lap record for a production saloon car at the infamous N&uuml;rburgring circuit. Wow, yes. Useful, no. Unless it's an escape strategy being developed for Mr Obama... The handling and performance on the CTS I test-drove was luxurious and accomplished. It swallowed speed bumps for breakfast and its finger-light controls meant you felt like the captain of a Venetian launch rather than a commuter battling the traffic. Good enough for the Prez.So how on earth has GM kept the price down? In a word - the interior. Despite the deep leather seats, thick carpets and polished dashboard, the feeling is of cheapness. There's a nasty plastickiness to it all. The ashtray wouldn't shut; the cupholder stuck. The CTS may be freighted with technology - the percentage of remaining oil-life is yours to know at the flick of a (wobbly) switch - but rather than it filling you with confidence, you feel perplexed. On top of that, nothing is intuitive. It took a phone call to the press office to find out how to turn off the interior light, and I never worked out how to reset the trip counter. So, great on the outside, but poor on the details - clearly not a metaphor for 44's time in office.martin.love@observer.co.uk
There has been a lot of speculation -- as usual -- about what the games companies are going to announce at the E3 trade show, andArs Technicahas confirmed the PSP Go, which will sell alongside the current model. It says:Luckily, we don't have to guess, as we have the support of our very well-informed mole. His information? Not only is the PSP Go real, but we'll be seeing a slimmed-down PS3 in August or September. However, this news likely won't be announced during E3.Games siteVG247added that "Someone's grabbed a video from the June issue of Qore of PSP Go in action." The video, at YouTube, has since been removed, butEurogamer has a whole gallery of product shotsapparently from the same source.If it's a hoax, it's been done very thoroughly, and it has taken a lot of people in…Video may not work: if it does, the sound is out of syncUpdate: The video says the PSP Go has a smaller 3.8-inch wide screen and no UMD drive for movies, but you'll be able to download those from the PlayStation Network. It has 16GB of Flash memory, plus Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. It will be "coming this fall". Over the long term, Sony expects more casual games will be developed for the PSP Go than the standard PSP.CNet'sCravehas more details.
The Dundee water must be a'flowing bits and bytes; it's one of the hubs of UK game development, releasing top quality from a thriving ecosystem of small developers like they're going out of fashion. Dundee-based studio,Electric Top Hat, has arrived in the gamesblog's elevator (yes, yes: lift) and they're here to pitchModulo, their latest puzzle title in the App Store. So what compelled a bunch of BAFTA award winners to leave their cushty AAA jobs for a life in the indie lane? And how – how?! – do you get noticed in the jungle of iPhone apps? Bert McDowell, Director and Senior Software Engineer, shares.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.Modulois a deceptively simple puzzle game, just rotate the pieces till the green halves are all pointing up.But that's not quite all of it, there is a twist or two to make it interesting. What makes this a puzzle game is that a single puzzle piece may be connected to one or more other puzzle pieces, so when you rotate one the other connected pieces will rotate with it. The concept is easy to pick up but will tax your mind as the game progresses onto the more difficult stages.Really, it's simple multi-dimension discreet mathematics, on a hyper plane – your mum should find it pretty simple.How do players control the game?Rotating the puzzle pieces is really easy, you just touch a piece and it will rotate, and any connected piece will rotate with it. Apple's touch screen devices make the game very intuitive to pick up and play – in fact the game was designed primarily for such a device.What is your background?We come from large-scale commercial games, including the BAFTA winning Crackdown for Xbox 360. We left that all behind late last year to form our little company, Electric TopHat, where we hope to use that experience to create small, fun and innovative products.Name your competitors.We don't really think of it that way. There is enough space, and a variety of business models, to support a large number of companies and individuals. For instance, we are currently collaborating with two other Dundee iPhone developers and "a bunch of talented students" from the University of Abertay, Dundee.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?A few thousand at the moment, we think the latest update will draw in a lot more casual players.What's your biggest challenge?Getting noticed as a developer and becoming known as a good provider of casual games. Currently there are over 48,000 applications on the App store. A large number of these developers will not be making any return on their investments. Apple is full of smart people – they must know this and realize that a fair proportion of current developers are going to fall away – and they will lose their free work force. It will be interesting and exciting to see what their response to the situation is.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?Interesting question, it could be being hassled about bugs by the external producer while sitting down having my quiet time (i.e. on the loo).What's your distribution/publishing plan?We are currently targeting Apple touch devices exclusively; this has given us the ability to publish our products via the Apple App Store. We are also keeping an eye on the Google Android Platform as well as the Microsoft portable products, and we may target these in the future.Are indie games the latest killer app?I'm not sure that they are, there are still large companies out there that can provide a much larger gaming experience. Where the indie developer can win is on the innovation front, where they can bring small fun applications to the market quickly.Are you the next big thing?That's not our aim, we'll leave that to EA and Rockstar of the world. What developers like us are about is the freedom to develop new and interesting products; hopefully we can make a living from something we love to do.
Is Craigslist the victim of a "witch-hunt" orchestrated by politicians and the media - or simply a highly-profitable website lashing out at smaller rivals?That's the question being put forward to counter recent comments by Craigslist chief executive Jim Buckmaster, whosuggested in an interview with methat the website was being unfairly targeted by rival media organisations annoyed at Craigslist's success.Buckmaster is clearly angry about the treatment dished out to Craigslist by the media during the controversy over adult advertising on the site (read the transcriptand you'll see what I mean).But he didn't stop at that: in ablog post last week, he outlined a series of adverts onBackpage.com(a rival classified site owned by Village Voice Media, a publisher of alternative weekly newspapers) that he claimed were "more explicit content than you will find in all craigslist adult service ads combined".Today executives at Village Voice came out fighting - suggesting that Craigslist is lashing out unfairly at anyone and everyone - and going after the wrong target as a result."I feel solidarity with Craigslist, but if someone's going to throw punches at us, then we'll fight back," said Bill Jensen, VVM's director of new media. "For him to single us out was really surprising to us, given Craigslist's reputation for free speech."The question, says Village Voice, is exactly why Craigslist argues that it is acting within the law and yet attacks rivals that are, effectively, doing the same thing. There's no question, they say, that theattorney general of South Carolinawas wrong to try and force Craigslist to shut down its adult ad service.But Village Voice executives say that Buckmaster's vehement response is an attempt to force rival sites - which are much smaller than Craigslist - to do exactly that.According to Carl Ferrer, the founder of Backpage, the outburst is part of an attempt to pressure Craigslist's rivals. "Its sole purpose is to have Backpage conform to Craigslist's new rules," he told me."It's a tough situation that Craigslist is in, but we should work together."It's also amusing, they say, given that Village Voice has a long history of opposing glad-handing politicians and staying outside the mainstream.There may be understandable vexation on both sides, but the biggest winner from this spat could be the political operators that both sides despise - who seems to have succeeded with an inadvertent divide and conquer strategy.What started as an argument about the limits of free speech is in danger of descending into a mud-slinging match along the way.
From the people responsible for lolcats, photobombing is essentially the fine art of sabotaging a photograph by appearing in the background, either accidentally or deliberately, in order to mock those in the foreground. The results are often slightly disturbing - such as the sad ghostly youth caught behind windows looking on gloomily as his older siblings vogue for the camera, or the dogs caught "in congress" as a party of middle-aged ladies can-can beside a pool. Mainly, though, they are just mean and stupidly funny. Among the lessons here: when taking a sexy self-portrait in a bathroom always close the toilet seat first, and when assembling groups of children for a formal pose always ask if anyone needs to vomit.
Movies represent years of work and creative thought from hundreds of different people and include thousands of decisions and small influences which all make a project a reality. Then the film is released, critics slag it off and it disappears from cinemas after a few days. The best bit, then, is probably in the months before release. In the run up to the autumn opening of Spike Jonze's Where The Wild Things Are the director is inviting us into the world of the film-making thought process. This blog allows those who worked on the film to shed light on the things that inspired them. Well, that's the idea, but really it's just links to lots of cool stuff, such as the Muppets on the Orson Welles Show, skateboarding snaps and free Yeah Yeah Yeahs remixes. There's also plenty about the film itself and octogenarian author Maurice Sendak.
When all's said and done, cars are rather like people. There may be the odd superficial difference - no human is quite as ugly as the 1998 Fiat Multipla, and no car has produced anything as polluting as the Jeremy Kyle Show - but nevertheless they both come in all shapes, sizes and personalities.Just as there are attractive charmers who are bound to let you down, so there are flashy makes and models that are destined to leave you stranded on the hard shoulder. Similarly, those dull but reliable types - the bland couple you'll avoid at a party but who will still be there for you in a crisis - have a wealth of four-wheeled equivalents.Take, for example, the Toyota Avensis T4 Tourer 2.0. It's sturdy, comfortable, trustworthy and incurably dull. The only way it could be more dull would be if it were an estate. And, as luck would have it, there is indeed an Avensis estate.The estate car is nothing if not a richly symbolic machine, what you might call a Jungian archetype of a key life stage. It marks the end of struggle, ambition and material growth. Once you've reached the point where you've completed your loft conversion and opened your side return, there is nothing left to extend but your car boot. The estate, therefore, is a visible demonstration and acceptance of the fact that there's nowhere else to go. It's a veritable cul-de-sac on wheels.The Avensis estate, it should be said, is a perfectly pleasant cul-de-sac. The leather seats are so nice that it seems a shame to drive in them. Better, perhaps, to sink into their matt black depths and settle down with a good book and a sherry.Everything is as you'd expect in the spacious cabin: sensible, clear, easy to use and not too fancy. There's a healthy-size coffee cup holder, ample room in which to hide away random stuff in the armrest, and plenty of leg space in the back. It's the sort of environment that might appeal to a large family in which the children have grown up and moved away from home but the parents don't want to accept it. A family of two adults and a big dog, which can be safely stored in the vast rear section.Externally it looks like, well, an estate. That's the other thing about estates - their estateness overwhelms all attempts at individuality. Wisely, then, the Avensis hasn't bothered with such vain ploys.The only real surprise in this faultlessly unsurprising car is its zippy acceleration. Is there any need for it, one's bound to ask? It'll only upset the dog. But there it is. The Avensis is a car for when you've got no place left to go, and need to get there fast.Toyota Avensis T4 Tourer 2.0Price:£21,230Top speed:124mphAcceleration:0-62mph in 9.3 secondsAverage consumption:40.9mpgCO2 emissions:164g/kmEco rating:7/10At the wheel:Jenni MurrayBound for:Land's EndIn a word:Empty
The world's finestFu Manchuis British worldWe really wantFear And Loathing: The Board Game51% of Japanese menwee sitting downThe perils of havingbanana handsHow to speakdogHow longa chicken lives for. Oh, and bison.The existential pointlessness ofinteractive pop videosWhat to buy Morrisseyfor his 50th birthdayThe history ofeating utensils, including some very elaborate spoons.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday 9 June 2009In the article below  the Strategic Advisory Board for Intellectual Property supplied incorrect information. What the story should have said was that if 1.3 million users sharing files at midday on a particular peer-to-peer website each downloaded just one file a day, this would mean free consumption of 473m items a year, not 4.73bn items.At least 7 million people in Britain use illegal downloads, costing the economy billions of pounds and thousands of jobs, according to a report.Shared content on one network was worth about £12bn a year according to the research commissioned by the Strategic Advisory Board for Intellectual Property.The peer-to-peer network had 1.3 million users sharing files at midday on a weekday. If each of them downloaded only one file a day this would amount to 4.73bn items being consumed free each year.The ability to download or share content is getting easier with faster technologies and greater storage space.The new 50 megabytes-per-second broadband access can deliver 200 MP3 music files in five minutes, a DVD of Star Wars in three minutes and the complete digitalised works of Charles Dickens in less than 10 minutes.David Lammy, minister for intellectual property, said: "Illegal downloading robs our economy of millions of pounds every year and seriously damages business and innovation throughout the UK."It is something that needs tackling, and we are serious about doing so."Ministers privately accept the difficulty attached to criminalising millions of people who now apparently see little wrong with stealing online content.The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry estimates that there were 890m illegal free music downloads through file-sharing in the UK in 2007 compared with 140m paid downloads. This puts unauthorised access at a ratio of six to one, before offline sharing like disk burning is even considered.The SABIP report found music downloading had "become part and parcel of the social fabric of our society despite its illegal status". Creative industries provide about 8% of British GDP. Digital copying of their products resulted in the estimated loss of 4,000 jobs in 2004.Lammy said: "The report helps put the scale of the problem into context and highlights the gaps in the evidence which need to be filled."It is important that we understand how online consumer behaviour impacts on the UK economy and the future sustainability of our copyright industries."SABIP warned that it may be difficult to change attitudes to free downloading as there was "huge confusion" about what is and is not legal.It claimed that 70% of those aged 15 to 24 did not feel guilty about downloading music for free from the internet and 61% of the age group did not feel they should have to pay for the music they listen to, according to a survey.Lammy said: "We can't expect 12-year-olds to become copyright lawyers before they can switch on a computer, but we can educate people on enforcement and work towards getting the right people caught and punished, wherever they live."The UK film industry told the authors of the report that there were just under 100m illegal DVD downloads in 2007 and the global film industry is thought to lose more than £4bn a year.
Wikipedia has banned contributions from the Church of Scientology to end a long-running dispute over the editing of Scientology-related articles on the site.The online encyclopaedia, which is edited by users, hasruled that all IP addresses owned and operatedby the Church of Scientology and its associates are to be blocked as if they were open proxies.A long list of individual editors are prohibited from contributing to articles on Scientology and face having their accounts suspended if they breach the ban.This is the fourth Scientology-related dispute on Wikipedia in four years. The crux of the disagreement is so-called "edit-warring" between the Church of Scientology and its followers and critics to try to portray it in either a favourable or negative light. Wikipedia policy is that articles should be neutral.The technology news website The Register, whichbroke the story, reports that the Church of Scientology has a well-organised operation to challenge criticism of Scientology on the internet.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The internet's war with Scientologists has stepped up a gear, after Wikipedia administrators decided to ban the church from making changes to its site.After a long debate, the online encyclopedia has decided to block anyone using an internet connection linked to the church from making changes to Wikipedia pages - in order to prevent propaganda changes and what it calls "sock puppet" attacks.The news,first reported in The Register, marks the first time that has the online encyclopedia has taken such sweeping action against a single organisation.In the past, Wikipedia has regularly banned individuals accused of making self-serving or inflammatory changes to the website, but no large group has been banned wholesale in the same way."All IP addresses owned or operated by the Church of Scientology and its associates, broadly interpreted, are to be blocked," says theruling by Wikipedia arbitrators. "Individual editors may request IP block exemption if they wish to contribute from the blocked IP addresses."Scientology has had a long and difficult relationship with the web, as it struggles to control and contain its carefully-wrought image. According to insiders and security experts, Scientologists have been conducting concerted campaigns for more than a decade to remove online information critical of the organisation.However, things have stepped up over the past year after the organisation attempted totake down a recruitment a video of Tom Cruise. In responsen, the maverick band of hackers, activists and internet anarchists known as Anonymouslaunched a full-scale assault on Scientology online- hacking its website and leaving anti-Scientologist methods across the net.The group is also under fire in France, where accusations that the church has targeted vulnerable people and bilked them of cash have led to six membersgoing on trial over charges of fraud and other crimes.However, whatever your feelings towards the world of Scientology, Wikipedia's decision to enact a blanket ban appears to be unprecedented.That comes despite extensive information that a large number of other groups have edited Wikipedia in the past to improve their public image or erase criticism of them.In 2007, it emerged thathundreds of organisations had been using Wikipedia to change information about themselves, including changes that could be traced back to the Republican party, Democrats, Fox News and Britain's Labour party.The biggest culprit turned out to be Diebold, a supplier of voting machines, which was at the centre of the contested "hanging chad" election between George W Bush and Al Gore. A series of deletions removed information critical of Diebold's role in the affair, but the organisation was not banned as a result.
President Obama has unveiled sweeping new plans to guard vital US computer networks and data from online attack, announcing a new post of "cyber-tsar" and a strategy for dealing with what he called "weapons of mass disruption".After a succession of hacking and other episodes have laid bare the gaping holes in America's online security, Obama called cybersecurity "one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face," and said he was establishing a White House office to deal with it."Cyberspace is real, and so is the risk that comes with it," the president said, adding that the new cybersecurity chief would oversee and coordinate internet defences across government.Separately, the New York Times reported that the Pentagon plans to create a new military command for cyberspace, stepping up preparations by the armed forces to conduct both offensive and defensive computer warfare. The unit would complement Obama's civilian structure in the White House, the paper said. Obama did not mention the military aspect of cyber-security."From now on our digital infrastructure will be treated as a strategic national asset," Obama said. "Protecting this infrastructure will be a national security priority. We will deter, prevent, detect and defend against attacks and recover quickly."The decision to appoint an individual to orchestrate cyberdefence is the result of a 60-day review into the country's online security, conducted by former Bush administration adviser Melissa Hathaway.The report, which has been in the hands of White House officials for the past month, details America's weak points and suggests a series of improvements that could guard against hackers who want to bring down vital parts of the government, businesses and the communications network."It's clear that we're not as prepared as we should be," said Obama. "Just as we failed to invest in our physical infrastructure, we have failed to invest in our digital infrastructure. No single agency has the responsibility or the authority to match the scope and scale of the challenge."The appointment of a cybersecurity coordinator is a concerted attempt to improve America's online defence capabilities, bringing together many different strands of security. Until now, different aspects of cyber-defence have been the responsibility of a string of organisations, leaving officials in the National Security Agency, Department of Homeland Security and the Pentagon battling each other for supremacy.The stakes have been raised in recent months with a string of revelations exposing the holes in America's online security. One report suggested that Chinese hackers had successfully infiltrated parts of America's electricity grid, while it was also revealed that hackers had stolen valuable information on the Joint Strike Fighter programme, potentially putting the $300bn scheme - the most expensive military technology project ever - in jeopardy.Evidence about the culprits remains scant, but officials in western governments regularly point the finger at Russia and China, which they claim employ teams of highly-trained hackers who are responsible for many state-sponsored attacks.But it is the threat of a full cyberwar - with large numbers of attacks taking place simultaneously – that has most worried high-ranking members of government.One senior Nato official said last year that the possibility of cyber warfare should be treated as seriously as the threat of a missile strike, while another expert from the alliance recently told the Guardian that the prospect of a full-blown internet war is "not science fiction".The favourite for the cyber-tsar role is not yet clear. Hathaway is among the contenders, but the appointment will itself be subject to political wrangling, with the agencies that it is intended to unite seeing the new position as another way to extend their influence. In this Hathaway, a former National Security Agency official who was first appointed under George W Bush, is not free of baggage.Another contender for the job could be Rod Beckstrom, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur who resigned his post as the director of America's National Cyber Security Center in March, claiming that a lack of support was preventing him from doing the job.Beckstrom told the Guardian that it is not just coordination that is required, but that new investment needs to be pumped in to improve the technologies behind the net and make it harder for hackers to succeed."It sounds like boring plumbing work, but it's the only thing that can really make the whole environment more secure," he said. "We need to recognise that the internet is a massive decentralised network, and a collaborative environment. No one is safe on the internet until everyone is safe.""The network is presently wide open to cyber criminals and terrorists who can misrepresent themselves in a thousand different ways", he added. "Cyber offence is a thousand times easier than defence - thus breaches are most certainly occurring in all countries, virtually all the time. Nothing should surprise us."
A mother who said her son was kidnapped by his Hungarian father more than a quarter of a century ago was reunited with him after he was located on Facebook.Avril Grube, 62, from Poole in Dorset, claimed that in 1982, when her son Gavin Paros was aged three, his father took him to Hungary for what should have been a weekend away. Her marriage had broken down and, after her son failed to return, Grube contacted the authorities and made repeated attempts to locate Gavin.She even tried to enlist the support of the then prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, in the search for her son, but after spending years looking she thought she would never see him again.But her younger sister, Beryl Wilson, 59, from Liverpool, searched for Paros's name on Google and discovered his Facebook page on which he had written his mother's name.It transpired that Paros, 30, who has three children of his own, had been using the website to try and find his English family following the death of his father four years ago.He only replied to his aunt's Facebook message several weeks after she posted it, explaining he rarely checked the website.Paros and his mother, who had a stroke recently and lives in sheltered housing, met for the first time as adults in her home. Conversing has been difficult, requiring automated translation software.Grube spoke of her excitement at seeing her son after so many years apart, and said she hoped she would soon get to meet her grandchildren. "It means so much to me," she said.Her sister described the experience as the happiest in Grube's life. "As soon as I found him on Facebook I phoned Avril and said, I have some important news, and told her to sit down, and then I heard a merciful scream," she said."It was the happiest day of her life when she met her son. She said there were no words to describe it."Gavin has got a family and three children and they are desperate to come to England and live but he needs help to find a house and job."
What's your favourite piece of technology?I have to admit firstly that I don't have many. But of the ones I do have, it's my iPhone. Probably it outshines my laptop because it's still new. I only got it a month ago, and I'm still marvelling at how fantastic it is.How has it improved your life?I don't get lost any more, which to me is just fantastic. I've spent so much time away from London in the past five or six years, and coming back I realise I've forgotten my way around – now my iPhone tells me where I am. It has made life a lot easier.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning. I find that I can have a really sneaky lie-in and feel like I'm doing some work because I can reply to emails and read the news – do all that kind of stuff. I feel less guilty doing that on my iPhone than doing it on my computer.What additional features would you add if you could?You can't text photos – or if you can I haven't figured it out – so I'd like to be able to do that. And it would be great if you could use it as a walkie-talkie because I now have so many friends nearby who have an iPhone.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Definitely. I think the way technology will keep on improving I'm sure everyone will have a videophone.What one tip would you give to non-iPhone users?That the texting takes some time to get used to – it was the one thing that almost put me off. Once you get used to it, it's actually very good. And don't overload your phone with lots of applications and games, because it does cause it to crash.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Generally a luddite, but with sudden unexpected peaks of nerdiness which surprise even me.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my MacBook. I'm not big on technology; I only get what I need.Mac or PC?I've always been Mac, so I guess I always will be. I can't imagine I will change now.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most-played list?At the moment, a sudden entry at number one for me is Paper Planes by MIA and AR Ramen, from the Slumdog Millionaire soundtrack.Will robots rule the world?No, I think that's a crazy idea.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I do have a fantasy piece of technology that would do my food shopping for me, and if you wanted to you could probably employ a butler or a maid. But I'd like to have a fridge that restocks itself. I don't know what you'd call that – an automatic restocking pantry?• Rachel Shelley plays Helena Peabody on The L Word. The sixth and final season is currently airing on LivingTV in the UK
Middle-to-end of the week round-up of the gaming news that's caught our eyes from the around the web:• How Strong Copy Protection on Videogames Promotes Piracy (Analysis of Spore DRM controversy) &gt;&gt;wired.com• Screen Digest forecasts $1bn boom for in-game advertising &gt;&gt;mediaweek.co.uk• The Making Of: Elite &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• Microsoft To Brand Cheaters' Gamercards (public humiliation: that's one way to stop 'em) &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• 3 Games, 3 Minutes, 3 Lessons (packed with punches) &gt;&gt;bitmob.com• How the iPhone Is Shaking Up the Videogame Business (Wired profiles ngmoco) &gt;&gt;wired.com• Postmortem: Getting the Degree (is it worth it? A first-hand view) &gt;&gt;gamecareerguide.com• iPhone games aren't selling says angry developer - PocketGamer &gt;&gt;pocketgamer.biz• Street Fighter IV and Resident Evil 5 Soundtracks - take kung-fu and zombies everywhere in your head! &gt;&gt;360.kombo.com• Nintendo says no to making a phone. Surprisingly - NYTimes.com &gt;&gt;bits.blogs.nytimes.com• All That Gore Gets in the Way of Gameplay (Wired reports on a psychological study) &gt;&gt;wired.com• More people play video games than go to movies &gt;&gt;news.cnet.comFollow us all week ondelicious.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Not content withMicrosoft's Binggetting the spotlight, the tsunami of news yesterday was swollen by the geekgasm overGoogle Wave- a sort of email-meets-instant-messaging application. I wasn't blown away by its all-in-one approach, but that leaves me in the minority: Techcrunch says it'drips with ambition', while SearchEngineWatch says it'simpressive.&bull; Harry McCracken at Technologizer has a great little tour through thepatents held by Steve Jobs- including several designs for a 'desklamp' style computer, the Apple remote and (weirdly) the stairs in San Francisco's flagship Apple store.&bull; I'm going to leave you with a bit of both the sublime and the ridiculous as you prepare for the weekend: first up, the Economist takes a look atthe success of open-source software firms- interesting. On the other side, meanwhile, Andy Baio of Waxy.org has decided to take the idea of those "invisible people screen shots" from movie quizzes onto the internet, asking:what does it look like if you remove the people from pictures of popular internet memes? I'm sorry to say I got 13 of them.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
British industry is headed for the biggest shakeup since the Industrial Revolution, with the country set to be a pioneer in video games, superfoods and robotics, according to a new study.With dark Satanic mills long gone, the HSBC Future of Business report predicts that five "supercities" – Brighton, Leeds, Liverpool, London and Newcastle – will emerge as knowledge industries gain traction instead of natural resource-based businesses.The Britain mapped out by the researchers foresees factories, power  stations and livestock supplanted by centres for gaming, windfarms and robotics as the economic landscape is redrawn around the "tropics of knowledge and next generation industries". The findings are based on interviews with 500 entrepreneurs and company directors."Our panel predicted the rise of supercities and regions over the next 20 years," said Martin Raymond from the Future Laboratory, one of the report's authors. "They promise to change the traditional national and regional power bases because of their proximity to the one thing that does not depend on natural resources: knowledge."The authors say change is being accelerated by the recession. "Business used to be cyclical, rhythmic and geographically specific," said Raymond. "Now it is increasingly rootless, borderless and weightless. It is defined as much by our ability to see opportunity in ideas, knowledge and intellectual resources as it is to profit from trading in real products and tangible assets."This is forcing businesses to adopt more flexible ways of working, says the report, while spurring on technological advances and global trade. Raymond says the supercities and regions will derive their status and income from new income streams such as biotechnology and stem cell research.The research also predicts the north/south divide will shift as London's economic output wanes. The report says competition and high living costs in the south is encouraging entrepreneurs to move north. Job creation by self-employed people is also higher in the north, with northerners employing 3.5 million people on average, compared with 2.6 million in the south.With its traditional "jute, jam and journalism" now faded, the report predicts that Dundee will emerge as a hub for biotech, video gaming and nutraceuticals (foods with health and beauty benefits). The nutraceuticals industry is already worth £50bn worldwide and is expected to grow with an ageing population and rising obesity levels. Scotland's digital media and creative industries are worth an estimated £5bn, with top-selling titles such as Grand Theft Auto developed there. The research also suggests there is life outside financial services for London, which is expected to win renown for work in nanotechnology, robotics and stem cells.
The best guide to Bing I've seen so far isMicrosoft's video about the "decision engine,"which gives you a good idea how it works for a targeted set of query types. If your query is not one of those types, of course, it doesn't work as well. However, the query interface seems to be better than Google's, in general. Whether the particular results (ie sites found) are better than Google's is a different matter.TheBehind Bingsection of the Discover Bing site includes videos of four of the key players. This is also one site to watch if you want to incorporate Bing's API's in your products.You can alsodownloadthe Desktop product guide application,Our columnist Vic Keegan has also posted a very interesting audio file, where he asked Microsoft'sAshley Highfield(who used to work for the BBC) about Bing.A Forrester Research analyst has also commented, inMicrosoft's Bing Will Change The Face of Search. Shar VanBoskirk makes the basic point about how Bing changes the game:Bing focuses on delivering answers, not Web pages. Microsoft research shows (and Forrester's research affirms) that users rely more and more on search engines to deliver solutions... hotel reservations, movie listings, gift ideas, newsclip replays ...not just a directory of Web sites. Bing was developed to help consumers make decisions, not just to catalog content.There are now, of course, hundreds of news stories about Bing, and some early reviews. A few that might be of interest include:Microsoft Bing review, at PC AdvisorHands On with Microsoft's Bing Search, at PC MagazineMicrosoft Bing: Much better than expected, at CNetHow Microsoft's Bing came to be, at CNetA few of you might be interested to read thePowerset blog, because Powerset provided some of the key technology in Bing. Microsoft liked it, and bought the company in August 2008. Bing also uses great technology from another purchase: Farecast.There is still lots to do, of course. It's obvious that Bing doesn't have the depth or freshness of Google's results, but that's not too surprising in a search engine that hasn't actually been launched yet. Also, Microsoft doesn't expect millions of people to switch overnight: Ballmer talked of years and years. If Bing can gain one or two percent of market share in the first year, Microsoft will be delighted.Update: Typo in headline corrected. Must get new keyboard....
Microsoft has teamed up with Sky to offer the Sky Player through the Xbox 360. The Sky Player is basically the Sky version of the BBC iPlayer so this means you'll be able to watch Sky content via your console.  The press release touts this ability to watch TV content via your console as a first, although you can already access the iPlayer through your PS3 and Wii. What *is* excting is the nature of the content. The sport is the big draw, with the potential to watch Sky Sports 1,2 &amp; 3 via your console. However, the full channel line-up is yet to be finalised.The release:Details of the full channel line-up will be revealed closer to launch, but it is anticipated that Xbox LIVE users will be able to access blockbuster movies, must-see entertainment shows, thought-provoking documentaries, programming dedicated to kids, music and the arts, as well as all the excitement of Premier League football, Test Match cricket and a wide variety of other sports through Sky Sports.I've been using the Sky Player on my PC for the last few months and it's perfectly watchable on my paltry 2mb connection. It doesn't match the HD loveliness of the online American Football package I bought last season but there is no better legal way to watch football, rugby league etc online and is certainly an option if you don't want the full satellite TV option. The only real downer is cost - 34 quid a month for the full sports package which is not far off what you'd pay for the full satellite TV version.  Current Sky users will get the content for free but pricing will be crucial for this service as tempting new subscribers is presumably the key objective for Sky. Let's see what pricing they come up with.Perhaps the biggest advantage the Xbox implementation has over the standard PC/Mac version is the interactivity. As the release says:As well as fans being able to communicate with one another in real time via their broadband connections, they will also be able to check news and access fixtures, league tables and other on-demand information. Interactive applications will also be developed across other programmes genres.The service is due to launch this Autumn, presumably just in time to clash with all those blockbuster games that come out in October and November.Anyway, any 360 owners tempted by this? Or are you clinging onto your pad and happily reminscing about the days when consoles played games and nothing else.
We know how much you love stat stories... Yes, today Microsoft announced that sales of its Xbox 360 console have passed the 30 million mark, with the Xbox Live community hitting an impressive 20 million people in 26 countries - which means it's now in more homes than any satellite television provider, points out the excited press release. Here are some more Xbox-o-facts:Over the course of this console generation, U.S. consumers alone have spent $14.5 billion across all categories on Xbox 360 at retail. [...] To date, consumers have downloaded nearly 1 billion pieces of gaming and entertainment content from Xbox LIVE Marketplace, including a broad array of premium high- and standard-definition movies and TV shows from top studios and networks around the world.In addition, Xbox 360 continues to be the platform of choice for the industry's top games, generating $5.9 billion in sales to date at U.S. retail for third-party publishers, which is more than those of current-generation consoles combined. Xbox 360 also leads current-generation consoles in game purchases, with consumers owning an average of 8.3 titles each.So as things stand, Xbox 360 is still 20 million units behind Wii, but stands eight million ahead of PS3. The games-per-user figure is impressive, though - I'd be surprised if the Wii average is even half of that. I don't really have anything else to write on this matter. But stats are great, though aren't they?
Microsoft has unveiled its latest effort to take on its internet rival Google – a new search engine called Bing.Described as a "decision engine", Bing is the latest attempt by the Seattle software giant to gain popularity in the search market and wrestle some momentum back from its Californian adversary.While the site, Bing.com, is not live yet, it is expected to begin rolling out today, and will be available around the world by next week.The site's basic approach may seem familiar: a page featuring single empty box that, when text is entered, provides a list of useful web pages in response. But Microsoft executives hope that the new website, which has been in development for several years, can chip away at the dominance Google exerts on the lucrative web search market."Today, search engines do a decent job of helping people navigate the web and find information, but they don't do a very good job of enabling people to use the information they find," said Steve Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft."Bing is an important first step forward in our long-term effort to deliver innovations in search that enable people to find information quickly and use the information they've found."Among the features that he hopes will turn internet users on to Bing is "guided search", which categorises searches and attempts to get users to useful information speedily. The system also integrates with a number of other technologies, bringing news and maps straight to searchers, as well as linking in to the company's Cashback scheme – which effectively pays users a small dividend every time they buy a product through the site."The major search engines were developed over a decade ago, and we believe the category is still in its infancy," said Paul Stoddart, Microsoft's UK search lead. "It's important to challenge and evolve the search market … there is much more that people can and should expect."It remains to be seen, however, whether Bing can really succeed where a series of earlier revamps and rebranding attempts have failed – despite Microsoft's eagerness to gain a serious position in the lucrative search engine market.According to data from ComScore, Google leads the US Search market with 64%, while Yahoo has 20% and Microsoft trails in third with an 8% share. Worldwide, the figures are even worse. An analysis from Net Applications suggests that Microsoft currently has just 3% of the global market, trailing Yahoo's 9.6% and Google's commanding 81%.After losing the initiative to internet rivals who have built enormous businesses out of web search, Microsoft has spent the past few years retooling in an attempt to push itself forwards.The company lured a stream of executives away from Yahoo to run its search business, including its new president of online services, Qi Lu – described by some as a "tech star". Microsoft also bought in expensive new technologies to try and give it an edge, spending an estimated $100m (£63m) buying Powerset, a much-hyped San Francisco startup that promised intelligent web search, but has so far failed to live up to initial expectations.The company has also tried to market its products in a variety of different ways to convince users to switch away from rival engines.Bing is the fourth name change for the product in just a few years. It has previously been called MSN Search, Windows Live Search and Live Search – and even the new version went through several different identities before arriving at its current monicker.But although the site's name is meant to evoke the sound of getting the right answer, experts were still left asking more questions after the launch."If you're expecting Bing to be a Google-killer, reset your expectations,"said Danny Sullivan, the editor of the SearchEngineLand website. "The most dramatic change, in my view, remains the name itself."Some suggest that Microsoft will never be able to make serious inroads without making a radical departure from the system pioneered by Google. Recently, the most interesting potential challengers to the Silicon Valley giant have come from new areas, not simply trying to best Google on its own territory.Many observers are betting heavily on the future of what they call "real-time search" – the ability to find data instantly, as soon as it is published online, and bring new information and news to the surface before it reaches the mainstream.Among the websites active in this area are Twitter, the fast-growing social messaging service, and Facebook, which is able to filter information through its 250 million users.Elsewhere, some newcomers are focusing on bringing more utility to people – and offering up information that does not exist on the web itself. The British physicist Stephen Wolfram recently took the lid off his own effort in this area, the "computational knowledge engine" Wolfram Alpha.The site compiles of approved information and offers users answers to their questions, and was warmly received, although it is not yet clear whether it has long-term staying power.In the end, say some experts, Microsoft may end up turning, once again, to Yahoo, the rival it tried to buy last year in a failed $44bn takeover bid.Indeed, Yahoo's chief executive, Carol Bartz, said yesterday that she was not against selling her company's search business to Microsoft – as long as the price was right."If there's boatloads of money and the right technology involved, we'd do a deal, sure," she said. "It's that simple."•AudioBoo: Vic Keegan talks Bing with Microsoft UK's Ashley Highfield
The new four-letter word in your life is Bing. Whether you'll bother to try it or not, Microsoft has great hopes for it. Bing is the latest iteration of Microsoft's search engine, and it's innovative enough for Microsoft to try to rebrand what used to be called Live Search and spend around $80-$100m on promotion.Bing was announced today by Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer at D7, the conference run by the Wall Street Journal's technology site, All Things Digital. Microsoft's staff have been using it for many months under a different name: Kumo.It will be available to American users next Wednesday, 3 June, and UK users should have access to a beta version.The new search engine has a number of innovative features, the main one being what Microsoft calls the Explorer pane on the left hand side. When you search for things, the Explorer pane finds results for related searches. This should be a big help for less experienced searches who aren't adept at querying search engines.Microsoft has tried to make its search engine smarter and it makes assumptions based on real-world information sources, such as the MSN Calendar. For example, Bing provides different results if you search for Wimbledon during the tennis season or Cannes during the film festival than if you search for the same terms at Christmas.The results are also designed to surface the sort of things people typically search for, such as phone numbers, that may be buried several layers down in a site. Try searching for British Airways, for example. Many hotel and restaurant searches show the same approach.Another useful feature is the ability to preview text results from a site by rolling the mouse over the result instead of going to the site. Text is used because it's more legible and more useful than thumbnail page previews.When I tried the new search engine earlier, under a Non Disclosure Agreement, Microsoft UK's Paul Stoddart said that Microsoft didn't depend on collecting clicks to show adverts, so it had tried to eliminate the need for multiple searches to find things. It was therefore trying to eliminate clicks and show people what they wanted."Let's not force ads down people's throats all the time," he said.However, you don't need to log on to get the benefits: the aim is to deliver the best results for the mass market, rather than for particular users.Some features of the new UK version will already be familiar to US users, such as the use of large pictures with hot-spots instead of a Google-style white background.Stoddart says that important parts of Bing's technology have been contributed by Microsoft Research in Cambridge, and that Microsoft has about 60 engineers working on the UK version. "They're going to add things to make it a really great search engine for the British market. But we don't want to go after the market until we can deliver. That's going to take us a few months."Alex Hoye, chief executive of Latitude, a company that specialises in search engine marketing and pay-per-click advertising, says: "This is the first thing we've seen in a long time that has things Google doesn't have. That's nice to see."Hoye says: "User-friendliness is probably the most notable change, together with the galleries that do phrase matches [the Explorer pane]. It's not cluttered and annoying."Whether Bing will be a success remains to be seen, but Hoye argues that Microsoft has to take a bold approach just to stay where it is, let alone catch up with Yahoo or Google."In 2004, if this was side-by-side with Google, it would be very competitive. In 2009, it's not a level playing field," he says.Google has a huge market dominance, and people believe it delivers the best search results, regardless of whether it's true or not.Competing with Google is almost impossible in the short term, and Microsoft is one of the few companies rich enough to tackle it over the long haul. Delivering search profitably could be an even bigger problem.
Time Warner and AOL are to go their separate ways by the end of the year, a decade after the internet company and media conglomerate came together in the biggest and most disastrous deal of the dotcom boom.The separation, which management at the media group has been discussing for several years, will also see Time Warner buy back Google's 5% stake in AOL.The search engine companyspent $1bn buying the stakein 2005 as a way of preventing Microsoft from becoming the site's advertising partner. But since then Time Warner has seen its share price crash and earlier this year Google wrote down the value of the stake by $726m.Demerging AOL, which will become a separately quoted company on the stock market, will allow Time Warner to focus on its TV, movies and publishing operations, including well known brands such as Warner Bros, HBO and Time magazine."We believe that a separation will be the best outcome for both Time Warner and AOL" said Time Warner chairman and chief executive Jeff Bewkes. "The separation will be another critical step in the reshaping of Time Warner that we started at the beginning of last year, enabling us to focus to an even greater degree on our core content businesses."We believe AOL will then have a better opportunity to achieve its full potential as a leading independent internet company."AOL, whichbought social networking site Bebofor $850m two years ago, is focused on its eponymous web portal and a host of other content sites, including celebrity gossip site TMZ. AOL's portfolio sites were the fourth most visited destination in the US in the first quarter of the year – behind Google, Yahoo and Microsoft – with 106 million visitors per month, down from 110 million visitors in the first quarter of 2008, according to comScore Media Metrix."Becoming a standalone public company positions AOL to strengthen its core businesses, deliver new and innovative products and services, and enhance our strategic options," said AOL chairman and chief executive Tim Armstrong, who was lured away from Google to head up AOL earlier this year. He is the fourth AOL boss since the merger.When AOL's takeover of Time Warnerwas announced in January 2000, the $350bn (£220bn) deal epitomised the feeling that "new" media was overturning the traditional "old" media worlds of TV, film and publishing.But as the dotcom boom turned to bust, the rationale behind the deal crumbled and Time Warner found itself taking a mammoth $100bn writedown. The merger also led to a long-running fraud inquiry that resulted in the companybeing slapped with a $210m fine. Last year,the SEC filed civil chargesagainst eight former executives, alleging that they inflated the firm's online advertising revenues by more than $1bn (£509m).Time Warner dropped AOL from its corporate name just three years after the deal, while in 2005 the internet companyabandoned its charging policyin order to try and stem the defection of users now plugged into broadband. Last year, AOL was dragged into the tussle between Microsoft and Yahoo, as Time Warnerconsidered selling the businessto either company.
If you ever hear me claim that my job is difficult, please do me a favour. Punch me hard on the nose. Writing a weekly opinion column is the easiest job in the world that doesn't involve marrying David Beckham or writing jokesfor Marmaduke.Unlike being an actual reporter – which demands tenacity, extensive fact checking and the ability to remain calm under pressure – my job generally requires just four abilities: 1) the ability to remember what day my deadline is; 2) the ability to set an alarm clock for noon that day; 3) the ability to correctly identify the most controversial technology story of the week; and 4) the ability to decide whose side to take. Actually, even that last one isn't strictly necessary as I'm lucky enough to write for the Guardian. Really, I just have to figure out which side you're on, dear reader, and then pick the opposite just to piss you off.Or at least that's how it usually works. This week things have gone horribly awry.It all started on Friday whena storyappeared onTechcrunchconcerning music recommendation serviceLast.fm. Back in February, Techcrunchran a storyalleging that Last.fm had passed listening (or "scrobbling") data to the RIAA, the trade body representing American music labels. The story came from an anonymous source close to CBS who, apparently, was subsequently fired (leaving them slightly less close to CBS).At the time, Last co-founder Richard Jones denied the story in an eloquent blog post entitled "Techcrunch are full of shit". Following the denial, Last.fm fans were quick to attack Techcrunch, with somecomparingthe site to a tabloid. And yet, asI opined at the time, there was actually fault on both sides.Certainly, the way Techcrunch wrote the story was reminiscent of a gossip piece. Techcrunch didn't contact Last for comment until after the facts, and the piece was published on a Friday night (UK time) making it difficult for the company to issue a timely denial. For Last's part, even after the weekend, it still took several days to issue a strong statement which came in the form of a blog post. Meanwhile, Last's parent company, CBS, issued the most vague of non-denial denials, which raised more questions than it answered. Everyone ended with egg on their faces and no one really knew the truth.This time around though, it was a different story. Literally. The new post was written by Techcrunch editor Michael Arrington and contained considerably more detail than the original. After the February story broke and was denied by Last, Techcrunch'sDeep Throatoffered clarification, claiming that it wasn't Last.fm that had passed on the data to the RIAA at all, but actually CBS that had employed foul means to acquire the data from Last's operations team. When the operations team had found out where the data was heading, claimed the source, the "shit hit the fan" and the transfer was stopped.For many commentators (including myself) this telling of the story rang much more true, and was certainly far more authoritatively written. Arrington gave more specifics from his source, specifics which he'd taken steps to independently verify.Even though the follow-up story appeared, again, on a Friday night (for the love ofGod, Techcrunch) this time Last denied it almost immediately, in aforum postfrom Systems Architect Russ Garrett. As Garrett noted, though, there wasn't much for Last to deny as "allegedly CBS did the deed". He went on to say that he hoped CBS would soon issue its own statement of innocence.None of this helped me. As my weekly deadline hurtled closer, I was facing my worst case scenario. On the one hand there was a solid-looking story from Techcrunch and on the other there was a solid denial from a pretty-much vindicated Last.fm. CBS still hadn't confirmed or denied the story. I had absolutely no idea who the bad guy was.Normally in this situation, I'd just flip a coin to decide who to go after. But not this time. Of all the web 2.0 companies I've encountered, it's fair to say there aren't many I respect more than Last.fm and Techcrunch. I visit both sites several times a day and my admiration for them spans the professional and personal – both companies employ friends of mine and boast employees so dedicated and professional that it almost makes me sick.There was nothing else for it: if I was going to pick my bad guy, I was going to have to take extreme measures and do something that goes against my every instinct as a columnist. I'd have to get off my lazy arse and do some actual reporting. To make international phone calls to proper sources, using phrases like "off the record" and "deep background". Oh God, I'd probably have to make notes.But needs must. Feeling slightly giddy, I picked up my phone and started dialing. Three hours later, I put down the red-hot handset and slumped at my desk, exhausted. In front of me were pages of notes – notes which would enable me, for the first and probably last time in this column, to offer you a list of verified facts rather than simply guessing what the truth was. Here goes …Fact One: Last.fm is innocent.Let's get this one out of the way straight away. The Techcrunch story makes it clear that, even if there was truth in the accusation that CBS passed data to the RIAA, Last was not complicit. Sources inside Last go further, insisting that at no point did user data leave the London office bound for CBS or the RIAA. As one source put it: "If anyone on our ops team knew about a data transfer to the RIAA, they would have quit. These are super-committed open source wizard supergeeks; neither love nor money would be able to convince them to both keep quiet and stick around." Last also confirmed, in dull technical detail, why it would be impossible for CBS to get that data itself.  (Incidentally, the fact that they use phrases like "open source wizard supergeeks" is just one of the many reasons I love the people at Last.fm.)Fact Two: And yet, there are certainly trust issues between some at Last and some at CBS.Russ Garrett's initial public denial still left open the possibility that someone at CBS had acted alone, sending data of their own (not obtained from Last) to the RIAA. His hesitation to speak for CBS was probably for good reason. Sources on both sides of the Atlantic agree that while relations between Last and CBS are basically cordial, there are certainly some at CBS who don't have a huge amount of time for the cool web 2.0 kids across the pond. After the February post, a PR representative for CBS in New York issued a flat denial to Techcrunch, but soon afterwards emailed again to ask that it be re-attributed to Last rather than CBS. When the most recent story was published, some at Last theorised that there was "definitely a chance" that a rogue data analyst at CBS could have passed some basic analytics data (which they did have access to) to the RIAA, without Last's knowledge, thinking they were being helpful. Senior staffers at Last were told on Saturday that CBS would be issuing a denial of this on Tuesday – although, curiously, at the same time, some journalists in the US were being told that no such denial was imminent. Other reporters were out and out stonewalled by their contacts at CBS. The CBS denial, when iteventually appearedon Wednesday, came in the form of a one paragraph statement to the Wall Street Journal which ruled out that any user or listener data had ever been passed from CBS to the RIAA and then went on to bitch that "those who consult [blogs like Techcrunch] should be aware of the standard by which such postings are sourced and published". Meow.Fact Three: Techcrunch is not full of shit. Any more.Back in February, when the original story was published, by its own admission Techcrunch was going through a difficult period. It felt tired and it made mistakes. Arrington was on holiday in Hawaii aftersome prick at the DLD conferencespat on him. His co-editor, Erick Schonfeld, was in charge in his absence and so was the only senior editor at Techcrunch who saw the story before publication. Unfortunately, he was also the person who wrote it – never a good idea. As I complainedat the time, Last wasn't asked for a quote before publication and its denial was buried at the bottom of the post. Since then, though, a lot has changed and Techcrunch is back at the top of its game. The site has made various strategic hires including Business Week'sSarah LacyandMG Sieglerfrom VentureBeat and the much-boosted team is publishing an average of 25 posts a day, including countless exclusives. Having spoken to Techcrunch staffers it's clear that potentially controversial stories go through an editing process that knocks many other trade blogs into a cocked hat.  As a result, big mistakes are few and far between.Fact Four: Techcrunch made every attempt to verify the story.Bizarrely – and inexcusably – some rabid Techcrunch commenters have issued death threats over Arrington's coverage of Last.fm. For obvious reasons, running another negative story without checking it out properly first was not high on his list of priorities. Arrington's main source had previously provided multiple tips, all of which had proved to be accurate. And yet Techcrunch still insisted on taking steps to independently verify the new information. After the original story in February, Arrington tried to contact Felix Miller, the CEO and co-founder of Last.fm (you know the Germans make some good stuff), for comment. Miller refused to talk to him. So Arrington tried again, this time through one of Last's investors – a very senior figure in the investment community. Again he was rebuffed by Miller, who palmed him off to CBS PR in New York (Last.fm still doesn't have an in-house PR representative. Which is still ridiculous.)So.So what?After three hours of phone calls and the beginnings of RSI, how much closer did these facts bring me towards choosing who to blame for all of this in my column?Last.fm was certainly in the clear, but equally it's hard to build a convincing case for blaming Techcrunch. It had a source who had previously proven to be reliable and it had various pieces of secondary evidence pointing to the source being legitimate. Even those inside Last weren't absolutely sure at first that someone at CBS hadn't done anything silly, and CBS couldn't bring itself to issue a denial until five days after the story broke.Assuming we take CBS's denial at face value – and there's no reason not to – the only remaining possibility is that all three companies have been the victims of a deliberate hoax. A hoax so well executed that it more closely resembles a long con, where the mark (in this case Techcrunch) is given numerous accurate tips before being hit with the sting. What still doesn't make sense, though, is why someone would create such a damaging story out of whole cloth? Did he or she have an axe to grind against CBS – and if so, why try to take down Last too? And if the target was Last, why switch the blame back to CBS? Maybe the grudge was against Techcrunch – Arrington has made hisshare of enemiesand a fake story would certainly seriously damage his credibility. But, again, why make Last and CBS the collateral  damage, and where did the previous solid tips come from?The answer, as I head towards my penultimate paragraph – the one in which a columnist is suppose to tie everything up with a neat conclusion – is that I don't know who's to blame. And neither does Last or Techcrunch. Something is still missing and sources at both companies remain equally baffled at why so much effort would go in to smearing one or other of them. Only one man, or possibly woman, can say for sure what the truth is – Techcrunch's original tipster. And, wouldn't you know, he or she has since vanished off the map, despite Techcrunch offering both anonymity and expensive legal representation.Until that source reappears, the only sure conclusion I can end with is this:  the yelling has to stop on all sides. Everyone needs to stop threatening to cancel their Last.fm accounts or calling for heads to roll at Techcrunch. Seriously – death threats – what the hell is wrong with you? Oh, and Felix, you need to pick up a freaking phone for once in your life and discuss this with Arrington. That's what CEOs do.There are at least two companies here full of good people, doing a good job. And if either one of them is taken down by this madness, then the real bad guy – whoever he or she eventually turns out to be – will have won.•Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions Of A New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com.
Classified advertising website Craigslist has been the victim of a "witch-hunt" by self-interested politicians and the hypocritical media, according to the man in charge of the company.Talking to the Guardian, chief executive Jim Buckmaster – who has run the website since 2000 – said that a recent string of claims that Craigslist encourages prostitution are part of a concerted attack by government officials and the press."We were just the subjects of a witch-hunt over a certain class of ads," he said. "We've had this recent episode where a grandstanding politician has decided to call us out as criminals in a way that was unfair, unreasonable and unlawful."The individual in question? Henry McMaster, the attorney general of South Carolina, who threatened Craigslist with criminal investigation over the issue.Buckmaster responded by suing McMaster, and was granted a temporary restraining order last weekend to stop such threats happening again.McMaster has not responded to the Guardian's request for comment, but in an earlier statement he said that the decision to sue by Craigslist was a victory for his office, because it showed that the website "is taking the matter seriously for the first time"."More importantly, overnight they have removed the erotic services section from their website, as we asked them to do. And they are now taking responsibility for the content of their future advertisements. If they keep their word, this is a victory for law enforcement and for the people of South Carolina.""Unfortunately, we had to inform them of possible state criminal violations concerning their past practices to produce a serious response. We trust they will now adhere to the higher standards they have promised. This office and the law enforcement agencies of South Carolina will continue to monitor the site to make certain that our laws are respected."That encounter came after a period of concerted pressure on the San Francisco-based site: in March, police in Chicagoclaimed that the site was "the single largest source of prostitution" in America. Statements by a number of officials around the US were then exacerbated by the murder in Boston of a masseuse who advertised on the website – with the US press quickly dubbing the culprit the "Craigslist killer".The site, which has repeatedly denied accusations that it encourages the sex trade, had previously tried to appease its detractors byagreeing to a series of changesin the way it runs its adult advertising section.However, said Buckmaster, the real question was how the media and politicians have deflected attention away from their own activities – including the reliance that many local newspapers and magazines place on the same sort of ads that they decry on the internet."Journalistic media have no interest in reporting on far larger numbers, and far more graphic ads that exist in their own publications," he said. "They only have an interest in reporting such ads as they appear on the internet, and on Craigslist in particular."This, he said, creates a self-reinforcing cycle that allows media organisations to redirect the focus away from their own reliance on adult advertising – indeed,in a post on the official Craigslist blog, Buckmaster outlined a number of sexually explicit and highly graphic listings from Village Voice, the publisher which owns alternative weekly newspapers across America."You get this vicious cycle going back and forth and in our case it's resulted in an unreasonable, unfair and hypocritical witch-hunt that's been playing out over the last couple of weeks," he said."This guy in South Carolina was hellbent on ignoring the law, ignoring facts, ignoring what everyone else in the law enforcement and legal communities were saying. Constructive criticism is wonderful, but slander, libel and defamation – that's where we're drawing the line."The office of Thomas McMaster did not respond to request for comment. But internet rights campaigners said there was no basis in law for his initial attacks on the site."What the attorneys general were trying to do was build public pressure to try and get them to change it," said Matt Zimmerman, a senior staff attorney with the Electronic Frontier Foundation."The law was built to protect and shield people in the middle from this kind of harassment … instead you get these posturing, publicity-seeking lawsuits from officials that are completely contrary to the law."
Guardian Technology: Whenwas the momentyou decided to launch a legal action against the attorney general of South Carolina?Jim Buckmaster:We'd been investing an enormous amount of time, effort and energy in seeking out feedback from law enforcement and attorneys general all across the country; listening to advocacy groups; speaking with constitutional law experts, free speech advocates, internet law experts; digesting a huge amount of feedback from our users and listening to legal business owners who want to advertise.We felt we'd reached a balance that was acceptable to all parties and had received a lot of positive feedback... but this guy in South Carolina seemed hellbent on ignoring the law, ignoring the facts, ignoring what everyone else in the law enforcement and legal communities were saying – which can be boiled down to the fact that even before we made any changes at all, Craigslist was clearly operating in full compliance with all applicable laws.But this fellow in South Carolina, apparently for political reasons – trying to get his governor's campaign off the ground – took it upon himself to ignore all of the newspapers and other businesses offering this kind of venue right under his nose, often far more graphic than you could ever find on Craigslist. Instead, he chose to point at 50 ads of this genre that existed for all cities in South Carolina combined, none of which had anything racier than a photo of a woman in a bikini.And far more than just objecting to what we were doing, he called us out as criminals – of course, not calling out the CEOs of AT&amp;T, Microsoft, all these companies with larger venues of this sort. Newspapers he looks to for endorsements, and of course they are prominent business people in South Carolina, but ... he ignored all the bigger targets right under his nose to point at a San Francisco internet company.He felt obviously that he was empowered to do so and that there would be no consequences for doing so, but we didn't take that lightly: my mother doesn't like to hear me called out as a criminal. If you're going to persistently make those kinds of threats and accusations, eventually you're going to get called on it: and that's what we've done in South Carolina.What exactly was your argument?JB:First of all, the ads themselves are legal on their face. Second of all, even if they weren't, for a government official to say "you need to shut this down" is a clear case of prior restraint on free speech. If that weren't enough, there is clear precedent that internet companies cannot be held responsible for postings made on their sites or via their services by third parties.The threats that were made were unreasonable, and flying in the face of the law at at least three levels. It's important to point out that we're not hiding behind any of these layers of law – the reality is that the ads on our site are far tamer than the ads in newspapers and less voluminous than they are in the Yellow Pages. Lots of businesses have these ads, and ours are tamer and are far fewer in number – that didn't make any difference to the attorney general, because he didn't have any interest in the issue here but had an interest only in grandstanding for his gubernatorial campaign.Is this part of a culture clash between San Francisco's libertarian values and the values of South Carolina voters that you say McMaster is trying to appeal to?JB:One of the interesting issues that's been highlighted by this episode is the feedback loop between politicians and journalistic media.We were just the subject of a witch-hunt over a certain class of ads. Journalistic media have no interest in reporting on far larger numbers and far more graphic ads that exist in their own publications or in other journalistic publications. Reporters have no interest in reporting on those, they have an interest only in reporting on those ads as they appear on the internet or on Craigslist in particular.So they write a bunch of stories about these ads on Craigslist; that empowers politicians to point at these articles and say "oh, there's a problem here" and issue some press releases and get on my soapbox and also point the finger at Craigslist. Then journalistic media in turn dutifully report on the accusations of politicians, which were based on their own initial reports about Craigslist.They have no interest in turning that same scrutiny on their own employer or other journalistic media. You get this vicious cycle going back and forth, and in our case it has resulted in an unreasonable, unfair, and hypocritical witch-hunt that has been playing out over the last couple of weeks.This situation was also informed by the murder in Boston of somebody who advertised on the site – what was known as the "Craigslist killer" in the press.JB:We were horrified to see that a person had been killed in connection with the use of Craigslist classifieds – even one such death is too many. I did think it was interesting, if you look at the historical record, and scores of homicides have occurred in connection with print classifieds. Again, journalistic media have no interest in balancing the story – they prefer to indulge in sensationalistic stories about a single killing on Craigslist. Print classifieds are far more associated with homicide than internet classifieds – and Craigslist in particular – but, of course, that's not a story you're going to read.What has been the effect on the site? What have Craigslist users said?JB:Craigslist users understand that an unfair picture is being painted. Usage continues to surge, and we've never been as busy. People continue to flock to the site and use it in ever greater numbers – that despite disparaging articles that continue to be written. We realise that flashy headlines about the Craigslist killer are irresistible to print media because, one: it gives them the chance to paint somebody they view as a competitor – the chance to paint us with a black brush, and because Craigslist is such a popular service that shoving the name into a headline allows them to sell more advertising than they otherwise could.It's a very profitable formula on their part to indulge in sensationalistic stories involving crimes on Craigslist whenever possible, of course ignoring all the crimes that have occurred – and continue to occur – in relation to print classifieds.You've agreed to do more screening of ads. Is that going to change the way you run?JB:In this one category, we are manually screening each ad to ensure that it's fully compliant before it reaches the site. We're not counting the cost there and we're staffing that function as appropriate and as needed to ensure that every ad is fully screened.Another change is that you're no longer promising that the proceeds from these ads – which is increasing – will go to charity.JB:Our previous category, we had pledged 100% of net revenues to charity. The only thanks we got from the attorneys general was to issue press releases doubting that we were actually going to follow through on that pledge. In actuality, we had followed through and 100% of net revenues had gone to charity – but to prevent any such misunderstanding in the future, we're not making any representations about revenues for the new category.The fee in the new category is $10, but once reviewed and approved the ad can be reposted for $5.Did you ever think when you joined Craigslist that you'd be subject to this sort of attention?JB:The good news is that heightened scrutiny and attention are the hallmarks of a very successful service. If it wasn't for the fact that tens of millions of people were using Craigslist – it's only the fact that so many people are choosing to use Craigslist to go about their everyday business that regulators even care about the site. In a way it's a good thing, and we're certainly up to taking our share of scrutiny and constructive criticism – it helps us get better.We've had this recent episode in South Carolina where this grandstanding politician decided to call us out as criminals in a way that was unfair, unreasonable and unlawful. Constructive criticism is wonderful, that helps us get better, but slander, libel and defamation – that's where we're drawing the line.
Google News seems to have at least 500 stories along the lines of "Microsoft Corp. is expected to show a new version of its Internet search engine," to quoteThe Wall Street Journal:The software giant, these people say, plans to demonstrate its new search engine publicly for the first time at D: All Things Digital, a technology conference in Carlsbad, Calif., put on by the Wall Street Journal, which is owned by News Corp.If it does happen today, it will have been a long time coming. The story has been bubbling under since at least August, whenMary-Jo Foleysaid that:Microsoft's Search team was running quite a few names past users, and that the three leading candidates for a new name for Live Search were:* Bing* Hook* Kumo (which means either 'cloud' or 'spider' in Japanese, depending on which Kanji characters are used).Sift was another suggestion.Kumo emerged as the front runner, and inNovember, I blogged that: "LiveSide, an independent site that tracks all things Microsoft Live, says: Microsoft takes control of Kumo.com domain – watch out for the Live Search rebrand."By March, Microsoft staff were using Kumo in-house, and Bobbie posted an item,What is Kumo, and will I want to use it?However, as he noted, SearchEngineLand'sDanny Sullivandidn't think that would be the final name.In an article headlinedForget Kumo — Will Microsoft's New Search Engine Launch Soon As Bing?, Sullivan pointed out that: "Bing.com resolves to a blank page, is registered to Microsoft and uses Microsoft's name servers."As noted in yesterday'sBreakfast Briefing, Advertising Age agrees. It says that: "The software giant is set to launch an $80 million to $100 million campaign for Bing, the search engine it hopes will help it grab a bigger slice of the online ad market."AdAge says:JWT has been tapped for the push, which will include online, TV, print and radio. Another sign of the campaign's size: At a time when most agencies are laying people off, JWT added creatives on the Microsoft business last week.Still, one thing seems reasonably certain. If Ballmer announces something, there will be more than a thousand stories saying that Microsoft is taking on Google, or launching a Google-killer, or something along those lines. That is, of course, stupid. Microsoft isn't that deluded.The sad fact is that Microsoft is taking on Yahoo. In the long term, it might want to kill Google, but at the moment, its best hope is to be number two in search.The real problem is that it's now an article of faith that Google produces the best search results, even when it doesn't. This is easy to test because you can show any major search engine's results under any logo you like. AdAge says:Google has conducted internal tests, according to people familiar with them, in which the company put its logo and treatment on another engine's search results. Users still prefer the results with the Google logo, even if they're not Google results.That's not something Microsoft can change in a hurry, no matter how good its search engine (which, so far, hasn't been anything like good enough), and no matter how good its advertising (ditto).Update: see alsoMicrosoft launches Bing.com as its new search engine
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Lots of noise in the tech world from theD7 conference- run by Wall Street Journal mavens Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher - but precious little news so far. But at least Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz revealed exactly how much it would take to sell her search business to Microsoft:"boatloads".&bull; After senior IBM executive David Johnson quit to join Dell, Big Blue says the deal violates a non-compete clause in his contract and hasdecided to fight out the case in court, reports Bloomberg. Last year, you may remember, IBMdid the same to Mark Papermaster, who defected to Apple and started work therelast month.&bull; Thursday brings the gift of our weekly print supplement: where we askwhether netbooks are losing their shine, look at the future of3D gamingand see what's in store foriPhone app developers.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
What is the optimum amount of security software to load at any one time to ensure a reasonable level of safety online? I have an AMD Athlon 64 3200+ PC with 2GB of memory, and performance is a little lacklustre, because of the number of processes it is running.Marcus R JamesThere is no optimum amount of security because it depends what you do with your PC, and how well you recognise threats. It's possible to run Windows XP out of the box with no security at all, except a firewall and a NAT router. I did this for more than a year, but I don't recommend it. Someone who is less vigilant, who frequents riskier parts of the web (pirate software, pornography, hacking sites) or uses file sharing would be better advised to load XP with lots of defensive software. This could well include using Firefox with theNoScriptextension, because web-hosted scripts are now the most common mode of attack. Switching to Vista or Windows 7RC also brings a useful increase in security.However, I would expect an average but reasonably careful user to be adequately protected by having Windows set to auto-update and running a good free antivirus program such as Avira AntiVir, Avast! or AVG with a firewall and perhaps SuperAntiSpyware or Windows Defender. None of these should significantly affect performance with today's PCs, if you run scans when your PC is not in use. Periodically double-check your security by running programs such asKaspersky's free Virus Removal Tool, or by running an online scanner overnight.It's also a very good idea to run Secunia's Personal Software Inspector) to check that your non-Microsoft programs are up to date. These have increasingly been targeted as Microsoft has made its code more secure, and now represent a significant risk.Having said that, your PC may well be running unnecessary background programs that slow it down. I useAnVir Task Manager Freeto check processes, disable ones that I don't want, and block applications that try to put themselves in the startup sequence. It also provides a continuous readout of CPU use, memory use and disk load via small icons in the SysTray.Go toPC Pitstopand run the free Full Tests. In five minutes, it will tell you how your PC's performance compares, and suggest ways to improve it. This includes spotting out-of-date drivers. If you open an account at PC Pitstop with a new PC, you can check later to see if its performance has deteriorated. However, it is possible to run the tests anonymously, without opening an account.
I have entrusted Gmail with my personal correspondence. What bothers me is that the accompanying ads have clearly been derived from trawling my mail. OK, this is how I pay for my free service, but isn't there a way I can be assured of some privacy?David ByeWell, you can use a browser add-on to block the display of Google ads in Gmail, but the fact that you can't see them doesn't mean Google isn't trawling your email to serve them. However, the trawling is being done by computers, not by people, and you are probably pleased to have Google's computers trawl your email to eliminate spam. Otherwise, you can see how much you are willing to pay for your privacy by signing up for a commercial email service such asFastmail.
Could you recommend any reliable voice-recognition software packages that can covert speech into text for use in transcribing discussions?Jacqui PatienceDragon NaturallySpeaking 10is the best speech recognition package I know, but it won't transcribe conversations. It works best when trained for a single speaker, and some people seem to have a natural aptitude for this that others lack. A good speaker could listen to the conversation on headphones and repeat the text into a PC microphone for NaturallySpeaking. However, a trained transcriber with suitable equipment (including a foot pedal) may well do the job more reliably, quickly and cheaply.
Do you think Google's Chrome browser is stable on Windows XP yet?Jean MorganI'm running Chrome on XP SP3 and have never found it unstable, though it often gets updated in the background. However, for most XP users it's a third choice browser, and I can't say I use it very often.You can download the latest versionhere.
My daughter's computer has been infected by malware that continually pops up a warning that an infection has occurred and directs her to securityhelpcenter.com. She has Norton antivirus and antispyware software, but neither identifies any problem.Pete WallThe free versions ofSuperAntiSpywareandMalwareBytes Anti-Malwareshould remove it. Try SuperAntiSpyware first, before bringing in the "heavy artillery". However, MalwareBytes currently seems to do the best job of removing these fake security programs.
Microsoft has released details of the next Zune, which -- asGamesbloghas said -- will be calledZune HD. It looks like the equivalent of theSony X-seriesmedia player, which also has an OLED screen. Microsoft says:Available in the US this fall, Zune HD is the first portable media player that combines a built-in HD Radio receiver, high-definition (HD) video output capabilities, organic light-emitting diode (OLED) touch screen, Wi-Fi and an Internet browser.Users will be able to buy HD (ie 720p) videos from Xbox Live Marketplace and play them on an HD TV from the Zune HD, via an optional docking station with HDMI support.The 480 x 272 pixel screen also has multi-touch support.According to theHD Radiosite:To date, there are close to 2,000 stations broadcasting their primary signal in digital quality, reaching 84% of the US population. The auto industry continues to back HD Radio technology, with a total of 12 automakers now on board, including Audi, BMW, Ford, Hyundai, Jaguar, Kia, Lincoln, Mercedes, Mercury, MINI, Scion, and Volvo. Every major receiver manufacturer is offering the upgraded digital system (Alpine, Dual, Insignia, Kenwood, Sony, Yamaha, etc) and are being sold by all the big-box retail stores like Best Buy, Costco, Target, Wal-Mart, among many others.So if you want an HD radio, the Zune HD might be a good deal -- depending on the price. At least it's something that Apple doesn't offer. (In fact, Apple doesn't even do FM radio, unless you buy an add-on such as the iPod Radio Remote.) However, the size of the portable HD radio market is open to doubt.None of this brings the Zune HD any nearer to a European or even a UK launch: just the reverse. We don't have iBiquity HD radio, for a start. Also, in the US, Microsoft sells music downloads via Wi-Fi and offers ZunePass as a subscription music service. We don't have those in Europe either.It would be somewhat hard to offer a Zune HD-equivalent in Europe, because we don't have a pan-European digital radio network. Microsoft could add DAB for the UK and a few other countries, but UK coverage is patchy and the sound quality is generally worse than FM (particularly the stereo).Considering the hardware development costs of DAB, then the music service set-up costs, and the advertising and staffing overheads of launching Zune HD in the UK, it wouldn't seem to make financial sense. Zune just doesn't look likely to sell well enough to cover the costs.Nor is there much value for Microsoft in offering an alternative to the ubiquitous iPod: Sony is already offering much better sound quality than Apple, OLED screens, built in FM radio and better file support at reasonable prices. Admittedly it still has to re-educate a market that still thinks Sony supports ATRAC and requires horrible SonicStage software, but that's probably an easier job than establishing the Zune brand from scratch.Of course, Microsoft could easily market the Zune as a standalone music player, but it could have done that years ago. The value to Microsoft lies in building up an integrated set of TV-friendly online services with games consoles, MP3 players, mobile phones and PCs. The main point of hardware sales is to provide attach points for regular online software and service revenues. And while that strategy seems to be working for the Xbox 360, there's no sign of it happening for the Zune in the UK.
It's the milky way, kidWilliam Castleman took his Canon EOS-5D camera, fish-eye lens and tripod to the 2009 Texas Star Party and captured this stunning time-lapse sequence of the galactic core rising.A notebook that's a notebookOr, more accurately, a Noteboek. Freelance artist Evelien Lohbeck's animation combines illusion and reality to show a paper notebook working like a notebook computer. Magic! We'd love one ...Open source code under controlLinux's Linus Torvalds paused on the way to world domination to tell Googlers about code management with git.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
On the surface, the forthcoming console game Invincible Tiger looks very familiar: a smoothly executed sideways-scrolling beat 'em up with roots that can be traced back to 80s classics such as Double Dragon and Final Fight. But given the right equipment - that means a special TV set and a pair of glasses - it literally takes on a new dimension; vanquished baddies fly out of the screen towards you and the lavish background artwork appears to stretch into the distance. Plenty of games industry executives think this is the future.Cinema is already experiencing its own 3D revival, with audiences turning out in droves to watch animations including Monsters vs Aliens, Coraline and Pixar's forthcoming Up. Now games companies think they could be on the verge of bringing real 3D into the living room.Time to test out true 3DAt the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco this year, Sony was giving demonstrations of a system it hopes will encourage the take-up of true 3D gaming. And Blitz Games, the British makers of Invincible Tiger, was previewing the title as a way to introduce its new product - a suite of developer tools for making true 3D games."When people have actually seen it, they say it's cool - very, very cool," says Andrew Oliver, Blitz's chief technical officer. "Suddenly HD doesn't seem as good.""A lot of people have said it's a gimmick; it's not," he adds. "It does add something quite significant to the games - if you have the TV and glasses, it adds something, it feels like a fuller world. It's about the immersion."Moving into this area is certainly a gamble for the Warwickshire company, founded by Andrew and his twin brother, Philip, who first made their names as teenage programmers in the 1980s with the Dizzy series. They are hoping 3D gaming will open up a new business for them, even if they have found it requires considerable technical skill to create a 3D system."We thought, 'We've got a fast graphics engine and it's only a TV display - how difficult could it be?'" he says. "We then found it was really difficult. It has to be Full HD and not only does it have to be 60 frames a second, but you have to feed it a left and a right every time, so you're actually rendering everything twice."Difficulties aside, though, the technology certainly has the backing of some big names, among them Steven Spielberg, who has worked in collaboration with Electronic Arts recently. He told the Guardian that seeing 3D gaming take off was one of his unfulfilled ambitions."I have a lot of dreams, but in the short term I would love to start seeing 3D games being developed, where - with a good pair of glasses - we get a real three-dimensional experience in front of an appropriate monitor that is designed just for 3D," he said. "I would love to see 3D start to kick in to the thinking of the powers that be."Spielberg may not be known for his insight into the future of the games industry; his biggest involvement has been the GameWorks chain of arcades, which went bankrupt after he pulled out his investment several years ago. But in the case of 3D gaming, at least, he is not alone.Sir Howard Stringer, the chief executive of Sony, has hinted that the company will move even further into 3D in the future, and earlier this year demonstrated a new version of Gran Turismo, which amazed audiences at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. "You've never seen the game like that," he told them.But while there are big names backing the new technology, plenty of people remain unconvinced regarding long-term prospects for 3D in the home. According to Marie Bloomfield, an analyst with Screen Digest, the development of 3D gaming and television is trapped in a no man's land."The home 3D market is in a catch-22 situation," she commented in a recent report on the subject. "Consumers will not be persuaded to invest in new equipment to experience 3D until there is enough content, and content production will not ramp up until there is a significant audience."Consumers must be convincedIt will be tough to convince cash-strapped consumers who have already been inundated with a number of "must-have" television technologies in recent years to buy into a 3D system. Broadly popular systems such as digital broadcasting, high definition and digital video recorders have required new hardware and significant investment from buyers - not to mention the host of extras offered by manufacturers such as Samsung, Sony, LG and Phillips.Aren't people going to get turned off the idea of having to splash out yet again?Oliver says that millions of people have, in fact, already bought 3D television sets but they don't realise it because the manufacturers don't market the capability, as nobody uses it right now."You can't sell it because there's no 3D content out there," he says. "The manufacturers realise that 3D movies are being made. It'll be a little while before they sort themselves out, but we'll get on with making the games."In the meantime, he says, encouraging the games industry to take up the technology could be the best way to get it into people's homes - providing an outlet for a new technology, just as the Xbox and PlayStation 3 proved to be a way to get people watching high definition."Gamers are the first adopters of this technology. They don't mind wearing glasses at first, and to get a cool experience like this they think it's well worth it. It's an easy sell to a gamer."How does 3DTV work?Viewer are tricked by 3D showing them two different images, one for each eye. This mimics biology and allows for the creation of realistic-looking, three-dimensional images.The systems have traditionally relied on glasses to help fool the viewer's eyes, and with the added benefit of being able to sit at an angle to the screen. Some 3DTV systems have dispensed with the need for glasses - though they usually offer a much narrower viewing angle.The current leader in 3D cinema is a Los Angeles-based company called RealD. The system does use glasses, with each inexpensive pair containing a small electro-optical modulator that polarises each lens separately - forcing each eye to see a different image on the screen and therefore creating the illusion of three dimensions.But while 3D cinema is dominated by a few companies, in television there are competing standards and different systems - with each manufacturer requiring its own set of protocols, and in many cases its own set of glasses.
Netbooks have been the PC market's bright spot over the past nine months, but sales have slipped recently, and they now face an uncertain future. They are losing some of their price advantage over notebooks, and soon will be challenged by a new type of ultra-slim notebook PC with a long battery life.Netbooks first appeared in 2007 and have been a big success. Sales have far outstripped the predictions of analysts such as Gartner - 14m units last year, against a forecast of 5.3m - and now make up 20% of the portable PC market.The Asus marketing specialist John Swatton points to "tech novices" adopting netbooks in the way they have adopted mobile phones and MP3 players, which he says "will drive further growth in the netbook market. We are also seeing more and more users purchasing netbooks as a second, and more portable, device to provide connectivity when away from their primary laptop or PC."An affordable, everyday option"The netbook has changed the landscape for good," says Ian Fogg, an analyst with Forrester. "The netbook category has overturned the idea that users should pay a big price premium for ultraportables."Ultraportable notebook PCs have been available from companies such as IBM and Sony, but they typically cost &pound;1,500 to &pound;2,500. Today's netbooks cost around &pound;200-&pound;300, which makes them affordable enough for everyday commuters. Women like them because they can fit inside a handbag. Kids like them because they can have their own machine, and they may get one from their school - Dell has just launched a rubberised Latitude 2100 in a variety of colours for the education market.The netbook has also changed PC retailing, as high-street stores now sell them with USB modems for portable internet use. The Gartner analyst Ranjit Atwal says: "Sales through the telecoms channels have opened up a new target market."The netbook has even changed the competitive landscape for PC manufacturers. The booming netbook market has not been driven by US companies but by three suppliers from Taiwan: Asus, Acer, and MicroStar International (MSI).On Gartner's figures for this year's first quarter Acer's sales grew by 26.7% in a declining market, and it is now shipping roughly as many PCs worldwide as Dell. Because of the success of the Acer Aspire One, the company expects to be the market leader by volume in Europe this year.However, the netbook market seems to have slowed. US-based DisplaySearch indicates that while first quarter netbook sales were up by 556% compared with the same quarter last year, they were down by 26% sequentially, compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. Notebook sales declined 24% sequentially, so netbooks are no longer growing against themarket trend.This may be partly to do with the increase in specifications that has pushed up netbook prices. The classic netbook was cheaper than a notebook because it had a 7-inch screen, a small Flash drive, an Intel Atom processor, and used Linux instead of Microsoft's Windows Vista. Today's netbooks have 10- or 12-inch screens, 160MB hard drives, and run Windows XP. It is still cheaper to make a netbook than a notebook, but the gap has narrowed.Linux's failure in the UK market has been striking because the three Taiwanese manufacturers were keen to support it, and both Asus and Acer launched their first netbooks with Linux only. But after Microsoft made a cheap version of the supposedly obsolete XP available for ultra-low-cost PCs, Windows took over.Acer's European boss, Massimo D'Angelo, says Linux sales are "very, very minimal" - less than 5% - while Asus and MSI have also seen rapid declines. MSI's UK marketing manager, Richard Stewart, says: "We offered Linux for the first six or nine months of the Wind, but, as time went on the gap [to Windows] increased to the point where it wasn't worthwhile to offer Linux any more."Consuming not creatingThis is not just the failure of Linux, it is the failure of the netbook idea. You were supposed not to need a big hard drive and a powerful processor running Windows because all your applications would be on the net, and you'd access them via a browser. But it seems most people preferred the system they already knew.Atwal says that when consumers buy new phones they are usually prepared to learn a new user interface - "but on a phone, you're more likely to be viewing rather than creating content. I think that's the dividing line. When you're creating content, you're going to go with Windows."The problem with consuming as against creating, he says, is that "most PC vendors haven't been able to segment their product lines on that basis, which is why we're seeing bigger keyboards and screens on netbooks. Then the chance of netbooks taking more of your mainstream market becomes much more apparent ... "And that could be bad news. Netbooks are cheaper, and have slimmer profit margins, so vendors would rather sell you a notebook. Asus and MSI, of course, had fewer notebook sales to lose.Netbooks and notebooks are going to get even closer this year, for two reasons. First, Intel and the PC vendors are launching a new PC platform code-named Montevino Plus, for CULV (Consumer Ultra Low Voltage) machines. Second, Microsoft is launching Windows 7, which has been optimised so that even the Ultimate version will run pretty well on a netbook.Acer looks like being first to market with the new platform in its Timeline series. MSI has also announced its first machine, the X340 X-Slim, which is like a MacBook Air, but lighter and much cheaper. Asus is announcing its new systems at the Computex trade show in Taiwan at the beginning of June.CULV machines will offer a similar sort of battery life to netbooks, perhaps 6-8 hours. They may also weigh about the same - MSI's X-340 is 1.3kg, in spite of having a 13.4-inch widescreen. But they will have the processing power required for content creation, rather than content consumption.Initially, CULV machines will be two or three times the price of netbooks, but PC vendors think they will sell. Acer's UK managing director, Bobby Watkins, says: "Half my demand from the channels [retailers] for the back-to-school period is for Timeline. They believe the pull for it is going to be really, really strong."A question of categoryThe result could be that netbooks blend into the bottom part of the notebook market, with screens up to 12 inches in size, rather than being a distinct category. The question is whether consumers will pay for what they appear to want - a light, slim notebook with a decent screen and long battery life - or whether they are buying netbooks mainly on price.Microsoft similarly expects the demand for Windows 7 to be strong, and it is encouraging vendors to pre-install the Home Premium version on all the machines aimed at consumers - both netbooks and notebooks. The netbook suppliers want a cheaper version to maintain their price differential. Microsoft has a Starter version that will do the job well on a netbook (where applications are run in the browser) but won't be much good for notebook use, because it will only run three applications at once.The danger is that PC vendors will turn to another free operating system instead: Google's Android version of Linux, as used in the G1 mobile phone. That could emerge as the big battle over the next year.
Zune tunes in June?According to the rumour mill, Microsoft still has no plans to release the Zune MP3 player in Europe, but it is launching a music store on Xbox LiveSpot the celebrity faceGoogle researchers have presented a conference paper on their work recognising the celebrity faces in YouTube videos.It's a big worldGuinness World Records has recognised Fuel as "the biggest" console game - it covers an area of 14,400sq km.A call for safetyThe BillMonitor site can now help you find the safest mobile phone deal by allowing for the fact that you might exceed the contract allowance.MyBusiness web packageWeb host 1&amp;1 is offering &pound;10/month sites with templates for more than a 100 types of small business from accountant to wine merchant.Jazzing up GmailGoogle Labs has added some "new animated ways to spice up your email" under the setting "Extra Emoji".AOL all-in-oneAOL UK is launching a new home page that will allow users to access multiple email and social networking accounts.
Get smarter on power[The article ]Let there be smart power by Lee Bruno (21 May), [stated ] "US demand for electricity is expected to rise by 30% (from 4,100 ­terawatts a year to 5,400 terawatts a year) by 2030". Terawatts a year? Whatever ­happened to the big stick?Also, in science and technology, units should be singular, as "s" is the symbol for second, so the plural form can be rather misleading.Scott HamiltonCheadle• You write: "The US demand for electricity is expected to rise ... (from 4,100 terawatts a year to 5,400 terawatts a year) by 2030." You should be ashamed of yourselves, except the frequency with which you perpetuate this and similar errors would suggest you have no shame. May I suggest you send your contributors for some re-education – possibly some remedial maths lessons?Jan Deventervia emailApple: listen to thisNik Fletcher is right in what he says (Technophile, 21 May) but there is another aspect to earphones. For a long time, I yearned for an iPod, being a complete music freak (there goes my age) but as an unfortunate wearer of two "in the ear" hearing aids, was unable to do so as, by definition, I could not use in-the-ear headphones.Then my wife took pity on me and bought me a pair of Bose noise-cancelling "around the ear" phones, which as well as cancelling out exterior noise, also do not generate any feedback from my aids while wearing them.I am not alone in this problem, so if Apple could come up with a "standard" pair of "iphones", which achieve this (without ripping us off, of course) a lot of deaf buggers will beat a path to your door, Steve Jobs!Alan GentCheadleFacing the musicThere have been too many articles recently that have focused on the major record labels (Music industry must change the record, May 21). It is important to realise that this recession in the music industry has affected thousands of other people who do not work for major record labels, and are actually the people who make the music that the public consumes. I have worked as a musician, songwriter and producer in the music business for 20 years, and I have never known it to be so bad as it is now.I genuinely don't believe you really know what you're talking about. There has been a massive recession in the music industry over the past five years. Thousands of people have lost their jobs or have had to look elsewhere to find a way to earn a living.What is really sad is that the press has focused entirely on record labels and their part in this whole developing situation. What you and other journalists need to realise is that there has been a very painful contraction in the amount of money being made in the music industry and this has affected musicians, songwriters, music producers, recording studios, independent labels, distributors and many other individuals and businesses that make up the music industry at large.The record labels are just one element in this story.People have grown accustomed to the idea that music can in general be had for free. Other businesses will also experience the adverse effects of the consumer getting something for nothing: any content that can be digitised will be potentially delivered to consumers for free and newspapers are just beginning to feel the full impact of this. The music business was the first area to really feel the extreme effects of free access to content. I can assure you that my own personal experience and that of many of my friends and colleagues is one of massive reduction in our income and no end in sight to the diminution of our income in terms of music sales, royalties and budgets for working on recording projects.While new technologies are going some way to generate new revenue streams, we're a long way off from saving an industry that has been brought to its knees. The public need to realise that music is made by hard-working individuals who need to be paid in order that they can continue to make that music that the public wants.Journalists should be providing an unbiased, fully-rounded picture of the music industry, not just attacking the easy target that is the major record label and all its flaws.Roger FifeLondon• Victor Keegan is looking at the facts, but when he points out that the new wave of music companies are doing things that older companies missed out on, he might then look atprint publishingalso.The industry's figures about how much money they should be making are highly suspect and seem to be based on the assumption that all those folks who downloaded a music (or video) file would have, in the absence of download capability, actually paid money for it. Frankly, I consider that assumption highly suspect.People will take for free what they would never consider paying for. (That's one reason I have lots more ballpoint pens than I could ever use.)geekazine.com• It's easy to see the future of music moving away from the outdated big record companies, with artists linking up directly with the likes of iTunes and Spotify, leaving Simon Cowell and co wondering whatever happened to the 1980s.stuffbypaulbrown.comBravo, AlphaI love Stephen Wolfram. First he came up with the tool Mathematica, then a new way of modeling complex systems with A New Kind of Science. Now he's created a tool that purports to "make all systematic knowledge immediately computable by anyone" (Where does Wolfram Alpha get its information? 21 May). But it couldn't handle a query such as "Can robots think?" or even "robot intelligence". Oh well. It's still getting bookmarked.2literal.com/• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk
Pretty much the first thing you say when you turn on the Sony Walkman X-series is "wow". A simple Home button at the bottom illuminates a touchscreen that has a set of simple logos – only one of which, for YouTube, requires words. Touch an icon and it beeps (you can turn the beep off) and lights up and you're into the next level.The 432 x 240-dot screen, which uses OLED (organic light-emitting diode) technology, is marvellous. It seems to have an inward glow, with incredible detail; the film clips come up more than pin sharp. Photos too. The designers have clearly learned from the iPod Touch interface: if you have a long list of photos, films or songs ,you can flick through it and the list will scroll easily; or choose a letter. The FM tuner, too, has a neat visual scroll.Stop a moment and admire the outside. It's smaller than an iPod Touch (the comparison is inevitable): the 3in screen (measured diagonally) looks small against the 3.5in iPod Touch. It's thicker than the iPod, with a texture that suggests stone. There are buttons for noise cancellation, volume, skip back, play/pause, skip forward and, finally, hold. You can get it in five colours (black, white, pink, green, violet).The sound quality, like the screen, is excellent. (The close-fitting earbuds too.) And Sony is supporting not only MP3, but also AAC (used by iTunes), WMA (for Windows) and Linear PCM. The YouTube screen quality from the dedicated app – there's built-in Wi-Fi – is great, especially with HD videos. And it can play back downloads from the BBC's iPlayer service. It comes in 16GB or 32GB flavours; the prices are comparable to an iPod Touch (£209 v £214).But hell, this is a Sony. Its designers always get something wrong. What could it be? Then I tried the browser, which is lamentable. "Slow" doesn't begin to describe it. I tried loading the Guardian Technology page side by side on an iPod Touch and an X-Series, using the same Wi-Fi network. The iPod was done and ready to go while the X-Series was still putting its boots on. Entering text isn't much fun either: the text-message style entry system is puzzling. And it won't automatically join Wi-Fi networks it already knows about.That's only the first part of a list of Things the X-Series Doesn't Have That the iPod Touch Does. Such as email, Google Maps, a contacts database, a calendar, and the bazillion apps, free or paid, from the iPhone App Store. One other thing it doesn't have: a sensible name. "NWZX1050B.CE7"? (That's black, 16GB.) Oh, Sony. Before the iPod Touch this would have been great. But now it's an also-ran – despite that lovely, lovely screen.Pros:beautiful OLED screen, great sound, slick UICons:awful browser, no email or apps, small screen compared with iPod Touchsony.co.uk/walkman
If you want to save money during the recession, then look no further than your mobile phone. We all pay far too much for our calls, mainly because we don't think we can do much about it. We can now. High prices come from two sources and both are now under attack. It is partly the oligopolistic market power of the mobile operators, and partly the complexity of working out your best deal from the 119,000 tariffs said to be on offer. You can avoid much of the complexity simply by purchasing a cheap phone with a pay-as-you-go sim card. Mobile shops sell phones for less than &pound;10, plus &pound;10 in top-up credits - a real bargain. I recently went on to pay-as-you go and was impressed by the savings compared with monthly contract charges of between &pound;30 and &pound;40. This is partly because it makes you think before you use it - especially about ludicrous data charges for those not on "all-you-can-eat" tariffs - but also you can get an instant reminder of what you have spent. It won't, however, say whether you have the best tariff for you.Fortunately, last week's launch ofbillmonitor.comwill do just that. It is the first site endorsed by Ofcom, and claims 82% of us are on plans with inclusive minutes we don't use, and that 88% of us could save 39% on our bills - worth &pound;197 a year. This comes with operators under scrutiny over how they have been milking consumers through roaming and termination charges. But that may now be starting to change.Operators have done a great job in building mobile networks; but their desire to recoup more of the &pound;22.5bn they overpaid for spectrum in the auction a few years ago has led them to adopt a succession of barmy business models that will be debated in business schools for years to come. The first mistake was to build walled gardens around products to maximise revenues from a captive user base while giving a paltry percentage to developers. That has changed now, largely thanks to an outside company, Apple, giving freer rein to developers and letting them keep 70% of the proceeds. The result? A booming market, and a whole new industry born as Google, Nokia and many more climb on to the bandwagon. Vodafone is the latest to offer an online store complete with cross-platform developer kit while enabling developers to charge through the company's billing system. It's still a walled garden, but much freer.The second mistake was to give preference to promiscuous new customers at the expense of existing loyal ones, as I discovered when I lastchanged my phone. The third is to charge customers excessive amounts not only when they "roam" abroad from one operator to another but when they download data - a process that could actually involve paying up to &pound;10 or more for downloading a music track which would have cost nothing on an unlimited tariff at home. Brands are supposed to be about building communities not alienating customers.Help is at hand. The European Commission is capping calls made to, or received from, the UK (and other EU countries) at the euro equivalent of around 39p and 17p respectively from the start of July. Doubtless influenced by this, Vodafone is abolishing roaming charges from June 1 for three months - if you sign up to its Passport Service. This could trigger a matching response from other operators.Meanwhile, BT and 3 have launched a campaign to get rid of termination charges - the amount a network has to pay for receiving calls from another network. BT and 3 are net losers from this system but other operators won't easily give up a perk worth 14% of mobile revenues. Actually, the abolition of these charges will be good for the industry, as it will unleash a surge of suppressed demand from people reluctant to use mobiles abroad. Sweeping away such practices is vital to maximise the potential of the mobile revolution. It will also leave more in our pockets to spend on other things.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
