A group of supporters has raised more than $25,000 in the internet currency Dogecoin to let the Jamaican bobsleigh team attend the Winter Olympics in Sochi.On Sunday,news brokethat the team had qualified for the Winter Olympics for the first time since 2002. The two-man sled will be piloted by Winston Watt, a 46-year-old Jamaican-American who also competed in 2002, with Marvin Dixon as the brakeman.But Watt revealed that, even after putting his own money up to fly the team to his training session, there wasn&apos;t enough money to send the two to Russia. As a result, he turned to donations, launching a PayPal account to pay for the estimated $40,000.The Jamaican bobsleigh team achieved international fame after qualifying for the 1988 Winter Olympics with a team of four men who had very little experience in the sport. That fame was boosted with the release of Cool Runnings in 1993, a loosely fictionalised account of their trials. The film remains a cult hit, and fans spread word of Watt&apos;s plight.One of them was Liam Butler, who runs the Dogecoin foundation along with the currency&apos;s initial creators Jackson Palmer and Billy Markus. Dogecoin is a crypto-currency, based on a combination of bitcoin, the popular digital money, and Doge, the internet meme that superimposes broken English written in Comic Sans onto pictures of Shiba Inu dogs.&quot;As someone who grew up in the 90&apos;s, Cool Runnings was the ultimate feel good movie about underdogs out of their element achieving their dreams,&quot; Butler told the Guardian. &quot;When I was about 7 years old, my best friend and I had a billy-cart that his dad built. When we would start our run down his driveway, we would shout out the catchphrase from the movie: &apos;Feel the rhythm, feel the rhyme, get on up, it&apos;s bobsled time!&apos;&quot;On Monday in Sydney, where he lives, Butler launched Dogesled, aiming to raise some of the money required to send Watt and Dixon to Sochi. &quot;We started without a concrete plan in mind,&quot; Butler says. &quot;I sent a few emails out… but that was the extent of it.&quot;Within a few hours, however, the fundraiser had collected just over 26m Dogecoins. So many people had been donating, in fact, that they seemed to raise the price of the currency itself; in 12 hours, the Dogecoin to Bitcoin exchange rate rose by 50%.&quot;Myself and Jackson Palmer (the creator of Dogecoin) were at a local pub trivia in Sydney when we noticed the value of Dogecoin had more than doubled since we&apos;d last checked so we raced back to my house to ensure we could get the best price for the donations in a form the team could actually use. As much as we have faith in Dogecoin to become the community currency of the internet, we still understand that the team need to buy their airfares in a fiat currency.&quot;At the exchange rate Butler secured, he has $25,000 ready to send to the bobsleigh team, and the donations continue to flood in. It looks like the Jamaican bobsleigh team might be going to Sochi.•US prosecutors ponder what to do with multimillion-dollar Bitcoin hoard
Start with the obvious: Nintendo already makes mobile games. Nobody keeps their 3DS tethered to a television, after all. But it doesn&apos;t makemobilegames for smartphones and tablets.That may change. The company has traditionally knocked back questions about taking its stable of gaming brands to other manufacturers&apos; devices, but asNintendo announced its latest financial results this week, there was a marked change of tone in president Satoru Iwata&apos;s comments.&quot;We are thinking about a new business structure. Given the expansion of smart devices, we are naturally studying how smart devices can be used to grow the game-player business. It’s not as simple as enabling Mario to move on a smartphone,&quot; he told a press conference in Osaka, according toBloomberg.&quot;We cannot continue a business without winning. We must take a skeptical approach whether we can still simply make game players, offer them in the same way as in the past for 20,000 yen or 30,000 yen, and sell titles for a couple of thousand yen each.&quot;What might a winning strategy look like for Nintendo? One place to start is by examining what its two main rivals in the console market, Sony and Microsoft, have been doing on smartphones and tablets, with lessons to learn about several possible strategies.Make your own hardware (and software?)The most obvious one first. Sony makes smartphones – itbought back the other half of Sony Ericsson in 2011and has since released several Android handsets, although the company recently said it was&quot;exploring&quot; a partnership with Microsoftto make a Windows Phone. Sony also makes Android-based tablets, with its PlayStation brand a key part of devices like theSony Tablet S.Microsoft? Well, Windows Phone, which has a small-but-growing smartphone market share, and Windows 8 for tablets represent its play in mobile software, and the company also sells its own Surface tablets. It&apos;s alsoabout to buy Nokia, to bring a smartphone manufacturer in-house.Both companies&apos; performance shows that it&apos;s incredibly difficult to compete globally with Apple and Samsung on the hardware front, but not impossible to carve out your own slice of the market. A NintendoPhone has the makings of a niche (althoughthe idea has clearly been considered), but a Nintendo tablet may have broader appeal. Not least because the company has two (related) potential angles: gamers, and children.A Nintendo tablet for kids, with exclusive games and some smart deals for other kinds of apps and content (video and educational apps in particular) could be a very strong product.Twitter-fuelled rumours last Novemberthat the company was working on exactly this kind of product had the ring of a hoax, but it&apos;s a plausible strategy.Software-wise, Nintendo could go the Amazon route and &quot;fork&quot; Android to create its own operating system, or follow Sony&apos;s strategy of focusing on its own services and games running on the standard Android software.DreamWorks&apos; upcoming DreamTab children&apos;s tabletis worth studying for the way it integrates characters – from films in its case – into the operating system.Games were a selling point for the Sony Tablet S.Take your games to other companies&apos; devicesIf Nintendo opts against entering the smartphone and/or tablet market with its own hardware, it could release (or license) some of its games for other companies&apos; devices.Microsoft has released Kinectimals for iOS and Android, for example, as well as puzzle game Wordament and Ms. Splosion Man from its Twisted Pixel studio. Windows Phone game Tentacles: Enter the Dolphin has also been released for iOS and Android. For now, Halo spin-offHalo: Spartan Assaultremains exclusive to Windows-powered device.Sony has launched a smattering of games for iOS, including free-to-playRatchet &amp; Clank: Before the Nexus, andKnack&apos;s Quest– the latter tying in to PlayStation 4 launch title Knack. The company has also launched an umbrella app calledPlayStation All-Stars Island– a partnership with Coca-Cola that includes mini-games based on brands like Uncharted, Gravity Rush and LittleBigPlanet.That&apos;s one possible strategy for Nintendo: smartphones and tablets as a place for spin-offs from its famous brands, to promote console games that remain exclusive to its own devices. It has the funds to roll up a few talented mobile studios and give them their head with some of its characters.Sony on Android may also offer Nintendo a model to study. It hasn&apos;t just released games for its own and other firms&apos; Android smartphones and tablets. It launched a pair of initiatives called PlayStation Mobile and PlayStation Certified.The first is essentially Sony&apos;s own app store for Android devices, while the second is a scheme to certify other companies&apos; Android devices as being compatible with it. Most of thedevices on the certified listare made by Sony, but Sharp, HTC, Fujitsu, Alcatel and Wikipad also feature. A Nintendo-run mobile games store on Nintendo-certified devices is a possibility.Microsoft's Kinectimals has prowled onto iOS and Android.Think second screenAgain, the obvious response to the title is that Nintendo is already thinking about second screens and gaming: its Wii U console was built around the idea, even if it doesn&apos;t seem to have yet been an enormous selling point. But that&apos;s based on the controller that ships with the console. How about using the devices already in millions of gamers&apos; pockets, or on their sofas?Both Sony&apos;s PlayStation 4 and Microsoft&apos;s Xbox One had second-screen apps available for iOS and Android when they launched (and Windows devices for Xbox One too, naturally).PlayStation Appenables PS4 owners to check their friends&apos; activity, chat, use their device as a keyboard, and browse the PlayStation Store and buy games to &quot;push&quot; to the console.Xbox One SmartGlass– a new version of an existing app for Xbox 360 – offers similar features, as well as acting as a touchscreen remote control for the Xbox One itself, including browsing the web. Both apps rely on the sensible assumption that a.) gamers will have a smartphone and/or tablet close by while playing on their console, and that b.) that device will probably be made by someone else.The fun in second-screen apps is partly creative. What kind of party-play game could Nintendo make for Wii U that got everyone in the living room playing on their smartphones, for example? But the second-screening doesn&apos;t have to be in the same room at the same time as the console is being played: what might you be able to do on your phone during idle moments in the day that has an affect on the game you play on your Wii U in the evening?Traditionally, Nintendo would be expected to pursue this kind of thing through its DS family of handhelds, so the strategy may not appeal. But even thinking about the company&apos;s Miiverse social network, its Mii avatars and its Image Share service, the appeal of a smartphone and tablet app seems clear.Microsoft's Xbox One SmartGlass app for Android.Or come up with some more ideas...Satoru Iwata&apos;s comments this week make it clear that Nintendo is considering whether its existing strategy is fit for purpose in a world of smartphones and tablets. There should be no shortage of ideas for what to do next, even if some are outlandish.Perhaps strike an exclusive deal with Apple and launch aproperiPhone MFi controller with a bundle of classic games? Maybe team up with Supercell and turn Animal Crossing into a free-to-play mobile game that manages to make pots of money from in-app purchases without enraging its fans (note: tough).Swerve gaming for now and make lashings of cash from Mario stickers in popular messaging apps – not such a big leap givenNintendo&apos;s previous dabblings in ringtones. Or something else?Which is where I&apos;ll turn this over to you: if Nintendo were to do more around smartphones and tablets, what should it do, and/or what would you as a gamer like to see it do? Or should the company press on with its Wii U and DS-family strategy?The comments section is open for you to suggest a &quot;new business structure&quot; for Iwata and his colleagues...•Wii U&apos;s failure to wow leads to Nintendo profit warning
Google has removed two Chrome browser extensions from its store after they were found to be installing malicious software on user computers and serving intrusive ads.The two extensions began as legitimate tools to connect to Twitter and for the RSS service Feedly, but were then bought and subverted by companies selling invasive, poor-quality advertising. They used the extensions as a platform to hijack Google searches, redirect links to adverts and serve intrusive adverts to unsuspecting users.Extensions are normally used to add specific functions to a browser, much like apps on a mobile phone, which add new features or removing others, such as blocking adverts or adding quick links to other services including Twitter and Facebook.Google’sChrome web store policies specifically prevent developers from inserting advertising on more than one part of a page, withstrict guidelinesto which they must adhere.Silent updatesInvasive advertising tools, or adware, have taken advantage of the automatic update feature of Google’s Chrome browser that allows the browser and extensions to be silently updated in the background without user interaction.The developer of one extension, “Add to Feedly” which had around 32,000 users,revealed how he had sold his extensionto an unknown buyer for an undisclosed small sum.&quot;It was a four-figure offer for something that had taken an hour to create and I agreed to the deal,&quot;wrote Amit Agarwal, developer of Add to Feedly.The unknown new owner had then added code into the browser extension, which was silently installed on users’ computers through the update mechanism, to serve invasive advertising as people browsed the internet.A similar situation has occurred with another small extension called “Tweet This Page”, which was silently altered to serve ads, redirect links and hijack Google searches.‘Approached by malware companies’Developers of larger Chrome extensions have been approached in a similar manner by third parties.“Over the past year we’ve been approached by malware companies that have tried to buy the extension, data collection companies that have tried to buy user data, and adware companies that have tried to partner with us. We turned them all down,”said the developerof the popular “Honey” Chrome extension that has around 300,000 users.Chrome extensions that access a webpage’s content require permission from the user upon install. The malware developers use the same permission to inject adverts into webpages without the users knowledge, and would have to request permission to do so before the Chrome browser would allow access.However, the &quot;access your data on all web pages” permission is used by many legitimate extensions, including the Add to Feedly and Tweet This Page extensions, which will have previously been granted access to the required permissions before being updated with malware.Malware is not detectable through traditional meansOnce installed, the malware is not detectable through traditional means, including through the use of anti-malware or antivirus software.Only by uninstalling the Chrome extension can the malware be removed. Discovering that a Chrome extension is causing the issue is difficult even for experienced users, due to the silent update mechanism being used to deliver the hijacked extensions.Similar issues have been seen affecting Firefox add-ons as well as other browsers.The Guardian understands that Google is aware of the issue and is in the process of addressing the problem,according to a blogpost in Decemberdetailing its Chrome store policy changes. Users should flag extensions to Google if they discover they are performing similar rogue activities.• Most extensions are free handy additions that enhance your browsing experience.Here are the Guardian&apos;s top 10
Nintendo shares fell by as much as 18% in Japan as investors responded to a profit warning from the gaming giant.On Friday, Nintendo said it wouldsuffer a ¥35bn (£200m) operating lossfor the current financial year, compared with an earlier forecast of a ¥100bn operating profit.The shock announcement from the owner of Super Mario and Donkey Kong was caused by disappointing sales of the 3DS handheld player and the Wii U console outside Japan, despite heavy spending on promotions and advertising.The shares fell by almost a fifth but then staged a partial recovery to close down 6.2% after the Nintendo president, Satoru Iwata, said he would review the company's strategy.Nintendo has refused to license its software characters such as Super Mario and Zelda for use on other companies' products. But analysts said the company had to face changes to the market wrought by the rise of smartphones and tablets.Iwata said: "Given the expansion of smart devices, we are naturally studying how smart devices can be used to grow the game-player business." But he added: "It's not as simple as enabling Mario to move on a smartphone."Strict control over Nintendo's characters helped make it the market leader when it launched Wii in 2007, but gamers have turned to smartphones, tablets and faster consoles from rivals Sony and Microsoft.Nintendo reduced its sales forecast for the year ending 31 March to 2.8m Wii U units from an earlier estimate of 9m. It halved its forecast for game sales for the system to 19m.
What might be the perfect tune for dozing in the sun, for running along a stormy beach or, perhaps, the soundtrack to the first flush of true love?A new feature being discussed by the music service Spotify could use sensor&apos;s on the listener&apos;s body or in their smartphone to measure their heart rate and then use that to select appropriate music.The more data Spotify can collect on listener habits, the better the recommendations its algorithms can produce. As well as music, motion, heart rate, and temperature, Spotify could start to monitor sleep patterns, according to Donovan Sung , Spotify’s product manager for discovery and recommendations.&quot;Maybe with motion sensors in phones, we can start guessing things whether users are running, biking or driving? Maybe the phone has a temperature sensor, or a heart rate sensor, we could guess whether the user is tense...&quot; said Sung,talking to TechRadar.Sung explained that information provided by sensors could be used to automatically generate playlists based on activities such as workouts, driving, sleeping or late-night working, without user interaction.The service could automatically start playing pumping music when it is time to go for a run or peaceful ambient tracks for when sleep is required.“The more we know about you, the better the [recommendation] engine can be,” said Sung, who warned that overloading listeners with choice provided a poor user experience, and that a fine balance must be struck between quantity and quality of recommendations.Human editors, algorithms and social dataSpotify’s recommendation engine is currently powered by a combination of human editors, algorithms, social data and previous listening history, which provide personal recommendations for users of artists, albums and tracks. These also inform Spotify’s shuffle play feature, which it unveiled in December 2013 and is continuing to improve.“Nearly half of mobile listening, if not more, is people listening to their own curated playlists,&quot; said Daniel Ek, Spotify’sfounder at the time. &quot;With shuffle play, you can now play any of your playlists for free. Spotify&apos;s new mobile experience is music for anyone and the best experience and access in the history of music.”• In December 2013,Led Zeppelin made itsstreaming debut on Spotifyas the service made ad-supported streaming available on mobile devices
The most important thing you should know about Starbound is that you can play the trumpet.At no point will this come in handy. In this procedurally generated universe of technocratic apes, evil sentient flowers and obscure and concerning monsters of many varieties, not once will the trumpet assist you in solving your problems. You can’t use it as a weapon (though there are plenty of those to be found). You can’t eat it or use it to keep warm (though you can plant a farm and warm yourself at a campfire). It is an absolutely useless trumpet. But you can team up with your friends and use it to take part in a harmonic rendition of Daft Punk’s Get Lucky, and that’s why it matters so much.At first glance Starbound, which sold its millionth copy a couple of weeks ago despite only being available in early beta form, is all about striking out into a strange and almost unwaveringly hostile universe. Starting out with just a ship, a matter manipulator that gathers resources painfully slowly, and a vague sense of optimism, you’re given a small starting planet within a small solar system in an impossibly vast universe.Aliens with cattle prodsThe worlds are persistent but randomised, each one distinct and fascinating. You might find a lush green forest world full of trees with eyes, or a desert world where bird-people stand guard over a mausoleum. You might find dungeons - deep underground structures full of angry floral people with cattle prods or apes with laser guns - or villages, full of similar characters but much, much less angry. You might just find a calm spot to do a bit of mining, and only later discover strange caverns of flesh deep, deep underground.But it’s more than a game of exploration and discovery. It’s more even than a game of survival on unforgiving worlds. Like Minecraft, it’s at its most enjoyable when you can do these things with your friends, and make stories together. It’s about killing all the robots, converting their vaults into a multi-level farm, and throwing a feast for everyone who shows up. And playing the trumpet, of course.Each planet offers a lush landscape to explore Photograph: /PRStarbound owes a great deal to a few enormous, procedural games that have preceded it, particularly Terraria and Minecraft. And it’s proud to wear its influences on its sleeve. Community manager Molly Carroll says the comparisons are probably inevitable. “People will always draw similarities - it’s this in space or it’s that in 2D - when anything new comes out. But actually it’s becoming more of a genre. It’s not about games copying each other, but building on each other.”Developer Bart van der Werf agrees. “I hope we would be seen as helping to define the tropes of this new genre.”Starbound is certainly something new. It’s dizzying in its details already, to the point where simply attempting to list all the systems in the game would make this article read like a wiki entry. Along with the instrument system, there’s the hunger system, the farming and cooking abilities, and the way you get cold at night and extremely cold on moons. There’s a raft of survival mechanics layered on top of increasingly complex mining, crafting and building systems, and that’s before you get started on the procedurally generated monsters.Lists and questsIt is an incredibly ambitious project, especially for a small team like Chucklefish, and that’s nowhere more evident than in lead developer Tiy Brice’s post last month aboutwhat the future holds for the game. From underground secrets to space combat, there’s a vast vision in that list, which is only just beginning to be realised: a huge playground, an enormous world to discover and for players to impose their own ideas upon.The main quests, for the moment, act as incentives to explore and create certain items, and as gating mechanics, preventing you from crafting better arms and armour or from accessing harder areas of the universe until you’ve beaten particular monsters. But here too there are more ambitious plans: side quests, further elements to the main story, and a world that has to remain consistent and coherent despite its random generation and the fact that players individually will only see a small portion of what’s there.“The largest challenge has been integrating storyline with the procedural mechanics,” says van der Werf. “We try to place things that join up with each other in the world, so that as developers you control the story and you can have a coherent whole no matter which part of it your players see. Dungeons, for instance, are made out of set blocks that fit together, so you can still control the story and keep that coherent whole. It’s a mix between full random generation and a more structured approach.”Getting wiredThere are a lot of delightful details - like the trumpet - that started out as side projects, not part of the main plan, and were included because the whole team loved them. Some are individual items, others big mechanics like the wiring system, which is currently not fully implemented, but which has already been used by players to make a digital clock and a calculator, among other things.“I’m really proud of how the sand works,” says van der Werf. “It cascades down - it’s an old school mechanic that I haven’t seen in many games. If you hit the wrong stone on a desert planet you can collapse a whole planet of sand on top of your head and I really like that. We have been in permanent grind for a while, so taking time out to do a side project like that is a bit like taking a vacation.”The cute 2D graphics have shades of popular building and exploration title, TerrariaThat permanent grind was necessary, van der Werf says, because of the pressures of getting the game into a playable state before Christmas. Although the development process ran badly over schedule, he says, the team didn’t scale down their ambitions for what Starbound should be. But they say they had to launch something in beta after seeing how eager their community was to play something - even if it wasn’t “finished”.“We went for early access because we needed to launch. That was a lot of stress that didn’t have to be there, but it was an important deadline,” he says. “It’s definitely a better game for it. We are further along than we would have been otherwise. But we would have far fewer grey hairs if we had done it another way.”&quot;When you’re working on a game for that long it’s easy to get tunnel vision, easy to forget what the most important things to work on really are,” says Carroll. “I think early access gets you away from that and into doing what matters most for your players.”State of playStarbound in its current state isn’t unplayable, but there are still some rough edges - systems not implemented, limited quest lines - as well as a fair few bugs and crashes, and releasing it into the wild seems to have focussed Chucklefish on the things that matter most to their community. “We’re sticking to our original plan but if something isn’t working it’s not working,” says Carroll.The community was so eager to get their hands on Starbound, and so engaged with what they were doing behind the scenes, that right from launch day the development team found that there were people working on mods for the game. Now there are more than 700 mods, ranging from cosmetic item sets to new races and technologies to the excellent ability to upgrade your ship. A few ideas from mods have already made it into the game itself.“We hoped that would happen - we didn’t expect it, but we hoped,” says van der Werf. “That amount of it has really blown us away. We started out that way because we like Minecraft, and we think a lot of its community and its longevity is built on mods. From the start we have talked to the community, and that’s shaped the way we’ve done things. Some people want complicated rewrites of the game, like changing the whole thing to a 3D perspective. They’ve asked for some simple things and some things that just aren’t really possible. Things like ‘what if every character was able to walk on four legs’, which isn’t going to happen. But a lot is possible, a lot more than you’d think. I want to work with modders to take the game in hundreds of different directions. I’m excited about the potential that’s there to make whole new games and the technology challenges there too.”Wiped outNot everything has gone off without a hitch, and Starbound still has a sense of being slightly precarious. Early after release, there were several updates which required character and world wipes. I was one of those startled to realise my first character - DJ Beep, an intrepid robot with a small farm made from chunks of obsidian I found down a particularly deep hole - had disappeared after an early change. In response to some of the feedback, the devs have prioritised a system to minimise wipes, which might be implemented inthe next update(along with a big, final character and ship wipe, and more hats). Although it’s sometimes possible to play pre-update characters, the changes to balance, physics, birds, weather, wires, quests and everything else mean that it’s easy to get left behind.In some ways, that adds to the sense of exploration - every time I start up the game after an update, I’m finding more new additions to an already enormous world. I’ve played the early exploration game on half a dozen different updates, in the process discovering not only new planets, but also new mechanics. And if I don’t want to replay the early game again, other players have (of course) built a mod that lets me skip through the first few levels. “The character wipes gave a lot of anxiety in the community,” says van der Werf. “We can say ‘beta’ all we want but people still expect a finished game.”The implementation of destructive meteor storms also caused some problems, with creative builders upset to discover they had landed on planets where their creations could be at risk from the weather. But on the whole, the biggest controversies have been relatively small, and the devs don’t feel the need to change everything in response to their players. “We were adding sewer dungeons to the game and we put in a monster that people didn’t really like,” says Carroll. “There’s a monster made of poop. People expected more mature humour and lore from us, I guess. They didn’t expect a poop monster. They really didn’t like the poop monster.&quot;And the team&apos;s response? “We made another, bigger poop monster,” says Carroll.Van der Werf adds: “There’s always going to be complaints about something.”•Starboundis currently available on Steam and runs on PC, Mac and Linux. Chucklefish is planning to support other platforms, including PlayStation 4.
Swedish gamer Felix Kjellberg – akaPewDiePie– had the most-watched YouTube channel in the second half of 2013, racking up 1.28bn views on Google&apos;s video service.Kjellberg ended the year with 19.9m subscribers on YouTube, but in the first three weeks of January 2014 that total has increased to 20.8m, according to stats published by online video industry siteTubefilter. His videos were watched more than 224m times in December alone.The PewDiePie channel launched on YouTube in 2009, but its most rapid growth came between 2012 and 2013. Kjellberg&apos;s videos are a mixture of game walkthroughs, humour and enthusiastic swearing. &quot;I&apos;m just a guy from Sweden who likes to laugh and make other people laugh,&quot; as his YouTube profile puts it.Kjellberg is represented byMaker Studios, one of the multi-channel networks (MCNs) that have emerged on YouTube in recent years, running networks of channels, cross-promoting them and signing sponsorship deals with brands. The company claims its network attracts 4.5bn monthly views with more than 340m people subscribing to its channels.The Guardian&apos;s analysis of Tubefilter&apos;s monthly charts between July and December reveals that PewDiePie was followed by Turkish music channelMÜ-YAP(1.17bn views) and musicianMiley Cyrus(924.5m views) in the overall rankings.Musicians accounted for seven of the 10 most popular YouTube channels in the second half of 2013, with Katy Perry, One Direction, Rihanna and Thai music channel GMM Grammy joining MÜ-YAP and Miley in the upper reaches of the YouTube rankings.US chat showThe Ellen Showwas the seventh most popular channel in the period, while another games channel,Sky Does Minecraft, ranked ninth. These top 10 channels alone accounted for 7.25bn video views in that time.British broadcaster theBBCranked 50th for the six-month period with 273.1m views on its official YouTube channel, outgunned by YouTube-born channels includingRooster Teeth(431.5m),Smosh(430m),The Fine Bros(385.6m) andMachinima(367m).The Guardian&apos;s analysis of the monthly Tubefilter charts also reveal a growing wave of popular YouTube channels aimed at children. Five notched up more than 200m views in the second half of 2013, led by Russian animated seriesLuntikwith its 344.8m views.TuTiTu(274.8m), Kids TV 123 (247.2m) and another Russian channelFixiki(239.4m) were the others, while Russian channelMasha &amp; Medvedgenerated 213.6m views between October and December alone, although its stats aren&apos;t available for the three months before that, when it wasn&apos;t on Tubefilter&apos;s Top 100 chart.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMega yacht crashes into point-no-point lighthouse &gt;&gt; Kitsap ReportThe Zune is a 16000 ton vessel owned by former Microsoft executive and billionaire Paul Allen. Built in 2007, The Zune was designed to withstand heavy abuse from man made stationary objects. Steven Johnson, captain of the Zune and 15 year maritime veteran said "It came out of nowhere. We are just lucky that no one got injured. There was an obvious error on behalf of the lighthouse operator."This has gone viral, but it's fake, fake, fake. Allen doesn't own a yacht called The Zune, so it can't have crashed anywhere. (Though there is a place called Kitsap in Washington state.)Is Windows 8 the new Vista? (Redux) &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionEx-Microsoft GM Hal Berenson:it's clear that what users wanted, and Microsoft could easily have offered, was Windows 8 with a "Tablet First" mode and a "Desktop First" mode. Then subsequent releases could have made those more nuance than reality.The feedback on this was clear from the first appearance of the Windows 8 Developer Preview, but the Windows team's reaction was the opposite. The ability to turn on boot to desktop and the cascading start menu were removed after that preview and the feedback. Power Users saw it as pure arrogance. And while I think most were irrationally negative on the new Start Screen, and other aspects of Windows 8, the Windows team showed little sensitivity to their input.And therein lies a key problem with Windows 8 and the development philosophy of Steven Sinofsky. The secrecy. The unwillingness to bounce things off customers early enough to make changes. A worship of schedule and process above wisdom and expertise, even if the result is the wrong thing shipped on the promised timeline. Steven will no doubt dispute this, but this is how those outside his sphere see his way of developing software. And in the case of Windows 8 it caught up with him, in a really big way.Space junk in earth orbit: the cleanup problem &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe amount of detritus has expanded exponentially since 2007, when the Chinese intentionally destroyed one of their weather satellites. Two years later came the accidental collision of the Iridium Communications SV33 and Russian Cosmos 2251 communications satellites over Siberia. The rubble generated from those two events now accounts for one-third of all cataloged orbital rubble, according to NASA data.Even worse, debris crashing into debris is creating even more debris, a cascading effect that began by at least 2005, says J.-C. Liou, a scientist with NASA's Orbital Debris Program Office. He estimates that five large pieces of wreckage will have to be removed every year starting in 2020 just to keep the overall amount of space debris level. "I believe that we have crossed the threshold into instability," he says, predicting a crash like the Iridium incident once every five to 10 years.It's not just for films.Google Play Store lets your kid spend like a drunken sailor &gt;&gt; Consumer Reports NewsIn its complaint against Apple, the FTC noted that one parent of a young Apple user reported that her daughter had spent $2,600 in the Tap Pet Hotel game from Pocket Gems. So I installed the Android version of that game on an Android tablet by downloading it free from the Google Play Store. Having previously enabled the store's password protection feature (using the Google Play app's Settings), I approved one in-app purchase of a Bunch of Treats for 99 cents, just as any soft-hearted parent might do.As you can see below, there was no indication on the screen that I had approved anything but that 99 cent purchase.Morphing from Doting Dad to mischievous child, I then entered the Pet Hotel unsupervised, where I spent the next 30 minutes making seven more 99 cent in-app purchases of Treats or Coins, all without any further authorization. Just tap and spend. (Sometime during that period I indulged in a spontaneous detour from the game to the Play Store and tacked on an unauthorized purchase of an unrelated app for $2.99—just because I could.) Total cost of my spending spree: $9.92.My childlike binge came to an abrupt halt when Google Play's 30-minute time limit on unauthorized purchases kicked in, after which the Play Store once again required a password in order to buy anything.But as he points out it could very easily have been a lot more.Cisco shows how to manage 35,000 Macs | Consumerization Of It - InfoWorldGalen Gruman:Cisco still had Windows ties even in its Web apps, as many were written explicitly for Microsoft Internet Explorer 6 and its ActiveX language for client-server app interaction. Microsoft never brought ActiveX to the Mac, and it had dropped IE for the Mac previously. That was one reason for IT's aversion to the Mac years ago, and why later it told Mac users to run IE in a virtual desktop, forcing the use of a hybrid OS X-Windows environment. That didn't please Mac users. "A common UI imposed over a chosen device breaks the whole reason people get what they wanted in the first place."But then came the iPad, which didn't support ActiveX and couldn't run native virtualization apps as OS X could. Cisco saw strong value in tablets, so it made the significant effort to rework its Web apps to be platform-independent, meaning dropping ties to ActiveX and IE6. As a byproduct of that iPad enablement, Cisco's Web apps could run on Macs and many other platforms (such as Linux, which is now a supported PC choice for employees, in addition to Windows PCs and Macs).Getting rid of ActiveX and IE6 probably provided more security too.Acer announces preliminary fourth-quarter results &gt;&gt; AcerTo speed up Acer's corporate transformation, the company's Board of Directors approved to write-off losses of NT$1.3B (US$44M) in raw materials inventory and other costs which will be reported in the Q4'13 financial results. This latest write-off will help optimize the company's operational management. Taking immediate action, Acer will formulate its product strategy with more caution and implement precise production planning and inventory control. Senior executives have also taken voluntary salary cuts of 30% from January to share responsibility.The Q4'13 financial results are: consolidated revenues of NT$86.7B (US$2.89B) declining by 5.9% quarter-on-quarter, operating loss of NT$8.22B (US$274.39M), after-tax loss of NT$-7.63B (US$-254.79M), and EPS of NT$-2.8…Acer acknowledges missteps in the past on resource allocation, and the over-expectation of ultrabooks and notebooks with touch panel. Although the products were leading in design they did not accurately fulfill market needs.Translation: people aren't buying ultrabooks or touch-panel PCs.Issue 62378 - android - KitKat WebView text wrap no longer works - Android Open Source Project - Issue Tracker &gt;&gt; Google Project HostingNexus 5 running stock KitKat 4.4. There is no way to make web pages in Android WebView wrap text properly as there was in all previous versions of WebView.There are a lot of annoyed people on the thread. Google's response is that it is "working as intended". What with the removal of per-app privacy settings and the loss of text reflow, Android's 4.4 "KitKat" update seems to be making some people sick.The four stages of disruption &gt;&gt; Learning by ShippingSteve Sinofsky (yes, him):There are dozens of examples of disruptive technologies and products. And the reactions (or inactions) of incumbents are legendary. One example that illustrates this point would be the introduction of the "PC as a server." This has all of the hallmarks of disruption. The first customers to begin to use PCs as servers — for application workloads such as file sharing, or early client/server development — ran into incredible challenges relative to the mini/mainframe computing model. While new PCs were far more flexible and less expensive, they lacked the reliability, horsepower and tooling to supplant existing models. Those in the mini/mainframe world could remain comfortable observing the lack of those traits, almost dismissing PC servers as not "real servers," while they continued on their path further distancing themselves from the capabilities of PC servers, refining their products and businesses for a growing base of customers. PCs as servers were simply toys.Something about that "not real X" line is familiar, as is the "simply toys" one. A long post; watch out for the Star Trek reference.How the tablet will change the world &gt;&gt; Wired.comGoogle hopes that a wave of Chrome-powered netbooks set for release this fall will hasten that day, and its designers are already sketching out the next generation of Chrome OS devices, including touchscreen tablets.Google vice president Sundar Pichai contends that having an iTunes-like app store is unnecessary, because desktop software is just about dead. "In the past 10 years, we've seen almost no new major native applications," he says, ticking off the few exceptions: Skype, iTunes, Google Desktop, and the Firefox and Chrome browsers. "We are betting on the fact that all the user will need are advanced Web apps." (Pichai acknowledges that the Web can't currently handle powerful games but says that new technologies like Native Client and HTML5 will fix that problem.)He forgot Spotify and Dropbox. Anyhoooo, that was March 2010. Anyone remember seeing those ChromeOS netbooks? (Treat yourself to the comments on the piece for far-sighted wisdom too.)ASTOUNDING: 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + ... = -1/12 &gt;&gt; YouTubeEver heard of Grandi's Series? Here's a physicist at the University of Nottingham showing you a completely counterintuitive result which emerges from a little wrangling of infinite series. (It's a reference value in string theory too.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday! Let's talk games.
Public safety isn&apos;t helped by being absolutist about password strength, the head of the Government&apos;s Get Safe Online has warned.Although strong passwords are better than weak ones, Tony Neate argues it is just as important to impress upon the public that any password is better than none - even if it&apos;s as simple as abc123.&quot;We use the analogy that &apos;if you haven&apos;t got a lock on your door, any lock is better than no lock,&apos;&quot; Neate, who is a retired police officer, told the Guardian. &quot;But if you are going to put a lock on your door, the best one to put on is a five-lever mortise lock.&quot;It&apos;s the same analogy. I would recommend anyone to have a good, solid password. But if they haven&apos;t got a password then &apos;abc123&apos; is a starting point.&quot;I&apos;m not suggesting peopleshouldhave abc123. But something is better than nothing, and I&apos;m very pragmatic when it comes to passwords.&quot;Neate was speaking at the launch of the Cyber to the Citizen initiative, launched in conjunction with BCS, the chartered institute for IT professionals. The scheme provides BCS members with the resources and training to educate their communities about online safety.&quot;The campaign is a personal baby,&quot; explained John Doody, the cyber lead for BCS Security. &quot;I&apos;ve been an evangelist in this subject for fifty-five years, and the last two or three years I&apos;ve felt that not enough was being done with the citizen to educate them.&quot;My aim in achieving a partnership with Get Safe Online was… to spread the word, to educate people. I just want to get a group of people behind me to deliver a message: the internet is scary… but we can&apos;t do without it. It&apos;s a force multiplier.&quot;As well as simple cyber-security advice, the Cyber to the Citizen initiative aims to teach how to ensure wellbeing online. Part of that involves spreading simple messages like &quot;don&apos;t write things in an email you that you wouldn&apos;t be comfortable saying face to face&quot;.&quot;It&apos;s about respect, integrity, and trust,&quot; says Doody. &quot;There&apos;s no over-the-shoulder accountability, they type what they feel. Particularly kids, who find it easier to say something either in text or emails, which can be referred to as bullying.&quot;But security still lies at the heart of the project. &quot;One of the most important things that we can ever speak to people about is passwords,&quot; says Neate. &quot;People keep on saying passwords are going to be dead in four or five years… OK. But they&apos;re not now.&quot;•Cupid Media hack exposed 42m passwords online
History is not always kind to great games. Titles once heralded as masterworks are often lost as console cycles turn. Alternatively, there are the offbeat outliers completely shunned during their own lifetimes, only to be quietly ransacked by later generations of designers.Over the next three days, we'll be remembering 30 brilliant, idiosyncratic, challenging or just plain weird titles that have been erased from the gaming annals, or at least criminally overlooked. Each one of these did something interesting with gaming, but not interesting enough to be endlessly recalled in misty-eyed retro articles or onCharlie Brooker-fronted TV shows(which are otherwise excellent and include really great interviewees).Here then are the first ten. Come back for the others, and add your own favourites in the comments section.3D Deathchase (Micromega, ZX Spectrum, 1983)Written by lone coder Mervyn Estcourt (who also produced a PC remake almost 20 years later), this remarkably progressive 3D chase game gets the player to ride a futuristic motorbike through dense woodland, attempting to track down and shoot enemy riders. The first-person view and smooth sensation of movement were astonishing at the time (especially considering it ran on the older 16k Spectrum), and it no doubt prepared the way for future variations on the free-roaming driving game.Aliens: The Computer Game (Software Studios/Electric Dreams Software, C64/Spectrum, 1986)Activision developed a higher profile tie-in with the movie, but this version is far superior and has lasting significance in game design terms. It's essentially a prototype first-person shooter, complete with moveable targeting reticule. Players have to guide six of the film's characters through the colony base, toward the queen's lair. Although movement is essentially limited to left and right (firing at doors lets you pass through them), the action is tense, and the importance of quick accurate aiming hints at the FPS genre to come. There's also a brilliantly unsettling take on the movie's motion tracker sound effect that ramps up the scare factor considerably. And when the face huggers leap at you it is TERRIFYING.Alter Ego (Activision, C64/PC/Apple II, 1986)Designed by psychologist Peter Favaro and released by Activision, this fascinating life simulation gave players control over either a male of female character as they progressed from childhood to grave. Designed around a series of key decision points, the mostly text-led experience was based on hundreds of interviews conducted by Favaro, and was hugely critically acclaimed at the time. Alongside David Crane's Little Computer People it laid the groundwork for  modern era 'virtual soap opera' The Sims. Alas, the sparse presentation and offbeat concept meant that the sim sold poorly and a proposed sequel, based around rearing a child, was scrapped. You canplay the original game online.Astal (Sega, Sega Saturn, 1995)Golden Axe, Streets of Rage, Altered Beast... Plenty of Sega's classic side-scrolling beat-'em-ups have gone on to become legends of the genre. But somehow this beautiful early Saturn release has been over-looked, perhaps thanks to the console's untimely demise. Banished from Earth by an angry goddess, the eponymous hero must return to rescue the girl he loves. Okay, forget the horribly trite story and revel in the gorgeous hand-drawn artwork and interesting attacks, which allow Astal to blow his enemies over or wrench trees out of the ground to chuck at them. There's also an innovative but tricky co-op mode which puts player two into the role of Astal's bird sidekick. Watchthis playthroughfor a taste of the wonderful character and landscape designs.Bioforge (EA/Origin, PC, 1995)The 'interactive movie' genre of the mid-nineties brought us plenty of nightmarishly unplayable dross as game developers fell in love with the idea of using full-motion-video to create, ugh, 'cinematic' experiences. But there were some fascinating examples, too, like this cyberpunk adventure, set on a moon base governed by religious maniacs who believe man must evolve toward a machine hybrid state. The player awakens as a cyborg and must escape the lab, piecing together the plot from PDA diary entries and using security and computer equipment to hack defenses. Elements of Deus Ex, Bioshock and Dead Space all combined to create a tense and interesting adventure. It was so expensive to produce, however, that low sales ensured a planned sequel never arrived. Edge later published anexcellent 'Making of' feature.Bust A Groove (Enix/Metro Graphics, PlayStation, 1998)This formative rhythm action game allowed players to pull ridiculous disco moves by following onscreen direction prompts, in a similar manner to Sony's revered  PaRappa The Rapper. The difference here was the head-to-head competitive dance fighting element, which allowed players to knock each other off the beat with special moves. featuring an excellent old school electronica soundtrack, bizarre characters and super-smooth animation, the title helped build the 'post-pub gaming' credentials of the PlayStation, and spawned a sequel. But then Konami's all-conquering Dance Dance Revolution strutted in and kicked it from the dance floor.ChuChu Rocket (Sega/Sonic Team, Dreamcast, 1999)How this frenetic combination of Pac Man, Bomberman, Lemmings and Hungry Hippos failed to become a continually updated gaming staple is beyond us. Designed by Sonic co-creator Yuji Naka its a fast-paced maze puzzler in which players have to place arrows on the floor to direct a line of mice into rockets so they can escape the giant cats. In the four-player mode, participants can also use arrows to direct the feline enemies toward competitors, making for fraught, hugely tense encounters. Given away free to European Dreamcast owners, the game would later surface on GameBoy Advance and iPhone but should – if there were a whiff of justice in the universe – be on every single console released from 1999 to the end of time.Devil Dice (Sony/Shift, PlayStation, 1998)A modest success on its release and followed by two sequels, this ingenious puzzler was briefly revered, but has somehow slipped from wider memory. Players must navigate a grid by stepping on and turning dice cubes – when the numbers match between two adjacent cubes, they disappear. It's sort of a numerical match-three puzzle, bringing in some of the deeper mathematical reasoning of Area/Code's masterful iPhone title Drop 7. Originally created using Sony's home programmable console, the Net Yaroze, it was one of the few 'homebrew' titles to see release on the PlayStation.Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem (Nntendo/Silicon Knights, GameCube, 2002)Resident Evil 4 wasn't the only standout survival horror experience on Nintendo's under-rated GameCube system. Developed by Canadian studio Silicon Knights and originally meant for the N64, Eternal Darkness is a fascinating Lovecraftian romp following student Alexandria Roivas as she investigates a book known as the Tome of Eternal Darkness. The powerful artifact provides a portal to a selection of previous lives, all of which must be experienced by the player in order to prevent an ancient evil from re-surfacing. The narrative and locations are creepy and unsettling, but the best part is the sanity meter which drops when you encounter enemies, causing visual disturbances and even tricking you into believing your TV has broken. Critically acclaimed, but with its mature rating, Nintendo fans weren't quite sure what to make of it. A proposed sequel never materialised, despite Nintendo renewing the trademark as recently as 2012. Meanwhile, many of the original development team went on to form Precursor Games and planned a spiritual successor named Shadow of the Eternals which sadly failed to hit its crowdfunding target last year.Freedom Fighters (EA/IO Interactive, GameCube/PS2/Xbox, 2003)On a break from the highly successful Hitman series, Danish studio IO Interactive launched this innovative third-person squad-based shooter, getting to the whole America-invaded-by-Communists plotline years before Call of Duty. You play as a regular Joe running round New York taking on Russian troops – and the more you kill, the more your 'Charisma rating' goes up allowing you to recruit followers. That's right, it's Homefront meets Twitter. Great controls and smooth squad commands ensured a thrilling yet surprisingly tactical experience. Maddeningly, it seems a proposed sequel was put on indefinite hold so that the studio could work on... Kane &amp; Lynch. Wha... why?!! Anyway, Eurogamer has a nice retrospective on the gameright here.
As technology evolves, the effort it takes to write to other people has shrunk at an incredibly fast rate. First we wrote letters. Next we emailed. Then we texted. Now, in this distraction-rich but time-poor age, we can just about get away with maintaining all our personal and professional relationships by sending the emoji that looks like a frightened cat backwards and  forwards every three or four weeks.But in the future, will computers be able to communicate with others for us? It's starting to look that way. A number of apps and sites have sprung up, all offering to generate carefully crafted bespoke texts and letters and tweets on our behalf. The most recent of these isQuit Your Job, a free app that asks you a couple of  questions about your situation and then magics up a message for you to instantly send to your boss. At the moment, these services are strictly fringe. But could they ever cross over into the mainstream? And are they any good? I decided to find out.ResignNameQuit Your Job appService offered"Just tell the app why you're leaving, what you're planning on doing next and our state-of-the-art messaging service will take care of the rest."Why this might be usefulFinding the right way to resign is hard. Should  you be honest? Angry? Diplomatic? The whole thing is a minefield.I told the appI'm not earning enough money and I want to join the circus.What it came up with"I've always been a bit of a romantic. And running off and joining the circus is such a poetic escape for us dreamers of the world. For me it wasn't so much of the whimsical calling I thought it would be, as a last-ditch effort to escape the long arm of the law."AssessmentTonally inconsistent. Am I running away to the circus because I like the circus, because I hate my job, or because I'm wanted for a crime? How much notice am I giving? Will I still be paid for the month to date? This will be a nightmare for HR to untangle.Score:4/10Dump your partnerPhotograph: AlamyNameBreakup Text appService offeredMade by the same crack team behind Quit Your Job. "Make it easier than ever to end things with your significant other. You can end your relationship in just a few taps."Why this might be usefulThere's nothing harder than seeing the heartbroken face of someone you've just dumped. Or hearing their voice on the phone. Or thinking up a two-sentence text to dump them with.I told the appI want to end a long-term relationship with a girl  because I'm bored.What it came up with"We've drifted apart. It's not just your impotency, it really isn't. And no, this isn't about that girl at work. It's us. Ever hear the song Cape Canaveral by Conor Oberst? Of course you haven't, that was one of our issues. Anyways, we're like that. A poltergeist love. And I need an exorcism."AssessmentA well-structured  message, veering from gentle letdown to cold finality. There's enough passive-aggression to make my partner think that maybe it really is about her impotency, too.Score:8/10Write a love letterPhotograph: Getty ImagesNameValentine's Day Love Letter Generator websiteService offeredIt promises to create a beautiful love letter to the object of your affections, generated from choices you make on a menu.Why this might be usefulDon't we all want a computer to express our most profound feelings for us, so that we've got more time to get angry about stuff on the internet? Of course we do.I told the siteMy best feature is my bum and I'd like to see myself wearing purple underwear (NB. I accidentally wrote the letter to myself.)What it came up with"You know I've always loved your gorgeous bum and I can't wait to see you again so I can drool like an idiot over your bum and make a complete fool out of myself in public as always."AssessmentOh great. Now that girl I've had my eye on doesn't just think that I've got a disgusting bum obsession, but also that I spend  my days going around dribbling on bums like some sort of weirdo. That's barely even 50% true.Score:3/10Tweet relentlesslyPhotograph: Getty ImagesName@Tofu_product Twitter accountService offeredA Twitter account that, when followed, composes tweets in your voice, based on things you've written in the past.Why this might be usefulYour followers expect  to be relentlessly  bludgeoned over the head with a constant stream of badly-formed observations and complaints. You can't let them down.I told the accountEverything I've ever tweeted, apparently.What it came up with"Woody Allen I've never change, Golden! I haven't! Hey I love this week: Hula. Probably shouldn't."AssessmentThis is just gibberish. This isn't how I tweet at all. Is it? Oh, who am I kidding, of course it is. This is completely accurate and I hate myself. Golden!Score:9/10Apply for a jobPhotograph: Getty ImagesNameFree Cover Letter Generator websiteService offeredEnter some basic information and this website promises to create the perfect cover letter for your job application.Why this might be usefulWriting cover letters is always the most awkward part of applying for a new job, so why not just bank your entire future on a piece of untested free software?I told the siteI have had my current job for five years, and my skills include jumping up and down and being sleepy.What it came up with"Your facility would gain an individual who is dependable, motivated, and personable. My many experiences ensure that I am an individual who knows how to accomplish tasks and work in a team dynamic."AssessmentNowhere did I say that I was motivated or personable. Also, I work from home. I wouldn't know what a team dynamic was if it poked me in the bum. All this information is completely false.Score:1/10Talk in jargonPhotograph: AlamyNameArchiText Sentence Generator appService offered"This allows you to  create hundreds of  profound sayings that sound very impressive, yet mean nothing at all."Why this might be usefulPerhaps you want to sound important. Perhaps you want to muddy your message. Perhaps you  just want to sound clever in a meeting for once in your life.I told the appThis works a little differently. Each sentence is divided into four parts, and you choose each part manually.What it came up with"Based upon inter-disciplinary considerations, the initial stage of conceptual development presents extremely synergistic challenges to the philosophy of commonality and standardisation."AssessmentI know that this is nonsense, and yet I'm still nodding along as if I know what it means because I don't want to look stupid. A triumph of jargon.Score:10/10Write a songBlack-eyed peas … probably don't use an automated lyrics generator.NameSong Lyrics Generator websiteService offered"1) You choose a style. 2) You give us some keywords to play with. 3)  We automatically create lyrics, a cover and a name for your single."Why this might be usefulWriting a meaningful song takes years of training and practice. I am very lazy.I told the appI have a friend who is a girl. It asked for body parts, I said "nose" and "bum". It asked for two adjectives, I said "smelly" and "stupid". Retrospectively, I think I might have mentioned something about a horse.What it came up with"She licked a horse / Alas, a horse! / My friend licked a horse / It was smelly, so smelly / The next day I thought my bum had  broken / I thought my nose had burst into flames". From My Stupid Friend, a ballad.AssessmentA little scattershot, perhaps, and it does automatically reinforce the misconception that I'm obsessed with bums. However, it is still better than, say, My Humps.Score:5/10Send a sexy textCyrano de Bergerac … in your pocket! Photograph: AllstarNameRomantic SMS Generator appService offered"Provides you with hundreds of quality pre-written romantic texts that guaranteed will knock your partner off his/her feet."Why this might be useful:Again, expressing yourself is hard. This is like having Cyrano de Bergerac in your pocket all the time.I told the appNothing. It just randomly gives you fully formed, catch-all romantic text ideas to suit any occasion.What it came up with"1st time I saw u i was scared 2 touch u. 1st time i touched u i was scared 2 kiss u. 1st time i kiss u i was scared 2 love u. but now dat i love u im scared 2 lose u!"AssessmentYep, that's probably sealed the deal.Score:10/10
Perennially popular with developers, war games, particularly the easily defined good guy/bad guy dynamic of the second world war, are as numerous on a small scale as their bigger console cousins and often as rewarding.Battle Supremacy(Atypical Games, iOS, £2.99) is the follow-up to the more complex aerial simSky Gamblers– but the action has moved down, and the level of complexity has gone in the same direction, as you take control of tanks, jeeps and boats to bash the Bosche. The two joysticks – for motion and turret – are sometimes fiddly, especially on the iPhone, but it's smooth enough, and landing a shot on top of the enemy from distance is satisfying.For those who enjoy a spot of alternative history,Panzer Corps(Slitherine, iPad, £13.99) allows you to lead the Nazis to victory – and offers a more in-depth experience. It's a full port of the PC title, a complex military sim, which requires expert force management to succeed. Send your infantry on to exposed rural landscapes and they'll be slaughtered, so tanks are better suited, but without the Luftwaffe to back them up, and the infantry to do the mopping up, it will all be in vain. With hundreds of different troop types, it's a little daunting, but it's nonetheless incredibly rewarding when a carefully constructed battle plan sends the allied forces reeling.
Mario Party'scombination of mini-game challenges and traditional board-game structure remains largely unchanged in its first outing on the Nintendo 3DS. But for innovationIsland Tourfocuses on the tilt, microphone, touch-screen and augmented-reality abilities of the handheld, employing them liberally in its 80 or so challenges. Although each is short-lived, they impress with both variety and execution, starring favourite Nintendo characters and using 3DS interactions intelligently.Tapping, pressing, drawing or waving the 3DS around accurately wins an extra dice to roll back in the main game and faster progress around the board. However, for all this creativity, there is a lack of coherence; mini-games sometimes feel inconsequential, as chance often determines progress.Island Tourresolves this in its local multiplayer mode, where human competition refocuses all those involved on the outcome. To encourage this form of play, a single copy allows three friends to download it and join in, – great for younger gamers and familiesAndy RobertsonNES RemixWii U, Nintendo, cert: 3NES Remixis a strange narcotic. The first hit gives older players a wave of nostalgia by repackaging Nintendo's 1980s hits –Mario Bros, Excitebike, Donkey Kongand more – into seconds-long micro-games. Then comes the addiction, as you compulsively repeat seemingly simple tasks such as running&nbsp;Mario through a string of Goombas or sending enemies crashing&nbsp;out of the sky in a flash ofBalloon Fight. The reward is the buzz of a three-star-rainbow score ranking and virtual stamps for online bragging.But then the crash hits, as you realise that many&nbsp;of the "classics" included are no such thing –Tennis,Urban ChampionandIce Climberbeing just some of the guilty parties – and that even the better examples haven't aged well. Controls are near-uniformly frustrating, while&nbsp;the titular remix levels (placingZelda's LinkinDonkey Konglevels, for instance) erroneously&nbsp;confuse controller-smashing difficulty with tests of skill. Nintendo devotees are likely to enjoy the package more than most, but even then, most probably through gritted teeth.Matt Kamen
NES Remixis a strange narcotic. The first hit gives older players a wave of nostalgia by repackaging Nintendo's 1980s hits –Mario Bros, Excitebike, Donkey Kongand more – into seconds-long micro-games. Then comes the addiction, as you compulsively repeat seemingly simple tasks such as running&nbsp;Mario through a string of Goombas, or sending enemies crashing&nbsp;out of the sky in a flash ofBalloon Fight. The reward is the buzz of a three-star-rainbow score ranking, and virtual stamps for online bragging. But then the crash hits, as you realise that many&nbsp;of the "classics" included are no such thing –Tennis,Urban ChampionandIce Climberbeing just some of the guilty parties – and that even the better examples haven't aged well. Controls are near-uniformly frustrating, while&nbsp;the titular remix levels (placingZelda's LinkinDonkey Konglevels, for instance) erroneously&nbsp;confuse controller-smashing difficulty with tests of skill. Nintendo devotees are likely to enjoy the package more than most, but even then, most probably through gritted teeth.
It's 4.30 on a gloomy winter's afternoon. I'm sitting with my grandson having one of those conversations in which grandsons explain complicated stuff to their grandads. He is four years old, omniscient in the way that four-year-olds are, and tolerant of my ignorance of important matters.The conversation turns to computing and he inquires whether I haveTalking Tom Caton my iPad. "No," I say. "What is it?" He explains that it's a cool game that his grandma has on her iPad. There is a cat called Tom who listens to what you say to him and then repeats it in a funny voice. Also there's a dog who does funny things.So I dig out my iPad and we head over to the app store where, sure enough,Talking Tom Cat 2is available as a free download. A few minutes later it's running on my iPad. A scamp in feline form stands looking quizzically at me. As I speak, he cups a paw to his ear, listens intently, and then repeats what I say in a high-pitched voice. The animation is beautifully done and nicely rendered. It is indeed, as my grandson observed, "cool".He shows me how, if you click on an icon on the left-hand side of the screen, a naughty dog enters the picture. The traditional animosity between dogs and cats is then enacted. My grandson next delightedly points out another icon which, when pressed, causes the dog to fart noisily, and Tom to hold his nose disdainfully. At this my grandson laughs uproariously, and the farting procedure is repeated ad nauseam.In an attempt to stem this flow of lavatorial humour, I ask him what else Tom can do. Well, explains my grandson, you can dress him up. You can, for example, give him a funny hat. Or make him wear heart-shaped sunglasses. This is accomplished by pressing on a clothes-hanger icon which brings up a list of items including hats, eyewear, accessories and a category labelled "seasonal". Each item costs a number of gold coins. The heart-shaped sunglasses, for example, cost 1,099 coins, and we only have the 254 we were granted when we first opened the app.So how do we acquire the dosh needed for the sunglasses? There appear to be two ways: the first involves playing a tedious game in which Tom has to tiptoe and leap across a range of precipitous columns;  the second involves shelling out some real money for them. Seventy-four thousand of them will cost you £17.49, which represents an exchange rate of 4,231 Tomcoins to the pound.At this point, the scales fall from even grandfather's eyes. Here we have the business model for the game (which has had more than 270m downloads). It's our old friend the in-app purchase. Now you might think that it's a dirty trick to sneak hard cash transactions into a charming game designed for four-year-olds, but I couldn't possibly comment, if only because I can hear the sound of stampeding lawyers pointing out that a decision to purchase said coins brings up a charming image of a child handing an iPad to a benevolent adult, followed by a dialogue box requiring one to enter a password for an iTunes store account. What could be safer than that?Actually, in the world inhabited by my grandson and millions more like him, it's not really much of a safeguard at all. He's surrounded by people who have iTunes accounts, and all he needs to do in order to buy Tomcoins is to ask his older brother, who doubtless knows all the passwords used in the household.Apple, of course, is very po-faced about all of this, pointing out that all its apps are rigorously vetted by the company and that nothing gets on to an iDevice without its approval. Which is true, as many app developers ruefully acknowledge.What then are we to make ofWednesday's announcementthat Apple has reached a settlement with the US federal trade commission that will involve refunding at least $32.5m (£19.9m) to consumers to settle a complaint that it billed parents for in-app purchases made by their children without their consent? Under the terms of the settlement, Apple also agreed to change its billing practices to make sure that it has obtained "express, informed consent" from consumers before charging them for items sold in mobile apps.Of course $32.5m is small beer compared with the $10bn customers spent in the app store last year, and company executives may write it off as the cost of doing business in a grubby area. But this isn't, in the end, just about money. It's also about corporate social responsibility. Apple is very very fierce about pornography in the app store. Shouldn't it also be as fierce about manipulative games?
It's been called the "Nerd Bowl" because the teams hail from the hi-tech cities of San Francisco and Seattle. But – excepting perhaps for the cheerleaders – the clash  on Sunday between the San Francisco 49ers and the Seattle Seahawks for a place in next month's Super Bowl will be a display of instinctual brutality.Stoked by a rivalry dating back to the Gold Rush, the game is set to play out a more contemporary regional dispute: the Seahawks are owned by Paul Allen and draw support from Microsoft, the firm he co-founded, and the global shopping behemoth Amazon; the 49ers have established roots not only in San Francisco but increasingly in Silicon Valley, where Apple, Facebook, Google and Twitter have their headquarters.The 49ers' president, Gideon Yu, is a former Facebook executive who is bringing hi-tech executives into its management as the team prepares to move from Candlestick Park to a new stadium in Santa Clara, next to the famous valley.Today's game, say sports commentators, amounts to an opportunity to settle scores. In recent years, San Francisco has outstripped Seattle in terms of internet and social-media innovation. After the browser wars of the 90s, Steve Jobs's Apple came from behind to trounce Microsoft with generations of desirable consumer-tech wizardry.The 49ers also have a glittering history of success in the Super Bowl, with five wins, but on the field that dominance is now not so clearly defined. Allen, who bought the Seahawks in 1997, has bankrolled the creation of a formidable team. While each has won one game against the other this season, the Seahawks have beaten the 49ers by a combined score of 71-16 in their last two matches at home. Still, while both play in a similar style, the 49ers' offense has been stronger toward the end of the season."It's a neurotic rivalry because the cities are so similar," says Al Saracevic, sports editor of theSan Francisco Chronicle. "They're both liberal cities on the west coast, coffee-obsessed, technology-obsessed and clearly football-obsessed."The feud, say commentators, is not just play-acting for television. "I don't know anybody in here that likes anybody on the Seahawks. If you find one, let me know," insists San Francisco lineman Alex Boone.The dislike, it seems, is mutual and the competitiveness between the teams and their fans has been exaggerated by a rivalry between their hard-headed coaches, Jim Harbaugh of the 49ers and Pete Carroll. "They're both good coaches and they've built arguably the best teams in the country," says Saracevic. "Now they're both looking at the Super Bowl – the biggest prize on the table."But if technology rivalry means little to players on the field, it is more real in the two regions. Seattle prides itself on engineering skills and businesses that seek to establish relationships with their customers, dismissing Silicon Valley's recent tech contributions as social media software designed to gather users' data to sell to advertisers.But the numbers are clearly in San Francisco's favour. In the first nine months of 2013, Bay Area startups attracted $8.8bn from venture-capital firms. Seattle startups, reports theWall Street Journal, raised $409m from investors in the same period.Deep down, saysSeattle Timescolumnist Danny Westneat, the insecurity is real. San Francisco's gold rush came 50 years before Seattle became the jumping-off place for the Yukon. Even in the boomtown of today's Seattle, the city remains envious of San Francisco's wealth, arts, architecture, tech,  culture and politics. "For more than 100 years Seattle has played stray dog to San Francisco's alpha," Westneat says.But for Allen, 60, whose multibillion-dollar fortune stems from writing Microsoft's early code while the better-known Bill Gates made the deals, a Super Bowl title would amount to significant vindication.After he left Microsoft in 1983, the Seattle native lost billions on mistimed technology and cable-TV investments. A passionate Jimi Hendrix fan, he backs schemes ranging from the search for alien life to space cargo ventures (he is the principal backer of the firm making Richard Branson's space tourism vehicle). But many of Allen's subsequent ventures proved foresighted. A $200m energy pipeline investment returned $2.25bn; he recently sold 11 buildings in Seattle to Amazon for $1.16bn.Allen's first sports team was the Portland Trail Blazers NBA basketball team, purchased soon after he left Microsoft. Some 15 years later he bought the Seahawks for $194m after the Washington state governor appealed to him as a native son. He subsequently spent $140m building one of the best stadiums in the US (Seattle's fans set a noise record at their stadium when Seattle beat the 49ers in September).Thanks to a boom in sports sponsorship and the astronomical sums TV networks are prepared to pay for sports broadcast rights, the Seahawks are now valued well in excess of $1bn. At the end of the 2005 season, Seattle got to the Super Bowl for the first time, losing to Pittsburgh. A win in the big game (over the Denver Broncos or New England Patriots) on 2 February could boost that valuation considerably. "If I entered the NBA out of passion, I was called to the National Football League out of civic duty," Allen says in his memoir.Twenty years ago Microsoft almost left Apple for dead; now Apple is the dominant company, points out Saracevic. "No one could have predicted that." But, he adds: "I can almost guarantee nobody on the teams will be thinking about technology – but echoes of the rivalry will be felt." He predicts the 49ers will triumph. "The Seahawks should win this game but the 49ers seem to be on a roll. If I were a venture capitalist, I'd put my money on the 49ers."
I remember when a Volvo estate was basically a big, long, posh box, generally full of horrid children in boaters or riding hats being ferried to prep school or gymkhanas or wherever it is horrid children go. The cavernous space behind the children would be crammed with trunks and labradors and ponies and all the other paraphernalia horrid children require. I wasn't keen – can you tell?But Volvo estates have been overtaken in the offensiveness stakes. This one isn't even the biggest Volvo estate: there's the V70, plus the pumped-up XC crossovers. The XC90 is where you find horrid children and their clobber these days. I don't like it. I&nbsp;do rather like this V60, though. Not only is it not too big, it's not boxy, either. A wagon with a coupe-like appearance, say Volvo, and they're kinda right.I tried a couple – the Plug-in Hybrid and a regular but sporty diesel (pictured). The Hybrid, the first ever diesel plug-in hybrid, is in many ways a brilliant machine. Fully charged, it will do up to 31 miles on electric power alone. So, if you've got the sort of home or workplace where you can have a charging point (which you can currently get installed free), then – depending on your travelling habits – you could do nearly all your miles emission-free, but without the range-anxiety of a purely electric car. It can also work like any other hybrid, switching between diesel and electric as required. Or, in Power mode, you can have everything working for you at the same time and go like stink. And it's all-wheel drive, so you can probably get where you want in winter, too.The numbers – mpg, performance, CO2emissions – are bloody impressive, but there are a couple of catches. First, the battery means there's not a huge amount of luggage space, surely the point of a Volvo estate. I don't know much about ponies, but I don't think you'd get one in here, even a bonsai pony, without first removing its legs. And second, even with a £5,000 government grant, it costsalmost 45,000 quid. Which is stupid money for an estate car. You'd have to drive a lot for that to work out.The diesel version I tried will almost certainly make more sense. Those numbers aren't as amazing, but they're still pretty damned good. It's quick and comfortable, it doesn't look or drive like a box, and there's plenty of room for stuff. Being a Volvo, it also has a lot of impressive safety stuff, such as lane-departure warnings and blind-spot info.OK, so it's not cheap, but come on: it's a Volvo estate. You don't want any old riffraff driving one. Most importantly, you can have one without being hated by me. I'll&nbsp;actually be a little bit jealous.VOLVO V60 PLUG-IN HYBRID AND V60 D4 R-DPriceFrom £44,275 (including government grant) and £30,895Top speed143mph and 140mphAcceleration0-60mph in 6.1 seconds and 7.2 secondsCombined fuel consumption155mpg and 72.3mpgCO2emissions48g/km and 103g/kmGreen rating9/10 and 7/10Cool rating6/10 and 6/10
Lost Toys, iOS£2.49 (Barking Mouse Studios)Adrift in a room full of mangled toys, your job is to make them whole, rotating sections to slot them back together, like a series of oddly shaped Rubik's Cubes. With no timer and a lush piano accompaniment, this is cubist, ambient entertainment at its best.Continue?9876543210, iOS£2.49 (starvingeyes)The developer claims this game was inspired by "existential road trips into nowhere, Peruvian jungle drugs, and a brush with death". It shows. Its story of a dead video game character is a string of obscure, mechanically bereft mini-games.Fightback, iOSFree (Ninja Theory)In Fightback, gang members queue for their turn to batter you as if they're recreating the fight from Oldboy. The precision timing necessary to see them off is beautifully metered, but undermined by the game's insistent attempts to hustle you for coins.Spiral Episode 1, iOS£2.49 (Pixel Hero Studios)Action RPG Spiral Episode 1 has ambitions way beyond its production budget. That means awkward controls, your character blithely standing in the way of places you need to tap, and phoned-in voice acting.Dragon Finga,iOSFree (Another Place Productions)Beat up an endless stream of malefactors by tapping your index finger on them. Mindless entertainment that is the epitome of pointless.Castle Doombad, iOS£1.99 (Adult Swim)This solid little tower-defence game has you securing a kidnapped princess from the ministrations of would-be heroes, who must be impaled, incinerated, devoured or blown up to prevent them from rescuing her.Gemini Rue,iOS£2.99(Wadjet Eye Games)Originally released on PC, Gemini Rue is a homemade-feeling piece of sci-fi noire, in which it's always night and it never stops raining. It's well-maintained atmosphere isn't matched by puzzles whose solutions turn out to require too much trial and error.Jet Car Stunts 2,Android &amp; iOSFree (True Axis)Outrageously difficult and glorying in the ruthlessness of its challenges, tracks in Jet Car Stunts 2 are collections of disconnected geometric slabs suspended in mid-air, demanding speed, steering and delicate use of rocket propulsion to get even close to the finishing line, rather than plunging to your doom.RoboCop, Android &amp; iOSFree (Glu Games)RoboCop mutely hunches behind cover, popping out to shoot at weak points marked on a brief and uninspiring procession of armed assailants. It's a shoot first, earn upgrades  later set-up that borders on the tedious.Kami, Android &amp; iOS£1.49 (State Of Play Games)Although simple to grasp, Kami's exquisitely subtle paper-folding puzzles are considerably more complex than they first appear. Mentally taxing, but thanks to the soft rustle of paper and the fact that it never once tests your dexterity or reaction time, strangely relaxing. Kami is a game of unusual elegance.
Nintendo's Wii U video games console, intended to capitalise on the roaring success of 2006's Wii, has so far flopped – and is causing problems for the Japanese games company behind Mario the plumber.In anannouncement on Fridayannouncement  the company dramatically slashed the number of Wii Us it expects to sell in the 12 months to April from 9m to just 2.8m, and said that it will make an annual loss, with total sales expected to shrink for the second year in a row, rather than growing by one-third. That will mark its third year in a row of making an operating loss.Potential buyers seem to be favouring instead games on smartphones and tablets, a category which has exploded since Nintendo launched its best-selling Wii with the innovative "motion controllers" in December 2006 – just before the smartphone market began to boom.But now the company has been left adrift as its audience of "casual" gamers has found other outlets. The reduced forecast comes after many observers had said that the 9m sales predicted earlier this year by management for the Wii U was unfeasible following its comparatively small sales of 3.45m in its first year in 2012.Sony and Microsoft have each already outsold that figure with the new PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles released in the autumn. They can rely on committed gamers who will wait for top-end games.Nintendo, by contrast, cannot – and has declined to make games with characters such as Mario and Zelda available for iPhone, iPad or Android devices. That means it is missing out on a potential market of around a billion users, critics argue.By contrast Sega, a rival Japanese games company which gave up making hardware in 2001, offers games for a range of platforms, including mobile, and has seen revenues and profits grow.Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Asset Management in Tokyo, told Bloomberg: "Nintendo needs to expand from their current hardware business model. It's a structural problem."Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive of Myojo Asset Management, told Reuters: "The fact that the 'Wii U strategy' has failed is disappointing and will likely trigger a sell-off as soon as the market opens. The company appears to have failed to differentiate the Wii U from the Wii," saying that his own 10-year-old son, who owns a Wii and DS handheld console, had shown no interest in the Wii U.Nintendo makes money on sales of both its consoles and the games for them, with franchises involving Mario proving hugely popular. But the revised forecasts pointed to an accelerating weakness in both consoles – especially handheld ones which compete with phones or tablets – and the games for them.It halved forecasts for Wii U games, from 38m to 19m, but upped those for the Wii from 2m to 2.6m. For the 3DS handheld, it lowered forecasts from 18m to 13.5m sales, and 3DS games sales from 80m to 66m for the year.Overall, the company has cut its forecast sales by a third, from 920bn yen (£5.4bn) to 590bn, and says it expects to make an operating loss of 35bn yen rather than a profit of 100bn. It had forecast a 55bn net profit, but now says it will make a 25bn yen loss.
"Weak gravity" might sound like something from the Oscar-nominated film - but instead it's a paradox that a UK company says it has identified in Android smartphones.Specifically, "weak gravity" means that although first-time smartphone buyers in the UK are far more likely to buy an Android phone than Apple's iPhone, and more likely to stay with it than iPhone users are, Apple pulls more users into its orbit on successive purchases than it loses, increasing its share of total users.The "pull" is so strong that although 65% of first-time smartphone owners buy an Android phone, compared to 19% for iPhones, by the time they are on their third phone the ownership ratios are 49% for Android and 37% for the iPhone.The data emerges from astudy carried out in September 2013(PDF) of 450 British owners of smartphones carried out for Foolproof, a London-based user experience company. Though the number sampled might seem small, it was carried out by a professional survey panel company with respondents around the UK, and is large enough to be statistically representative of the UK population of smartphone owners, said Philip Morton, Foolproof's principal consultant."We started out looking into what's called the 'Android engagement paradox' - the fact that although Android phones are more widely used, they don't show up as much in web usage statistics," Morton told the Guardian.But in surveying the panels of smartphone owners - with 150 each on their first, second and third smartphone - they discovered a different paradox: a tendency for Android users to gravitate towards an iPhone, despite higher average loyalty to Google's platform.Broad agreementThe findings broadly agree with surveys in the US carried out by Consumer Intelligence Research Partners (CIRP), which interviewed 500 buyers of smartphones between April and June 2013. That found that Android had the largest share of buyers - but that iPhones had the better retention, with 78% of those who activated a new phone staying with Apple's offering, while only 67% of Android buyers remained with it. A study at the same time by the consultancy group Yankee Groupsaid that Android was a "leaky bucket" in the US, and forecast that the total number of iPhone users will pass Android users during 2014.The Foolproof survey found that among first-time smartphone owners with an Android device, 59% intended to get another Android phone. For second-time owners, it was 56%; for third-timers, 54%.By contrast, with iPhone owners the "intention to renew" started lower - at 47% for first-time owners - and then rose to 50% on the second and 54% on the third, the same as for Android.Overall, it found a general trend towards iPhone ownership, with loyalty growing on each successive purchase, against falling loyalty towards Android.This meant Android lost share over time because its higher total number of users created a larger number of switchers to iPhone use. The smaller number of iPhone users, by contrast, meant smaller numbers of switchers. The iPhone was also better than Android at attracting former BlackBerry users.Separate data from ComScore suggests that in November 2013 there were 35.3m smartphone users in the UK, and about 14.2m featurephone users. Of those about 18.3m were Android users, and 10.3m iPhone users. BlackBerry users made up 3.3m, Windows Phone owners 2.1m, and Nokia Symbian users 1m.The rapid growth in smartphone adoption of the past two years has now begun to slow, with a growing number of people considering upgrades. Data from the research company Mediacells says that 9.7m UK owners will upgrade their smartphone in 2014, compared to 8m who will get their first one.Smartphone ownership, source and intention by platform for first-, second- and third-time owners. Source: Foolproof in September 2013.Click for larger versionHowever the data offered some encouragement for BlackBerry, where its share remained steady among second- and third-time buyers.Morton thinks that the shift from Android to iPhone could be due to evolving needs as people get used to smartphones. "The proportion of Android owners gets smaller as we looked at people who were on their second or third smartphone," he said. "We think it's because what you could call the 'job to be done' by the phones changes - the role that people have in their lives for these phones."If you're a featurephone user who is coming to replace your phone, then you just want it to do calls and texts - so pricing is going to be important, and other things like the camera quality or apps won't be a big concern. But as people use their first smartphone and get more experience with it, over time the role that the phone plays in their lives influences their next buying decision. The results that you see here is that people want to choose the best smartphone for their needs."He thinks that "there is a block of stuff that attracts people to the Android platform in the first place, but these get less strong over time. Price is the key thing, but this becomes less important as the phone has more value in their lives. We had a theory that this might come out, but we were shocked by how clear the trend was. We thought it would be messier."Smartphone ownership trends: iPhone tends to grow users with increasing loyalty, while Android loses users and sees falling loyalty. Data: Foolproof.Click for larger versionBut Ben Wood, principal analyst at the research firm CCS Insight, was initially sceptical about the survey findings. "In the US I would totally expect this, because that's an iPhone fortress - for most consumers that's the phone of choice there. And Android plays well to first-time buyers. But I wonder if this will be true into the future. From talking to retailers [in the UK] it feels like other smartphones [than the iPhone] are starting to get a little bit of traction. Yes, iPhone users are very engaged - but Android is becoming more attractive at the higher end. The 'app gap' [between offerings on the iPhone and Android] has closed dramatically. That has made people resist switching. If Apple wants to continue to take advantage of the trend in future, it will have to have something special with the iPhone 6, whenever it lands."Foolproof's survey didn't look into differences in loyalty between owners of cheaper and more expensive Android phones.CIRP's survey in the US found that Samsung had the highest retention rate among Android manufacturers, at 52%, compared to 27% for HTC, 18% for LG and 9% for Google subsidiary Motorola.The Foolproof study asked a single group of people at the same time about their smartphone use, rather than tracking a single cohort through successive purchases.Update:Phil Morton of Foolproof has responded to requests for more information about the survey company, and the methodology.Q:Which company was used to carry out the survey?Morton:"The company we used wasToluna. They are one of the world's largest panel and survey providers, and used by the likes of BA, Which? and Sega."Q:Was the size of the sample sufficient to give useful information? Why not have error bars on the data points?Morton:"We're comfortable with the sample size because of the quality of the sample (i.e. the methodology of the provider used), and that [a sample size of] 450 is a robust enough for a survey of this nature and for what we were looking to find out."We didn't include error bars because given the number of data points on the graphic, it would make it very difficult to read."Q:Isn't Android's retention rate higher than or equal to the iPhone's all the way through, though? (59%-54% for Android against 47%-54% for iPhone)?"Android's retention rate is higher to begin with, but a number of other trends pull in the opposite direction:• iPhone retentionincreasesover time• Android retentiondecreasesover time• Android's share of ownership decreases over time (65% to 49%)"Why are first smartphone users more likely to express an interest in Android? In our full report, we have data about what smartphone purchasers value when considering their next purchase."This data shows that the importance of price is highest for those on their first smartphone, and this decreases over time. Conversely, the importance of everything else begins low and increases over time. Put simply, those in the 1st smartphone column value what high-end phones are good at less than those in the 3rd smartphone column. As a result, they're less likely to choose a more capable phone."QWhat about the fact that the sample in the first column bought their first smartphone at a different time from those in the third (even though all are sampled at the same time?)Morton:"The survey is a snapshot of the phones that people have now, so a likely purchase history might be:• 1st smartphone: 2012• 2nd smartphone: 2010, 2012• 3rd smartphone: 2008, 2010, 2012"This is intentional, because we wanted to see the differences between populations based on their experience with smartphones."There would certainly be different conditions at each purchase date which could push or pull people towards different platforms. In theory, if the iPhone was particularly appealing in 2008, someone in the 3rd column might have bought one then and stuck with the platform since. In contrast, someone buying their first phone today has a wider choice of better smartphones than that person."But I don't think those factors have significantly influenced the results because of the amount of switching between platforms, even for those in the 3rd column. If the retention rates were 70% or more, we might see different results. In reality, it seems that a lot of people try out different platforms."
Diabetics could in future avoid painful pinprick blood glucose tests using a smart contact lens being developed at Google which measures glucose levels in tears.A prototype shown off by the company uses an embedded miniaturised glucose sensor and wireless chip in a contact lens to measure glucose in tears as often as once every second.That would make monitoring glucose levels - an essential task for diabetics, who are at risk of heightened or lowered blood-sugar levels - faster, easier and less painful because it would remove the need to break the skin and measure blood glucose levels directly.Diabetes, caused by a deficiency of the sugar-regulating hormone insulin, affects around 5% of people in developed nations. It is a leading cause of kidney failure, blindness and amputations if insufficiently treated.French scientists discovered that tears carry measurable levels of glucose in the 1930s, but it has taken decades to find a way to exploit that to create a non-invasive test. A team at the University of Michiganshowed off a sensor which tested tears in November 2011, and were even then one of a number pursuing the idea. Microsoft Research, then collaborating with Babak Parviz - at the time a professor at University of Washington -unveiled a prototypeof the glucose-measuring contact lens in 2011.Since then Parviz has moved to join Google&apos;s experimental X Lab, for which this is its latest product. “We’re testing prototypes that can generate a reading once per second,” said Brian Otis and Parviz, co-founders of the project which they started at the University of Washington, in ajoint blog post. “We’re also investigating the potential for this to serve as an early warning for the wearer, so we’re exploring integrating tiny LED lights that could light up to indicate that glucose levels have crossed above or below certain thresholds.”Unbroken testDiabetics who aren&apos;t able to keep their blood sugar levels under control risk going into a coma, and there is also a higher likelihood of long-term damage to blood vessels and the eyes, with associated risks of stroke and blindness.“Although some people wear glucose monitors with a glucose sensor embedded under their skin, all people with diabetes must still prick their finger and test drops of blood throughout the day. It’s disruptive, and it’s painful,” explained Otis and Parviz. “As a result, many people with diabetes check their blood glucose less often than they should.”&apos;Seek out projects that seem a bit speculative or strange&apos;Google is currently talking to the US Food and Drugs Administration, which regulates drugs and medical applications, about selling it as a medical device, and seeking partners among medical experts to bring a smart contact lens and apps to market.“We’ve always said that we’d seek out projects that seem a bit speculative or strange, and at a time when the International Diabetes Federation is declaring that the world is &apos;losing the battle&apos; against diabetes, we thought this project was worth a shot,” Otis and Parviz said of Google X labs, which also developed Google&apos;s self-driving cars and Google Glass, the company&apos;s smart glasses.Microsoft Research demonstrated a functional contact lens that monitored blood sugar levels without breaking the skin in 2011.Smart contact lenses are already available on the medical market, including a disposable lens that is used to personalise the treatment of glaucoma by measuring changes to the eye from Sensimed Triggerfish.•A woman faced a San Diego court for wearing Google Glass while driving her car
Kids are a nightmare. Not just for put-upon parents (although surely that), but also for web developers.A tangled web of laws – as well as the fact that their target audience frequently can&apos;t really read – creates challenges which businesses working with adult audiences don&apos;t have to consider.Under the BBC&apos;s Connected Studio scheme, which brings in external startups to develop ideas for new features and formats, two companies called Peekabu and Made By Pi have been tackling those challenges head on, although there is no set launch date for the two products.The pilots, called Eezl and Predicto, are smart new ways to deal with kids as kids, rather than just settling for treating them as slightly dim miniature adults.Kids forget passwords all the timeThink through all the competencies required to log in to a website. Not only do you have to be able to read and write – in an age of touchscreen computing, not at all something which can be assumed of everyone online – but you also usually need an email address, and frequently a Twitter or Facebook account as well. You must remember a password and type it with no visible feedback other than the number of characters written. And you have to keep that information secret, no matter how proud you are of it.Given how many adults fail at those simple tasks, it&apos;s a bit much to expect it of the under-10s.&quot;Kids forget passwords all the time,&quot; says Alexander Cole, the chief executive of Edinburgh-based Peekabu. &quot;They&apos;re often unfamiliar with the concept of logging in, there is often no username or social media account to remind them of their password when they forget it. And it&apos;s a real problem because the BBC&apos;s really keen to have children creating accounts, making friends with one another, and playing multiplayer games with their friends from the real world.&quot;How do you get kids to do this without forcing them down the same user journey path that everyone else has to do?&quot;Peekabu&apos;s pitch to Connected Studio was Eezl, a pilot idea solves the problem by throwing the normal route in the bin.Logging in to Eezl Photograph: ScreenshotWhen registering an account using the service, presented as a mock-up of the CBBC website, children are asked to draw a picture and hold it up to their camera. The system recognises the drawing, and saves it in the database along with the child&apos;s preferred username. Logging in again is as simple as holding the picture up to the webcam.As it is, Eezl still has some rough edges, particularly if the initial drawing doesn&apos;t have enough information to create a unique fingerprint (hence the text added to my self-portrait, above). But once registered, it works like a charm.Password resets are handled using a similarly elegant process: &quot;as part of the sign in process,&quot; Cole explains, &quot;they register something that can&apos;t be lost: a page from their favourite book, or even the view from their window.&quot; Then, if the picture is destroyed, perhaps in an overzealous tidying session, a photo of the view outside lets a new drawing be registered.The tech also has security benefits:&quot;The way making friends works right now is that I need to know your username and you need to know mine, but usernames are often very elaborate with lots of capital letters and difficult letters and numbers.&quot;&quot;To make friends with one another [using Eezl], all I need to do is scan your drawing, you scan my drawing, and we&apos;re friends.&quot;The image recognition recognises such high levels of detail, Cole tells me, that &quot;we&apos;ve had children put one on top of the other and trace, we&apos;ve had adults do this, and it still recognises them as different images. You could sign your name a hundred times and it would recognise each one as a different image. It&apos;s about as secure, equivalently, as a hundred character password.&quot;Question and answerGoogle knows everything about you, and yet its recommendations are far from perfect. (Who among us hasn&apos;t bought something online, only to be bombarded with adverts for that product? Does the biggest search engine in the world really think thatbedsare a thing people purchase in twos?)Think how much harder that sort of recommendation is to make when you know barely anything about your target audience – and are largely banned by law from retaining what you do find out.You could just ask them, of course. But even with adult attention spans, most people find filling in pages of demographic detail deathly dull. Children will be unlikely to make it past the splash screen.Made By Pi still asks the questions, but makes them oblique enough that, it hopes, even kids as young as four will be able to make it through to the end.Their pilot, Predicto, presents users with five questions, in an attempt to learn enough about them to offer up three pieces of content on the CBBC website that they will like. But rather than boring demographic data, the questions are intended to be – and largely actually are – fun. Delivered by Hacker T Dog, a brown furry puppet that I am reliably informed is much adored by the pre-teen demographic, they beg an answer.Hacker makes a prediction in the Predicto Machino Photograph: /Made By PiThe questions &quot;I predict I could beat you in an arm wrestle&quot;; &quot;I predict you will like the fancy dress costume I have chosen for you&quot;; &quot;I predict you go everywhere in a stretch limousine&quot; don&apos;t appear to be all that informative.&quot;They look almost meaningless, but the algorithms behind it do put some understanding under the logic of a yes or no answer,&quot; explains Made By Pi&apos;s Dominic Smith.Because not every child answers the same way, the cleavages in their responses correlate well enough with other properties. Kids who like sport and outdoor activities may be more likely to claim victory in arm wrestling, while those who occupy themselves in their imagination or in stories may be optimistic about the chances that they&apos;ll like dressing up.One of the advantages of the Connected Studio scheme is the resources smaller organisations can access from the BBC. For a project like Predicto, that means testing at a scale larger than would be otherwise be possible.&quot;When we did user testing with six to 12 year olds,&quot; Smith adds, &quot;we found that Hacker&apos;s quite popular with kids of all ages, and they actually enjoyed answering the questions in itself. And it also did seem to send them to the right content.&quot;The ideal questions will find that a particular child is an eight-year-old boy who likes sports, doesn&apos;t like girls, likes playing outside and doesn&apos;t watch much telly, and tailor the content to that.&quot;Whether it achieves its goal is harder to test than Eezl was. Even when I answer the questions truthfully, the content recommended at the end is not to my taste. Because I&apos;m not a child.But even if it doesn&apos;t live up to the ambitions, it&apos;s a fascinating gauntlet thrown down to the companies who want to collect and harvest every nugget of information. Doing more with less is an admirable goal.If Eezl and Predicto are anything to go by, that&apos;s a lesson that the Connected Studio project itself has taken to heart. Seven more pilots have gone forward this season alone, each of them something the corporation would be proud to have turned out itself.•How today&apos;s children are using devices, apps and media
Apple isn&apos;t happy aboutits deal with the Federal Trade Commission to pay $32.5mto parents whose children made in-app purchases without permission.CEO Tim Cook grumbled that the settlement &quot;smacked of double jeopardy&quot; because Apple had already promised to refund affected parents. But the company&apos;s willingness to accept responsibility shows it accepts it was at fault.This isn&apos;t just an Apple problem, though. In fact, there are three distinct groups who must shoulder the responsibility of ensuring children don&apos;t clean out their parents&apos; bank accounts buying gems, coins, donuts or SmurfBerries.One group is platform owners: Apple, Google, Microsoft, Amazon and more. The companies that sell devices and run their app stores. The second group is app developers, and the third group is parents.When I&apos;ve written about this topic for The Guardian, the comments section has often descended into blaming just one of these groups: platform owners don&apos;t care, developers are scammers, or parents are stupid, generally.The truth? They all have responsibilities around this issue, at a time when more children than ever are using apps, and when in-app purchases have become the dominant way developers make money from the app stores.Platform ownersSmartphones and tablets are now mainstream in the developed world, and they&apos;re sold (tablets particularly) on the basis of their ease of use. Read the f***ing manual? You don&apos;t need to: that&apos;s the point. Especially when there are step-by-step setup processes the first time you turn the device on.A good step would be to include parental restrictions in this process: a step that asks &apos;Will children be using this device?&apos;. If not, it&apos;s a single extra tap to move on to the next step. If so, parents could be walked through setting restrictions to ensure that kids can&apos;t spend money without their approval.Educating parents can go beyond this too: Apple has already launched a guide to in-app purchases on its App Store – this could be linked to at the end of that setup process – and it has also made it more obvious on the App Store when an app uses in-app purchases.This should be standard practice. And the likes of Apple and Google can play a role in other ways too, setting rules for apps designated as being for children (it helps to have a dedicated Kids category on a store) and promoting the best, most ethical ones at the expense of the scammier ones. Talking of which...App developers and publishersIn-app purchases in children&apos;s apps aren&apos;t bad and wrong by definition. There are a growing number of kids&apos; apps that use in-app stores to sell digital stories, for example, while others offer a limited free trial with a single purchase to unlock more features.Many of these apps are great, and take great pains to explain to parents how their in-app purchases work, and trying to hide them away so that younger children in particular won&apos;t accidentally stumble on the buying bit. This is good practice.Other children&apos;s apps... aren&apos;t so good. They pull every psychological lever they can to persuade children to pay, or to pester their parents to pay. It can be little design touches – last year&apos;s Office of Fair Trading report into this subject has a rogues gallery of examples – or gameplay goals geared towards stimulating purchases.There&apos;s a commercial reason not to do this kind of stuff: it alienates parents (once they get to know about it), and word of mouth remains one of the biggest ways people find new children&apos;s apps. Or decide to avoid them. There&apos;s also a legal reason: regulators are hovering over the market, mulling whether to make examples of less ethical apps.But really, the best reason to act appropriately is the ethical reason: these are apps and games for children! Whether wilfully naughty or wilfully ignorant – I&apos;m still trying to decide which camp offering £69.99 in-app purchases in a children&apos;s game falls into – over-aggressive and/or misleading use of in-app purchases is bad news.And yet...ParentsYeah, parents. We&apos;re responsible too, even if a surprise four-figure credit-card bill due to our child running wild in an in-app store will inevitably leave us wanting to blame someone else. That doesn&apos;t mean we&apos;re stupid or bad parents for getting caught out, but given the media coverage of previous examples, in 2014 we can&apos;t really plead ignorance any more.Step one: if your child is using your device,ensure your in-app purchases restrictions are firmly locked down, and NEVER share your app store password with them. The latter is especially important: an under-reported aspect of this issue is that in many of the cases reported in the media, the child knew their parent&apos;s password.But the wider issue, particularly for older kids, is a traditional parenting skill: talking to our children about their media usage, setting boundaries where appropriate, and perhaps even thinking about finding a way to give them control of their spending – for example a monthly &apos;digital content&apos; budget as part of their pocket money. iTunes and Google Play vouchers, for example.A lot of games that end up in the press for children making unapproved purchases aren&apos;t actually children&apos;s games: Clash of Clans, Candy Crush Saga and Plants vs Zombies being three prominent examples. I&apos;d suggest that the responsibility here lies more on the parent to know what their child is playing, than on the developer to add more child-protection features to their game.But what about...ChildrenThose pesky kids! Shouldn&apos;t they shoulder some of the responsibility for their actions? Older ones probably should. Spanked mum or dad&apos;s credit card on a chest of gems or two? You&apos;re grounded! And you&apos;ll be paying it back in instalments. But that&apos;s a discipline issue, which brings it back to parents.Younger children don&apos;t necessarily understand what they&apos;re doing when buying in-app purchases, especially if they&apos;re playing something with some of the dodgy design features laid out in the OFT report. This is where the responsibility comes back to platform owners, developers and parents.It should be about responsibility rather than blame, though. Also, for every one child in the news for overspending on IAP, there are millions more enjoying creative, educational and/or playful apps. For every dodgy children&apos;s developer there are hundreds more behaving ethically.There&apos;s a lot of good happening around children&apos;s apps. Sharing the responsibility to tackle IAP bill-shock will help bring the focus back to the positive side.•50 best apps for kids from 2013 that parents can trust
The Motorola Moto X is the first flagship smartphone from the inventor of the mobile since it was acquired by Google, and as such is a Google phone through and through.Motorola hopes that the Moto X, together withthe excellent Moto G budget smartphonelaunched in November 2013, will be enough to turn the company&apos;s fortunes around from a sustained loss over the past six quarters since it was acquired in May 2012.The Moto X was originally launched solely in the US in August 2013, and has taken almost six months to reach the UK. It was originally touted as the &quot;self-driving&quot; smartphone, due to its ability to respond to the keywords &quot;OK Google Now&quot; triggering searches, controlling music and making calls even while the screen is off.Motorola says it spent several months fine-tuning the Moto X&apos;s speech recognition to handle the varied accents around the UK - an important point if it is to function, as Andrew Morley, director of Motorola UK stressed, so you &quot;really can use it without your hands, through the natural communications medium of voice.&quot;That&apos;s handyThe Motorola Moto X follows the design language shown first by the Moto G in the UK. Its curved back bucks the flat-backed trend of most high-end smartphones such as the iPhone 5S or Sony Xperia Z1.As a result, the phone fits well in the hand, with the back providing a reassuring grip so that the smartphone won&apos;t fly out of your fingers like a wet bar of soap. It&apos;s solidly built and has a quality feel, despite its plastic construction.Motorola Moto X review &ndash; the curved back of the Moto X fits more ergonomically in the hand.With its non-removable back and integrated battery, the Moto X weighs the same 130g as the slightly larger Google Nexus 5 and Samsung Galaxy S4, and is 18g heavier than the smaller iPhone 5S. (For comparison, a pound coin weighs 9.5g.)At the thickest point it&apos;s 10.4mm thick - more than the majority of the competition including the iPhone 5S (7.6mm), Samsung Galaxy S4 (7.9mm) and Google Nexus 5 (8.6mm).It is for sale in the UK in two colours, black and white, but it is available in a myriad of colours and customisation options in the US. Motorola said these might come to the UK in the near future.Motorola Moto X review &ndash; the Moto X is currently only available in black and white in the UK, unlike the US where it is available in a myriad of colours.The 4.7in 720p HD AMOLED screen has a density of 316 pixels per inch (ppi) making text look crisp. Images and video look vibrant, with great contrast.The Moto X&apos;s screen has a lower pixel-density than the iPhone 5S (326ppi) and significantly less than the 445ppi screens of the Nexus 5 and Samsung Galaxy S4 - but the difference is not appreciable during normal use. (Recall what Steve Jobs said: &quot;the magic number for a retina display is about 300 PPI for a device held 10 to 12in from the eye&quot;. So you can&apos;t see the pixels on the Moto X.)The screen is scratch-resistant Gorilla Glass, and there&apos;s a nanotechnological waterproof coating on the inside and out of the Moto X – making it water repellent, in theory.SpecificationsScreen: 4.7in 720p HD displayProcessor: Motorola X8 computing system (1.7GHz dual-core Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro CPU, quad-core Adreno 320 GPU, plus separate natural language and a contextual computing processors)RAM: 2GB of RAMStorage: 16/32GBOperating system: Android 4.4 “KitKat”Camera: 10-megapixel rear and 2-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity: 4G LTE, Wi-Fi (n/ac), Bluetooth 4.0 LE and GPSDimensions: 65.3 x 129.4 x 10.4mm (5.7mm at thinnest point)Weight: 130gFast and lasts all dayThe Moto X is pitched as a new type of premium smartphone that doesn&apos;t play the numbers game with enormous, power-hungry processors.Instead, Motorola&apos;s new 8X multiprocessor system couples a traditional 1.7GHz dual-core Qualcomm Snapdragon S4 Pro processor with a natural language processor and a contextual computing processor, as well as a quad-core graphics processor.The result is a responsive phone that is light on battery use and can keep multiple sensors running even when the phone is in standby, something high-end phones such as the Samsung Galaxy S4 struggle with.Motorola Moto X review &ndash; the smaller size and curved back make the Moto X easier to hold and use with one hand.Applications load in what feels like an instant, and swapping between running applications is about as fast as any flagship smartphone currently available. Multitasking is also slick and fast thanks to 2GB of RAM, while even graphically intensive games run smoothly.For storage, the Moto X packs 16 or 32GB built in, depending on the model. There&apos;s no support for external expansion via microSD. Instead Google has bundled an extra 50GB of Google Drive cloud storage for two years (though you&apos;d have to pay for it after that time).Obviously, you can&apos;t use that cloud storage for apps or music you want to use on your phone immediately. Google does provide the Play Music cloud music service to store up to 20,000 tracks from your music library for free for streaming or caching on your device, however.Active display, on showOne of the biggest differentiators over most of the other Android phones available at the moment is Motorola&apos;s replacement of the notification LED light with what it calls &quot;active display&quot;.James Soames, Motorola UK&apos;s director of marketing, says that research conducted by the company found that users generally turned on their phone&apos;s screen 60 times a day, but only for seconds, checking for notifications or the time. In the process they would fire up the screen&apos;s backlight and wake the main processors out of standby, significantly reducing battery life.To solve this issue and take advantage of the OLED screen (which unlike LCD screens doesn&apos;t use a backlight; only the pixels that are lit demand power), Motorola developed active display.When a notification comes in, only a small section of the screen lights up displaying an icon for what has just happened. A tap and hold gesture shows more at-a-glance information, allowing the user to assess whether it is worth turning unlocking the phone to access whatever just happened, be it a call, a text, an email or any other alert.Motorola Moto X review &ndash; using the OLED screen, Motorola's Active Display shows notifications without lighting up the whole screen and provides at-a-glance information on a tap and hold.If you miss the notification, the icon will be pulsed on the screen every 10 or so seconds, but can be dismissed with a swipe gesture until the next notification comes in. It works very well, and allows you to immediately dismiss and check notifications without unlocking your phone every time. Equally, you can pick and choose which notifications will appear in the lock screen, and mute them at night so your room doesn&apos;t look like a meteor shower.The screen will not light up if the phone detects that it is face down or in a pocket, another saving on battery drain, but will immediately light up with the notification or time if it is picked up or removed from your pocket.Battery life is something Motorola has been known for; like the Moto G, the Moto X continues the tradition. Motorola rates the Moto X as having around “all-day battery life” of around 24 hours, juggling web browsing, emailing and listening to music.In my testing I found the Moto X far exceeded the battery life of most of the competition, including the Google Nexus 5. With everything switched on and frequent access to the phone, plus some graphically intensive gaming, the Moto X lasted about 18 hours on average.Bearing in mind the flood of emails that pass through my devices, and the constant connection to servers across 4G, the Moto X is likely to last much longer than that in most consumers’ hands.Android optimised for speedAs with the Moto G, Android on the Moto X is as close to the standard software offered by Google as possible.Most of Motorola&apos;s efforts in software have been focused on optimisation, aiming for a smooth, lag-free experience. You get the Google Play store and its 1m apps, and the latest version of Android – presently 4.4 “KitKat”, which very few smartphones and tablets besides the Google Nexus series currently run.Motorola has made a few small tweaks to the standard Android experience. One of the first apps you notice is Motorola Migrate, which helps you move to the Moto X from other Android smartphones by transferring contacts, call history and text messages, photos and videos wirelessly to your new phone.Android still hasn&apos;t got a consistent built-in system for migrating other data such as apps, settings, photos and videos over from old phones.This is something where the mobile OSs do differ. Migrating from an old to a new iPhone is simply a matter of putting in your iCloud account details and choosing which of the automatic backups to restore (which will then download all the apps, music and video you&apos;ve bought, as well as settings - excepting email and social network passwords). Windows Phone is similar, though backing up your phone is optional, and it doesn&apos;t save app data.Motorola Moto X review &ndash; optimised standard Android is a joy to use. Photograph: /MotorolaOn Android, apps sometimes need to be manually re-installed, either on the device or via the Play Store website; other times even if you ask Google to restore apps on setup, some apps won&apos;t download. Photos might – or might not – be restored, depending on whether the setting to automatically backup photos to Google+ was previously enabled. For all those reasons, Migrate is useful. (Third-party apps such as Helium which do the same task, backing up your data to a cloud provider or local storage of your choice, are available. Of course, you&apos;d need to have installed it on your previous phone.)Motorola Assist is another handy addition made to stock Android. Assist reads your calendar and automatically silences your phone when in meetings, automatically responding to calls with a rejection text message. It will also mute your phone between preset hours at night, and set up lists of favourite contacts that allows a phone call through if the caller rings twice in quick succession. (This is the same as the iPhone&apos;s &quot;Do Not Disturb&quot; system.)While driving, Assist can also detect your speed via the GPS and will automatically talk to you, telling you who is calling or reading your text messages aloud, allowing you to respond via voice.Finally, Motorola has built in a smart “trusted devices” feature into its Bluetooth settings, which allows you to keep your Moto X unlocked if its in the presence of certain Bluetooth devices, such as a pair of headphones or your car’s stereo.&apos;OK Google Now&apos;The most novel feature of the Moto X is its &quot;touchless control&quot; feature, which effectively allows voice control of the phone at any point, even while the screen is off.Using the built-in natural language co-processor, the Moto X is permanently listening for the keywords &quot;OK Google Now&quot;, which can be used to initiate a search, get directions, play music, make a call or play music without having to touch the phone.Motorola Moto X review &ndash; the Moto X will respond to the keywords 'OK Google Now' even while the screen is off, allowing touchless searching and control of the phone.Touchless control also integrates into the Google Now app, and is capable of pulling your alerts and learning your route, putting Google Now&apos;s predictive information system at the control of your voice at any time.However if you use a screen lock then certain functions are disabled until you unlock your phone, but calls can still be placed to people in your address book that you have called in the past 30 days, among other smaller functions.After training the Moto X to recognise your (and only your) voice, for the most part the voice control functions well, and is an asset while driving further enhanced by Motorola Assist&apos;s &quot;driving&quot; mode. But you still end up feeling a little silly shouting at your phone in public.Twist and shootAs with the Moto G, Motorola has focused its efforts on the camera application. It has simplified the user experience to an easy-to-use point-and-click process, hiding the majority of the interface and settings behind slide-out menus.Capturing a photo is as easy as a tap anywhere on the screen, with advanced features such as high-dynamic-range photography, the flash settings, panorama mode and slow-motion video as well as auto-focus settings, revealed by a simple sliding gesture out from the side.The Moto X packs a 10 megapixel camera, which Motorola claims is capable of taking photos up to twice as quickly in bright light compared to &quot;other leading smartphones&quot; (which are unspecified), while performing well in low-light conditions.On the whole the camera snaps decent images with good colour saturation and detail, while low-light performance was impressive and easily as good as most of the competition.One of the best features is the quick capture gesture, however, which saves the fumbling usually required to quickly shoot a photo.Simply twisting the phone like the twist-grip accelerator on a motorbike a couple of times will invoke the camera ready for shooting, whether the screen is off or you&apos;re in another app. It works very well for the most part and is a lot quicker than trying to unlock your phone and find the camera app, or even the lockscreen cameras that quite a few smartphones have these days.Mid-range priceThe Motorola Moto X costs £380 SIM-free - far cheaper than competition such as the Samsung Galaxy S4 and iPhone 5S, but £80 more expensive than the Google Nexus 5. (The 3G-only Moto G costs £135 or less.)The Motorola flagship can can be had for free on contracts starting at £25 per month.Verdict: one of the best Android smartphones availableGiven that Google owns Motorola, and the Moto X directly competes with the Google Nexus 5, why does the Moto X exist? Ignore that for now - Motorola has made a terrific smartphone.While it is not quite as disruptive as the budget Moto G was before it, the Moto X is very solidly built, feels premium in the hand, and has an attractive 4.7in screen.It is also smaller than most flagship Android smartphones (which tend to have 5in screens), making it easier to hold and control if you&apos;ve got smaller hands; the ergonomically curved back helps.The voice control, active display and camera quick-start features are excellent additions to the standard Android experience, and Motorola’s commitment to optimisation and speed is evident as the device is lag-free.However the Nexus 5 is cheaper, and offers all the same features; it&apos;s better value. If that didn&apos;t exist, this could have been considered the best (in terms of value for money) all-round Android smartphone going at the moment.Pros:All-day battery, advanced voice control, quick camera activation, ergonomic design, lag-free experience, latest version of AndroidCons:Rear speaker is quite quiet, no expandable storage, water-resistant rather than waterproof
During the summer of 1992, between my first and second years at university, I was working at a video game studio in Leamington Spa. We were supposed to be coding a game called Tank Commander for the PC, a long forgotten battle simulation – but one day someone brought in a Game Link cable, which allowed the connection of two Nintendo Game Boy consoles together. Of course, we immediately loaded up the Tetris competitive mode, in which any lines you cleared on your own screen would be cruelly transferred on to the bottom of your opponent&apos;s stack. Work ground to a halt and didn&apos;t really start up again for several days.Most gamers have Tetris addiction stories. Since Russian programmer Alexey Pajitnov first developed the falling shape puzzler while working at the Moscow Academy of Sciences, it has sold hundreds of millions of copies on more than 50 different hardware platforms. Scientists and designers have pondered over its incredible appeal, the extraordinary compulsion people have to fit variously shaped tetriminos into a bucket. The beauty of Tetris is its simplicity – you need to understand no archaic conventions or rules of gaming. It is also essentially about something that we all find intrinsically satisfying: tidying up. Tetris is about imposing order, even if the task is Sisyphean, because the shapes don&apos;t stop falling until your stack reaches the top of the screen. And then it&apos;s all over.Tetris in the brainThe purity and popularity of the game have made it one of the most researched and analysed on the planet. Countless papers have been written on its cognitive effects. In 2009 researchpublished in BioMed Centralsuggested that playing Tetris could strengthen the neural networks in the brain, perhaps even improving memory. In the same year, researchers at Oxford Universityfound thatTetris could help reduce flashbacks in sufferers of post-traumatic stress disorder. Most of us just joked about the &quot;Tetris effect&quot;, the worrying after-image of falling blocks behind our eyes and evenin our dreams.Since the original prototype was developed by Pajitnov on an ancient Electronica 60 computer, the rights to the concept have been swapped, fought over, brought and more-or-less stolen dozens of times. The publishing history of the game is a complex puzzle in its own right (and to find out more you should immediately watch the documentaryTetris: From Russia With Love). There have been various attempts to update the recipe. 1989&apos;s Super Tetris added a smart bomb, 2001 title Tetris Worlds brought in a story mode(!), and introduced &quot;hold&quot; and &quot;easy spin&quot; mechanics. Later, Electronic Arts toyed with the brand for a while, producing the decent Tetris Blitz (which bought in an against-the-clock dynamic) before blotting its copybook entirely by trying toadd a subscription service to its iOS Tetris port.Tetris unboundThese were sort of interesting, but most players saw them for what they were – rather desperate attempts to re-sell a concept that worked fine in its cheaply and readily available traditional incarnations. Although, if we&apos;re going to to get really into this, the four-player mode in the Nintendo 64 title, Tetris 64, was pretty special, as was crossover classic Tetris With Card Captor Sakura, by longtime Street Fighter developer Arika. That company actually produced some of the finest Tetris spin-offs in the form of its Tetris: The Grand Master series. Here is expert player Jin8 besting Tetris Grand Master 3. It is pretty incredible:There were also lots of very good rivals, including Jay Geertsen&apos;s Columns, later licensed by Sega for various platforms including the Game Gear, the manufacturer&apos;s rival to Game Boy. Better though was the gloriously kawaii Puyo Puyo series, originally from Japanese studio Compile. Even Mario got in on the scene with 1990 title Dr Mario, which replaced all the shapes with differently coloured pills in what was clearly a tribute to acid house culture. (I&apos;m kidding.)Now another giant publisher, Ubisoft, has announced that it is working with the Tetris Company – the organisation co-founded by Pajitnov that now owns the right to the brand – to produce new versions for the Xbox One and PlayStation 4. So far it has given nothing away about what these games will look like or what new features will be added to take advantage of these ultra powerful machines – but surely new modes and functions will appear. What will they look like? Will it make use of the console&apos;s connectivity to offer vast global leaderboards likeTetris Zone? Will we see cloud support? A persistent massively multiplayer Tetris arena, thousands of blocks wide, which a global audience must keep from spilling over?Perhaps there will be Tetris Kinect, where you shout, &quot;turn it left, no LEFT, now drop it, no not there, THERE!&quot; Maybe Ubisoft will bring in some of the epic narrative sweep of the Assassin&apos;s Creed series. It turns out that this version of Tetris is being played in a vast national security mainframe, and players have to hack the code to escape the distopian nightmare. Are we going to get Tetris Rayman, the unlikely combination of block-falling puzzler and Ubisoft&apos;s invisible-limbed platforming mascot? Is there something in the Geneva convention that could stop this from happening?One thing is certain, while there are computers to play games on there will be Tetris. It defies barriers of language and culture, it is interactive entertainment in its purest form. Somehow, Pajitnov discovered a hotwire to the brain; an experience that talked to the central processing unit of human cognition in its own machine language. And like the rest of the industry, despite following up with several sequels, the puzzle-obsessed coder has not repeated the brilliance of Tetris. But of course we should be reminded of the apocryphal story about Joseph Heller. When told by an interviewer that, since Catch 22, he had never managed to write anything as good, he replied, &quot;No, but then neither has anyone else&quot;. Pajitnov can quite securely make the same claim.• Confessions of a Tetris addict• The player: Tetris may stop trauma flashbacks
Having a bit of a clear out, I thought I would rip some old DVDs to free up some space, as I did with my music collection some years ago. I planned to store the content on my NAS to stream/sync to a range of devices, including a couple of DLNA-compliant Smart TVs, iPad, iPhone, Xbox 360 and obviously PCs. I'm not overly concerned about file size, and would prefer the best-quality video and audio possible. I would also like to preserve any multichannel audio (ie 5.1 surround sound). What file formats would you recommend to enable me to remain flexible and future-proof myself as much as possible? I have already tried a couple of DVDs saved as .mpg, which work well with my smart TVs. I've tried importing these into iTunes for syncing with my iPad, but iTunes does not seem to like them.Scott MartinMost DVDs store movies in the standard MPEG-2 format (aka H.262) defined by the Motion Pictures Expert Group, though MPEG-1 is also supported. The video is held in VOB (Video Object) files. The video is interlaced for display on ordinary TV sets. The result is a resolution of 720 x 576 pixels at 25 frames per second, for 50Hz TV sets, or a resolution of 720 x 480 pixels at 29.97 frames per second, for 60Hz TV sets.MPEG-2 was the obvious choice for DVDs as it was already being used for broadcast and cable television. The 720 x 480 format came from America's NTSC television system and 720 x 576 from Europe's PAL.ISO or MPEG?If you want to preserve everything on a DVD, then the simplest option is to copy the whole disc as anISO disc image. You could burn this copy to another DVD for backup purposes. You could also play the ISO disc image using a software DVD player, including VideoLan's VLC, or rip it using your choice of DVD ripping software.What you have done so far is to rip a couple of DVDs to MPEG-2 (.mpg), so you may have the full original video, but de-interlaced so it is now in the progressive display format used by computer monitors and HD TVs. However, you will probably have lost any extras, including VMG (video manager) files, subtitles, hidden files, adverts and alternative audio formats. DVDs can have audio tracks in PCM, DTS, MPEG-1 Audio Layer II (MP2), or Dolby Digital (AC-3) format. MP2 and AC-3 are the most common, and if you have to pick one of those, choose AC-3. It is much more efficient (smaller files) and sounds better than MP2, which is antique – though, sadly, it's still used in Britain's antique DAB radios.For future-proofing, MPEG-2 files are the next best thing to ISO images, and I don't foresee a time when PCs will be unable to play them. As with MP3 audio files, there are just too many around.The next generationComputers and processors have become cheaper and much more powerful since MPEG-2 was specified in the 1990s. This means we can now use much greater levels of compression to make files smaller, and yet still decode them fast enough to keep up the frame rate. This led to the Blu-ray optical disc format, which mandates support for two new video standards: MPEG-4 AVC (Advanced Video Coding) and VC-1, the latter being based on Microsoft's WMV-9. Some early Blu-ray discs actually used MPEG-2, as that was the basis for digital production at the time. However, H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 AVC – commonly known as H.264 – is the most widely used format.Blu-ray movies usually come in 16:9 widescreen resolutions of 1280 x 720 pixels, which is known as HD (High Definition) or 720p, or 1920 x 1080 pixels, which is Full HD or 1080p, where p stands for "progressive". Blu-ray also allows for the use of interlaced video and the 4:3 DVD formats for backwards compatibility. HD TV sets will de-interlace videos automatically.Now, video consumes a huge amount of space, so both DVDs and BDs use lossy compression to make the files smaller. MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 files are the equivalent of MP3 audio files in that respect. And, as you know, "transcoding" from one lossy format to another involves a loss in quality. It's something to avoid if possible, and if not, to do only once.Fortunately, this usually isn't a problem if you're reducing the movie's resolution – for example, converting a 1080p video to 720p to get a much smaller file size – or viewing it on a smaller screen. It can be a problem if you are "upscaling" a DVD movie to 720p or 1080p.Movies for iPads and iPhonesYou don't have much choice if you want to use Apple iTunes and watch movies natively on an iPad or iPhone. Apple makes things simpler by eliminating dozens of popular alternatives (AVI, WMV, DivX, Xvid, FLV, MKV etc) and only allowing two real digital video options: MPEG-4 at 640 x 480 pixels and H.264 at up to 720p on most iPads, and up to 1080p on the iPad mini and iPad Air. Both formats are MPEG-4, so what's the difference? MPEG-4 comes in lots of varieties and H.264 is actually MPEG-4 AVC Part 10.The alternative is to use a third-party video player, such as VideoLan's open sourceVLC for iOS. The website says it "can play all your movies and shows in most formats directly without conversion" and it works with iTunes.If you decide to convert files, it depends on your DVDs and your iPhone and iPad. Download one of the free video converters and transcode your 720 x 576 MPEG-2 movies into 640 x 480 MPEG-4 movies, which iTunes should be happy to accept. If you have any widescreen movies, then I'd convert them to H.264/AVC in the 720p format. You might get a little extra quality if your iPad supports 1080p, but on such a small screen, there won't be enough of a difference to justify the much bigger file sizes and longer transcoding times. (I don't own an iPad so I'm basing this opinion on using PCs with much bigger screens.)Transcoding softwareI've no idea which programs do the best job of transcoding movies for iOS, but there are so few options, it should be a fully automated process. Perhaps readers can recommend something. Otherwise you can always use one of the free video transcoders that handle the whole array of different file formats, codecs, resolutions, frame rates, bit-rates and so on. Examples includeSuper ©, which is slow and ugly, andHandbrake, which is pretty clunky, as well as more stylish programs such asXmedia RecodeandMedia Coder. You may also findAvidemuxuseful for editing. Try downloading a few programs and see what works for you.In defence of Super and Handbrake, I've used them for years and somehow got decent results out of them. I couldn't manage that in my brief trial of Media Coder, though I did get a good conversion in my one go with Xmedia Recode. Also, it may better to useVidCoderrather than Handbrake: it's easier to use and it uses Handbrake to do the transcoding.With audio CDs, you can use Exact Audio Copy and FLAC, the Free Lossless Audio Codec, to make perfect digital copies that you can leave to your grandchildren, who will be able to convert them to whatever format is popular at the time. With DVDs, you don't get a perfect copy, just a lossy video file, so an ISO is the most future-proof option. However, an MPEG-2 file that matches the original (just in a different wrapper, as it were) is almost as good. If you're going to transcode MPEG-2 into something more modern, then H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is probably the best bet, and the files should be about half the size. Whether they'll be good enough for the 4K (3840 x 2160 pixel) screens we'll all be using in a few years is another matter.The UltraViolet solutionIf you're ripping commercial CDs or Blu-rays, you should store the original discs somewhere safe. These discs show that you own the originals and have re-purposed them for convenience, not pirated or downloaded them. Ideally, movie studios would make digital copies available online either free or for a reasonable fee. The industry now does this with itsUltraVioletsystem. If you buy DVDs or Blu-ray discs with UV stickers, you also get access to a cloud version that you can stream to different devices or download.In the US, Walmart and some other stores are offeringDisc to Digitalupgrades for some movies. You take your DVDs and BDs to the store and pay $2 for a digital copy, which is actually stored by Vudu. You get to keep the DVDs. It's quicker and a lot more convenient than ripping them yourself, and of course, the quality is excellent. I haven't seen this promoted in the UK, thoughFindAnyFilm.comsupports UV, and Tesco has offered buyers free digital copies via itsBlinkboxservice.
What does the Macropod do?The Macropod – created by a group of American scientific researchers, calling themselvesMacroscopic Solutions– is a portable 3D high-resolution macroscopic imaging device. Turns outeverythinglooks amazingup close.TheKickstarter campaignaims to raise $30,000, which will go towards improving the product&apos;s efficiency and lowering its retail cost. The Macropod currently sells for around $21,000 compared to its competitors at around $100,000, but the company&apos;s long-term aim is to get that price to below $10,000.For every 10 macropods sold, one is donated to a high school to be used in science classes. The team say they want to &quot;show people the world as it really exists&quot;.The Macropod. Photograph: Daniel M Saftner, Mark R Smith, Annette E Evans and Joseph H&nbsp;Bellaire/Image Database: Macroscopic SolutionsHow does it do it?The Macropod uses automated image-stacking and compiles up to 500 single-frame photographs into one picture, resulting in completely focused, high-resolution, colour images. The essentials of taking a good photograph – lighting, exposure time, ISO, aperture and focus – are all made easy, so those with limited photography skills (like, perhaps, your average scientist) can take perfect pictures.Tip of a human tongue, photographed by the Macropod. Photograph: Daniel M Saftner, Mark R Smith, Annette E Evans and Joseph H&nbsp;Bellaire/Image Database: Macroscopic SolutionsWhy might it take off?Just look at the pictures. Who doesn&apos;t want a Macropod? Over the years researchers have been using stereoscopes, microscopes or other imaging devices to record observations. These instruments are usually incredibly expensive and only show a tiny proportion of an object in detail.The Macropod claims to overcome the depth-of-field limitations that are inherent in most micro- and macro-imaging devices. Designed to work in the lab and in the field, it can shoot both still images and video.A close-up of the wing of a callicore butterfly. Photograph: Daniel M Saftner, Mark R Smith, Annette E Evans and Joseph H&nbsp;Bellaire/Image Database: Macroscopic SolutionsWhy might it fail to take off?Macroscopic Solutions want the Macropod to be accessible for every child and adult with an interest in science – and wouldn&apos;t that be good?But the Macropod will never be one of those cool gadgets you get for Christmas and lose interest in after a few weeks. The device consists of outsourced components, which have a limited production and are expensive. Even getting the costs down to a level feasible for schools will be a tall order. But, as long as buyers continue to be scientific research institutes, the costs won&apos;t necessarily stop the product being a success.• Which smartphone has the best camera? - in picturesA blue eye. Photograph: Daniel M Saftner, Mark R Smith, Annette E Evans and Joseph H Bellaire/Image Database: Macroscopic Solutions, LLC.
Nintendo&apos;s Wii U console is looking like a flop. The Japanese games company has dramatically slashed the number that it expects to sell in the 12 months to the end of March from 9m to just 2.8m in arestated financial forecast(PDF) issued on Friday morning which also warns that it will fall into an operating and net loss for the year, instead of a forecast profit.Overall, the company has cut its forecast sales by a third, from 920 billion yen (£5.4bn) to 590bn, and says it expects that it will make an operating loss of 35bn yen rather than a profit of 100bn. It had forecast a 55bn net profit - but now says it will make a 25bn yen loss.The correction comes with almost a third of the financial year yet to come and marks the depths of the problems facing the company after a poor reception for its followup to the bestselling Wii console, and the success of rivals Sony with its new PlayStation 4 and Microsoft with its Xbox One. Both of those, launched ahead of the Christmas season, have sold millions - easily outstripping the Wii U.Nintendo blamed disappointing sales of its consoles during the Christmas period, which is the biggest buying season for games and consoles: &quot;software sales with a relatively high margins were significantly lower than our original forecasts, mainly due to the fact that hardware sales did not reach their expected level,&quot; it said in the statement.It also halved the number of games that it expects to sell for the Wii U, from 38m to 19m.The 3DS handheld console is also expected to sell in lower numbers, with the forecast cutting year-long sales from 1.8m to 1.35m, and games for it from 80m to 66m. Its Wii console, which is still on sale, saw a revised forecast from 2m to 1.2m, though it expects to sell more games - 26m rather than 20m.The Wii U has failed to grab the imagination of buyers. Launched in 2012, it sold 3.45m in its first year. But its format - offering a tablet that connects to a Wii-style console - has created a challenge for games developers, who have struggled to find compelling ways to produce games that people want but which require the Wii U rather than the Wii.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTech support scammers target smartphone and tablet users &gt;&gt; Malwarebytes UnpackedWhile paying for ads requires a certain budget, ads have the advantage of funnelling higher quality prospects because people are actually already experiencing an issue.In contrast, cold-calling is a very wasteful approach (low ratio of interested people for the number of outgoing calls) and not to mention that in many countries cold-calling is completely illegal.The following (Figure 1) is a search that was performed directly from an Android tablet, querying the Bing search engine for "android slow tech support".The top two results are actually paid ads (as opposed to organic results) which guarantees the buyer best placement and therefore more traffic.Same old scam, though.Microsoft: We're doing cross-promotions, not paying OEMs $2.6bn &gt;&gt; NeowinThe rumour [of payments] was started by Eldar Murtazin who doesn't have the greatest track record when it comes to these things. He claimed that a few OEMs that were coming back to Windows Phone in 2014 would get a big stack of cash from Microsoft. Out of those Samsung was supposedly taking the lion's share with more than $1bn in payments. On the face of it this makes sense, Microsoft trying to push WP hard by supporting manufacturers just like they did with Nokia.However, Frank Shaw, Microsoft's head of communications called these numbers fiction. In a tweet earlier Shaw said that Microsoft does indeed spend money on OEMs in co-promotions. We've seen the company do this a few times with Nokia and even HTC. However Murtazin is standing his ground saying that in fact the company is doing a lot more than promotions, they're covering OEM's R&amp;D costs and helping them to switch to Microsoft's OS in order to launch new devices.Google Now in Chrome for Desktop &gt;&gt; Google System blogGoogle Now cards are available in the latest Chrome Canary build for Windows and Mac (34.0.1788). You only need to go to chrome://flags/#enable-google-now , then switch from "Default" to "Enabled" and click "Relaunch Now" at the bottom of the page to restart the browser. Chrome Canary and the stable Chrome can run at the same time, but the Canary version is updated daily, has the latest features and it's for developers and early adopters.ATMs face deadline to upgrade from Windows XP &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThere are 420,000 ATMs in the U.S., and on April 8, a deadline looms for nearly all of them that underscores how sluggishly the nation's cash delivery system moves forward. That's the day Microsoft (MSFT) cuts off tech support for Windows XP, meaning that ATMs running the software will no longer receive regular security patches and won't be in compliance with industry standards.Apple and Samsung grow to represent 68% of smartphones owned in the US &gt;&gt; NPD GroupApple and Samsung were the winners as more consumers migrated to their flagship devices.  iPhone ownership increased from 35% in Q4 2012 to 42% in Q4 2013. Likewise, Samsung Android phones increased from 22% of smartphones owned in Q4 2012 to 26% in Q4 2013. In contrast, fewer smartphone owners reported having an HTC, Motorola, or Blackberry device in Q4 2013.Note - this is ownership, not sales (and for over-18s). BlackBerry ownership down to 2% of the smartphone population.China's pirates turn their backs on wearable tech &gt;&gt; CNN.com"I've never seen a knock-off Gear in this whole town," said a young woman working in a shop full of Samsung products. Her shop is one of the few outlets that sell the real Gear but she said "they don't sell well.""[Counterfeiters] don't care about the Gear as consumer demand is too weak," said another shop assistant in his early twenties, who was selling a number of what he said were real Samsung products, but not the smart watch. "We don't sell it anymore. It was not popular."They don't seem to have asked about Google Glass, but there's a terrific anecdote about Nokia phones in there too.Mr Justice Tugendhat ruling on Google v UK Safari users &gt;&gt; Scribd"Google's barrister] Mr White… added that the Article 10 rights [under the Human Rights Act] of Google Inc 'plainly are [engaged] by reason of its right to disseminate information to others (for example in the form of advertising) and the right of internet users to receive that information."In arguing that the case before the UK High Court over Google's hacking of Safari browsers to run DoubleClick cookies was without merit, and should be heard in California, one of Google's arguments was that stopping it collecting information interfered with its human rights. The ruling is long, but comprehensible.NTT Docomo abandons its Tizen smartphone launch plans for now &gt;&gt; Unwired ViewSamsung's own smartphone platform effort, Tizen,  can't seem to catch a break. Its biggest supporter among mobile carriers – NTT Docomo – just officially announced that they are delaying Tizen smartphone launch plans indefinitely.Samsung and Intel unveiled Tizen OS way back in September 2011, with first devices scheduled to ship in late 2012. That got pushed to spring 2013, then summer 2013, then again- to Q4.  And, obviously, nothing happened.Tizen increasingly looks like it will never happen. Samsung's S-apps work to retain users, while Google is happy to be its outsourced OS development arm.File:Undersea cable laying.gif &gt;&gt; Wikimedia CommonsHow to lay an undersea cable, in a GIF. It turns out to be the opposite of "how do you build a bridge".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The scramble for small change at the parking meter could soon be a thing of the past in central London after the City of Westminster council expanded a &quot;smart&quot; parking trial.The City is looking into the possibility of creating a &quot;cashless parking scheme&quot;, the council&apos;s parking services development manager Kieran Fitsall told the Guardian.&quot;We think it would be easier if you could drive up, park in a space, and the sensor (fitted into a parking bay) notes that you are a registered user,&quot; Fitsall said.As the council has not drawn up any specific plans, there is no information on how the scheme would work exactly.Illustration: Siraj DatooOne suggestion is that commuters could apply for a card that allows them to prepay for parking. Once parked, the sensor in the parking bay would record the time and duration of the stay. Users could opt to automatically update their balance in the same way as Transport for London&apos;s Oyster card is used in the capital.Alternatively, the system might be more similar to the auto-pay feature for the congestion charge, where commuters are automatically charged at the end of the month.This would be a great change from the current system, where commuters have to either pay for parking using their phone via a call, a text, or by using an app – or they can pay for a ticket at a parking machine.The card itself would need to contain a radio-frequency identification (RFID) chip, which would enable basic information such as the user&apos;s account number, linked to their car registration, to be shared wirelessly with the sensor in the parking bay.Although the council have known about the future benefits of sensors – they asked about possible use cases when they went to tender for the sensors – this is the first time the council have acknowledged they are seriously considering a cashless scheme.But the council is unlikely to implement the scheme within the next 18 months, Fitsall admitted.Parking-bay sensorsAfter a successful testing period that took place for 18 months on five roads including Savile Row and Jermyn Street, the council has signed a contract worth almost £890,000 for Smart Park to fit 10,000 sensors into its parking bays across the city. 3,000 sensors will be initially fitted by March and, if the first phase is deemed successful, a further 7,000 sensors will be embedded into parking bays in Westminster.Starting next week, 50 sensors will be fitted into parking bays each day. The sensors note when and where someone has parked and send the data back to the council, which is also working with app developers Parkopedia to help users find the nearest available space.A parking sensor in a Westminster parking bay. Photograph: City of WestminsterSmaller, newer modelSensors already installed for the initial trial will be replaced by a newer model that is smaller and it contains an RFID chip, which is currently embedded within Oyster cards.A new cashless system means commuters would never have to get out of their car, instead being automatically charged depending on how long they park.During the testing period, the councils were able to aggregate a wealth of data about parking demand, intensity, and the schedules of drivers. For example, they were able to note which roads commuters were most likely to go to in their search for parking. The council hopes the scheme will help people spend more time in shops and less time looking for parking.Traffic wardens can see how long someone has parked – through a smartphone app – but are not using it to fine those who overstay the limit, according to Andrew Busby, national account manager at Smart Parking, who manufacture the sensors.A longer-term prospect, should the sensors be so successful that they are implemented across London, is that the technology could be streamlined into a separate &quot;City pass&quot; especially for London&apos;s drivers. Alternatively, it could be linked to the government-backed MultiPass, announced last year, which could be used on trains, buses, the tube and even to catch flights.TfL said in November 2013 that they were planning to phase out Oyster cards and would instead allow commuters to pay using their contactless bank cards. Although commuters can already pay for journeys on London&apos;s buses using contactless cards, once the system is fully implemented, users will be able to use their card like they do their Oyster, with a cap on daily limits to be introduced.• It&apos;s not just roads that are getting new technology. Here are 10 things you need to know about robot cars
It's Friday.
When Dyson launched its original bagless vacuum cleaner in 1993 it promised to revolutionise home cleaning, removing the annoyance of bags and suffering no loss of suction as the vacuum filled up with dust from your home.Now, over 20 years on and 50 models later, Dyson claims to have removed yet another annoyance from the vacuum cleaner: the need to replace filters, making emptying the bin the only maintenance you need to do.“Getting rid of bags solved the frustration of my vacuum losing suction. But washing filters – or worse – buying them, is still a nuisance,” said James Dyson, managing director of Dyson and inventor of the cyclonic bagless vacuum. &quot;Dyson Cinetic cyclones are so efficient at separating microscopic particles that everything gets thrust into the bin, and you can forget about fussy filters.”Ten years&apos; of vacuumingAccording to Dyson’s testing, its new line of Cinetic cleaners can perform ten years’ worth of vacuum cleaning without needing to replace or wash their filters, which equates to sucking up two tonnes of dust.Dyson claims this is possible due to a new development allowing even smaller and more efficient cyclones.&quot;The smaller the cyclone the higher the centrifugal forces exerted on the dust particles, meaning you can separate smaller particles of dust and dirt,&quot; explained Alex Knox, director of engineering at Dyson talking to the Guardian.When the cyclone size is reduced, the volume of dust and dirt particles hitting the exhaust air filter is tiny enough to prevent it getting clogged over time and needing changing.But Knox warned that &quot;the smaller you make the cyclones, the higher the risk of them blocking&quot; and therefore reducing suction and gumming up the vacuum.Flexible tips allow Dyson to make smaller, more efficient cyclones that do not get blocked.Dyson spent £7.5m over nearly six years employing 29 engineers with &quot;plenty of late nights&quot; to develop a system to prevent its ever smaller cyclones from getting blocked.&quot;We created 50 prototypes of the material for the cyclone tips. We even experimented with cyclones made from blackcurrant jelly when researching for a material with the right flexibility and efficiency,&quot; said Knox.The result was a material that was stiff enough to avoid collapsing inwards on the cyclone and blocking the airflow, but that could be used to create cones with flexible tips, which went through 2,000 prototypes and 9,000 hours of testing.The tips oscillate rapidly as the air is drawn through them at high speed by the vacuum, shaking dust and dirt free and removing the potential for blockage, making sure even the smallest of particles or allergens end up in the bin.Cyclonic vacuum cleaners are available from other retailers, including Hoover and Vax, but Dyson claims its new Cinetic technology is unique, &quot;these are the worlds most advanced cyclones,&quot; said KnoxIt describes the development like a game changer in the vacuum cleaner world, leaving emptying the bin the only frustration left short of actually doing the vacuuming.Costing £419, the Dyson Cinetic hopes to make manual vacuum cleaning as frustration free as possible.The new Dyson Cinetic vacuum will be available from £419 with a five-year guarantee.• In October 2013,patents hintedthat Dyson was working on a &apos;silent&apos; hair dryer
Just over 10 years ago, Seattle-based developer Valve launched not a game, but a gaming platform. Steam was conceived of as a new kind of network for PC gaming, and soon became its pre-eminent distribution channel. Very quickly the service, which allowed the quick and easy download of new games, was opened up to other developers and publishers. Yesterday Valve announced Steam had added 10 million new accounts since October, taking the platform to 75 million users. Today, it feels like Steam owns PC gaming&apos;s tomorrow.This figure came out of a Valve-hosted event called Steam Dev Days, which is open to developers but not the press. Luckily there&apos;s twitter, and so everything interesting is leaking out. The first order of business was the shuttering of Greenlight, Valve&apos;s current peer-review system for helping small studios get their games on Steam. “Our goal is to make Greenlight go away,” said Gabe Newell in the welcome address. “Not because it&apos;s not useful, but because we&apos;re evolving.”Evolving into what? Removing Greenlight means removing any possible barriers for small studios to get their games on Steam, and Newell went further in telling his audience of developers to take control of how their content is sold and promoted. The obvious comparison is the App Store, but only on the surface. A platform that combines accessibility with an enormous audience, the App Store&apos;s current incarnation has the curious problem of forcing Apple to play gatekeeper – if your game isn&apos;t in some way promoted, or included in one of the &apos;collections&apos;, it will fail. And what if it deserves to be there but isn&apos;t?Community playValve&apos;s solution is the Valve solution: community. Steam&apos;s future is in evolving its social features to make peer-recommendation and user reviews a central part of the network. If the audience doesn&apos;t want to play an active role in managing the store&apos;s content? Then Valve and Steam lose. If users are flooded with bad games, then Valve and Steam lose. Vlambeer&apos;sRami Ismail believesthis may lead to user-curated storefronts that give the organiser a cut, a future where gamers play as important a role as developers.However this transition is managed, Steam is Valve&apos;s golden goose and the numbers released at Steam Dev Days shows why. In 2011 Steam had 44 million users and saw 323 games released; in 2012 it had 52 million users and 382 new games; in 2013 this was 75 million users and 636 new games. The headline-grabbing number was that 75 million active users – up ten million from October 2013&apos;s 65 million, a 15% rise in four months.Valve also released a geographic breakdown of sales, showing that North America (41%) and Western Europe (40%) make up the lion&apos;s share of Steam&apos;s business – but its presence is ever-increasing in territories like Russia and Brazil. 2014 will see 14 new currencies supported, from the Yen to the Kroner, as well as allowing monetary exchange between player&apos;s Steam wallets. Valve is making it easier for developers to work locally, in a world where digital distribution can take your game almost anywhere.Fortress ValveAmid these figures was a brief look at the numbers behind Team Fortress 2, one of Valve&apos;s marquee titles. Valve credited the game&apos;s growth from 500,000 players to 3 million on communication; that is, peer recommendation. The game remains enormously popular and profitable seven years after release, yet has a development team numbering 15 people and &apos;no marketing expenditure.&apos; This model has been exceptionally profitable for Valve, although the implication that it&apos;s applicable outside of TF2 perhaps needs a pinch of salt.A minor distraction, though a juicy one, was the Steam Machine – Valve&apos;s take on a gaming PC, with its own Linux-based operating system. On show was a radically-redesigned Steam Controller along withconfirmation of Steam Machine exclusives. Valve&apos;s first-party pad has lost the large central touchscreen of previous public showings, and now has a simple symmetry splitting two sunken trackpads and eight buttons (as well as gorgeous-looking palm grooves). But let&apos;s not get too attached; not only did Valve say more changes are on the way, but also that the company is encouraging third-party Steam controllers.And the headiest trick? VR. It has been known for years that Valve is working on its own VR tech, and judging by the presence of senior Oculus Rift figures at Steam Dev Days is doing so in a spirit of co-operation. But nevermind that: David Hensley, a designer at Tripwire Interactive, got the hype train off to a flying start: “Valve&apos;s VR demo at #SteamDevDays felt like being in a lucid dream state and very much like a holo deck #mindblown.”Valve’s VR demo at#SteamDevDaysfelt like being in a lucid dream state and very much like a holo deck#mindblown#vr&mdash; David Hensley (@TheDavidHensley)January 15, 2014Hensley also made the comparison to Oculus Rift, saying that Valve&apos;s VR device offered a higher resolution, less latency and accurate head/positional tracking:@Cymen90resolution is way higher, super low latency and accurate position/rotation head tracking. I was able to physically walk around&mdash; David Hensley (@TheDavidHensley)January 15, 2014The gaming industry lives and breathes hyperbole, so it can sometimes be hard to spot what&apos;s really important. Amid the numbers and the holo decks, something as simple as Steam becoming an open marketplace where anyone can sell software has the potential to change PC gaming forever. Combine this with Steam Machines and it&apos;s easy to think you see the outline of a grander strategy: a pincer movement that overwhelms not just the PC gaming market, but the mainstream&apos;s perception of what PC gaming offers.A false opposition is often set up between Microsoft and Valve. You can see why: Microsoft is something of a corporate hate figure among PC gamers, whereas Valve is regarded as somewhat akin to the second coming. It&apos;s a fallacious comparison, not least because they are not competing in the same areas, but Steam Dev Days showed the difference between the companies quite beautifully. Microsoft is all about top-down control – locking the user into systems where daddy knows best. The wisdom of the crowd is, in this world, a meaningless buzzphrase. Valve is staking the company&apos;s future on it.
Amazon web services are the biggest malware server in the world along with GoDaddy and Google, as malware producers take advantage of the cloud, according to a new report.The reportfrom security firm Solutionary claims that malware writers are using the big cloud hosting platforms to quickly and effectively serve malware to oblivious internet users, allowing them to bypass detection and geographic blacklisting by serving from a trusted provider like Amazon.“Malware and, more specifically, its distributors are utilising the technologies and services that make processes, application deployment and website creation easier. Now we have to maintain our focus not only on the most dangerous parts of the Web but also on the parts we expect to be more trustworthy,&quot;said Rob Kraus, Solutionary&apos;s director of research for the security engineering research team.Solutionary discovered that hackers compromise legitimate sites for nefarious purposes, as well as buying and hosting their own sites.The report claims malware producers use the cloud hosting services like Amazon and GoDaddy for the same reasons legitimate publishers use them.The ease of website creation, low cost and speed of deployment allows malware producers to create and remove malware serving websites quickly, easily and cost effectively, allowing them to infect millions of computers and vast numbers of enterprise systems, according to the report.Cloud providers such as Amazon, GoDaddy and Google all have stringent security policies against this kind of malicious activity, and remove offenders as soon as they are discovered on their systems.The sheer number of websites and services hosted on their cloud systems, however, make that discovery job very difficult with the malware producers attempting to seeking safety in numbers.“Ultimately it is still up to providers to take action to stop the proliferation of malware and to be accountable for policing the activities on their properties,” the Solutionaryreportstated.Data from Solutionary also showed that in the last three months of 2013, the US was the world’s number one malware hosting nation with 44% of the global share of malware, five times larger than Germany which was responsible for 9% of the malware detected by the company’s security research team and the second leading malware hosting nation.The report claims Amazon was the top malware-hosting provider with a 16% share, with GoDaddy ranking second with a 14% share.Amazon was contacted for comment.• In October 2013, a Google-backed BitTorrent clientwas caught to be spreading malwareto user Windows PCs and Android devices
Martha Lane Fox used her speech in the House of Lords today to denounce the government&apos;s poor level of understanding and discourse on the Edward Snowden revelations.Lady Lane-Fox, who joined the Lords as baroness of Soho in 2013, said the government had been &quot;woefully quiet on the subject of liberty v security&quot; and that the UK had lacked the rigorous debate that took place in December between US tech executives and Obama&apos;s administration.Speaking before the 25th anniversary of the invention of the world wide web, Lane Fox also criticised the activity of US and UK security services as working to actively undermine encryption tools. &quot;Allegations that GCHQ and the NSA worked to undermine encryption should caution anyone who trusts the web with their medical, financial or personal records,&quot; she cautioned.In line with her work chairing the charity Go On UK, which aims to increase the number of Britons with internet access and skills, Lane Fox claimed that 11 million UK citizens lack basic internet skills.&quot;Of those, 50% are over 65 but 50% are of working age in a country where 90% of new jobs require basic online skills and many vacancies are only advertised online,&quot; said Lane Fox, adding that Go-On had estimated that addressing the adult skills gap could be worth £68bn to the UK economy.Lane Fox said technology is changing at &quot;mind-boggling&quot; speed and urged the government to prepare itself for a host of complex societal and policy-related challenges, including the regulation of drones, driverless cars, cybercrime, wearable technologies, children and online identity, the intellectual property of a 3D-printed object and the potential of a Balkanised internet.Referencing Berners Lee, who wrote his first proposal for what would become the world wide web in March 1989, Lane Fox said the computer scientist had wanted the world to ask what kind of web it wanted.&quot;The web has immense power – I find something remarkable and inspiring every day but I agree with Sir Tim that we need to talk about the web we want,&quot; she said. &quot;We need to pause for breath, perhaps be more self-consciously aware of the next 25 years.&quot;We are sleepwalking into assuming that the platform underpinning so much of our daily life isn&apos;t changing.&quot;
Google has lost its high court bid to block a breach of privacy legal action launched against it in the UK by a group of British internet users.The case will now go ahead in the UK, where a group of more than 100 people are suing Google, alleging that it misused private information, breached confidence and breached the 1998 Data Protection Act.Google said it will appeal against the decision, on the basis that the case does not meet the standards required to be heard by the court.The search company had applied for a declaration that the case doesn&apos;t meet the criteria to be heard by the court, which relate to a &quot;hack&quot; that it used on Apple&apos;s Safari browser to install advertising cookies.But Mr Justice Tugendhat, sitting at London&apos;s high court, ruled that the UK courts were the &quot;appropriate jurisdiction&quot; to try their claims. &quot;I am satisfied that there is a serious issue to be tried in each of the claimant&apos;s claims for misuse of private information,&quot; he said in theruling.The group, which calls itself Safari Users Against Google&apos;s Secret Tracking, accuses Google of invading their privacy after bypassing security settings in order to track their online browsing and to target them with personalised advertisements.Judith Vidal-Hall, one of the claimants, who had campaigned under the name Safari Users Against Google’s Secret Tracking, said she was &quot;delighted&quot; that Google will have to answer questions in open court.“We want to know how Google came to ignore user preferences to track us online; how did they get around Apple’s program settings – they have said it was accidental, but how do you accidentally interfere with someone else’s program? We want to know how long they have done this for, what they’ve done with our private data, how much they have made from this, and why they keep flouting privacy laws? This case is about protecting the rights of all internet users who use a company that is virtually a monopoly but seems intent on ignoring their right to privacy.”In the judgment, Tugendhat rebuffed Google&apos;s argument that the information was not private because it was anonymous. &quot;It would not collect and collate information unless doing so enabled it to produce something of value,&quot; he said.In December the groupcalled Google &quot;arrogant and immoral&quot;for arguing that internet users in the UK should bring any lawsuit over the tracking in California, where it is based, rather than the UK, where they lived and claimed that the infringement occurred.In the US, Google has already paid a $22.5m (£14.4m fine to the US Federal Trade Commission and a further $17m to a number of US states for the breach, which meant that Safari users&apos; web activity could be tracked even where the browser settings said they should not be.Google said in a statement: &quot;A case almost identical to this one was dismissed in its entirety three months ago in the US. We still don’t think that this case meets the standards required in the UK for it to go to trial, and we’ll be appealing today’s ruling.”The US class action case, brought in Delaware, wasstruck downon the basis that the plaintiff there could not prove harm, and had not shown a loss of money or property. However the US does not have an equivalent of the UK&apos;s Data Protection Act or other privacy legislation which is being asserted in the UK case.The &quot;hack&quot; was discovered by Jonathan Mayer, a university researcher, late in 2011. Googleadmitted that it had carried it outin February 2012. The &quot;hack&quot; circumvented protections built into Safari on the iPhone and iPad and Mac desktop computers and meant that people could see messages indicating whether their associates in Google &quot;Circles&quot; on its Google+ social network had clicked on ads – but it also let Google and other advertisers see which websites people landed on.By January 2013, more than 70 Britonshad contacted lawyers to seek redress. But in August theycomplainedthat it was trying to deny that UK laws were applicable to their use. Its lawyers also described their claims as &quot;not serious&quot;, suggesting that peoples&apos; browsing habits were not protected as &quot;personal information&quot; even where they related to sexuality or personal health.A group spokesman said: &quot;The Google argument that any trial should take place in California has not been accepted by the judge.&quot;Tugendhat said: &quot;The claimants have clearly established that this jurisdiction is the appropriate one in which to try each of the above claims.&quot;• &apos;Inside job&apos; alleged as thousands of Google+ and Maps listings hijacked
Nearly five months after Steve Ballmer&apos;s announcement of hisdepartureas Microsoft&apos;s CEO, the company&apos;s board is considering Ericsson chief executive Hans Vestberg as a replacement, according to anonymousBloombergsources close to the recruitment process.Microsoft said they plan to pick a successor by summer 2014, but a Decemberblogpostby independent director John Thompson – who is leading the search – suggested he wanted the decision to be made early this year.Vestberg has been chief of the Swedish technology company since January 2010, overseeing a 19% rise in the company&apos;s share price. At 48, he is nearly a decade younger than Ballmer, who planned to leave Microsoft within a year after his announcement on 23 August.Thompson said that the candidate shortlist has been narrowed down to 20 names. Other names thought to be on the list include Satya Nadella, Microsoft cloud-computing head, and Nokia CEO Stephen Elop.The search for a replacement is said to have been complicated by the dominating personalities of co-founders Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer on the board. TheWall Street Journal reportedthat the potential for boardroom clashes has been a turnoff for candidates.Ford CEO Alan Mulally, 68, was under consideration for the post, butannounced last weekthat he would stay at the car manufacturer.
Porn.com has seen sales increase by nearly a quarter since it started accepting payments in bitcoin, leading the site to claim that porn could be the currency&apos;s &quot;killer app&quot;.Now the site&apos;s owners are offering the domain for sale to anyone who will pay $50m in the digital currency.Porn.com started taking bitcoin for its premium services in December, and the currency rapidly came to account for 10% of its sales. But in early January,a post on Reddit&apos;s Bitcoin subforumtook the news viral, and after a spike where the currency accounted for 50% of its sales, the bitcoin trade settled down at 25%.Some of the increase will be bitcoin fans rushing to support a site that takes their preferred form of payment, but David Kay, the marketing director at Porn.com&apos;s parent company Sagan Ltd, argues that there are other reasons as well:&quot;Privacy and confidentiality are paramount when joining an adult service for the majority. In general you can surf porn.com for free, anonymously but if you want to upgrade to the premium services you have to enter a method of payment which historically has been credit card. In order for the transaction to process you have to include your full name and address. This is not necessary with BTC.&quot;Some aspects of bitcoin are less useful, however. It is currently impossible to set up recurring payments with the currency, making it impractical for subscriptions that renew on a short term basis.Additionally, while transaction fees are a contentious topic among bitcoin users, when they are levied it is on an absolute basis, rather than a proportion of the purchase: a typical fee of 0.0001 BTC is only economical for purchases of more than around £2. But Kay is not concerned:&quot;Our experience has been positive using BTC for smaller payments. I think the general public as a whole doesn&apos;t yet know that you can spend just a portion of a bitcoin on a purchase. Our customers are using bitcoins to buy premium services and to tip our live performers.Ever since the conflict between VHS and Betamax, take-up by the porn industry has been seen as key to the success of consumer technologies. One version of tech lore has it that JVC&apos;s welcoming attitude towards adult content on VHS was the reason it won out in the end.Whether or not that was true three decades ago – a more believable explanation is that VHS was the only one of the formats which could hold an entire feature film on one cassette – Kay hopes that it will hold out this time round:&quot;I definitely believe that porn will be bitcoin&apos;s killer app. Fast, private and confidential payments.&quot;The marketing director added that the porn.com business is currently up for sale, &quot;for $50m, payable in bitcoin only. So if I look at the trading amount today, that would roughly be 55,370 bitcoins.&quot;In 2007, porn.com became one of the most expensive domain names ever sold, when Detroit-based MXN Ltd paid $9.5m to buy it.At the time, only sex.com had sold for more, after an auction in 2005 ended at $12m. The site is ranked by analytics firm Alexa as the 894th most visited website in the world, and the 576th most-visited in the UK.•Ware, Hertfordshire: the porn capital of Britain?
The sun is frozen in The Banner Saga's sky, but its beams are yet to melt its ice-capped landscape. It has, however, thawed a video game genre that has somewhat languished in recent years: the Tactical RPG. Extravagantly funded by a ravenous crowd of Kickstarter patrons, designed by a team of ex-Bioware designers and artists, and scored by the Grammy-nominated composer Austin Wintory, this is exquisitely produced fantasy, marrying Game of Thrones-esque medieval war fiction with the intricacies of a Chess-like combat board game.Off the battlefield, the team's storytelling heritage is clear. These vast, Nordic landscapes share a whisper of DNA with Star Wars' nether-planets, which the team previously crafted while working on Star Wars: The Old Republic. But the stories that fill them more closely share the family likeness. The game takes place under a broad sweep banner narrative involving nations and races (the canny humans, the hulking Varl giants and their common enemy, a dead-eyed statue people known as Dredge) on the verge of war. But the wonder is in the close-up vignettes, the pressures of leading a marching army of cold, hungry recruits, and the ever-present weight of having to make seemingly small decisions with unforeseeable consequences.Man managementAs you move your soldiers from place to place you watch as they inch across beautiful, hand drawn landscapes. The view is interrupted every few seconds with a narrative interlude, some problem or other than must be attended. One of your men may drink too much mead and brawl. You must intervene, choosing whether to force an apology from the aggressor or laugh off the scuffle. Or you might come across a ragtag band of men, seemingly lost in the woods. Do you allow them to join your ranks and gain a potential valuable asset, or turn them away?You accept food from a benign merchant, but what if it turns out to be spoiled or, worse still, poisoned? Some video games dole out a handful of these multiple choice decisions per chapter. The Banner Saga is an endless flow of questions demanding immediate answers. The consequences must not only be lived with, but also open up further avenues of choice. Your men may fall. Do you discard the supplies or wait to see if something else is causing the sickness? Do you force the men to fight in the next battle, weakened by stomach cramps, or send them back home? Journey is story. Never has this been made clearer than in The Banner Saga.The burden of leadership is made keener by the fact that you are free to make poor choices: enter a battle in which you are vastly outnumbered and your troops will fall. Rather than being booted to the melancholy purgatory of a Game Over screen, the story adapts to your failure, which the narrative then bears like a scar, forever altering its trajectory. It takes a little getting used to. But rather than reaching for the 'load' button to undo your mistakes, there is benefit to living with them. In time the story feels fully your own. You are no longer a video game player, pretending to be an active participant in a pre-set narrative. Instead you are a complicit protagonist, and the game bends to your will – good or ill.On the battlefield this is a finely tuned yet somewhat traditional tactical RPG. You choose a selection of warriors and take turns with the AI to move them one-by-one about the gridded board. First you choose where to position a unit according to its range. Then you choose to attack an enemy, targeting either its armour or its health. The former indicates how many points of damage a character can deflect while the latter represents the amount of damage they can do, a number that ingeniously doubles for their health points. In this way, as units sustain damage, they are simultaneously weakened.Different characters specialise in different classes: sheildmasters have high defense and are useful for forming a defensive wall in front of weaker characters; archers can attack from a distance yet are weak at short range; spearmen can attack foes two squares away and so on. Your characters earn Renown points every time they defeat an enemy and this currency can be used to increase their abilities or, alternatively, to buy stat-enhancing accessories.Battle tacticsThe strategic element to fights is rich. "Willpower" points can be used to increase a unit's range or its offensive potency (and this limited, move-enhancing currency can instantaneously turn a battle's tide). Strategic arrangement of your troops is key to success – the Varl take up four squares on the grid each, and will block both their comrades and competitors' movements. In larger fights there's even an option to continue the battle after it's won, with the potential to defeat more of the opposing army's soldiers, albeit with the increased risk of fighting with already weary and wounded men.However, the consequences to actions on the field feel less keen than they do off. If one of your troops falls in battle, they resuscitate as soon as it's finished, requiring only a few days "off" to recuperate to full health again. You cannot lose the key players in the drama on the battlefield, even if a few can be lost quite easily by making the wrong decisions elsewhere. This is, nevertheless, a game with a strong sense of place and the ambiance elevates it beyond the immediate competition. The illustrated 2D art is expressive, while Wintory's score is nothing short of extraordinary – evocative, unusual and rousing. The designer Sid Meier famously said that a game is a series of interesting choices. It's a maxim fully embraced by The Banner Saga, which stitches those choices into its very fabric to form a tapestry that is wholly your own.
Recently, a journalist asked me to explain what I liked about Banshee, a free/open replacement for iTunes that works with Ubuntu (Ubuntu is also free and open – a version of GNU/Linux that runs on PCs, Macs, and other hardware). It&apos;s a seemingly innocuous question, but the more I thought about it, the more I realised that it was really the wrong sort of question to be asking about technology. Banshee is nice, and I like it, but fundamentally, I use it because it happens to be the one I started using and it&apos;s stable and just works.All the software I use has &quot;disappearing&quot; as its principle merit. Banshee does all the things that iTunes does, except restrict me (organise my collection, get podcasts, load music on mobile devices, etc). It doesn&apos;t crash, and it plays music.I once had a really good KitchenAid mixer. Its merits were that it had limited features that coincided with my needs, and it performed them with superb reliability, and it failed well (had excellent warranty service). That, to me, is the pinnacle of virtue: get out of my way, let me work, fail gracefully.Gracefully bow outBanshee fails gracefully because its authors don&apos;t attempt any lock-in. When I find myself diverging from the design philosophy of Banshee to the extent that I want to use a rival system to manage my music, Banshee is designed to assist me in switching. Unlike Apple, Microsoft, and others, who treat you as a product to be bought and sold – and who have engineered laws like the DMCA to make it illegal to convert your files for use with rival products – Banshee is designed to work with me until we part ways, and then to gracefully bow out and let me move on to someone else&apos;s version of this particular bit of plumbing.A good example of this is Amazon&apos;s MP3 store. Until recently, it worked beautifully. I&apos;d pay a reasonable price for my music, and Amazon would let me download it to my computer with as little fuss as possible. Recently, that changed. Amazon wants to promote its cloud drive services, so now it requires that you lock yourself into an Amazon-proprietary downloader to get your MP3s. The Amazon MP3 store started life with a lot of rhetoric about liberation (they made t-shirts that trumpeted &quot;DRM: Don&apos;t Restrict Me!&quot;) that contrasted their offering with the locked-in world of the iTunes Store. Now that Amazon has won enough marketshare in the MP3 world, it&apos;s using that position to try and gain ground in the world of cloud computing – at the expense of its customers.Lucky for me, MP3 is an open format, so MP3 investments fail well. The fact that I bought hundreds of pounds&apos; worth of music from Amazon doesn&apos;t stop me from taking my business elsewhere now that they&apos;ve decided to treat me as a strategic asset instead of a customer. By contrast, I was once unwise enough to spend thousands on audiobooks from Amazon&apos;s Audible subsidiary (the major player in the audiobook world), kidding myself that the DRM wouldn&apos;t matter. But the day I switched to Ubuntu, I realised that I was going to have to spend a month running three old Macs around the clock in order to re-record all those audiobooks and get them out of their DRM wrappers.Invisible blingSophisticated computer users pay attention to failure, rather than success. The fact that a piece of software lets me get my work done is unremarkable, and adding bling and style to that, while welcome, very quickly becomes invisible (bling and style melt into the background with use).What is remarkable and valuable is software that works well when it stops working. Software whose failure is graceful and sensitive to my needs, rather than the business model of a multinational giant.When I started dating, I had a lot of wonderful relationships that worked brilliantly – we were happy, in love, laughed a lot. They all failed badly, in that when we started to have problems, our responses to them exacerbated the problems rather than ameliorating them. That&apos;s what it means to be young and inexperienced in love.Now I&apos;m married to a wonderful woman, and while we knew going into the marriage how to be happy together, what makes me sure that we&apos;ll stay together is that we know how to be unhappy together, too – how to have a disagreement without hurting each other, how to move from disagreement to agreement again.Graceful failure is so much more important than fleeting success, but it&apos;s not a feature or a design spec. Rather, it&apos;s a relationship that I have with the technology I use and the systems that are used to produce it.This is not asceticism. Advocates of software freedom are sometimes accused of elevating ideology over utility. But I use the software I do out of a purely instrumental impulse. The things I do with my computer are the soul of my creative, professional, and personal life. My computer has videos and stills and audio of my daughter&apos;s early life, rare moments of candid memoir from my grandmothers, the precious love letters that my wife and I sent to one another when we courted, the stories I&apos;ve poured my heart and soul into, the confidential and highly sensitive whistleblower emails I&apos;ve gotten from secret sources on investigative pieces; the privileged internal communications of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a law office to whom I have a duty of care as part of my fellowship (and everything else besides).Will my digital life be saved?Knowing that I can work with this stuff in a way that works is simply not enough. I need to know that when my computer breaks, when the software is discontinued, when my computer is lost or stolen, when a service provider goes bust or changes ownership and goes toxic, when a customs officer duplicates my hard-drive at border, when my survivors attempt to probate my data – when all of that inevitable stuff happens, that my digital life will be saved. That data that should remain confidential will not leak. That data that should be preserved will be. That files that should be accessible can be accessed, without heroic measures to run obsolete software on painstakingly maintained superannuated hardware.All of this points to a problem with the way this kind of question is framed. Software is fleeting and easily installed and deinstalled. Knowing which software to use right now is a lot like knowing which route to take to work on this day, based on current traffic, road-works, destination, and vehicular choices. I give that sort of thing some thought from day to day, but I try not to get lost in it, because there&apos;s no point in over-optimising today&apos;s route. All of those factors are subject to change.Understanding the underlying principles by which a given route&apos;s fitness should be evaluated, on the other hand, is worth serious study, because it is through that theoretical understanding that you can develop and refine your personal heuristics about how to make those fleeting, moment-to-moment choices about which way to turn at each juncture.•What does David Cameron&apos;s Great Firewall look like?
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe PC's death might also mean the web's demise &gt;&gt; Wired.comMarcus Wohlsen:The gist of the argument is this: as app-happy mobile devices become the primary way we compute, the good old browser becomes irrelevant. The hyperlinked, free-flowing, egalitarian, and ubiquitous world wide web will fade away. Instead, digital existence will mostly transpire within the more self-contained domains of individual apps, which offer their creators the flexibility and power of building right into the mobile operating systems. We will still have the internet, but it won't be the same wherever you use it. And some will have more power over it than others.Instagram; Snapchat; think of other mobile-only app-only products. Already happening.Will the Target breach boost EMV in the USA? &gt;&gt; Tomorrow's TransactionsDave Birch:When EMV cards were first introduced, you could read all of the data from an EMV chip and use it to create a counterfeit magnetic stripe but you cannot do this (at least the UK) any more because the issuers started to use a chip ICVV that is different from the CVV on the magnetic stripe that is glued to EMV cards for legacy purposes. So if you wangle your malware into POS terminals, an EMV environment does prevent a "Target-style" breach.The malware will harvest data, but that data cannot be used to make transactions: you cannot make a clone EMV card because you don't have the security keys that never leave the chip, you cannot make a counterfeit magnetic stripe card because you don't have the CVV and you cannot use the card details online at your favourite porn/guns/soda merchant because you don't have the CVV2 from the back of the card.Pipeline Winter 2013 &gt;&gt; VimeoEric Sterman makes amazing surfing videos. These were shot with a drone. Sound up or down, an amazing spectacle.Canonical: no major Ubuntu smartphone launch until 2015 &gt;&gt; PC ProCanonical has cooled expectations for a major Ubuntu Touch phone launch this year, saying a large OEM probably won't release a handset running the open-source OS this year.At the end of 2013, Ubuntu developer Canonical said it had signed up one unnamed manufacturer, which would likely ship a handset running the OS during 2014.Now, Ubuntu community manager Jono Bacon has said in aReddit Ask Me Anything sessionthat while it may be possible to get an Ubuntu phone this year, it's unlikely to come via a major OEM or carrier.Leaves it open to FirefoxOS, then - though apparently the phone would only have been for the "enterprise" market. They're still dreaming of the Ubuntu Edge - but have no plans to produce it.Fixing Windows 8 &gt;&gt; jay machalaniLong but worthwhile analysis of what's wrong and how to fix it:If I'm using a mouse, I don't want a touch interface, but as of now you need that touch interface for some of the apps. If I'm using a touchscreen, I don't want to pass through a pointer interface, but you don't have the choice to get through the pointer interface to use some of the apps. An app is an app. Modern apps are no better than Classic apps and by that same logic Metro is no better than the Desktop.So why not separate the Metro and Desktop interface, put them on the same level and you choose how you want to interact with all of those apps. Yes some of them are not optimized for a touchscreen or a pointer, but do you need to be stuck in an unoptimized interface on top of that?(Via @mbrit).Every data point is sacred &gt;&gt; MediumMatt Haughey (who runs MetaFilter) installed a burglar alarm which stored data her could read on his smartphone:After we returned from two weeks of vacation I revisited the history log files and showed my wife how this innocuous set of data painted quite a picture. We could see when our house sitter left for work every morning (around 8am), when she returned after work and after visiting her boyfriend (usually around 10pm). We could see when she went to sleep (around midnight), and when she woke up (before 7am). We could also see when our house cleaner popped in every Wednesday, and how long she spent cleaning the house since it showed when she turned the alarm off and back on again. The alarm logs showed she finished in about 45 minutes when we weren't there (understandable, since only a spare bedroom was being used by the house sitter).I thought about this data for some time after. An innocuous log file of accesses, but this one small data point of alarm off/on status gave somewhat invasive looks into my housesitter's time in my house, our cleaning lady, and my own family. I had two weeks of rich data about someone I barely met for thirty seconds and I also had future total surveillance powers over my house cleaner that made me a little uncomfortable.But who else might have access to that data?Man poses as woman on online dating site; barely lasts two hours &gt;&gt; JezebelFeatured on the Reddit forum TwoXChromosomes, which is "related to gender, and intended for women's perspectives," OKCThrowaway22221's story is reminiscent of others in recent memory who have opted to dabble in fake profiles, to see what they come up with. This Reddit user, however, was convinced that us womenz is always lyin' 'bout how shitty we haz it on teh internetz, and wanted to prove that ladies have a way easier time finding a match than teh poor menz.So, this happened…"what I got was an onslaught of people who were, within minutes of saying hello, saying things that made me as a dude who spends most of his time on 4chan uneasy. I ended up deleting my profile at the end of 2 hours and kind of went about the rest of my night with a very bad taste in my mouth."December 2013: The Nest learning thermostat and why the smart home is pretty dumb &gt;&gt; PC MagMichael Miller:I adjusted the schedule and the temperature and that helped, but it still kept switching off when we didn't want it to. I suspect more people move around within their houses and keep unpredictable schedules than Nest realises.But the real issue came last night when suddenly the display went black except for a blinking green light on the top. I surfed the support pages on the Web and then called technical support. There I got a message that the company had pushed out version 4.0 of the Nest software, which  had caused some thermostats to go offline. It went on to say the company was working on rolling back to an earlier version and that process "should take a few days to complete." According to the company, that should fix the immediate problem, but in the meantime you could try updating your router's firmware. I tried waiting for a support technician, but the phone message said they were understaffed and hoping to hire more people soon. Left unsaid was why the company would push out such a software update without informing or asking the users.Maybe in more temperate Silicon Valley, where Nest is headquartered, a few days without heat or cooling is acceptable. But in the Northeast where I live, it's a potential disaster. It was 18 degrees Fahrenheit outside and because the thermostat was offline, we had no heat.The points about firmware, and customer support, are part of what makes one pause over the "connected home".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The BBC is stifling innovation in educational technology by giving away too much for free, according to Hugh Campbell of tech-focused investment bank GP Bullhound.Campbell was reviewing the success of the firm&apos;s predictions for 2013, one of which was that the pace of education disruption would increase over the year. While the firm was content that the prediction had indeed come to pass, Campbell expressed disappointment at a lack of new ideas in the field.&quot;Innovation in this space seems very challenging,&quot; he told an audience at London&apos;s May Fair Hotel. &quot;And the BBC are stifling a lot of innovation here, especially because the content they give away is free.&quot;Nonetheless, Bullhound argues that 2013 was a strong year for educational technology, particularly MOOCs (Massively Open Online Courses). With a potential customer base of 2 billion people, these courses, which usually involve pre-recorded lecture material and students marking each others work, have been supported by brands such as Google, LinkedIn, and Bank of America.Bullhound strikes a note of caution amid the praise, however, pointing out that course completion rates average at less than 10%.As well as GP Bullhound&apos;s research into the field, Campbell cited his experience on the board of PasTest Limited, an e-learning business founded by his family in 1970 which sells educational material aimed for medical students.The BBC&apos;s biggest digital education service is Bitesize, which provides revision aids aimed at secondary students aged between 11 and 16.A spokesperson from the corporation says that &quot;The BBC has a long history in education and learning going back to the first schools radio broadcast. We continue to create educational content, now across TV, radio and online. We are always mindful of the market impact of what we do, and share our plans for online with other educational providers.&quot;But Bitesize isn&apos;t the only BBC service which has been accused of suffocating commercial rivals. Geraldine Allinson, chief executive of Kentish local newspaper publishers KM group, last year accused to corporation of &quot;consistently treating [local newspapers] as a competitor.&quot;&quot;They consistently promote Facebook and Twitter,&quot;she told an event in May 2013, &quot;but when it comes to one of our local papers they say &apos;a local councillor spoke to a local paper&apos;. Why can&apos;t they even say our name?&quot;Looking aheadDescribing GP Bullhound&apos;s accuracy in its 2013 preview as &quot;scoring around six out of 10&quot;, Campbell presented the firm&apos;s look ahead to 2014.Many of the predictions were based around improved handling of data. That includes the claim that 2014 will see &quot;indoor mobile location determination&quot; break through, thanks totechnology such as Apple&apos;s iBeacon, and the prediction that the battle over mapping technologies, long dormant in the face of Google&apos;s domination, willheat up again.But even the most futuristic-sounding claims had a strong element of data processing. If 2013 was the year of voice input, with the maturation of Google&apos;s &quot;OK Google&quot; service and Apple&apos;s Siri, then Bullhound sees 2014 as the year of eye tracking, a technology which lets users control their devices using nothing more than their gaze.The technology is already on the market thanks to software from Samsung and Israel&apos;s Umoove, both of which use the front-facing camera on a mobile phone to control apps. But as it improves throughout the year, it could move from gimmick to maturity.Not every prediction was positive, however. Bullhound singled out curved smartphones as the tech flop of 2014, saying that &quot;curved mobile phones seem to make little sense to … we think it&apos;s a fad that may well be gone by the time we write this report next year.&quot;•Europe&apos;s tech sector should hold its nerve – the rewards are out there
It's Thursday.
Europe&apos;s antitrust chief says Google has one &quot;last opportunity&quot; to settle allegations it is abusing its dominant position in web search before he pursues legal action.Joaquin Almunia, the head of the European Commission&apos;s competition unit, has been pursuing an antitrust complaint against the US search giant since 2010. Google has provided two proposals to settle the complaint, but seen both rejected. It is now believed to be preparing another proposal.Almunia told reporters on Wednesday: &quot;let&apos;s see if Google can improve their proposal or we go the traditional route.&quot; That route would involve a formal Statement of Objections which could then see a protracted court case, and potentially fines of up to 10% of Google&apos;s global revenues - which would amount to billions of dollars. The EC has previously pursued and won such cases against Microsoft and chipmaker Intel.&quot;We need more, not during the next year but during the next weeks,&quot; Almunia said. Google&apos;s next proposal is its &quot;last opportunity&quot; for reaching a negotiated settlement, he said.Feedback from rivals and complainants to the two proposals from Google had been clearly negative, Almunia added. Google declined on Wednesday evening to comment on Almunia&apos;s remarks.The EC&apos;s antitrust unit began investigating Google in 2010 following complaints from a number of smaller companies, which alleged that it was demoting them in search results while displaying similar services of its own prominently on its first search results page.Google dominates the market for web search in the EC, where it gets more than 90% of searches compared to around 70% in the US. Almunia in October reiterated the areas he sees as &quot;problematic&quot;, including its favouring of its own services in web searches (depressing prospects for rivals), the use of original content from third party sites in results (creating a disincentive to create original content), preventing publishers showing ads from rivals on websites using Google ads, and contractual hurdles to exporting search advertising campaigns from Google&apos;s platform.&quot;On each of the four, we believe there is a strong case for action under our antitrust rules,&quot; Almuniatold the European Parliament in October. A second proposal from Google to remedy the complaints wasrejected by Almunia just before Christmas.In that, the principal concession from Google was to offer competitors the chance to advertise their own services and brand as links in a box of &quot;sponsored&quot; search results, subsidiary to a Google-branded result. But rivals and complainants, including Microsoft, the German company Hot-Maps, Foundem and the Premier League, argued that this did not tackle Google&apos;s favouritism for its own products in results, and that they would end up paying Google to appear in a less visible location than Google&apos;s products got for free. Theycited academic studiesthat they commissioned which they said backed up their complaints.Any restrictions that European regulators might place on Google would be valid only in the EU - which has also led some complainants to suggest that Google might try to elude any restrictions placed on it by the EC by routing searches through non-EU data centres. Google has not indicated what it would do.•Joaquin Almunia interviewed: what will be his verdict?
Apple is set to pay at least $32.5m to consumers to settle a federal complaint about the company’s practices that allowed children to make purchases in mobile apps without parents&apos; permission, the government announced on Wednesday.The Federal Trade Commission said Apple will provide a full refund for in-app purchases made without permission from account holders. The agency said it had received “at least tens of thousands of complaints” about such purchases and one parent said her child spent more than $2,600 in the Tap Pet Hotel app.Apple CEO Tim Cook said that the company had been working to refund customers affected by these type of purchases since last year in anemailed memo to employees obtained by 9to5Mac.Cook also criticized the FTC’s intervention in the case and said that Wednesday’s agreement with the FTC “smacked of double jeopardy” because the case had already been settled.“However, the consent decree the FTC proposed does not require us to do anything we weren’t already going to do, so we decided to accept it rather than take on a long and distracting legal fight,” Cook said.As part of the agreement, Apple must change its purchasing process to ensure consumers give full consent when purchasing items in mobile apps. In-app items can range from 99 cents to $99.99 per item.The FTC said Apple failed to inform consumers that they could be approving in-app purchases by entering a password on their device. After entering the password, users then had a 15-minute window where unlimited purchases could be made without further action taken by users.“Although Apple adjusted certain screens in response and offered refunds, it still failed to notify account holders that by entering their password they were initiating a 15-minute window during which children using the app could incur charges without further action by the account holder,” FTC commissioner Maureen Ohlhausensaid in a statement.“Even if Apple chose to forgo providing this information – the type of information that is critical for any billing platform, no matter how innovative, to provide – in favor of what it believed was a smoother user experience for some users, the result was unfair to the thousands of consumers who subsequently experienced unauthorized in-app charges totaling millions of dollars.”Apple is required to alert all users who may have experienced accidental or not authorized in-app purchases before 31 March 2014 that refunds are available. If the company issues less than $32.5m to consumers it is required to pay the remaining balance to the FTC.
Samsung Electronics&apos; next Galaxy S5 flagship phone will come in two versions - a metal one and a plastic one - according to online rumours as expectation grows of a March launch.The company will be looking for the new phone to revive its fortunes after it reported anexpected drop in profits, of 6%, for the first time in seven quarters due to slowing sales of its present lineup of high-end smartphones.The Sammobile sitereportsthat the Korean company, which is the world&apos;s largest maker of both smartphones and featurephones, is preparing to make an all-metal version, in stark contrast to the plastic models of all the previous Galaxy S range.Other rumours have suggested that Samsung is preparing a London launch for the device, probably in March, and go on sale in April.The reports suggest that the top-end version will have a screen of 5.25in, large enough to qualify as a &quot;phablet&quot; (over 5in), and larger than last year&apos;s 5in Galaxy S4. They suggest it will have an AMOLED display with a resolution 2,560x1400 - substantially higher than the 1920x1080 resolution of the SGS4. The camera is predicted to offer 16 megapixels, compared to the 13MP of the SGS4.If Samsung does produce two new phones for its flagship range, it will echo Apple&apos;s move last September when it launched the top-end iPhone 5S, with a metal body, and the plastic iPhone 5S. Online metrics suggest that the high-end 5S model has outsold the cheaper 5C by about three to one.SamMobile suggests that the two new Samsung handsets will be priced at €800 and €650.Previous Galaxy S models have had bodies made of plastic, which has led to criticism from some reviewers - but had no apparent impact on sales. By contrast HTC&apos;s well-received One device, which uses an all-metal casing, has seen disappointing sales.Samsung will be seeking to regain the advantage that it won in April 2012 with the Galaxy S3, which was its best-selling model of the flagship, and which has remained on sale since. While the SGS3 cemented its position as the world&apos;s largest maker of smartphones, the Galaxy S4 has seen relatively disappointing sales.Rather than growing its high-end business, the SGS4only kept pace in sales terms with its predecessor- hitting 10m shipments in four weeks, 20m by early July 2013, and 40m by late October. That was against the backdrop of a smartphone market that kept expanding by roughly 50% year-on-year. Apple. its principal competitor at the high end, saw total iPhone sales grow by 16% in the first nine months of 2013 to 102m. Figures for the fourth quarter, which would include the launch of the iPhone 5S and 5C, will be announced later this month.Samsung&apos;s dominance in China, one of its biggest sources of sales, is seen as threatened by indigenous handset makers such as Xiaomi, Lenovo, Huawei and ZTE. But it is pushing hard to build share in the US, the world&apos;s richest smartphone market, where data from ComScoresuggeststhat by the end of November 2013 it was used by 26% of all smartphone owners, equivalent to 39.6m users.
