International CES is packed with all kinds of weird and wonderful gadgets, with some of the best being tech-infused toys. Here are some highlights.Parrot Jumping SumoThis two-wheeled robot can jump 2.5 feet into the air.This little two-wheeled robot is controlled by a smartphone or tablet via Wi-Fi, has a camera in its nose and can make 90-degree turns at high speed. But its party piece is the fact that it can jump up to 2.5 feet in the air and always land back on its wheels. It’s like a cat robot.Parrot Mini DroneThe Parrot AR Drone strunk and with wheels on.A shrunken version of the Parrot AR drone, this mini drone is small enough to fly around indoors without destroying everything in its way. The flying toy is controlled via a smartphone or tablet over Bluetooth and is highly stable in flight thanks to a kind of built-in autopilot. Add-on wheels make sure it can roll up walls, across the ceiling or along the floor if Top Gun you are not.Orbotix Sphero 2.0Orbotix has upgraded the Bluetooth controlled ball to make it even faster.The latest iteration of the Bluetooth connected smartphone-controlled rolling ball is now faster than ever, and can even be kitted out with rubber tread for a better grip.Orbotix 2bTwo wheels make the 2b a mini speedster.The younger brother of Sphero, 2b takes the control and fun from the ball and creates a two-wheeled speed demon. Controlled by a smartphone, 2b can shoot along the floor at up to 5 metres-per-second, or about running pace, and has an IR camera for a bit of multiplayer battling. Expected to be available by Christmas 2014 for under $100.Yuneec E-Go Cruiser electric skateboardWhy both pushing when you can power your way along the street?Skateboards still exist, and at CES they get an upgrade with added electricity. This longboard has an electric motor and sends riders flying along the pavement at the touch of a remote-mounted button. The board will manage hills and travel 18 miles on a single charge.OnewheelIs the Onewheel just a toy or a genuine new form of transport?The Onewheel is essentially a single-wheeled Segway, which self-balances a wooden board around its rubber tyre using gyroscopes and accelerometers to produce a smooth ride. It will run for around 20 minutes per charge, and canbe had on Kickstarter right nowfor a minimum pledge of $1,200.OzobotThis little guy could transform boardgames.This tiny robot is about the size of bottle cap or 50p coin can recognise codes and sensors it runs over. The codes can be displayed on a mobile device, like a tablet, but also be built into board games and other real-world items.The Ozobot can be used in games like race tracks or other robot-orientated board games, with lights built into the body to indicate what the little robot is up to. It doesn’t do a lot at the moment, but there’s a lot of potential for a modern twist on board games here.• The bestwearables and fitness gadgets at CES 2014
As many as two million European users of Yahoo may have received PC malware from virus-laden ads served by its homepage over a four-day period last week.Some of the malware would turn PCs into bitcoin miners - a huge drain on its computing resources - without users&apos; knowledge. Yahoo has been criticised for not saying how many people could be affected or doing anything to help those with the malware, which attacked flaws in Java modules on systems.In a statement, Yahoo said: &quot;From December 31 to January 3 on our European sites, we served some advertisements that did not meet our editorial guidelines – specifically, they spread malware.&quot; Users in North America, Asia Pacific and Latin America weren&apos;t affected, Yahoo said. Nor were users of Apple Macs or mobile devices.&quot;We will continue to monitor and block any advertisements being used for this activity,&quot; the company added. &quot;We will post more information for our users shortly.&quot;According to Light Cyber, a security research firm which warned Yahoo of the attacks in late December, one of the malware programs delivered in the attack turned the victim&apos;s computer into a bitcoin miner. The computer is set to work performing the calculations required to make the bitcoin network run, but the rewards for doing so accrue to the malware writer.Yahoo has been criticised for not doing more to aid users infected by the faulty adverts.Dan Farber of technology site CNET says that: &quot;At this point, Yahoo hasn&apos;t addressed any of the details, such as how the malware exploit got into its Web pages, how many users are impacted, and what victims of the attack should do. The company may still be gathering data.&quot;Fox IT, the Dutch cybersecurity firm which first disclosed the vulnerability to the public,estimated that there were around 27,000 infections every hour the malware was live on the site. If the malware was being served consistently for the three days, it may be the case that almost 2 million computers were infected.Java target&quot;The attack focused on outdated software,&quot; says Steve Regan ofsecurity site CSO. &quot;The only way for the exploits to work is to have outdated versions of Java on your system. If Java is up to date, then the odds are, you&apos;re safe. However, I don&apos;t trust Java, so unless you absolutely need it, my advice is to uninstall it from your system. It seems like I see more zero-day attacks aimed at Java than anything else, the risk isn&apos;t worth it for me.&quot; Zero-day attacks exploit previously unreported flaws in software to install malware or take over a computer.As well as the bitcoin mining malware, other software installed includes ZeuS, which attempts to steal banking information; Andromeda, which turns the computer into part of a &quot;botnet&quot; for use by third parties, and &quot;adjacking&quot; malware which hijacks the user&apos;s browser to click on adverts, thus channeling income to corrupt site owners.Bitcoin is fast becoming a tool of choice for malware developers. As well as directly using compromised computers to mine for new coins, software such as ZeuS lets criminals install Cryptolocker, adangerous new type of malwarewhich first encrypts the user&apos;s files and then demands a ransom, payable in bitcoin, to decrypt them. In most versions of Cryptolocker, the ransom is set at two bitcoins, currently worth around $2,000.Bitcoin is so valuable to botnet owners, criminals who control large numbers of compromised computers, that one academic paper argues that the security of the network is permanently at risk. Philipp Güring and Ian Griggargue that the currency violates Gresham&apos;s Law(pdf), an economic theorem that states that bad money drives out good. Since bitcoin mining is far more profitable if done on stolen computers with stolen energy, they argue, it will soon be uneconomical to do it any other way.•Marissa Mayer aims to revive Yahoo with shift &apos;from complexity to clarity&apos;
iPhone and iPad ownersspent more than $10bn on Apple&apos;s App Store in 2013, according to figures released by the company this week. Mobile analytics firm Distimo recently estimated that63% of that spending was on games.With that in mind, a £2.49 game selling 200,000 copies may sound like relatively small beans – 0.008% of all money spent on iOS apps last year. Yet the success of indie developer Simogo&apos;sYear Walkgame has still been welcomed warmly by its peers.The Swedish developer revealed the milestonein a blog post this week. &quot;On the last day of 2013 we got some amazing news; Year Walk had reached 200,000 sold copies on the App Store,&quot; explained co-founders Simon Flesser and Magnus Gardebäck.The game – an eerie and beautiful adventure based on Swedish mythology, complete withits own companion app– was released in February 2013, and has maintained its £2.49 price ever since. 200,000 sales means £498,000 of gross revenues, and £348,600 for Simogo after Apple&apos;s 30% cut.It&apos;s a far cry from the hundreds of millions of revenues being pulled in by games like Candy Crush Saga, Clash of Clans and Puzzle &amp; Dragons on the App Store, but for a two-person independent developer, it&apos;s meaningful success.That&apos;s particularly the case because Year Walk doesn&apos;t use in-app purchases, which have become the dominant way to make money from mobile games – 90% of all App Store games revenues according to the same Distimo study. Simogo shows that for small, focused andverytalented developers, free-to-play isn&apos;t the only possible business model in town.Simogo&apos;s work hasn&apos;t gone unnoticed by the owner of the App Store. Apple chose another of its games, Device 6, as the runner-up Game of the Year in its Best of 2013 promotion on the UK and US App Stores. Simogo was alsosingled out as one of Apple&apos;s &quot;developers to watch in 2014&quot;this week.What next for the company? Taking Year Walk to other platforms, starting with computers. &quot;We are finishing upYear Walk for Steam. We are about 75% done before starting external testing. Not quite ready to commit to a date or month, but it should hopefully make the first quarter of 2014,&quot; explained its blog post.&quot;And in all of this we are also starting to think about, talk about and planthe next thing… Nothing has been set in stone, we have a few ideas we are toying around with at the moment. Exciting times!&quot;
MakerBot, the 3D-printing company, has unveiled the “iTunes” of 3D printing as part of its new line-up of 3D printing technology.The game-changing new MakerBot digital store features a host of professionally designed digital 3D models, created by an in-house team at MakerBot, made to be simple and easy to purchase and print with one-touch.“3D printing can be a bit daunting from the outside, so we’ve created all these 3D designs that you can buy individual models or as a collection - a bit like songs - and create fun for kids and adults alike,” said Bre Pettis, co-founder and chief executive of MakerBot.Previously MakerBot offered a cloud-based design sharing service called Thingiverse, which allowed users to upload their designs and share them with a community and access them from anywhere with a MakerBot 3D printer.Professional, proven designsThe new digital store sits alongside the Thingiverse service, augmenting it with professional, proven designs that are guaranteed to work, and launches with six different collections of models primarily based around children’s toys.The models can be picked up individually for $0.99 or as whole collections of models for $9.99 and include mini characters spanning every day life, construction, dragons, knights, kings and queens, as well as little pet animals for the kids.For adults, the model collection also includes a series of rocket ships and “famous flyers” – models inspired by key real-life aircraft from history.‘Learn what people like, and do more of that’The key to the launch is that MakerBot will use the digital store to find out what works and what doesn’t collecting data on purchases and user feedback on the models.“Our objective is simple. We’re going to learn by what people like, and do more of that,” explained Pettis.MakerBot also unveiled three new 3D printers the form part of the new MakerBot Replicator 3D printing platform, including a smaller, cheaper and easier to use MakerBot Replicator Mini aimed at the mass market.“We took all the feedback from users and put pencil to paper to create our consumer 3D printer built for speed and ease of use,” said Pettis.The big selling point of the MakerBot Mini, which is the fifth generation 3D printer from MakerBot, is its one-touch system. I has only one button, which kickstarts the printing process – everything else is controlled by automated software.Despite being aimed at the consumer, the price may still be prohibitive for many as the Replicator Mini will cost $1,375 once it is available in spring, making it a significant purchase for most households.The next step for 3D printing is widely thought to be all about moving towards more functional objects that users can actually download and print – something MakerBot has clearly realised and has targeted with its digital store.“3D printing is one of those rare cases where technology has surpassed design thinking,” said Jesse Harrington Au, maker product manager at AutoDesk. “3D modelling is the key to the next step in the evolution of 3D printing.”Similar path to that of AppleWith its new digital store and consumer friendly Replicator Mini, MakerBot is following a similar path to that of Apple and its iPod and iTunes combination. It has created a simplified and streamlined experience for consuming content and producing objects, as well as another revenue stream for the company – MakerBot is clearly attempting to make its 3D printer the “iPod” of the 3D printing world.MakerBot also unveiled a “prosumer” 3D printer, the new Replicator with more advanced features similar in scope to those found on traditional 2D paper printers and a larger build volume than the Replicator Mini. It will cost $2,899 and become available in February.MakerBot’s third new printer, the Replicator Z18, is a professional printer aimed at industrial designers with a very large 12x12x18in build volume. It will be big enough to create full-size 3D printed helmets among other things, costing $6,499 from Spring 2014.• It is not just MakerBot helping 3D printers getcheaper, faster and more mainstreamthan ever before
If you laid all the wristbands, smartwatches and head-mountable cameras at the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) end to end, they would probably run the length of the Las Vegas strip, where the show is in full swing.But what the firms showing off "wearable" technologies this year would dearly love to know is: will anyone buy them? Because if wearables – devices with computer chips that can monitor your heart rate, steps taken, and even location – don't take off, then the consumer electronics industry will have to fall back on its reliable sellers: big TVs, tablets and PCs.Or it might just grab your attention with this year's other surprise: household appliances you can text – so you can ask your washing machine how it's getting on.CES opened its doors on Tuesday to thousands of visitors hoping to see the future products that they will be using and, perhaps, wearing.The huge Convention Centre is home to thousands of companies touting their wares – or, in many cases, wears. The biggest fad right now is for wearable devices that measure some sort of detail about you, and log it. Sony announced a "SmartBand" allied to a "LifeLog", which head of mobile sales Dennis van Schie explained would "capture more quantifiable information about your life, because you never do one activity in isolation".Netatmo meanwhile offered "smart jewellery" which monitors your skin's ultraviolet exposure and sends it to a smartphone app. The Wellograph is a smartwatch with a heart monitor that also tracks your movement. And for the truly fitness-obsessed, Runphones has a sweatband which tracks your performance when running.Also on show was Samsung's Galaxy Gear, a smartwatch released last September to general indifference. Pebble, which raised $10.2m to build a smartwatch in 2012 – and delivered it in 2013 – announced the Steel, a new version with a multicoloured screen and metal surround.There's no sign yet though that anyone is actually buying them in significant numbers. "The market for smartwatches is getting crowded before there is even a real market of smartwatches," commented Ben Bajarin, analyst at Creative Strategies.But Ben Wood of CCS Insight says this is a necessary evolution. More than $100m has been invested in wearables through crowdfunding sites, which he cites as evidence of their huge potential: "Technology companies are feeling their way in the dark, but we expect innovative features to appear first on wearable devices that will be integrated into smartphones and other consumer electronics devices."He cautions though that "many wearable devices will have their five minutes of fame at shows like CES before disappearing into oblivion".Certainlylast year's $100 "smart fork" from Hapilabs, which promised to monitor how much you ate (but mystifyingly hasn't become commonplace), has been supplanted by this year's star – a Bluetooth-enabled toothbrush from Kolibree, which will tell your phone how "efficiently" you've been brushing your teeth, and for how long. "Personal health and wellbeing will be important factors in all wearable devices as consumers try to rationalise buying 'gadget bling' under the pretext of it improving their health and fitness," said Wood.The other CES staple that could be laid along the length of the Las Vegas strip is TVs. In previous years, attenders have been bombarded by 3D TV, Google TV, and "smart" TV – none of which have grabbed the popular consciousness. This year it is the turn of 4K TV, which promises to offer four times the resolution of HDTV.The problem now is finding content for such super-detailed screens. Netflix's boss, Reed Hastings, announced that series two of House of Cards, starring Kevin Spacey, will be streamed in 4K – for those with a special version of the Netflix app, and a suitable TV. The World Cup final will also be broadcast in 4K, though it is unclear how many broadcasters will be able to transmit it.Meanwhile two of the world's largest TV makers, the South Korean companies LG and Samsung, vied to be first to show off the biggest – and smallest – curved screens. Samsung flaunted an 85in LCD set which starts off flat but with the touch of a button curves in from the shorter sides.But when Transformers director Michael Bay was brought on stage to enthuse about this real-life transformer, it turned instead into a scene from another of his films – Armageddon – as the teleprompter failed and Bay, unwilling to improvise, simply walked off.Nor was the idea of a curving screen received with undiluted enthusiasm. "Like a lot of concept demos at CES, the bendable TV is more a novelty with little practical application," remarked David Katzmaier, who has reviewed TV sets for the website CNet since 2002. "The housing [of the device] is larger than a typical TV, and I can't begin to imagine how much it would cost." Samsung hasn't released pricing.LG too offered a curved TV, prompting US head of new product development Tim Alessi to announce that "our curved screens, impossibly thin screens, are the future of televisions offering unrivalled immersive pictures."One theme that keeps returning to CES, year after year, is the "connected home". The "internet fridge" made its regular appearance, this time from LG, whose US head of appliance brand marketing, David VanderWall, proclaimed: "You can text the fridge to find out what you need to buy" – though he skimmed past the detail of how your fridge will know what's inside it.Washing machines too will answer to your texts, he explained: "For the first time you'll be able to text your washing machine 'What are you doing?' and it'll let you know how it's getting on." He explained: "You no longer need to learn machine commands. Just speak naturally and your oven will understand you. Simply text it to find out what you need for a recipe."Will we have smart ovens by Christmas that will know how to cook turkey while we watch football on 4K TVs, monitoring our sofa habits with wristbands? At least two of them look unlikely. But CES is always about the promise – not necessarily the product.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhen misogynist trolls make journalism miserable for women &gt;&gt; The AtlanticConor Friedersdorf:As a college student and later as a newspaper reporter, I was subject to all manner of vile and ad hominem insults in comments. I nevertheless subscribed to the prevailing ethos of the time: that unmoderated comments were the least bad approach, because they acted as an important check on the writer or publication that was hosting them, a particularly important feature in an era when anyone could publish anything. My 25-year-old self felt confident that, having been subject to vitriol as serious as death threats, I was fully aware of the costs of the approach I advocated. Like many bloggers, I quickly developed thick skin, especially with regard to trolls. It wasn't always easy, but it seemed a small price to pay for all the excellent comments I got to read as compared to the prior world of boring letters to the editor.Then I guest-blogged for Megan McArdle.And he found out what it was like to be a woman writer on the internet. Coming after the conviction of two people for aggressive tweets at Caroline Criado-Perez, it's a thought-provoking piece.Analysts blast crappy Chromebooks reporting, defend platform's potential &gt;&gt; IDG"There has been a ton of misreporting as many lazy reporters and bloggers have characterized this as all sales, which it wasn't, or even consumer sales, which it most assuredly was not," said Stephen Baker of the NPD Group, in an email reply to questions. "It has been very personally distressing to me that so many reporters/bloggers refuse to read, or don't know what commercial channels mean."Baker was referring toinformation NPD released 23 Decemberthat said Chromebooks accounted for 21% of all U.S. notebook sales through the commercial retail channel for the first 11 months of 2013.In his email, Baker defined the commercial channel as the distributors - like CDW and Ingram Micro - that many businesses, government agencies, schools and other organizations use to buy personal computers and other devices. His data did not include consumer sales, nor PCs sold by OEMs, such as Dell and Hewlett-Packard, directly to businesses..."On the subject of Chromebooks versus clamshell notebooks, I don't subscribe to the idea that [the former] are taking sales from Windows," Baker said. "In my view, they are just as likely, actually more likely, to be taking sales from Android tablets or iPads, or just expanding the market than they are taking sales from Windows PCs in these business-to-business and education markets."Mozilla and partners to bring Firefox OS to new platforms and devices &gt;&gt; The Mozilla BlogSmart TVs (does it matter which OS a TV has?), and this:ZTE launched the first Firefox OS phone via Telefonica in Spain, which was well-­received and is exceeding expectations in the European and Latin America markets. In 2014, ZTE will develop a new Firefox OS line to give their users more choice. New Firefox OS phones from ZTE will include higher-­end and dual core options like the Open C and Open II.Spain is one of the countries where Android is super-dominant. Is Firefox OS going after the low end there?Post-BT crypto guru Schneier gets new gig at startup &gt;&gt; The RegisterFamed cryptographer and security guru Bruce Schneier has moved on from his seven years at BT. Just one month later, he has accepted the role of CTO at incident response startup Co3 Systems.…Co3 Systems makes co-ordination software for incident response. Schneier had previously served on Co3 Systems' advisory board and by joining the firm full time he will be reunited in a working partnership with people he worked with at Counterpane Internet Security prior to the security services firm's purchase by BT in October 2006.Status quo ante, pretty much.2013 was a year of drama for China's search engines (CHARTS) &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaIt's all about Baidu (63.1%) and Qihoo (22.5%) and slightly less about Sogou (11.4%):Google had already been struggling since early 2010 when the Silicon Valley giant shuttered its Chinese search engine – it was at Google.cn – so as not to comply with China's media censorship laws. However, its Google Hong Kong search engine is partially blocked by China's Great Firewall, and it's a lottery if the Google.com.hk page loads or not. Google has a mere 1.6% market share as a search engine in China in December 2013, compared to the 11.25% share it had in December 2010. It was already tanking in 2012, but 2013 was the year that Google slid into oblivion in China, barely ahead of Bing and Yahoo.Easy to forget how different other parts of the world are.China Telecom cuts IPhone price ahead of China Mobile release &gt;&gt; BloombergChina Telecom, the nation's third-largest wireless carrier, cut contract prices for Apple's iPhone 5s by about 15% ahead of next week's release of the device by larger rival China Mobile.China Telecom is offering a combination of price reductions and gift packages that together amount to an 800 yuan ($132) cut off the list price of 5,288 yuan ($873) for a 16GB iPhone 5s, according to promotional material at the carrier's Beijing retail locations today.China Telecom has around 100m 3G users; China Mobile, around 180m.How a bureaucrat in a struggling country at the edge of Europe found himself safeguarding the world's data &gt;&gt; QuartzA clever wrong-footing headline:Like Mark Zuckerberg, who represents the corporate face of privacy infractions, and Edward Snowden, who exposed government overreach, Billy Hawkes is, at least among wonkier circles, the regulatory face of the privacy debate.It is not a role he relishes. "When I started off in this job, the focus would primarily have been domestic. You wouldn't be talking to me if I was only concerned with schools and supermarkets. It's become a far more complex job. I used to have a quiet life [but] that is no longer the case," Hawkes said in a recent interview with Quartz in..Can you guess where it is yet?Apple-Backed consortium Rockstar sells 101 patents to Spherix &gt;&gt; IPWireRockstar Consortium, a group created by Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp. and other technology companies to acquire patents from Nortel Networks Corp. in 2011, has sold a portion of that portfolio to Spherix Inc.The patents in the sale cover technologies including access, switching, routing, optical and voice communication network devices, Spherix said in a statement today. Spherix disclosed in a filing last week that it issued $60m in stock to acquire 101 Rockstar patents.Couldn't get them to monetise, so sold them.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Welcome! Come through to the parlour of 2014, sir, madam, and taste of the finest delicacies and morsels this year's small developers have to offer. There is much in the way of cyberpunk, horror, and sparking neon, and would you care for a canape of David Lynch with a little Burroughs perhaps? Ah, maybe you are into feeling nihilistically bummed out? Or, you'd rather have this hors d'oeuvres containing a whole crowd rioting?… I see.There were so many games I didn't manage to fit into this list, so don't feel bad if I didn't include your favourite: 2014 is going to be knuckle-crackingly pleasurable for small budget developers; we'll see less known developers break through and known developers do their best work. And all for only a tiny slice of the cash you'd pay for a big budget shootfest. What a time to game in, my friends.Well. Let's start with the world's most thrilling sword fighting simulator shall we? No, it's not a rude joke, I promise.Nidhogg (Messhof, PC)At laaaaaaast! In fluid movements of skill and half-breath decisions, you swipe your épée low-mid-high at your opponent across clouds, mines, castles and wilds. This long-awaited local multiplayer indie game is an intricate, flowing game of fencing, in which you kick as well as slash opponents through long grass and hallways. It's out on 13 January with a Daedalus soundtrack.Routine (Lunar Software, PC)A slowburn cyberpunk horror game where you must find what caused the disappearance of everyone on an abandoned moon base. First-person exploration, permadeath, deadzone aiming, no HUD: it's all full-eyed horror. The game will also be available on VR device Oculus Rift at launch, adding an extra sense of horrible dread. Atmospheric. Futuristic. Dank. Full of tension. And it's the prettiest suitor at the prom. GIVE IT TO ME.Tangiers (Andalusian, PC/Mac)David Lynchian stealth game Tangiers is described by its creators as, "a love letter to the avant-garde of the 20th century… set in a world built from the broken prose of Burroughs and the social dystopia brought about by Ballard's architecture." Inspired by classic PC game Thief, it applies Burroughs' 'cut-up' technique to constantly rearrange the environment based on player decisions. I love this game because it seems to emulate old ideas and create new ones, integrating some of the most interesting concepts of literature and art. Strange and dark, it comes to PC, Mac and Linux this year.The Witness (Jonathan Blow, iOS, PC, PS4)Whatever you think of philosophising Braid-developing leaf-on-the-wind Jonathan Blow, his next game looks set to reinvent my childhood favourite, Myst, by exploring something Cyan Inc's classic title only dabbled in: the realm of three dimensions. An atmospheric exploration puzzle game on a remote island is promised. I bet it will be good, and everyone will be upset because it will be good.THUMPER (DROOL, platforms TBC)I have a small place in my heart reserved entirely for games that are neon and layered in the sort of beats that would often come through my bedroom wall all the way through university: pounding techno or electronica. Thumper is about a pulsating neon beetle who likes to race to this sort of music, andSavygamerCEO Lewie Procter sent it my way. A fast-paced action game that combines elements of racing and rhythm action, it looks heart-poundingly exhilarating to a tune so rad that it might make me vomit.That Dragon Cancer (Ryan Green and Josh Larson, Ouya)I want to bring you down off that extreme Thumper high to describe the game that made me feel more upset than pretty much anything else last year: That Dragon Cancer. Ryan Green's little son is dying of cancer and Ryan and his friend Josh are making an adventure game about the experience of coping. As I sat in the Unwinnable game salon at GDC last year and played this game, Ryan sat in the room patiently waiting for my response to his work. I was unable to say anything at all because I was so shaken. It's something very moving and very upsetting, but worth it.Quadrilateral Cowboy (Blendo Games, PC)Blendo has a certain swishy style to their games, you can see it even in the trailers they produce. The quick cut was a feature of their euphoric, emotional and very very funny game Fifty Flights of Loving, and this time round they're bringing us a lo-fi cyberpunk hacking puzzle sim, guaranteed to make you feel good about your terrible computer skills and worse about your typo tendencies. I love how everything's going cyberpunk these days. Naturally, this will be available only on floppy disk and playable via a series of interconnected BBC Micros with very tappy keys. (Not really, it's on PC.)RIOT (Leonard Menchiari, PC, Mac, iOS, Android, OUYA)Yes, it's a riot simulator, a game that recreates the circumstances that trigger riots, and gives the player an impression of the techniques police might use for crowd control, and the effects these have. It will be particularly interesting to see how bias will be embedded in the design: director Leonard Menchiari says the game was a direct result of him experiencing a riot first hand, and I think it might have a few interesting things to say about crowd behaviour in particular.Rain World (JLJac, PC)I think I was one of the firstto report on thislittle sneak-based platformer puzzle game last year. The strikingly beautiful art and the curiously adorable movement of the little weasel-dudes are mesmerising, but better still is the detailed AI being programmed into the enemies. A complex beauty.No Man's Sky (Hello Games, PC and others TBC)"You can't take the sky from me" is a thing I imagine Hello Games yelling last week as their Guildford office flooded – but they probably wouldn't because it's horribly cheesy. Snubbed by their insurance company and facing terrible damage, they've rallied admirably with support from all their fans, and this procedurally created universe has the ability to be vast and beautiful from what we have seen. It's unlikely, given the setbacks, that we will actually see this released in 2014. But we'll give them all the time they need, frankly.
Sony has announced a new cloud-based gaming service, which will bring classic PlayStation titles to a range of gadgets, from tablet computers to televisions. PlayStation Now is launching with a limited beta in the US this month. A global roll-out expected in the summer.Sony Computer Entertainment chief Andrew House revealed the new initiative onstage at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. “Playing your favorite PS3 game on your television will become a reality,” he told audience members. The service is set to feature classic games from the three previous Sony consoles, all of which will be stored on cloud-based servers and streamed live to devices via the internet. PlayStation 4, the handheld PS Vita console, and other computers, tablets and smartphones will be able to access the service, as well Sony&apos;s latest Bravia TV sets. It seems customers will either be able to pay for individual titles or take out a monthly subscription for unlimited access to the whole catalogue. No pricing details have yet been announced.The technology behind PlayStation Now, which streams games fast enough for seamless real-time play, comes from specialist cloud technology firm Gaikai. Formed in 2008, the company uses advanced servers and compression techniques to cut the lag usually experienced when high-quality interactive content is streamed across the internet. Tech site The Vergetested the serviceat CES and found &quot;a slightly perceptible lag&quot; while playing titles such as God of War and The Last of Us on a Bravia television, but was otherwise impressed. After launch, the extent of this lag will depend on each user&apos;s broadband speed; for cheap access to hundreds of titles, consumers may be prepared to put up with a slightly compromised performance.PlayStation Now will not be the first cloud-based gaming service. OnLive launched in 2010 and now offers over 200 titles via a subscription-based model. However, the company has struggled to attract major Triple A titles and remains a niche proposition. Sony, of course, has a vast library of major releases and the sheer financial clout to build a global server network.The company also announced that it would also be streaming TV content to various devices, but revealed few details. As for PlayStation 4, House confirmed that the new console, released last November, has now sold 4.2m units.
Marissa Mayer took to the stage at CES in Las Vegas to announce an even more media focused strategy with digital magazines and a new News Digest app, lead by British teenage entrepreneurNick D&apos;Aloisio.The media-centric move continues Mayer’s aggressive overhaul of Yahoo in an effort to return it to its former glory as one of the home pages of the web.“We decided to do what I love – harness the power of the web and deliver it in a concise experience, like that found in the beautiful, elegant magazine,” said Mayer on stage.Yahoo’s new digital magazines kick off with Yahoo Tech, the new site lead by Yahoo’s recent signing of long-time technology commentator David Pogue, who joined the company from the New York Times. “At Yahoo Tech, we’re going to speak English, it’s call human – we’re taking care of the middle 85% of internet users, the normal people,” said Pogue.Joining the new tech magazine-style publication is Yahoo Food, a glossy collection of recipes and other culinary musings described as “everything an at-home chef needs to feel inspired” by Mayer and lead by well-known writers from leading culinary publications.Summly creator D&apos;Aloisio unveiled what he’s been working on sinceYahoo acquired his companyin March 2013. Yahoo News Digest employs the Summly summarisation technology into a news app that takes stories from multiple sources and news organisations and blends them together in a morning and evening digest of around nine important stories of the day.The free app includes “atoms” – interactive sections that add value to the story with context including images, Wikipedia entries, videos, and a list of tweets discussing the issue.Mobile first, media-centric“We’re in the midst of a massive and continuing platform shift to mobile and something that’s central to our forward progress at Yahoo,” said Mayer.All of Yahoo’s new products are designed to provide an excellent mobile-first experience, while maintaining quality on the desktop. But the media-centric products show that Yahoo is moving further and further towards being a media company, producing its own original content as well as curating others’.This shift forms part of Mayer’s vision to turn around Yahoo, which started when she took the helm of Yahoo in July 2012, then 37, tasked with bringing the declining technology company back to health.“We’re simplifying our business, moving from complexity to clarity,” said Mayer of the progress Yahoo has made since her leadership began.Mayer left a 13-year career at Google, which saw her manage and contribute to many aspects of Google’s products and portfolio including being part of the three-strong team that invented Google AdWords.Her most famous act at Google is known as the “Forty Shades of Blue” episode, where a fight over which shade of blue should be used for links on a page displayed her obsessiveness over detail.After arguing with a programmer over very slightly different shades of blue which may or may not have generated more clicks, she ordered that 40 different shades of the primary colour would be shown to randomly shown to each 2.5% of visitors monitoring their performance, eventually ended up with the blue colour shown on Google’s mail and search pages.That attention to detail was clearly visible in all the approach of Yahoo’s slick new products that oozed sophistication and employed the latest in web technology – not something that could be said of the Yahoo of two years ago.Acquisition, acquisition, acquisitionSince taking the reigns of Yahoo, Mayer has shown gumption and an eye for acquiring companies with the $1.1bn purchase of blog platform Tumblr a highlight. On Tuesday the Yahoo chief announced that she had acquired yet another company, this time an app called Alleviate, which creates a personalised home screen on Android devices based on your habitual usage.She has also piled investment back into one of Yahoo’s best assets in the form of Flickr, invested in Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba and pumped up Yahoo’s stock price by over 100% since taking over.Her stance on home working, which is now banned at Yahoo due to a policy change, angered many employees in February, but her belief that working side-by-side in the office for better collaboration, speed and quality forced the issue through.One of Mayer’s biggest achievements for Yahoo has been getting people talking positively about the company again, which was clear by the enormous crowd that turned up to the hour-long keynote address at CES.An increase in the number of users and people wanting to work for Yahoo hasn’t hurt, either, even if it does appear the company is forging headlong into the foggy territory of a media-centric tech company like Aol.Like Google, Yahoo is an online advertising company at its heart, and it also announced a big simplification of its ad platform to help ad buyers, along with integration with Tumblr sponsored posts.• Technology giants, including Yahoo, call for&quot;agressive&quot; reforms of the NSA policiesof the White House
This week&apos;s hot new social app appears to beJelly. It&apos;s the work of US startup Jelly Industries, a company set up in 2012 by one of Twitter&apos;s co-founders, Biz Stone.Available for Android and iPhone, it&apos;s part search engine, part question-and-answer service and part photo-sharing app: Google meets Yahoo! Answers meets Instagram, if you will. But will you? At first sight, Jelly looks worryingly like a solution to an already-well-solved problem. Here&apos;s howJelly Industries&apos; launch blog postdescribes it, with some additional thoughts:Humanity is connected like never before. In fact, recent white papers have concluded that the proverbial “six degrees of separation” is now down to four because of social networking and mobile phones. It’s not hard to imagine that the true promise of a connected society is people helping each other.There&apos;s something to this: my Twitter feed is full of people asking and answering questions, giving and receiving advice, and making introductions. My Facebook feed has that too, with a side-order of lost dogs and uokhun? sympathy circles. Helping.Using Jelly is kinda like using a conventional search engine in that you ask it stuff and it returns answers. But, that’s where the similarities end. Albert Einstein famously said, “Information is not knowledge.” Knowledge is the practical application of information from real human experience.And listicles. Listicles and Upworthy posts. You Can&apos;t Begin To Understand The 17 Lessons Einstein Learned From His Life... And What He Did With Them Will Amaze You!Jelly changes how we find answers because it uses pictures and people in our social networks. It turns out that getting answers from people is very different from retrieving information with algorithms. Also, it has the added benefit of being fun.It&apos;s not hugely fun Googling on your phone to find an answer, but it&apos;s quick. Does fun beat quick for answers? But the people aspect is clearly the key here and elsewhere – Google and Facebook are already setting their sights on becoming social search engines, in different but still competing ways.Jelly is designed to search the group mind of your social networks—and what goes around, comes around. You may find yourself answering questions as well as asking. You can help friends, or friends-of-friends with their questions and grow your collection of thank you cards. It feels good to help.My mom used to say, “It’s not what you know, it’s who you know.” Any question on Jelly can be forwarded outside the app—to anyone in the world. Maybe your friend, or even your friend’s friend doesn’t have the answer. However, your friend’s friend’s friend just might. It’s a small world after all.The problem that Jelly is solving, I think, is how to ask questions to your social networking contacts, get answers back, and say thank you – all from your mobile phone. Isn&apos;t that what Facebook and Twitter&apos;s mobile apps can do? With sharing and retweeting features to handle the friend&apos;s friend&apos;s friend thing?In a world where 140 characters is considered a maximum length, a picture really is worth a thousand words. Images are in the foreground of the Jelly experience because they add depth and context to any question. You can crop, reframe, zoom, and draw on your images to get more specific.You can post pictures using Facebook and Twitter&apos;s apps, although you can&apos;t draw on them. Yet. You can with Snapchat, which quite possibly means you can (soon) with Facebook too.Say you’re walking along and you spot something unusual. You want to know what it is so you launch Jelly, take a picture, circle it with your finger, and type, “What’s this?” That query is submitted to some people in your network who also have Jelly. Jelly notifies you when you have answers. (See video.)Or you launch Facebook, take a picture, type &quot;What&apos;s this?&quot; and post it to your entire Facebook network, then get pinged with answers. Similar for Twitter. But here&apos;s the video:No matter how sophisticated our algorithms become, they are still no match for the experience, inventiveness, and creativity of the human mind. Jelly is a new way to search and something more–it makes helping other people easy and fun. We hope you find Jelly as useful and rewarding as we do.This is why I&apos;m curious about Jelly. Its blog post isn&apos;t full of jargon or buzzword bullshit. It&apos;s plain-speaking and seemingly based on good principles. This article isn&apos;t intended to sound overly snarky or vicious – for that, I&apos;ll direct you toValleywag&apos;s verdict: &quot;A revolution in engorged, cloying, dumbstruck rhetoric, a true disruption of horse shit&quot;.Ouch. But the emperor&apos;s-new-clothes question looming large in my mind is this: who would use Jelly instead of going directly to the experienced, inventive and creative minds of their social networks, via the apps they already open several times a day?That&apos;s a question worth asking your friends. Now, what would be the best app for that...
On the ground at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES), legions of electronics manufacturers trample all over themselves to show off every conceivable gadget under the sun. But hidden among theshiny new technology headed to stores in 2014, there’s a whole host of bizarre pieces of electronics that we’re callingWeird CES.Roaming the halls of the biggest gadget show on Earth, we –Samuel GibbsandRory Carroll– are snapping and tweeting all things weird, wonderful and vaguely unidentifiable. Here&apos;s how it works: follow the hashtag#WeirdCES. Each day around 11am PT/2pm ET, we&apos;ll send out three photos and give you the chance to guess the gadget.Monday&apos;s photos and answers are below. We&apos;ll add Tuesday&apos;s to the post later today.Check back using #WeirdCES on Twitter and leave requests for products you&apos;d like to see in the comments belowI’m on the ground at#CES2014. Going to be tweeting#WeirdCESpics for next hour. Any guesses what this thing is?pic.twitter.com/Kdpyd4U0hz&mdash; Samuel Gibbs (@SamuelGibbs)January 6, 2014A:this is theSen.se Mother, a strange-looking white bulb-like hub, that connects to a series of small sensors that “blend into your daily life to make it serene, healthy and pleasurable.” The system will monitor anything from the number of steps a person makes a day to who’s in the house at the moment, and can even fire off reminders to water the plants and warn when the fridge door is left open, with Mother collecting all the data and relaying it to a phone, tablet or via notification lights.Next up, what on Earth is this? Clue’s in the photo#WeirdCESpic.twitter.com/agqgm7PD7C&mdash; Samuel Gibbs (@SamuelGibbs)January 6, 2014A:theTao Wellshellis a motion tracker and fitness gadget that uses isometrics to build a workout. It measures compressive power and produces precise exercises using the body’s own muscle power against it. The device can even be used as a game controller for things like Jetpack Joyride producing a fun workout.Last one for now. This one’s not quite as obvious as it looks#WeirdCESpic.twitter.com/QE3g2oZ6wq&mdash; Samuel Gibbs (@SamuelGibbs)January 6, 2014A:a smart piece of jewellery, theNetatmo Junebracelet monitors your exposure to the sun’s harmful UV rays and lets you keep tabs on your tanning. It connects to a smartphone app via Bluetooth to give the wearer a readout of the UV absorbed by their skin that day, so they can avoid sunburn and skin damage.TuesdayRory Carrollhit the CES floor today. His first find:Hi from#CES. I&#39;ll be tweeting#WeirdCESpics the next hour. Guesses on how this thing improves your life?pic.twitter.com/XGoV56ExEq&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 7, 2014A:Half point for cocktail answers. It&#39;s app- controlled smart bar tending. Precision geek lushery.#WeirdCES.pic.twitter.com/iId5VEa1MN&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 7, 2014Next up, something that clips onto you can time travel. Ish.#WeirdCES.pic.twitter.com/12GK40ZJjP&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 7, 2014A:It&#39;s meMini, a wearable camera that constantly records but only preserves last 5 minutes after you catch something interesting.#WeirdCES.&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 7, 2014Last one. Not binoculars to see people naked.#WeirdCES.pic.twitter.com/NWeJDk8sa7&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 7, 2014A:It&#39;s Poppy 3-D. Plop a phone into a slit and mirrors convert pics &amp; video into swooshy 3-D. $59.#WeirdCES.pic.twitter.com/tl0hrUoZRg&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 7, 2014Join us Wednesday for more #WeirdCES gems
1. Michael Bay fled the stage during Samsung&apos;s TV launch at the 2014 Consumer Electronics Show in an apparent case of stage-fright following an autocue glitch. Cries of &quot;More uncomfortable viewing than [insert name of Michael Bay film here]??!?!&quot; echoed around the globe. Alternatively, it might have been hisnotoriously firey temperthat provoked the walk-out.Prepare to clench.2. Paris Hilton showed disarming precisence back in 2006 when she lent her likeness to a&quot;mobile phone game&quot;. Less surprising perhaps is that she seemingly announced the wrong name at the Electronic Entertainment Expo launch event. But wait - a twist! It transpired the company, Gameloft, was at fault. Paris correctly said &apos;Diamond Quest&apos; while the posters said &apos;Jewel Jam&apos; because they had not been updated, but ultimately nobody cares since this was, like, a million years ago or whatever.Amazing video.3. At the Taiwanese press launch for the Sony PS Vita, pop star Rainie Yang dropped several balls in return for a fee. First, she said her favourite childhood game was Super Mario Brothers, you know, the flagship game of rival company Nintendo. Then she posed for photos holding the device upside down. Still, smiles all round.Three cheers for the Sony PiZza!4. In 2013, Youtube failed to grasp the fundamental factor in its own success by ploughing resources into a series of more mainstream, celeb-powered events. While comedy week fell a little flat, the music awards show went down with excruciatingly chaotic aplomb. Who wouldn&apos;t want to see Arcade Fire&apos;s frontman publicly embarrass himself recreating a moment when Kanye West publicly embarrassed himself?Apparently they weren't even holding a gun to the head of Win Butler's puppy.5. I&apos;m not sure which is more shocking: that Lily Allen lost out big time (we&apos;re talking multiple millions) by turning down a live show in Second Life, the online virtual game world, for a fee paid in bitcoins - or that bitcoin has rapidly attained such economic clout that the idea of being paid in such a way now seems quite reasonable. Who knew, eh, Lily?About 5 years ago someone asked me to stream a gig live on second life for hundreds of thousNds of bitcoins, &quot;as if&quot; I said.#idiot#idiot&mdash; Lily Allen  (@lilyallen)January 5, 20146. In January 2013, Blackberry appointed singer/songwriter Alicia Keys as its global creative director. A year later and the wonderfully weird partnership is no more. &apos;But why?&apos; begged no one. Because Blackberry, thought everyone involved, awkwardly shuffling their feet.The first 20 seconds now play like some kind of glam tragi-comedy.7. If language were an equation, you could add &apos;bizarre&apos; to &apos;ambitious project&apos; and your steampunk-esque calculating apparatus might fart out &apos;Lady Gaga&apos;. Perhaps Polaroid&apos;s did when it appointed the pop star as its own creative director in 2011. Together they designed a range of gadgets aimed at reinvogorating the brand, of which a decidely un-Gaga compact printer was the only one to go into production.It's not clear whether Gaga's Grey Label range included the gold mannequin.8. It comes lower down the list because it was such a notorious endors-o-fail you&apos;ve probably seen it before. However, Oprah Winfrey&apos;s tweet praising Microsoft&apos;s Surface tablet, which she sent from her Apple iPad perhaps epitomises most starkly the vapidity and pitfalls of endorsing in the technological age.Would that be 12 Surface or iPad tablets, Oprah? Photograph: screengrab/Dailymail9. Last but no less of a fail-whale, we have the Megaupload endorsement video that seven major celebrities apparently did not know they would be starring in. While the companies listed above are arguably misguided rather than the archictects of their own demise, Megaupload can in no way pass this buck. They recorded ambiguously positive celebrity statements and edited them into a Youtube clip that resulted in multiple legal actions and counter actions. It all turned meta, or perhaps just tragic, when the site was shut down whole-sale for piracy in 2012.Megaupload do deserve some recognition for creating a PR disaster featuring yet in no way caused by both Kanye West and Chris Brown.
The cleaners have started to come round the Creative Assembly offices. I walk into a stark white bathroom where a paper towel dispenser's guts hang open below the hand dryer. It looks sad. I walk towards a cubicle.Suddenly, the hand dryer goes off by itself and my chest clutches in at me like a claw. The hand dryer switches itself on and off and on and off. Each time I remind myself there's no one there.The cleaner pops in. 'Sorry!' she says, and potters off.Even as I write this I still feel frightened. There's a kind of bleak dread I felt on the Sevastopol, the remote space station featured in Alien: Isolation. It's a dread that lingers. The game's environment is beautiful, enchanting even. But it is unsettling. And the… Alien. I don't really want to talk about the Alien. But I guess you're going to make me. It's like a black hole that the mind dances around.Creative Assembly is taking on something so beloved that it seems like an unbearable weight. It is making a spiritual sequel to the 1979 sci-fi horror film Alien, with the full blessing of 20th Century Fox. Set 15 years after the Nostromo set off on its doomed voyage, the story follows Ripley's daughter, Amanda, now a Weyland-Yutani employee. The flight recorder of her mother's ship has been recovered. It is on the Sevastopol. She must investigate.Impossible missionThe development team all seem like fans of the Alien franchise, admirers in particular of Ridley Scott's scalding narrative of quiet existential dread and huge, looming monster horror.I too am this keen; I studied the film for my degree, I wrote essays on its dark imagery, its feminist symbolism, its sexual terror. As I look around at the journalists being herded to and fro in the studio, I know each one of them at one point in their life has probably known a similar obsession with this sci-fi classic. From my little ivory perch, it seems too much, and wonder if the developers know what on Earth they have the reins of. They have hitched their wagon to a giant of our nerd culture and set off at a reckless yet admirable pace.Many have stumbled before at this task. Gearbox's last dance with the Alien franchise - Aliens: Colonial Marines - was buggy and disappointing, and brought very poor reviews. But Creative Assembly has ransacked the 20th Century Fox archives where the 1979 film's historical debris has been stored. The developers describe in depth to me how much material they have been exposed to: the blueprints and measurements for the sets, the original concept art. Ron Cobb's 'Semiotic Standard for all commercial trans-stellar &amp; heavy element transport craft' symbols sit on a screen like buttons I could press.Both the archive materials and the aesthetics of the movie been ingested and reproduced. The team talks excitedly of how they wanted to make Weyland-Yutani corporate videos look analogue, fuzzy. So they made the clips and recorded them on to old VHS machines, then bashed them around with magnets until when played back they skipped and blurred. The audio designers tell us about how they found unlabelled reels in the 20th Century Fox Alien archives that turned out to be hours of cockney sound designers making weird sound effects. They took the entire original soundtrack and rerecorded it with the National Philharmonic Orchestra, some of whom were present the first time the music was recorded with original composer Jerry Goldsmith.It's impossible not to be excited and feel crippled by the scope of it at the same time. They're trying to recreate the sort of black magic that you feel could only have happened under the light of a certain mysterious constellation, and only under the hand of Ridley Scott, Sigourney Weaver, and HR Giger. So I wouldn't want to be them. But if there's anyone who could make this work, it's Creative Assembly.Lost in space"When she left Earth, Ellen Ripley promised her daughter Amanda she would return home for her 11th birthday," explains the press release. "Amanda never saw her again."In order to uncover the truth about her mother, Amanda is forced to confront the same terrifying thing that separated them."The idea is to survive when you know it is unlikely that you will. Watching the original 1979 film, you notice how silence is used to unsettle, to create a sense of waiting, of dread, and of uncertainty. Creative Assembly have noticed too. To wake in the game on the Sevastopol, in the belly of a place so like the Nostromo, the vast universe peering back at you through the portholes and from behind dust motes, it's overwhelming at first. The doors are familiar thanks to 20th Century Fox's set designers meticulously recording their shape and size. The gentle flutter of a familiar Jerry Goldsmith-penned flautist drifts notes over your shoulder. Everything looks as if 20th Century Fox merely left the fully functioning Nostromo drifting in space until Creative Assembly opened it back up one day and rearranged some rooms and pickups so it has became more like a puzzle. The level designers tell me a large part of the game is performing tasks under duress of fear, solving puzzles in an environment where you know your movements draw attention to you.Press to bring up the motion tracker: there is no green blip on the radar. Your destination is indicated on the top of the device. But, you realise, that when you look at the motion tracker, the rest of your vision blurs. This is the key to your survival: the dilemma of knowing. Do you know where it is? Or can you see where it is? Do you look at the device, trusting it's far away? Or don't you want to know?You slowly make your way through the abandoned remains of the dead crew, picking up fuel, tools, a torch. All the while, very little sound. The hum of strings or a rumble of drums sometimes. Sometimes those flautists try to brush past your ears and you feel alone. You see that little red weighted bird toy, pecking away at nothing on the dinner table. The dinner table that looks like the one you remember in the film was where John Hurt… Gave birth.Something moves and you think this is it. But there is nothing on the tracker. It is the little bobbing toy, sitting by a light, casting a shadow.Being RipleyYou press to cut open the hatch so you can open the door. I glance at my own hands on the game controller. They are pale, long thin fingers, no nail polish, chewed nails. Amanda Ripley's hands too are like this. They look like my hands and they are cutting open a door. I am much more touched than I'd like. In fact, there's a real sense of relief. They are her hands. They look like my hands. This is an odd sensation. Perhaps the game has faith in my ability to survive this nightmare.Something happens. Everything goes wrong. This wing is breaking apart; and now there's a green blip on the tracker. The alarms are going off, a fire alarm mixed with an air raid siren. It's closing on me. They tell me the key is to go slow: this is the risk and reward mechanism they know is against all human nature. They tell me it can't see me if I go slow. They tell me if it sees me it's lethal.It's on my radar. It's far across the room. I don't want to look at it. It's tall, black by the shadows, it stalks the compartments of the space station slowly until it senses my movement. There is a locker over there on the right. I run to it and shut myself in. And I sit there, the lights flashing and the alarms picking at me and I bring up the motion tracker: it is half a metre away. A quarter. A centimetre.Through the slits I can see its dainty shark teeth in the horrible silver grin, the shine of the lights on its elongated black skull. It's looking at me. I press to hold my breath. I pull back on the stick to lean away from the locker door. It's going to rip me out of here, I think. It's going to smash my skull back into my brain.Finally, it leaves. My vision is blurry. My motion tracker suggests its stalking pattern has gone back to normal; it is moving away from me. Satisfied, I get out of the locker and feel sheepish for hiding and I start to walk towards my destination on the tracker.The blip comes back, rounding on me. I should go slow, I think. No sudden movements. The blip gets closer. Go slow, I say to myself. Slow. Baby steps. Slower. But it's right behind me. It's right behind me. I can hear its feet on the floor. It's coming here.I can see the door. I can see the door. If I run I can make it. I'm going to do that thing that you know you can't do but I feel like the goal is right there.I run. My hands grab the door release.The tail plunges through my stomach - Amanda's stomach - whatever - and the screen goes black."It can see you if you move quickly," one of the developers says.Yes, I think. Well done you bastards. Well done.• Alien: Isolation is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One in late 2014
Google&apos;s latest America-only doodle celebrates the birthday of author Zora Neale Hurston, who wrote dozens of short stories and essays but is best remembered for her 1937 novel Their Eyes Were Watching God.Born in Notasulga, Alabama, in 1891, Hurston came to New York City in 1925, at the height of the Harlem Renaissance. She travelled extensively throughout the American south and the Caribbean, collecting stories and experiences and transcribing them with near-anthropological accuracy in her stories. The Guardian&apos;s Gary Younge,in a review of the 2003 Hurston biography Wrapped in Rainbows, described her unique place in the world:The trouble with Hurston is that as a black woman writer at the beginning of the last century she simply did not know her place. And for that may we all be thankful. The world was not ready in 1930 for a black, working class woman who would drive through the American south collecting folklore tales in a Chevrolet coupe she called &quot;Sassy Susie&quot;.But Hurston was ready for the world. Married three times, she could never settle because she would accept no restrictions on her liberty.Hurston died in obscurity in 1960, nearly forgotten save for a false accusation of child molestation in 1948 (she proved she was out of the country at the time, but the stain on her reputation remained). A 1975 essay by Alice Walker began the process of Hurston&apos;s rediscovery, and Their Eyes Were Watching God is now regularly featured on academic reading lists throughout the country. Eatonville, Florida,holds an annual festival in her honor.Today is the 123rd anniversary of her birth.
China has lifted a long-running ban on foreign games consoles in arcades and on home entertainment systems, reversing a 2000 decision to ban gaming on mental health grounds.The government will, for a trial period, allow games consoles to be made within Shanghai&apos;s free trade zone and sold within China, subject to standard local inspections on multimedia goods.An official statement confirming the decision described it as an &quot;experiment [to] temporarily adjust&quot; relevant regulations in order to &quot;explore the experience of reform and opening&quot;.The move paves the way for the biggest foreign games console makers - Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo - to push into the Chinese market where video games are worth 83bn yuan ($13bn) annually, according to China&apos;s annual games industry conference.Theannouncementdid not state a timeframe for the experiment or fully explain the sudden change in policy, but it is in line with wider economic reforms and liberalisation in China over recent years.Another factor that may have prompted the relaxation is the illegal trade in video games, which thrives throughout the country despite state attempts to restrict it. The ban on consoles has meant that PC gaming dominates as much as two thirds of the games market, but there is a vibrant market in illegal consoles.The intention to relax trade restrictions was announced last year, making this latest statement part of a longer process and perhaps little more than a formality.&quot;This just means one step of the process has been taken,&quot; said Yasuhiro Minagawa, Japanese firm Nintendo&apos;s public relations manager,speaking to Reuters.The reference to specific areas of trade is significant for foreign companies, however, who are primed to begin doing business as soon as Chinese government officials have finished unpicking such complex bans and restrictions.Video games themselves are particularly symbolic, such is their significance as a commodity and a form of entertainment both in and outside China. The free trade of such games and consoles would mark a profound step toward China&apos;s globalisation both economically and culturally.•The Battle for the internet: US and China engage in cyber war games
iPhone and iPad owners spent more than $10bn (£6.1bn) on apps and in-app purchases from Apple&apos;s App Store in 2013, including more than $1bn in the final month of the year.Apple announced the figures today, while noting that iOS developers have earned more than $15bn since the store&apos;s launch in July 2008. The company takes a 30% cut of app sales, indicating more than $21.4bn of spending on and within iOS apps in the five-and-a-half year period.The announcement differs notably fromApple&apos;s corresponding release from January 2013, when it revealed that iOS users had downloaded nearly 20bn apps in 2012, but gave no figures for consumer spending for that year, although it did say that total payouts to developers had reached $7bn by the end of 2012.Comparing the two announcements also reveals that more than 225,000 new iOS apps were launched in 2013, taking the App Store catalogue from 775,000 at the end of 2012 to more than 1m a year later. December iOS downloads increased by 50% from 2bn in 2012 to 3bn in 2013, too.It is no surprise to see Apple publicising iOS spending and developer payouts. Google&apos;s rival Android platform now has a much bigger market share for smartphones, and is eroding the iPad&apos;s share of the tablet market too. With Google still not giving out spending and payout figures for Android, Apple&apos;s pitch is that it still provides the most lucrative platform for developers.Will this remain the case in 2014? In December, app analytics company Distimo claimed thatthe revenue gap between Apple&apos;s App Store and Android&apos;s Google Play store was narrowing, estimating that on a typical day in November, global revenues for the 200 top grossing iOS apps were more than $18m versus $12m for the comparable selection on Google Play – compared to $15m and $3.5m respectively a year before.Apple&apos;s latest figures suggest that in December, all iOS apps – not just the top 200 – were generating $32.3m a day, on average – while over the whole of 2013, the $8bn of developer payouts suggest average daily iOS app revenues of $27.4m.Apple&apos;s latest announcement praises the work of companies including Evernote, Yahoo, Airbnb, OpenTable, Tumblr, Pinterest and American Airlines to update their apps for its iOS 7 operating system in 2013, while singling out some of the most successful iOS apps of the year: &quot;surprise hits&quot; including Heads Up, Moves, Afterlight and Impossible Road, as well as other games Candy Crush Saga, Puzzle &amp; Dragons, Minecraft, QuizUp and Clumsy Ninja.&quot;The lineup of apps for the holiday season was astonishing and we look forward to seeing what developers create in 2014,&quot; said Apple&apos;s senior vice president of internet software and services Eddy Cue in a statement, which also picked out independent firms Duolingo, Simogo, Frogmind, Plain Vanilla, Atypical Games, Lemonista, Base and Savage Interactive as &quot;developers to watch in 2014&quot;.
Breaking news: a 23 year-old man has exaggerated an anecdote from his career in order to impress during a high-profile interview.Why is this news? The man is Evan Spiegel, boss of messaging startup Snapchat, which was valued at $2bn in its last round of funding. The anecdote concerns a meeting with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, whose $3bn acquisition offer was later declined by Snapchat.The interview? That was with Forbes forits latest 30 Under 30 Who Are Changing The World issue, complete with Spiegel as its cover star. And the publication hasn’t taken kindly to the executive’s claims that it misrepresented his words in the piece.The anecdote in question concerns a meeting between Zuckerberg, Spiegel and one of his Snapchat co-founders, Bobby Murphy, about 13 months ago. It recounts the tale of Zuckerberg suggesting a meeting, and getting the (paraphrased) response from Spiegel of “I’m happy to meet you… if you come to meet me.”After the seeming rudeness was called out bya separate article on the Business Insider website, Spiegel took to Twitter to defend himself. “Realize that makes for a good story but that&apos;s not what happened,” he wrote, beforetweeting screenshots of the actual email threadbetween himself and Zuckerberg.It’s a much more respectful conversation than the Forbes piece makes out, Spiegel writing that he’s happy to meet next time he’s in the Bay Area where Facebook is based, before Zuckerberg suggests meeting earlier as he’s visiting Snapchat’s home city of Los Angeles.Cue articles and tweets criticising Forbes for misrepresenting Spiegel’s interview, and then a sharp response from the publication, as it published the transcript of that interview, complete with a stingingSnapchat’s Evan Spiegel And The Antics Of A 23-Year-Old Noviceheadline:“So Mark sends an email to my personal email. Like, how would he know that right? And it’s like, ‘Hey we’re interested in what you’re doing. Would love to meet you or whatever.’ And we’re like, ‘You know we’re working in LA, you know, thank you. You know, let us know if you come to LA.”You know? Well, everybody knows now: Spiegel was polite in his email dealings with Zuckerberg, then slightly more dismissive when talking to a journalist a year later. Not hugely surprising, but it plays into a wider narrative not just about Snapchat and Facebook, but about Spiegel himself.“SC vs FB story is lame and played out. We think there is room for both to grow together,” hetweeted last night.Yet the story that’s been playing out for a few months already is more about Spiegel’s leadership skills, taking inpotshots at his upbringing; the treatment of a third co-founder who’snow suing the company; and whether he was apologetic enough in his response to a recent privacy scare that may have seenup to 4.6m users’ phone numbers leaked by hackers.We’ve been here before, with Facebook. In 2010, there were plenty of critics suggesting that Zuckerberg was the wrong man to be leading the social network, particularly after anon-stage interview at tech conference D8where he came across as evasive and uncomfortable – not to mention extremely sweaty.Three years and one IPO on, Zuckerberg’s leadership is rarely questioned in the same way: he matured alongside his business. Perhaps he should meet Spiegel to pass on some of the lessons learned. Although this time, perhaps choose a neutral location…•Ten things you need to know about Snapchat
"This has got to be the coolest gadget yet for the kitchen: a fridge freezer that is hooked up to the internet."Breathless words from the frontier of technology – in February 1999. For that's when that little kernel of textwas published on the BBC, introducing "Screenfridge", which would – it promised – let you send and receive email, watch TV, pay bills and handle personal banking.And, as it noted, "you can also keep food in it".This peculiar dream of the internet fridge just won't die. Korea's LG revived this technology zombie once more this week at the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, promising us that you'll be able to text your fridge and "ask it whether it has milk or butter".Reality check: no, you won't. Well, you might be able to text it, but you shouldn't rely on the answer.Why not? Because people don't use fridges in that way. I have an electronics clippings file bulging with promises made year after year that this time, the internet fridge is "finally here". In 2009 Samsung offered a fridge with a detachable LCD screen with a message board for "smart food management". Now? No sign of it. In 2010 LG suggested you'd want a fridge with internet access so you could stay tuned to the internet (huh?) while you got a drink. The product never appeared. In 2011 Samsung (again) offered a new internet fridge, the Futuristic RF4289 (catchy name, eh?) with an 8in touch screen – a snip at $3,500 (£2,131).Price aside, the fact is that making a fridge that knows what's inside it, and whether those contents are close to expiry or risk making you expire, cannot be done. Here's why.For your fridge to know what's inside it, either you have to scan the packaging every time you take something in or out (else your fridge will think it contains 14,000 milk cartons), or the food inside the fridge has to be able to "tell" the fridge about itself.The scanning thing is a non-starter. You'll inevitably forget, and then you'll have to clear the fridge and put everything back, laboriously scanning each time. Also, barcodes don't contain information about expiry dates, so you'd have to enter those by hand. Such fun!The alternative quickly offered by geeks is that the packaging for those items could contain RFID chips, like those embedded in your passport, which would tell the fridge about themselves. This is theoretically feasible. But theory is a long way from reality, and even further from practice.RFID needs no battery – it's like a tuning fork which is pinged by a radio signal from the fridge) – but the information has to be programmed in. It's widely used in supermarket supply chains for pallets of goods – but hardly at all for individual items.The problem here is that you'd struggle to persuade food packagers to include RFID chips with the expiry date of that soft cheese you just put in the fridge. It's fiddly, easy to get wrong, and adds time and expense.This is the heart of the problem: until most people have an RFID-enabled internet fridge, it won't be worth the expense of embedding RFID chips in perishables such as yoghurt, milk or cheese packaging. But until you have RFID chips embedded in your packaging, you won't be able to persuade people to buy RFID-enabled internet fridges.So forget the internet fridge. Anyone who offers it is, as they have been for the past 15 years, just trying to get noticed. But it will never, ever arrive. Want to know what's in your fridge? Look at your shopping list – or even better, open the door and look inside. It's a low-tech method, but has a 100% guaranteed success rate.Update:a few people have suggested that "all you need" is to put a camera inside the fridge, and connectthatto the internet. Nice try, but this fails for the following reasons:1)it's true what they tell you: the light inside the fridge really does turn off when you close the door. So your camera would take a picture of darkness. (You can confirm this by setting your smartphone to record video, putting it inside the fridge, and closing the door. You're welcome.)2)"Infrared camera?" Those work on heat. Fridges are - is this news? - cold. Your IR camera would show darkness.3)"Night vision camera?" Those work on photon amplification, amping up the light from ambient sources such as the stars. Inside your fridge, it's dark. No light sources. Another black picture.4)[slightly desperate now]"A light source inside the fridge?" Congratulations - there is one already (it comes on when you open the door). However, your camera will just take a picture of what it sees. That's probably the top shelf. What's on the other shelves?5)[even more desperate]"Cameras on every shelf, which you can turn on remotely." Then you'll know what's in the fridge (having bumped up its cost, and introduced multiple holes in the lining which will compromise its efficiency at refrigeration). How are you going to see what's inside opaque containers - as milk and juice containers often are?6)[clutching at straws]"Weight pads as well as cameras." Now your fridge is getting really expensive, and complicated (not to mention obsessive-compulsive), and not necessarily useful: what does it mean if the pad where the milk should sit is showing 0? Does that mean you've got no milk, or it's on the wrong pad?Admit it, folks - the simplest way to know what's inside your fridge is to look in it. It's quick, free, and mostly accurate.Of course, none of this will stop more exhibitors from showing off the internet fridge again in a couple of years. Meanwhile, we're grateful to #dfic1999 for thissplendid Tumblr of internet fridges- all, of course, unrealised.
LG has unveiled a range of "talking" home appliances that tell owners how many beers are left in the fridge or how long it is until the spin cycle ends in the washing machine.David VanderWaal, the firm's head of appliance brand marketing in the US, presented products that respond to text message or human voice at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas."You no longer need to learn machine commands," he said. "Just speak naturally and your oven will understand you."By texting "what are you up to?" to the washing machine, for example, users can get a reply such as: "I'm just finishing the spin cycle, I won't be long."LG's HomeChat system connects to LG smartphones, tablets and TVs and is the latest technology aimed at connecting electronics into one data-sharing network known as "the internet of things".The concept of appliances that "talk" to the consumer has been around since Kevin Ashton, a British technology pioneer, used radio frequency tags, or RFID,in 1997. RFID chips can be fitted in almost any remote device, from pet collars to Oyster cards, to wirelessly share data.Meanwhile, Samsung suggested that its Smart Home initiative could be used to turn off the lights when leaving a room, for instance, or allow people to keep an eye on their properties when they are away by streaming video from a camera built into their televisions.The biggest issue facing smart home developments is interoperability between brands, something Lowe's – a DIY and home superstore chain in the US – is attempting to solve with its Iris system.Developed in conjunction with the British firm AlertMe, Iris allows an user to control any number of devices. Lowe's wants any manufacturer that aims to sell smart appliances through its stores to make them compatible with Iris.One question remains though: do people really want to text their fridges?
Smart wearables and fitness gadgets will be big in 2014, and International CES was littered with them, from smartwatches and intelligent jewellery to fitness trackers and sleep aids, here&apos;s the best of the lot.Withings AuraThe Withings Aura promises to sort out your sleep. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianFitness trackers are all well and good, but what you really need help with is sleeping. Withing’s new Aura promises to wake you up with “scientifically validated” coloured light when you’re ready in the morning. Looks like an old ship ventilation funnel on the side of your bed, but promises to help you sleep better and wake up feeling refreshed.Withings blood pressure monitorMeasure your blood pressure for the ultimate in DIY health charting.Feeling stressed? Maybe you’re dealing with a bad boss trying to make your life hell? Withings has a fancy blood pressure monitor to tell you just how much it is affecting your well being. What you’ll do with that information is up to you. Meditation is apparently meant to reduce stress.Netatmo JuneNot just a pretty face - this smart jewellery promises to help you avoid getting sunburntThose of us lucky enough to have seen the sun recently will know how glorious is can be, but this bit of smart jewellery can tell you how much UV exposure you’ve from harmful rays. It connects to your phone over Bluetooth so you can monitor your tanning progress without that dreaded sunburn rouge.TinkePlace your thumb over the sensor and watch Tinke work its magic. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianTaking your heart health tracking to the next level, Tinke is a heart rate, blood oxygen level and breathing rate monitor in one, and all it needs is your thumb. It’s meant to be able to tell you how fit and healthy you are, but it gave me a clean bill of health and said I was “fresh” when half-dead from jet lag, so accuracy may not be guaranteed.KolibreeKolibree, the world's first connected toothbrush records how well you brush your teeth.Everything is connected to apps these days, why not the humble toothbrush? Kolibree goes way beyond just tracking brushing time; using an accelerometer and a magnetometer to sense direction, the toothbrush knows how thoroughly you’ve brushed, whether you’ve reached all the areas in your mouth and tracks your efficiency. Perfect for those with poor dental hygiene and tracking your kids’ efforts.Tao WellshellThe Tao Wellshell pits your own muscles against yourself. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianFor the most part, fitness trackers just do exactly that - track your movements. The Tao Wellshell takes it to the next level tracking your motions like everything else, but actually integrates into a full workout. Based on isometrics, it measures your compressive power and produces precise workouts using your own muscle strength against you. It can even be used as a game controller for things likeJetpack Joyride.FitBug Orb and Kik PlansThe FitBug Orb, released last year, makes fitness trackers more affordable at under £50. Now FitBug has released bespoke “Kik Plans”, which are workouts designed with specific purposes, such as improving a woman&apos;s stomach tone after having a baby - all tracked through the Orb and FitBug’s website.WellographWith a sapphire crystal face, the Wellograph is a classy-looking fitness deviceA fitness watch with a strange name, this thing has a heart rate monitor on the back and tracks your motions. It lasts two weeks on a two-hour charge and has a sapphire crystal face protecting an OLED screen that shows your what you’ve been up to for the last couple of months. Of course, it’ll also connect to smartphone apps for more detail. The creator thinks its smart enough to pull double duty as a dress watch too.NotchMore than just a fitness band, Notch allows athletes to precisely map their complex motionsA new modular approach to fitness tracking, the Notch system links up to 10 sensors mounted around your body tracking individual motions. The collected data can tell you how your body is moving and track complex motions like kicking a football or serving in tennis, allowing sports people to analyse and improve their technique.RunPhones and RunPhones IntensityA sweatband with headphones embedded means no more earphones popping out when you take to your strideRunning is, for most people, dull. Listening to music helps pass the time and keep your mind off your pounding feet and aching lungs. RunPhones integrate a set of headphones into a comfy headband that won’t move or come lose when you’re really going for it. The new RunPhones Intensity has a built in player too with music and an integrated personal trainer who barks out motivation for 10-minute high intensity workouts.LG Lifeband TouchA fitness tracker and smartwatch-like bracelet that puts alerts from a smartphone on your wrist.Electronics giant LG has also decided it wants a slice of the fitness-tracking market. Its Lifeband Touch tracks your activity like a Nike Fuelband, but includes a touch-sensitive screen on the top of the band. It connects via Bluetooth to a phone and LG’s fitness app, but will also display notifications for calls and text messages and control music playback on your smartphone.LG Heart Rate EarphonesLG's new fitness earphones measure your heart rate in your ears.Coupled with the Lifeband, LG unveiled a pair of earphones that measure your heart beat in your ears while playing you music as you work out. They connect to the Lifeband for more information, as well as your phone.Pebble SteelPebble's new steel enclosure updates the e-ink smartwatch's design.The Pebble smartwatch has been one of the best selling smart wearables since it successfully achieved funding on Kickstarter and went on to sell over 300,000 watches. Now its been given a new metal case – brushed stainless steel or matte black – and a charging indicator light.Razer NabuRazer's fitness tracker-cum-smartwatch hybrid has two OLED screens.Gaming peripheral and laptop maker Razer has released a fitness tracker and smartwatch. The Nabu tracks your motions like most fitness bands with an accelerometer and altimeter, but has two small OLED screens, one for notification icons and one scrolling text screen for messages, emails and other text notifications.Sony SmartBandSony's SmartBand promises to be more than just an activity tracker.A bit more than just a fitness tracker, the SmartBand “offers life empowerment by logging daily activities”. It tracks your motions like any other activity monitor, but also logs things like the music you listened to and where you’ve been via the Lifelog Android smartphone app so you can quantify your life in even more ways.Intel SmartwatchIntel’s new prototype smartwatch integrates a full phone into a watch, not simply relying on a smartphone like most other smart watches, including the Samsung Galaxy Gear and Sony Smartwatch 2, for connectivity.•And the winner is..boring! What does it mean to be best in show at CES?
Bitcoin may have become a thing of fascination for the media very recently, but the digital currency actually celebrated its fifth birthday this month as its value hovered at around $1,000 per coin.Bitcoin was never intended to be the one cryptocurrency to rule them all, because anyone can make their own version of it. The code which underpins the currency is released under what&apos;s known as an open-source licence. Anyone can use it themselves, and alter any aspect they want, in order to create a whole new currency.A whole class of alternative crypto-currencies, based on the fundamental aspects of bitcoin, have been created over the past couple of years. The first and biggest of the &quot;altcoins&quot;, called Litecoin, was created in 2011 to address some perceived flaws in the Bitcoin protocol.Litecoin is much harder to build specialised &quot;mining&quot; machines for, which, according to its founders, prevents it from being dominated by a few rich miners. Additionally, it clears payments faster and has a much higher cap of 84m coins.Since November 2011, Litecoin has tracked the value of Bitcoin fairly closely, but in December last year it spiked in value. Overnight, a Litecoin was worth 10 times what it had been before, and its total market cap now stands at $623m, around 16% of that of its parent.Wow, very cryptocurrencyMeasuring press attention alone, Litecoin is surely eclipsed by another altcoin with a far more compelling hook: Dogecoin.Whereas Litecoin requires an already deep understanding of cryptocurrencies to explain the ways in which it improves on Bitcoin, Dogecoin has simpler selling point: it&apos;s got a picture of a Shiba Inu dog on the front.Read with a straight face, it&apos;s a triumph of marketing. Take a field which anyone can enter, and where the average user has little or no way to distinguish between competing examples; and then whack the most popular meme of 2013, Doge, on the front of your own. (Doge, for those of you still unaware, isa meme involving pictures of a confused-looking Shiba Inuwith brightly coloured comic sans text surrounding it, spelling out in idiosyncratic broken English the animal&apos;s thoughts. Wow. Very internet. Such bafflement.)Except, of course, reading it with a straight face is not the point: Dogecoin was created as a joke, to appeal to the sort of person who would find it funny. And it worked – the total value of all Dogecoins in circulation is now worth almost $7m, making it the 16th most valuable alt coin in existence.If it seemed like Dogecoin was the pinnacle of the altcoin madness –coinmarketcap.com, which only tracks the ones people have actually bothered to buy and sell on exchanges, already records almost 70 – then the news from Thursday that a few coders were preparing to launch a currency based on Kanye West called, naturally, [Coinye West], proves that the idea still has legs.How to make your own vanity moneySo obviously I wanted a piece of the action. It was time to launch Herncoin.It turns out, though, that cloning bitcoin is actually harder than it looks. Although the code behind the currency is open source, it&apos;s not like the designers have just left a nice file where you can change a few lines of code to end up with a whole new currency.It actually takes some serious programming ability to get started: Dogecoin&apos;s technical co-founder, a software engineer from Portland, had to put ina couple of days of solid work to get the currency off the ground. Without a solid backing in C programming in the C language, I had no hope of creating Herncoin myself.Thankfully, Matt Corallo, a veteran bitcoin developer, came to the rescue. On Friday, he opened the doors toCoingen.io, offering to create a forked version of Bitcoin for anyone with 0.01 BTC (around $10) to spare.With Corallo&apos;s tools, the job becomes the work of minutes.Get yourself some bitcoin. You&apos;ll need 0.01 BTC to make your own altcoin, but if you&apos;re serious you&apos;ll want to splash out another 0.1 BTC to get the source code to your creation. Though… if you&apos;re actually serious, you probably want to hire an actual programmer to code your vanity money.Customise your coin. Coingen.io lets you pick a name and a logo, and then alter the starting paramenters of bitcoin as you see fit. If you have strong opinions over how many bitcoins should be given as a reward for mining, this is your chance to have a say. Again, though, if you have strong opinions about that sort of thing, maybe an off-the-shelf cryptocoin isn&apos;t for you.Download your vanity coin. It&apos;ll only work on Windows or Linux, sadly, but just run the finished software and away you go. I&apos;ll leave the hardest bit – finding someone else to join in – to you.I couldn&apos;t resist. A few seconds in an image editor to whip up a logo and Herncoin was born (you can download the program yourself):One Herncoin Photograph: /Alex HernFollowing the theme of vanity, I set the initial parameters of the coin to a series of numbers based on my name. So, for instance, the first few blocks &quot;mined&quot; will give 112,524 coins to the computer that mines them – that&apos;s Alex spelled out in numbers, with 1 for A, 12 for L, and so on – and other characteristics done the same way.Once the payment had processed, I was delivered the necessary tools to run my Herncoin.Democracy and currencyIt&apos;s all silly, obviously, but there&apos;s an important point behind the proliferation of altcoins. To bitcoin advocates, they represent the democratic underpinning of the currency – a democracy far fairer than the unaccountable central banks which run real-world currencies.&quot;Bitcoin enforces majority consensus,&quot; says Mike Hearn, a developer of the currency. &quot;By taking part in the economy and running the software, or by choosing which alt coins you accept, you are effectively voting on how the currency should work… We&apos;d like Bitcoin to be perfect, of course. If lots of people started switching to an alt coin, there&apos;d be pressure to upgrade Bitcoin to match the alt&apos;s advantages.&quot;We must remember that our existing currencies are controlled entirely by private banks,&quot; he adds. &quot;The central bank in most countries is not a democratic institution or even a government controlled one – indeed that&apos;s the whole point of them. The Bank of England was given independence precisely because politicians knew they could not be trusted with the power to print money.&quot;In this view of the world, the existence of Litecoin acts as a competitor to bitcoin, allowing uses to vote with their wallets in a very literal sense: if they would rather have Litecoin&apos;s benefits, they can start taking that currency, and if too many people switch, bitcoin will be forced to make concessions. It&apos;s as though, if you thought the interest rate was too low in the UK, you could start using yen instead.Herncoin doesn&apos;t offer any of such improvements. Instead, it&apos;s mostly focused around my face and my name. As a result, it seems to be having trouble taking off. I&apos;ve been mining Herncoins on and off for a couple of days and, other than making my laptop really, really hot (we&apos;re talking &quot;if I didn&apos;t quite like this laptop I would fry an egg on it for the photo opportunity&quot; hot), not a huge amount has happened. Well, I&apos;ve accrued a wealth of several million Herncoins, but not much else. No one else has connected to my network, which means my money may as well exist as a text file on my computer reading &quot;Alex Hern is really quite wealthy&quot;.But it&apos;s an alternative of sorts. The question for bitcoin is whether the ability to make alternatives like Litecoin (and Herncoin) lessens the responsibility on those who control the currency to take a pro-active stance in managing the bitcoin economy, like that which we require of central bankers. If the Bank of England releases data showing the quantitative easing isn&apos;t working to boost the economy, we wouldn&apos;t accept Mark Carney telling us that we&apos;re free to move to France if we don&apos;t like his style.The sci-fi author Charlie Stross, in a piece titled &quot;Why I want Bitcoin to die in a fire&quot;, argues that: &quot;Bitcoin looks like it was designed as a weapon intended to damage central banking and money issuing banks, with a Libertarian political agenda in mind.&quot; The economist Paul Krugman approvingly cited Stross&apos;s conclusion in his own piece headlined &quot;Bitcoin is evil&quot;.For Hearn, the inability of bitcoin to respond to economic events the way managed currencies do is an unambigious positive. The bitcoin model, he says, &quot;is not only more democratic but more robust. Although central banks are undemocratic and unaccountable, they are nonetheless run by people who can be put under lots of pressure. We saw this in recent years with the euro… Politicians made a lot of very public noise about how Mario Draghi was personally responsible for destroying the euro, and he eventually folded.&quot;So we currently have the worst of all worlds.&quot;I&apos;m not so sure. After three days of running my own currency, I&apos;m fairly certain that a world based on Herncoin would be significantly worse.•Is Bitcoin going to change the world?
It's Tuesday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNo, Fukushima is not killing off massive quantities of sea life near California &gt;&gt; Boing BoingDeep Sea News, a blog written largely by professional ocean scientists, has been doing a really good job of debunking bogus stories about Fukushima radiation affecting ocean wildlife near North America. And there are a lot to choose from. It's damn near a genre, at this point — a genre that's full of misleading information and flat-out fabrications. For instance, the latest story to circulate on social media is all abouthow Fukushima radiation is causing massive die-offs of sea life off the coast of California.But this claim falls apart pretty quickly.Pebble Steel smartwatch &gt;&gt; PebbleComes with three colours. Looks astonishingly ugly, principally because of the steel.A chip designed for "deep learning" could help smartphones understand your photos &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewBeing able to implement deep learning in more compact and power-efficient ways could lead to smartphones and other mobile devices that can understand the content of images and video, says Eugenio Culurciello, a professor at Purdue working on the project. In December, at theNeural Information Processing Systems conferencein Nevada, the group demonstrated that a co-processor connected to a conventional smartphone processor could help it run deep learning software. The software was able to detect faces or label parts of a street scene. The co-processor's design was tested on an FPGA, a reconfigurable chip that can be programmed to test a new hardware design without the considerable expense of fabricating a completely new chip.The prototype is much less powerful than systems like Google's cat detector, but it shows how new forms of hardware could make it possible to use the power of deep learning more widely. "There's a need for this," says Culurciello. "You probably have a collection of several thousand images that you never look at again, and we don't have a good technology to analyze all this content."Speech recognition, the unreachable frontier &gt;&gt; ZDNetJames Kendrick:So when are we going to see speech recognition good enough to become ubiquitous? Entering text by speech is easier than typing for some folks. It's not that they are avoiding it, it's that it's not very good.I've been trying to use speech recognition for over a decade, and what I see today is only a little better than what I saw back then. The hardware is much better than it was in the early days of speech recognition, but that just gets you to the incorrectly interpreted text faster.Talking into the phone or other device is OK for short entries like text messages, but longer than that and all bets are off. The pipe dream of years ago is still a pipe dream, and that's a shame.Bimodal tablets (Windows and Android). Remember them when they're gone. Again. &gt;&gt; getwired.comSo some OEMs, and seemingly Intel, have collaborated on this effort to glue together Windows 8.1 and Android on a single device, with the hopes that the two OSs combined in some way equate to "consumer value". However, there's really no clear sign that the consumer benefits from this approach, and in fact they really lose, as they've now got a Windows device with precious storage space consumed by an Android install of dubious value. If the consumer really wanted an Android device, they're in the opposite conundrum.Really, the OEMs and Intel have to be going into this strategy without any concern for consumers. It's just about moving devices, and trying to ensure an ecosystem is there when they can't (or don't want to) bet on one platform exclusively. The end result is a device that instead of doing task A well, or task B well, does a really middling job with both of them, and results in a device that the user regrets buying (or worse, regrets being given)."I bought this device that can boot into Windows or Android because it's the only way that I can ____."inMarket rolls out iBeacons to 200 Safeway, Giant Eagle grocery stores to reach shoppers when it matters &gt;&gt; TechCrunchWith iBeacons at the entrance to these stores, the location is nailed down to a few feet. This increases surety and decreases misfires. And the nice thing about iBeacons is that they're part of a mated system. The user has to have an app installed and be in the presence of an iBeacon. You're not tracking or annoying customers who have not at least obliquely opted in with a supported app.There are a lot of buzzwords involved in this store marketing stuff by necessity, because brands will use it in a variety of ways. But there are some very concrete and simple applications that will show up in inMarket's apps as of today. If a shopper is using its List Bliss app (a shopping list), a notification could pop up on their phone when they walk in the door of a store, telling them that an item is on sale. Or the CheckPoints app could tell them which items will earn them the most rewards points. All of this will be opt-in.SnoopWall gives Android users control over app permissions, ports | CITEworldChris Nerney:I've been using SnoopWall for Android on two devices (an HTC One smartphone and a Nexus 7 tablet) for a few days now, and it's quite impressive, though there are some tricks to it. And it does a lot more than allow granular control of apps permissions. It also allows users to control access to their devices' hardware ports, which can be vulnerable to intrusion.Giving back what anything that isn't Android 4.3 took away. Remember, the phrase "app permissions" can be replaced with "your privacy".Underdogs show momentum in cell phone wars &gt;&gt; KantarT-Mobile's "un-carrier" marketing strategy, launched earlier in 2013, has succeeded by attracting featurephone owners looking to upgrade to their first smartphone. Among T-Mobile smartphone buyers in November, 55% of those who purchased LG and Nokia smartphones were first-time smartphone buyers, compared to just 39% of Apple customers.Don't misread this as saying that 94% of first-time smartphone buyers on T-Mobile bought an LG, Nokia or Apple phone. T-Mobile may have been key in Windows Phone's sales share rising to 4.7% in the US in the three months to the end of November.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google is facing renewed criticism over the integration of Google+ into its Android operating system after a transgender woman was outed when using Google&apos;s Hangouts app.Since the release of the latest mobile software Android 4.4, codenamed KitKat, the instant messaging app Hangouts has become the default text-messaging app on phones and tablets running with the newly installed operating system.But the behaviour of the app is confusing even to seasoned Android users, and can result in personal information being inadvertently shared. If a message is sent as an SMS, the recipient only sees the phone number it came from, but if it is sent as a Google message, then they can see the sender&apos;s entire public Google profile.In at least one instance, this has already caused serious problems. A trans woman, still using her old (male) name at work, intended to send a text message to a colleague. Instead, she sent a GChat message under the female name on her Google+ account.&quot;I&apos;m just glad I live in a state where it&apos;d be illegal to fire me,&quot; said the woman, who asked not to be named in this piece while she discusses matters with her employers. &quot;Somehow I didn&apos;t think through the potential consequences of Google+ embedding itself ever deeper into stock Android stuff.&quot;When typing a name into the Hangouts app, if there are not many results in a users address book the app begins to search Google+ for matches instead; a simple mis-click can result in users sending a message revealing more contextual information than they intended.When Google+ was launched, the companyfaced criticismover its insistence that users use their real names on the site. That policy was weakened in the months following its launch, and now Google allows people to use &quot;established identities&quot; as well as real names.But asvice president of product, Bradley Horowitz, wrote in 2012: &quot;It’s important to remember that when you change your name in Google+, you’re changing it across all services that require a Google profile.&quot;The company has also been attacked for default settings on its devices and services which are too dismissive of users&apos; privacy expectations. In October, Google announced that it would begin attaching individuals&apos; data to adverts, sparkinga revolt that saw many Google+ users changing their profile picturesto photographs of executive chairman Eric Schmidt.And in December, an update to Android briefly allowed users to manage privacy settings for individual apps, before Google pulled the function. The Electronic Frontier Foundation, which campaigns for digital freedoms, called the lack of per-app settings &quot;a Stygian hole in the Android security model… Embarrassingly, it is also one that Apple managed to fix in iOS years ago&quot;.• This article was amended on 7 January 2014 to clarify that the incident involved user error.•Wikipedia editors were banned from editing pages about trans issues after heated debates about Chelsea Manning&apos;s name change
Sony has decided that in the premium smartphone market, smaller can be more beautiful. Rather than competing with the ever-growing screens of rivals such as Samsung or LG, its new Z1 Compact phone has a 4.3in screen – far smaller than the 5in of the Samsung Galaxy S4 or 4.7in HTC One.“With the Z1 Compact we have invented our own market segment: the premium compact Android smartphone,” Pierre Perron, head of Sony Mobile Europe told the Guardian.Sony thinks that there is a significant market for a more manageable Android phone that fits smaller hands, compared to the 5in and larger screen size trend, while not compromising on specifications.The company reckons the current trend for larger and larger screen sizes, as demonstrated by Samsung&apos;s ever expanding Galaxy S and Galaxy Note line, is getting out of hand for consumers. There is some backing from data, collected by US research firm NPD, which suggests that 75% of smartphones in use in the US have screens smaller than 4.5in.Sony has squeezed all of the components from its larger flagship 5in phone, the Xperia Z1, into the Z1 Compact&apos;s smaller frame with a 720p high definition screen which, at 340ppi, has a higher pixel density than Apple’s 4iniPhone 5Swith its 326ppi “retina display” screen.Small, but not cheapSony’s biggest challenge with the Z1 Compact is persuading its target audience – the mainstream consumer – that a smaller phone doesn’t mean a poorer experience, something of which Perron is acutely aware.“We have a strong opportunity to address a new, underserved segment with the Z1 Compact, something Sony did not target in 2013, but we must successfully make the point to the consumer in our marketing that this is not just another cheap, small Android smartphone,” Perron said.It&apos;s expected to go on sale for between £400 and £500, though Sony wouldn&apos;t confirm a price ahead of the announcement.The Xperia Z1 Compact features a 2.2GHz quad-core Snapdragon 800 – currently the most powerful ARM-based mobile processor available in smartphones and tablets – a 20.7-megapixel camera, NFC, 4G LTE and a solid, waterproof build that makes it feel every bit a premium Android smartphone, but smaller than the trend. It has a “class leading” 2,300 mAh battery, which Sony says should last a day of heavy usage. It runs Android 4.3 Jelly Bean, but with a promise from Sony to update it to the latestAndroid 4.4 Kitkat.Sony argues that its rivals&apos; smaller-screened phones, such as the Samsung S4 Mini or HTC One Mini, are compromised by having slower processors and less RAM than their full-size siblings, meaning they offer poorer performance.Taking aim at the iPhoneThe Z1 Compact aims to take sales fromApple’s 4in iPhone 5S, which up until now has only been challenged by much larger 5in phones that are more difficult to handle, especially one-handed.“To continue our growth year in 2014 to cement and move forward on our number three position in the UK and Europe, we need to compete with the likes of Samsung and Apple,” said Perron. “We are accelerating the pace of technological integration from the other parts of our company, such as our camera and television businesses, into Sony Mobile and the result is the premium experience offered by the Z1 and new Z1 Compact.”To help Sony compete with Apple and allow easier switching from the iPhone to an Android phone, Sony has also launched a range of applications that automate the transfer of data between different phones using Wi-Fi or a USB cable. iPhone app and content bought from iTunes will still not be able to be transferred, of course.“Xperia Z1 is a no-compromise feature-packed smartphone with a beautiful yet durable design. With Xperia Z1 Compact, we bring all of these premium features and performance into a smaller size to give you the ultimate compact smartphone,” said Kunimasa Suzuki, president and chief executive of Sony Mobile Communications.The Sony Xperia Z1 Compact will be available in the UK and other markets in February, in a range of four colours: pink, yellow, black and white.• The Sony Xperia Z1 featured in our rundown of thebest and worst phones of 2013
The show hasn’t even begun - in fact, the official &quot;press day&quot; at the international Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas only begins on Monday, and it’s only just morning over there – but that never stops companies from announcing things at the show which have little-to-no chance of ever reaching the shelves near you. Here’s the selection so far - and remember, the show is precisely zero hours old as you read this.•Nvidiaannounced the Tegra K1, a 192-core graphics chip for mobile devices. That’s right - one hundred and ninety-two cores, which it explained at aching length in a burdensome presentation on Sunday. Really? 192? “Feels like one for every minute of this press conference,”groanedRecode writer Ina Fried, who thenadded“Dear aliens, please abduct me. In the third row, fourth seat from the middle at Nvidia press conference” hashtagging it “#90minutesandcounting”.You might ask: what useexactlyare 192 cores? Not much, reckons AndroidBeat, whichcalls it“NVIDIA&apos;s newest piece of vaporware that&apos;ll likely never find its way inside a flagship near you” - because “Why should Samsung, Sony, HTC, LG, or any other company, stop using Qualcomm’s chips or Intel’s chips and instead give NVIDIA a chance? If you stop and think about which companies are selling the most Android phones and tablets, none of them use NVIDIA’s Tegra lineup. Sure, Microsoft’s new Surface 2 has a Tegra 4, but can anyone call that thing a successful product with a straight face?”Still, it’s a good start to the vapourware games.•Toyotashowed off its “bizarre” (©The Verge) i-Road electric car, which has three wheels and is what vehicle makers call “a concept car” (aka “you’ll never see this on the road”). Joshua Topolsky of The Vergetook it for a spin- not that kind of spin - and noted that besides its top speed of 28mph, and 30-miles-per-charge range, you have to lean “deeply” into turns. There’s only room for one person, pretty much zero storage space (you might get a couple of supermarket bags in there), but Toyota says it will be introduced in car-sharing schemes. Don’t hold your breath.•Lenovohas a really gigantic Windows 8 tablet. None of your 8in or 10in nonsense: this is a 27in “tabletop” touchscreen device which (and here’s the vapourware clue) “when paired with a keyboard and mouse, operates like a desktop PC”. Question is, who’s going to buy the screen and use it like a desktop PC? It might be nice in a few places where you need a really big touch screen, but - just as with Microsoft’s Surface tabletop (remember those?) it’s unlikely to be wowing us any time soon, or even in a while.• Oh, thank goodness. At last!At lastthere’s aBluetooth-enabled toothbrush. How can people say that the Internet Of Things is just trivial money-grabbing nonsense when we have a toothbrush that “will encourage better brushing habits between visits”. CongratulationsKolibree(and we notice that you didn&apos;t even register your own domain - no, it&apos;s hosted at &quot;my.instapage.com&quot;).No idea who this will benefit, but it’s definitely one to pile onto both the “vanity metrics” and “vapourware” tumbrils.• Having trouble manipulating the controls on your oven? Unsure whether you turned the gas (or electricity) up or down, on the front or back? Don’t worry -Dacorhas the perfect answer: asmart oven which you can control from a smartphone or from the inbuilt Android tableton its front.Yes! It’s true! And it’s only $12,000, which means of course that it’s for the “luxury kitchen”, says Dacor (which perhaps hasn’t considered that anyone who could afford that might just hire a chef instead). Also, what happens when steam from the oven or boiling water from the heaters spills over into the tablet? Steam - that’s the real vapourware.• Another solution for a problem that most people don’t think is a problem: theTrewgripmobile Qwerty keyboard for iOS and Android devices. It’s a sort of shell which fits over the phone, and then you position your hands on the back, and you effectively have a Qwerty keyboard. To quote Gizmodo (This Trewgrip backwards keyboard gives you an absurd new way to type): “you hold the keyboard like you would a game pad and type by pressing keys on the back. It tries to make sense without making sense.Though the keys look like they&apos;re in complete random order, they&apos;re actually laid out in Qwerty. If you place your index fingers starting on the F and the J key, the rest of your fingers will align to how they&apos;d be on a keyboard.”Anyone who actually gets to use it (the company is promising “Q4” and a retail price of $250-$350 - we expect a quiet vanishment) will look as though they’re playing a somewhat uncooperative accordion. At that sort of price, you might as well just get a BlackBerry.Anyhow, it’s time. The doors of CES are open. Let the umpteen-umpth Vapourware Games commence!
Now that 2013 has been thoroughly masticated and digested, it's time to lurch our ravenous attentions toward the coming year – and the delicious pleasures it promises. Over the coming months we should see the next-gen consoles rattling out of first gear and beginning to show sparks of real promise after shaky beginnings. We should also see the PC building on its ever-growing influence, especially as Valve's range of 'Steam Machine' living room PCs begin to hit living rooms later this year.So then, here are ten mainstream releases we are particularly looking forward too. I've gone for titles that have pretty much been confirmed for 2014 – so there's no place for Epic Games' co-op scavenging shooter, Fortnite, or EA's Mirror's Edge 2 or (ha ha) The Last Guardian, the looooong awaited follow-up to PlayStation 2 legend, Shadow of the Colossus.But don't worry, all of these are worth tentatively placing on your 2014 wish list...Bayonetta 2 (Nintendo, Wii U)There was much gnashing of fanboy teeth last September when Platinum Games revealed that its follow-up to the cult hack-n-slasher would be a Wii U exclusive. However, when producer Atsushi Inaba claimed thatthe project wouldn't exist without Nintendo, tempers seemed to calm a little. Whatever, the E3 trailer packed more megaton combos and ridiculous mid-air demon skirmishes into 60 seconds than seems humanly possible – even for Platinum. With the addition of a two-player mode, this is going to be chaos. In a good way.Dark Souls II (Namco, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Okay so series director Hidetaka Miyazaki, has stepped back from this sequel, but newcomer, Tomohiro Shibuya, has promised a bleak action role-player that will retain the essential elements of its predecessor while exploring new avenues. Set in distant new area of the Dark Souls universe, the title features a new protagonist and a more developed backstory. We've also been promised a re-tuned and expanded online experience, as well as the possibility of vehicles. That's more likely to mean chariots and galleons than monsters driving jeeps. I hope.Destiny (Activision, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One)Oh the hype, so much hype! But then if anyone can deliver a vast, explorable space opera set within a persistent massively-multiplayer universe it's probably Bungie, the creator of the Halo series. The backdrop is rather familiar: the last vestiges of humanity fighting a mysterious alien aggressor (stop reading Robert Heinlein!). However, the idea of a first-person shooter set within a vast planet-hopping adventure where you can randomly encounter and team up with other players is a scintillating one. And look, it's an original title! From Activision! I mean, woohoo!• This entry was amended on 7 January: Destiny is not currently slated for PC release as was previously suggested.DriveClub (Sony, PS4)Planned as a PlayStation 4 launch title but delayed until spring, this looks to be an ambitious attempt at a sort of massively multiplayer RPG driving game. Players compete in events all over the world, teaming up in co-op squads to extend their influence and abilities. Evolution Studios wants this title to hint atthe future of social gaming– and with Ubisoft's thematically similar The Crew breathing down its exhaust pipe, this should be an interesting year for racers.Eve Valkyrie (CCP, PC)Alright, this virtual reality space combat sim is hardly 'mainstream', but what the heck, let's go with it (and although I'd like to include Chris Roberts' Star Citizen, too, there's no firm release date). CCP's aim with its luscious dog-fighter is to reduce down the vast Eve Online MMORPG experience into a more approachable blast-'em-up, and those lucky enough to get hands on with the 1080p Oculus Rift demo at Gamescom this year seemed pretty impressed with the results. 2014 is going to be the year of space and maybe even of consumer VR: this gives us a taste of both.Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes and Phantom Pain (Konami, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One)I'm cheating here by including both the prologue (Ground Zeroes) and the main MGS V experience (Phantom Pain) in one entry, but then Hideo Kojima teased us for many months about the true successor to 2010's Peace Walker, so that's fine. I'm not even going toattemptto characterise the labyrinthine plotting that connects these two titles to the MGS mythology, but just prepare for agenda-setting stealth action, vast cinematic ambition and lots of returning characters and shady organisations, all confusingly double-crossing each other.Project Spark (Microsoft, PC, Xbox 360, Xbox One)Billed as an 'open-world digital canvas', the intriguing Project Spark looks to be a powerful game creation package, evolved from Microsoft's entry-level programming language, Kodu. Users will be able to experiment with a variety of different genres, before sharing their efforts with the online community. Apparently, there's also Kinect and Smart Glass support, so we should get some really interesting projects. The Windows 8 beta has just started, and although there's no definite Xbox One launch date, early 2014 is expected.Thief (Square Enix, PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One)We've been kept waiting a long time for this reboot of the legendary stealth series, and since it was first announced almost five years ago we've seen Dishonored and heard about The Order 1886, which both use dark steam punk cities and conspiracy-laden plots to very familiar effect. However, the return of master thief Garrett is still a compelling prospect, and if the gameplay is as open and tactically diverse as the earlier titles, this should be the expressive stealth adventure we've spent a decade hoping for.Titanfall (EA, PC, Xbox 360, Xbox One)Brilliantly combining the fast-paced, super-three-dimensional combat of Quake with the thudding military impact of the Modern Warfare titles, Titanfall was certainly my favourite hands-on demo at Gamescom 2013. The ambition of developer Respawn Entertainment is to create the Mixed Martial Arts of the first-person shooter world – a game that combines movement skill, accuracy and tactics into one experience. Leaping between rooftops while waiting for your Titan mech to be delivered and then stamping along city streets blasting players from the air like clay pigeons is ridiculous fun.X (Nintendo, Wii U)For role-playing thrills I could have gone for Elder Scrolls Online or indeed Witcher 3, but secretly, I'm more intrigued by this vast open-world instalment in Tetsuya Takahashi's Xeno series. Players take control of giant transforming mechs named 'dolls' before wandering the landscape engaging in super-stylish battle. And there's a nice symmetry to beginning and ending this list with Wii U titles – alongside Mario Kart 8 and Yoshi's New Island, they show there's life in this beleaguered machine yet.Tomorrow: Cara Ellison picks the ten most promising indie titles of 2014
Will buying a car soon involve questioning whether it is compatible with your smartphone? Google has announced a new &quot;Open Automotive Alliance&quot; (OAA), teaming up with carmakers Audi, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai and the graphics chipset company Nvidia to &quot;enable new forms of integration&quot; - but will find Apple and Microsoft already wooing many carmakers with their own software.Nor do carmakers seem prepared to throw their lot in with one or the other platform. Audi, General Motors and Hyundai have previously announced tieups with Apple, while Ford counts both Microsoft and Apple among its collaborators. (A table showing which company is with which initiative is at the end: only Hyundai belongs to all the projects currently underway.)Announcing the project in ablogpost, Google&apos;s director of Android engineering, Patrick Brady, says that &quot;there&apos;s still an important device that isn&apos;t yet connected as seamlessly to the other screens in our lives - the car&quot;.The aim of the OAA is to &quot;adapt Android for the car to make driving safer, easier and more enjoyable for everyone&quot; by &quot;enabling new forms of integration&quot;. It says &quot;you can expect to see the first cars with Android integration by the end of this year&quot;.The timing, just at the start of the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, is intended to attract attention - unlike the relatively low-key launch of the Open Handset Alliance in 2008, which first drew together mobile handset companies who provided the first backing for Google&apos;s mobile OS.Commenting on the announcement, the research group Canalys commented that the OAA &quot;is a step forward for Google, but is playing catch-up to Apple&apos;s larger &quot;iOS in the Car&quot; community.&quot;The move puts Google, with Android, into direct conflict with Apple, which is working on a similar &quot;iOS in the Car&quot; project, and Microsoft, which already has versions of Windows embedded in a number of vehicles on sale.But both Apple and Google are far behind Microsoft, whose&quot;Embedded Automotive&quot; softwareis already used in vehicles made by Ford, Fiat, Kia and Nissan. Microsoftannounced its own &quot;Auto PC&quot; initiative at CES in January 1998- with companies including Citroen, Nissan, Hyundai, and device makers including Samsung.Today, Microsoft already has applications in place for &quot;information sharing&quot; between cars, such as Autolib, aParis-based car-sharing system.Apple too is working with vehicle manufacturers on &quot;iOS in the Car, which was announced at its Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in June. The latest beta version of its iOS 7.1 software includes some settings which would enable that - suggesting that early implementations are imminent.The iOS in the Car project says it will include the voice-operated Siri system, GPS and telephone functionality, embedded in the systems. Apple has lined up a large group of participants, including BMW, Acura, Audi, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Mercedes-Benz, Toyota and Volvo.The presence of Audi, General Motors and Hyundai in both Apple&apos;s and Google&apos;s alliances points to wariness on their part to being locked in to any one platform in case it leads to incompatibility which could lose a sale if a customer doesn&apos;t have the right device to connect to the car.Since 2009 a separate car business group, the GENIVI Alliance, has been working on in-car apps and systems for &quot;infotainment&quot;, and in 2010adopted the open source Meego platforminitially developed - but then abandoned - by Nokia.GENIVI&apos;s membersinclude Volvo, GM, Honda, Hyundai, Nissan and others - and the group is giving a presentation at CES this week entitled &quot;Collaborate or Die&quot; (PDF).A growing number of accessory makers are making systems which hook into cars&apos; computer-controlled engine control units (ECUs) to report data about trips. Those can be compatible with both Android and iPhones through suitable apps, or with any platform via Bluetooth.TheRAC began selling such an accessory, called Advance, last year, while in the US a company called Automatic provides similar details for US vehicles.Google says in anFAQ on the OAA sitethat &quot;We&apos;re working with our partners to enable better integration between cars and Android devices in order to create a safer, car-optimised experience. We&apos;re also developing new Android platform features that will enable the car itself to become a connected Android device. Stay tuned for more details coming soon.&quot; It hints that developers will be able to target car users in a specific way, &quot;rather than a patchwork of platforms from different automakers&quot;.It argues that the benefit for car makers is that they &quot;will be able to leverage a platform already being used by millions to deliver a familiar and consistent experience to their customers.&quot;Vehicle makers and their participation in software projects with Microsoft, Apple, Google and Genivi. Sources: Microsoft; Wikipedia; Open Automative Alliance; Genivi. Photograph: /Public domain
The Pirate Bay&apos;s ownPirateBrowser web browserhas been downloaded more than 2.5m times since its launch in August 2013, but the filesharing site is already working on a successor.PirateBrowser was designed to help people access The Pirate Bay and other torrent services even if they were blocked by their ISP, while also circumventing other kinds of internet censorship in countries including Iran and North Korea.Itreached 1m downloads by mid-October, and has added a further 1.5m since then, but it seems set to be replaced by a new client later in 2014 that will use peer-to-peer technology to evade ISP-level blocks on people&apos;s online activities.&quot;The goal is to create a browser-like client to circumvent censorship, including domain blocking, domain confiscation, IP-blocking. This will be accomplished by sharing all of a site’s indexed data as P2P downloadable packages, that are then browsed/rendered locally,&quot; anunnamed Pirate Bay &quot;insider&quot; told TorrentFreak.&quot;It’s basically a browser-like app that uses webkit to render pages, BitTorrent to download the content while storing everything locally.&quot;The story claims that the new software will be made available as a standalone web browser, or as a plugin for Mozilla&apos;s Firefox – on which PirateBrowser was based – and Google&apos;s Chrome browsers. The first version is not expected to be released until later in the year, with The Pirate Bay recruiting coders to help with the project.News of the new project comes at a time when The Pirate Bay is being blocked by a growing number of ISPs across Europe, often as the result of court rulings following cases brought by music or film industry rightsholders.That includes the UK, where a case brought by music industry body the BPI resulted ina high court ruling in April 2012that five of the largest British ISPs must block their customers from accessing The Pirate Bay.The sitereached its 10th birthday in August 2013, but wasforced to change its domain name six times that yearafter being shut down by the authorities in countries including Sweden, Iceland, Greenland, the Caribbean island of Sint Maarten. Hence the reference to &quot;domain confiscation&quot; in the quotes published by TorrentFreak.It would be simplistic for The Pirate Bay&apos;s traditional foes to see PirateBrowser and its forthcoming successor as just about piracy. The stream of revelations in recent months about online surveillance by the US National Security Agency, GCHQ in the UK and other intelligence agencies have opened the way for software like PirateBrowser to be pitched as tools for privacy, not just piracy.In the UK specifically, though, these tools may appeal to internet users angry at the scope of new internet filters being rolled out by ISPs in response to Prime Minister David Cameron&apos;s calls for a system to force new broadband subscribers to&quot;opt in&quot; if they want to be able to access sexually explicit websites.It emerged last week (TorrentFreak, again) that one of the first ISPs to launch such a filter, Sky, is also blocking other kinds of websites in its 13 Shield filter, including &quot;anonymizers, filesharing and hacking&quot; sites.• &apos;David Cameron&apos;s porn filter is the start of censorship creep&apos;
Annotated lyrics websiteRap Geniushas been restored to its customary high ranking on Google&apos;s search engine, after a punishment for spammy marketing that saw it lose up to 80% of its daily traffic over Christmas.The startup, backed by $16.8m of investment, built an audience of millions by crowdsourcing annotations for hip-hop tracks – not just publishing the lyrics, but also notes on their references and themes supplied by its community. It has also expanded into rock, poetry and news annotations.Rap Genius was investigated by Google just before Christmas for its approach to search engine optimisation (SEO) after ablog post by entrepreneur John Marbachabout an email he&apos;d received from the company encouraging him to link to specific Justin Bieber lyrics on its site.Such &quot;growth hacking&quot; was intended to boost Rap Genius&apos; ranking in search results, but it&apos;s a tactic frowned upon by Google. The internet giant&apos;s response was speedy and severe, with Rap Genius demoted heavily in its search results, even for searches for its own name.This graph from internet traffic-tracking service Quantcast shows the impact:Quantcast's graph of Rap Genius' global traffic, including the recent drop.In anopen letter published in late December, Rap Genius&apos; founders admitted they had &quot;messed up&quot; with their SEO strategy, although not without suggesting that rival lyrics websites were &quot;almost definitely doing worse stuff&quot;.A week on, andanother blog post confirmedthat the site&apos;s search ranking had been at least partially restored. &quot;We owe a big thanks to Google for being fair and transparent and allowing us back onto their results pages. We overstepped, and we deserved to get smacked,&quot; wrote the founders, admitting that recent elements of their online promotion had been &quot;more or less totally debauched&quot;:&quot;The dubious-sounding &apos;Rap Genius blog affiliate program&apos;, the self-parodic used car salesman tone of the email to John, the lack of any discretion in the targeting of a partner – this all looked really bad. And itwasreally bad: a lazy and likely ineffective “strategy”, so over-the-top in its obviousness that it was practically begging for a response from Google.&quot;The blog post goes into depth about how Rap Genius clawed its way back into Google&apos;s good books, getting other websites to remove &quot;unnatural&quot; links to the site, before apologising again to Google and fans &quot;for being such morons&quot;.Are Rap Genius&apos; problems over now that its search ranking has been restored? Probably not. Look at that Quantcast graph again, and it suggests that traffic was on a gentle downward incline before Google&apos;s action. Hardly the desired growth curve for a much talked-about startup.Rap Genius is releasing an iOS app this week, which could boost usage and attract new fans for what remains a fascinating website.However, the company also has a few copyright issues to contend with, based on its publication of such a deep database of song lyrics. In November 2013, it wassent a takedown notice by the US National Music Publishers&apos; Association(NMPA) for its lack of licensing deals with the body&apos;s members, who hold the rights to the lyrics.This was part of a wider crackdown, with 49 other popular lyrics sites also sent notices. In its announcement of the action, the NMPA claimed that every day Google sees more than 5m searches for lyrics – a statistic that shows why music publishers are targeting commercial sites without licences, but also why Google&apos;s punishment for Rap Genius&apos; SEO strategy had such an impact.Rap Genius quickly announced that it hadalready signed a licensing deal with one major music publisher, Sony/ATV Music, with more on the way. Its beef with Google may be over for now, but a battle with rightsholders may be a longer-term challenge for Rap Genius, as it has been for other music startups in the past.
Hollywood studio DreamWorks Animation built its business around films like Shrek and How to Train Your Dragon, but its next release is something different: an Android tablet.The company has partnered with US-based technology firm Fuhu to make a device calledDreamTab, which it&apos;s showing off at this week&apos;s CES show before it goes on sale in the spring.The tablet is aimed at children, and is based on Fuhu&apos;s existing range ofnabi &quot;learning tablets&quot;. While DreamTab will make prominent use of characters from DreamWorks&apos; films and TV shows, it will also keep the educational aspects that were nabi&apos;s main selling point.DreamTab will be available in eight and 12-inch versions, running Google&apos;s Android 4.4 KitKat operating system, with a Fuhu-designed &quot;Blue Morpho&quot; interface overlaid on top.Features will include reading, writing and maths content, parental controls, its own app store, and an app for accessing TV shows from Disney, Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon, as well as DreamWorks, although the latter&apos;s brands will be featured elsewhere on the device.&quot;The DreamTab posed a compelling challenge not only to our filmmakers and artists to create content for this new medium, but also for our engineers and innovators who worked hand-in-hand with the Fuhu team to develop the consumer-facing side of this groundbreaking technology,&quot; said DreamWorks Animation&apos;s head of digital strategy Jim Mainard.A feature called Creative Studio Be an Artist will offer video tutorials from the studio&apos;s animators on how to draw characters from its films, and there will be games using NFC technology to interact with physical toys: a strategy already tried on other platforms by Activision&apos;s Skylanders and Disney Infinity.Extra hardware is clearly part of the DreamTab strategy, with Fuhu saying it plans to sell accessories including headphones, cases and screen protectors based on DreamWorks characters. Fuhu will also run the device&apos;s nabi Friends social networking platform, which focuses on children emailing, messaging and sharing photos with family members.The DreamTab&apos;s price has not been officially announced, althoughFuhu told the New York Timesthat the eight-inch version will cost less than $300 in the US. The two models will go on sale elsewhere in the world later in 2014.The device is part of a wider digital strategy from DreamWorks to diversify beyond films. In 2013, the studio boughtYouTube children&apos;s multi-channel network AwesomenessTV, struck a deal tomake 300 hours of original TV series for Netflix, andworked with Nokia on a location-based How To Train Your Dragon gamefor that company&apos;s Lumia 2520 tablet.DreamWorks isn&apos;t the first partner of this kind for Fuhu, though. The company released a&quot;Disney Special Edition&quot; of its nabi 2 tabletlast year, sold exclusively through US retailer Best Buy.•DreamWorks boss Jeffrey Katzenberg talks digital disruption
The Malaysian central bank has become the latest to warn against the use of bitcoin in a statement released on Friday.&quot;The Bitcoin is not recognised as legal tender in Malaysia,&quot;the statement reads. &quot;The Central Bank does not regulate the operations of Bitcoin. The public is therefore advised to be cautious of the risks associated with the usage of such digital currency.&quot;The warning mimics that of the Chinese central bank, which told financial institutions in December that the digital currency doesn&apos;t have &quot;real meaning&quot; and lacks legal protections. The Chinese warning was followed up by a ban on third-party payment processors handling payments for bitcoin exchanges, a move whichin effect ended legal purchases of bitcoin in the country.Colbert Lau, the founder ofBitcoin Malaysia, which promotes the currency domestically, said that he was not concerned by the bank&apos;s statement.&quot;It&apos;s similar to the stance taken by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) [Singapore&apos;s central bank] earlier. While The Bank of Thailand had an outright ban, our Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) did not outlaw its use or say bitcoin was illegal.&quot;We foresee big players from USA and Europe moving rapidly to Asia in the next few months and setting up local branches.&quot;•Missing: hard drive containing bitcoin worth £4m in Newport landfill site
Apple has bought Snappy Labs, whose founder - and sole employee - John Papandriopoulos rewrote the JPEG algorithm to create a super-fast camera app able to take full-resolution photos at up to 20 frames per second, putting it on a par with professional &quot;burst shoot&quot; systems.The acquisition of SnappyCam, released in mid-2013, could mean more accurate burst mode shooting for the iPhone, possibly just through software updates issued over the air. No price has been given for the acquisition.But in hiring Papandriopoulos, an Australian with a PhD in electrical engineering living in San Francisco, Apple has also taken on an engineer who has made breakthroughs with algorithms relating not just to phones.He won Melbourne University&apos;s Chancellor&apos;s Prize for Excellence in 2007 when he devised an algorithm for his doctorate which cut background noise in copper phone lines, meaning that in theory they coulddeliver broadband at up to 250 megabits per second- rather than the 20Mbps seen as an upper limit now.SnappyCam added a &quot;burst mode&quot; to iPhones before such a capability was officially included in the iPhone 5S in September 2013.The $0.99/£0.79 app - now been removed from the iOS App Store - enabled iPhones to take up to 20 full 8-megapixel shots per second. Its ability to uprate the camera on the phones meant that the iPhone 5 could take more fully-detailed pictures per second than the Samsung Galaxy S4, then the most powerful phone in hardware terms.Full-quality &quot;burst mode&quot; is one of the few elements separating professional DSLR cameras from smartphone cameras - a gap that is narrowing.Apple&apos;s acquisition fits into its pattern of buying small companies and teams for specific features which are added to products over time.In ablogpost previously posted on the SnappyCam blog, Papandriopoulos explained that &quot;As an app developer, the best we can do is full-sensor capture that utilizes every pixel on the camera sensor to produce photos of the highest quality and widest field of view&quot;.The challenge for &quot;burst mode&quot; shooting is capturing, processing and compressing images as they are created. &quot;We had to reinvent JPEG [the standard photo file storage format used on the iPhone] to do it,&quot; Papandriopoulos said.He explained that he created a JPEG compression algorithm optimised for the ARM architecture used in smartphones, and turned that into &quot;10,000 lines of hand-tuned assembly code, and over 20,000 lines of low-level C code.&quot;He added:Let’s put this into perspective. The closest competitor to the iPhone 5 is the Samsung Galaxy S4. Its “best shot” camera feature shoots up to 20 pictures continuously at full-sensor resolution, with each photo 0.1333 sec apart: an average of just 7.5 photos/sec. SnappyCam is able to deliver over 250% faster continuous shooting performance on the iPhone 5, in pure software, on a hardware rig that’s 10 months older than the Galaxy S4.Full-sensor shooting works well on the older iPhone 4S as well: 12 pictures/sec at 8 Mpx, or 15 pictures/sec at 5 Mpx. The competing Samsung Galaxy S3 tops out at just 3.3 full-sensor pictures/sec. The iPhone 4S is also 7 months older than the Galaxy S3.He said that this meant &quot;the iPhone beats competing mobile platforms in the race toward the DSLR continuous shooting experience.&quot;Apple confirmed the purchase in a statement, saying &quot;Apple buys smaller technology companies from time to time, and we generally do not discuss our purpose or plans.&quot;•Smartphone cameras tried and tested: the pros and cons of the latest models
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHome electricity use in US falling to 2001 levels &gt;&gt; The Seattle TimesSome 40-inch LED televisions bought today use 80% less power than the cathode ray tube televisions of the past. Some use just $8 worth of electricity over a year when used five hours a day - less than a 60-watt incandescent bulb would use.Those incandescent light bulbs are being replaced with compact fluorescent bulbs and LEDs that use 70% to 80% less power. According to the Energy Department, widespread use of LED bulbs could save output equivalent to that of 44 large power plants by 2027.The move to mobile also is helping. Desktop computers with big CRT monitors are being replaced with laptops, tablet computers and smart phones, and these mobile devices are specifically designed to sip power to prolong battery life.It costs $1.36 to power an iPad for a year, compared with $28.21 for a desktop computer, according to the Electric Power Research Institute.Free Zone powered by Google &gt;&gt; Google HelpNeat idea by Google, now being extended to Philippines, Sri Lanka, India, Thailand and Nigeria:Since using Google+, Gmail, and Google Search is free through Free Zone, there is no limit to the amount of data you use for these Google products. You're also not charged for any links that you click on from the search results page.Important: When using Search, the page you access after clicking on a search result is free. However, if you click on a link within that article—or if a link takes you outside of Google+ or Gmail—you'll be shown a warning page alerting you of any potential charges. It also gives you the opportunity to sign up for a data plan if you don't already have one.Where have we seen this business model before?Zynga Launches Bitcoin Test With BitPay &gt;&gt; RedditMark Pincus of Zynga:We wanted to share with the r/bitcoin community that Zynga Inc. (NASDAQ: ZNGA) is now conducting a Bitcoin test with BitPay (https://bitpay.com/), a leading Bitcoin service provider, in select Zynga.com web games.In response to Bitcoin's rise in popularity around the world, Zynga, with help from BitPay, is testing expanded payment options for players to make in-game purchases using Bitcoin.So is it in-game currency or payment?Solar Graphing FAQ &gt;&gt; Terence Eden's BlogYou're probably here because you saw an auto-tweet from my solar panels. Yes, that's right, my house is wired up to the Internet of Things!Neat little script (on Github - see the post) which will find out how much energy you've generated each day.On the future of the Internet and everything &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu has dug into the historical growth of internet use in 100+ countries, and finds it fits a predictable growth curve:If we look at growth, the inflection point comes in 2016. Thereafter internet user growth will slow.Overall, the growth pulse of the internet will be approximately 40 years long.[4] We are therefore nearly half-way through.It might seem an interesting but benign fact, however I must caution that as we've seen with smartphones, once the point of inflection is reached, investors tend to flee the sector. That in itself may not be a bad thing but investment flight has deep effects on "ecosystem" participants.Venture investments tend to feed entrants disproportionately and they are remarkably sensitive to the valuations of public companies (and IPOs). These investment might therefore be in danger in two years. Plan accordingly.Because investors tend to move away from markets where growth is slowing. So what comes after the internet?Smartphones versus DSLRs versus film: a look at how far we've come &gt;&gt; DPReviewThey took an iPhone 5S, Nokia 1020, and some DSLRs out for a fight.Comparing smartphones to DSLRs is like comparing apples to oranges. They have different views, give different amounts in focus, different possibilities for editing, capture different ranges of brightness and there's a whopping six-fold difference in the size of pictures between these devices. So how do you compare them?At first, we struggled to find a test that would be completely fair to both, and eventually realized that fairness would limit us to shooting a flat black-and-white chart in a studio. Fascinating for Mr. Spock, but meaningless to most humans. So instead, we shot normal scenes, and we've tried to spell out the biases involved.DSLRs are better... but not by much. And the gap is closing.Qualcomm Toq: the good, the bad &amp; the ugly [review] &gt;&gt; ReadWriteIt's another smartwatch! Cutting to the car chase..:The Toq is an expensive [$349] curiosity that provides a bit of convenience for certain users. Overall, it is probably not the smartwatch we are looking for. It doesn't have any fitness tracking or other interesting sensors, has a limited set of applets and an interface saddled by slow response time and bugs.Oh well, they tried.The spread of glass &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansOn Corning's figures for how much LCD screen demand there will be, and how it's growing (there's a graph):The display of, well, anything has been liberated from bulky, heavy CRTs or blocky black and white LCD screens. Today, the tech world is about pieces of glass, showing whatever content and interface you can imagine. It's almost as though the content is  dematerialised. No buttons, no case, no bezel - everything is about the image. The image is the glass and the glass is the product.If it's a yard across you bolt it to a wall and watch video on it. Smaller, and it goes on a desk and you use a keyboard and mouse. Smaller still, and it's called a 'tablet', gets touch and goes in a bag, and smaller still and it goes in a pocket, or on your wrist perhaps. But it's all just glass with a data connection.The ONS postcode directory: open data, but which licence? &gt;&gt; mapgubbinsOwen Boswarva:Most users will find the ONS [Office of National Statistics] portal to be the preferable source. The ONSPD [ONS Postcode Data] downloads contain all of the Code-Point Open data, plus additional ONS fields. The ONS downloads are immediately available, whereas the Ordnance Survey supply is via a link sent to the requester's e-mail address. The ONS downloads are provided in a choice of formats and, most importantly, ONS maintains an archive of previous releases rather than just the most recent.If the ONS downloads are subject to the Open Government Licence, and not the OS OpenData Licence, that is another good reason to procure the data from ONS rather than from Ordnance Survey.The context is updating OpenStreetMap. Turns out, though, that the ONSPD data is under the Ordnance Survey licence - which while good, isn't as great as the Open Government Licence. A pity that these differences still exist nearly four years on from opening up UK government data.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.The caption on this photo was edited to remove the unnecessary word "female" to describe the photographer. We apologise for its inclusion, which came from the caption supplied by the photo agency.
It's Monday - let's do this!
Price £14,495MPG 64.2Top speed 120mph"What do you feel when you look at that car?" I asked my wife, indicating the newPeugeot 308parked outside our house. I asked her not because I thought she'd say something insightful, but because we were waiting for our teenage daughter to get ready so I knew we had time to fill. "Um…" Juliet said. "Well, I'd say I&nbsp;feel nothing. Actually that's not true, I&nbsp;feel bored because I suspect you are about to start blathering on about the minutiae of its design or its engine or something." She's right, I was. But her answer is also interesting because it tallies perfectly with some research conducted by Volvo into the way we feel about cars.By wiring up a few hapless human guinea pigs and monitoring brainwave activity in the pre-frontal cortex while they gazed at cars, Volvo's scientists found that men experienced more emotion while looking at a beautiful car than they did looking at an image of a crying child. Brilliant! Well done, guys. You knew that was coming, didn't you, but it still takes my breath away that men really are from Mars – or at least some distant place where cars and football and beer and cars matter more than bawling infants. Women, of course, the balanced emotive sensitive beings that they are, felt the opposite. Though I didn't tell Juliet. I punished her with some interesting chat about the 308's new emergency collision braking system.A parallel survey revealed that men found the car's "face" to be its most appealing feature. While women – those who responded at all – were drawn to how the rear of a car looked. Go figure!I didn't have wires sprouting from my scalp, but I can tell you I&nbsp;felt sensations of pleasure when I looked at the new Peugeot 308 outside our house. It's a great looker – from both back and front. It has taken inspiration from the elegant 208, although this is much more than a pumped-up supermini. Tapering LED headlamps swirl from the aerodynamic face round to its muscular flanks. The rear end is more upright than before and the back panels feature a triple wave which flows down from the back door over the enhanced wheel arch. I felt "happy to very happy" when I looked at these.The new 308 is the first model in the company's history to retain the name of its predecessor. Usually each new Peugeot has its number bumped up. So in theory this should be the 309. I suppose it had to stop somewhere, but there is no sense that this new car is standing still. It's bigger, safer, smoother and more efficient than the outgoing 308. And, more importantly, it shows the direction Peugeot sees itself going – upmarket. It's taking on the Germans. VW's Golf and Audi's A3 have set the standard for this group for years, but the 308 wants a bit of the action and has been designed to be if not class-leading then definitely up there on the swots' table.Inside story: the refined cockpit with panoramic windscreen. Photograph: tiboStep inside and there is an immediate sense of wellbeing. Much of this comes from the new i-Cockpit which features a compact integrated steering wheel, a head-up instrument panel and a large 9.7in touch screen. Scroll from menu to menu and the unit makes a barely audible whooshing sound which adds to the sense of hi-tech. The console has numerous connected services, too. It'll tell you where nearby parking spaces are or fuel prices at the nearest station.The car is 140kg lighter than the old 308, and a range of eight engines are on offer. The highlight will be the diesel 1.6 HDi (which arrives this summer). It'll churn out 120bhp and just 82g/km CO2.Finally, our daughter arrived. "What do you feel about this car?" I&nbsp;asked. "Eh? Nothing!" she said.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
The Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was airlifted from a cruise ship by the Ecuadorean navy after suffering a kidney stone attack in the Galapagos islands on New Year&apos;s Day.&quot;Galapagos: five stars. Kidney stones: zero stars,&quot; Bezos said in an email provided by Amazon in response to a Reuters request for comment.Ecuador&apos;s navy said Bezos was aboard a ship traveling between the islands of Floreana and Santa Cruz, both famed for their wildlife, when the attack struck in the mid-afternoon.A navy helicopter met the ship at Santa Cruz and flew him about 20 miles (32km) to his private jet on nearby Baltra island. From there, Bezos was flown to the United States for &quot;emergency surgery&quot;, the navy said in a statement.&quot;He had to be attended to in the shortest possible time,&quot; the statement said. The Galapagos lie about 600 miles off the Ecuadorean coast.Juan Carlos Ibarra, a lieutenant with the navy&apos;s air force, was the helicopter pilot who flew the airlift.&quot;They informed us when the ship was arriving in Academy Bay at Santa Cruz island,&quot; Ibarra told Reuters by telephone.&quot;We landed our helicopter on a football pitch there ... they told us that a doctor had already gone in a boat to treat him onboard the yacht ... They stabilised him and took him to the United States. He was conscious, but he was on a drip.&quot;The navy said in its statement that Ibarra, as well as the helicopter co-pilot and flight engineer, had received messages of thanks from the relatives and associates of Bezos, whom it described as &quot;such a prestigious, world famous businessman&quot;.Bezos, 49, is the 19th richest person in the world, according to Forbes magazine, with a fortune of $25bn.Last year Bezos bought the Washington Post for $250m.
Writing inQuartz, an admirable sister publication&nbsp;of theAtlanticmagazine, the other day, the experienced technology watcherChristopher Mimsstruck a gloomy note. Under the headline "2013 was a lost year for tech", he lamented that "all in, 2013 was an embarrassment for the entire tech industry and the engine that powers it – Silicon Valley. Innovation was replaced by financial engineering, mergers and acquisitions,&nbsp;and evasion of regulations. Not a single&nbsp;breakthrough product was unveiled."Warming to his gloomy theme, Mims argued that: innovations in smartphones had stalled ("2013 was the year smartphones became commodities, just like the PCs they supplanted"); "smartwatches were easily the biggest letdown of the year";&nbsp;"former giants" [ie Microsoft, Intel and Blackberry] had continued their "inglorious decline"; "mergers and acquisitions had replaced innovation"; social media became "profitable if not compelling"; mainstream media's appetite for sensational stories made them vulnerable to "techno-hype" about stuff such asBitcoin; and of course the&nbsp;NSA revelations cast a chilly spell over all things technological.As an end-of-year retrospective piece, Mims's essay was perfectly workmanlike. After all, a glass can be half empty or half full, depending on what point of view one wishes to uphold. But it had a predictably annoying impact on people in Silicon Valley, who tend to think of Palo Alto as the centre of the known universe. One complainant was Om Malik, who is at least as experienced a tech watcher as Mims. "Dear Quartz," hewrote, "maybe it's Quartz that needs new glasses and a map. 2013 was not a lost year for tech."The essence of Malik's argument is that it all depends what you mean by "technology". If you mean the flashy, consumer product stuff, then Mims's dismissive view of 2013 may indeed be valid (though Malik disagrees with him about the iPhone 5s, citing itsM7 chipas a development with major disruptive capabilities). But if you think of "technology" as the deep structure that eventually enables all kinds of disruptive developments, then it's meaningless to talk about stops and starts in innovation because the really big stuff is also on a slow burn. Even in a fast-moving industry such as computing, it can sometimes take 25 years before a major technological breakthrough starts to show results in terms of products, services and major industrial disruption.As an example, Malik cites Amazon's launch ofAmazon Web Services(its cloud computing operation) in 2006. Back then, he writes, "there weren't very many of us who had an idea that it would one day become the key component of an economic engine that would jump-start entrepreneurial activity across the planet. No one thought that [cloud computing] was sexy. Today, if you ask Dropbox CEO Drew Houston, he will have a few billion reasons to think of AWS as the greatest thing since sliced bread. Yeah, that joke of a service will soon be a multibillion dollar business that has put everyone from Oracle, Dell and HP on thin ice."I'm with Malik on this. Cloud computing is a good illustration of why much media commentary about – and public perceptions of – information technology tends to miss the point. By focusing on tangible things – smartphones, tablets, Google Glass, embedded sensors, wearable devices, social networking services, and so on – it portrays technology as gadgetry, much as earlier generations misrepresented (and misunderstood) the significance of solid state electronics by calling portable radios "transistors".What matters, in other words, is not the gadget but the underlying technology that makes it possible.  Cloud computing is what turns the tablet and the smartphone into viable devices. And underpinning cloud computing and most of the shiny stuff we take for granted – from the web to Skype to Facebook to the iTunes Store to eBay to Amazon to Google – is the good ol' internet, which was created in the 1960s and 70s with public money and no expectation of profit. Without the net, none of what we take for granted today would have been possible. And yet when the net first appeared, almost nobody understood its significance – and one of Mr Mims's predecessors might have&nbsp;been complaining in December 1983 (11 months after the network had been switched on for public use) that it&nbsp;had been "a lost year for tech". Plus ca change!
"So we're going to talk to a computer and ask it to changeMinecraft?" Patrick, my eight-year-old son, sounds both excited and dubious. "How will we talk to it?""Well, we'll type in what we want it to do," I say, confidently. (Parenting is all about confidence.)"And it will do what we say? Epic!" He settles back into his tube seat. Conversation over. "Can I have a go on your phone?"I hand over my mobile, my pocket brain, my dazzling portable powerhouse processor that has more than 500,000 times the memory of the computer that landed Apollo 11 on the moon. My son takes it as casually as if it were a packet of crisps, types in my security code and starts playingMinecraft.On 19 November last year, a new project was launched onKickstarter. As with most of the ideas on the site, the world's largest crowdfunding platform, there was a video clip that explained what investors' money would be supporting. In the clip, two young men, Alex Klein and Yonatan Raz-Fridman, talked to camera while messing about in a children's playground. Their project – an easy-to-assemble computer kit for children, based around the micro circuit boardRaspberry Pi– was calledKano. Inserts showed youngsters raving about it, a slam poet extolling it, the creator of the pioneering video game Pong enthusing about its potential. The clip finished with Klein and Raz-Fridman going up and down on a seesaw. See? Child's play.Project Kano's funding target was $100,000: if the target was achieved, the Kano computer kits would ship in June and July of 2014. In less than 18 hours, $100,000 was clocked up, leaving a month to go until the funding deadline, 19 December. By that time, Project Kano had raised $1,522,160, from 13,387 backers. Two of those backers wereSteve Wozniak, who designed the first Apple computer, andYancey Strickler, one of the founders of Kickstarter. Another one was me.Patrick and I are visiting Kano's office. Just a box, really, in a small avenue near Old Street, east London; a space with 10 or so young people of various nationalities sitting at computers, chatting sometimes, mostly&nbsp;not.Klein – flop-haired, gangle-limbed, 23 – takes us into a small side room, where a prototype Kano is laid out in its cardboard case. It consists of a Raspberry Pi, an SD card with the Kano logo on, a specially designed small orange keyboard, a plug, a Wi-Fi dongle, a little speaker, a click-together box to hold the Pi and various brightly coloured leads."Can I have a go?" Patrick makes the Kano himself. He ignores the accompanying booklet and just plugs bits into the Pi, like he's building Lego – the SD card in first, then he clips the plug together. In a few minutes, he's done and we find ourselves gazing at a TV screen that fills with streams of code, ASCII typewriter-style stuff like I used to see in my short year of computer science lessons (1982-83). The code spools down like green rain.Suddenly, the screen is blank. The cursor flashes, then types out: "Hi, I'm Kano. Thanks for bringing me to life. What should I call you?""Patrick", types Patrick."Patrick, follow the white rabbit," Kano responds;likeThe Matrix, likeAlice in Wonderland.A few clicks later and Patrick is controlling aMinecraftenvironment. He's dragging and dropping instructions, typing in measurements, clipping commands together in blocks. He creates a house, in one go. What he's doing, though he doesn't know it, is coding. He can do this because Kano has made it instinctive: Kano Blocks, which he is using, represents computer code (Python, JavaScript, with more to come) as visual jigsaw pieces.Not that he cares (nor me). We're too busy discussing building a tower out of TNT and exploding it with lava. Then we make some synth music and have a go at Pong, changing the sizes of the paddles, making the ball big and orange, speeding it up. Pong is a big success with Patrick. I have to prise him away.Before Klein became involved in Kano, he studied ethics, politics and economics at Yale, and then did a masters in political economy at Cambridge. He liked programming, but he also liked acting and story-telling. He became ajournalist, forNew Republicmagazine.One of the stories he covered was the Raspberry Pi. This small circuit board, the size of a credit card, was launched at the beginning of 2012 and became an instant success. Developed in Britain by Cambridge graduates who wanted to make computers and coding accessible to everyone, the Pi has given rise to an enthusiastic tech community, who use their Pi to create all sorts of amazing things: a robot camera that sends down photos from a balloon, a habitat for insects, a theatre lighting rig.But there were those – and I am one of them – who found the Pi intimidating. To make it work, you had to do everything: locate a spare keyboard, plus all the right leads, work out the Wi-Fi, program the SD card. Still, the tech-literate loved the Pi, including Klein, who "hacked about with it". He showed it to his younger cousin (Micah, aged seven – he's in the Kickstarter film), but Micah found it too difficult.Another story Klein covered was Occupy's Wall Street camp at Zuccotti Park. While sheltering from the rain in one of their tents, he asked the Occupy-ers why, if they hated big business so much, they all used iPhones and Samsungs."I said, because I'm a bit of a nerd, 'Why don't you join the open source movement? Free software, protocols that allow for minimising government or institutional surveillance and maximising individual control over technology.' I gave them the whole spiel. And they said, 'Yeah, that's fine – but these things aren't designed for us, they are designed by the Silicon Valley elite. The open source community are geeks and nerds and they created the current inequality in technology.' And when they hit me with that, I was like, 'OK, you're right.' "Miranda and Patrick at the Kano office in east London. Photograph: Sophia Evans for the ObserverKlein and Raz-Fridman, 30, an ex-intelligence officer for the Israel defence forces, thought they could use the Raspberry Pi's cheapness and open source software's flexibility to make computer coding easier for non-techy people: "for fun, and purpose". After all, if you're a non-tech person (and you can afford it), you are stuck with Apple, Sony, Nintendo, Samsung: slick, pretty, closed-off life accessories/computers that are far too expensive for you to risk prising the back off and having a look at what's inside, far too enmeshed in their own operating systems for you to hack in and have a mess around. Klein thought about this. He talked about it. He had an advantage: his cousin Saul (father of Micah) is an investment entrepreneur who co-founded LoveFilm, put money intoCodecademyand was an executive at Skype. Saul knows how digital startups should run; he also understood that the Raspberry Pi wasn't quite as accessible as everyone had hoped. He was up for Klein and Raz-Fridman's idea."For me, the notion with Kano," says Klein, "on a micro level, was, 'Let's make a really fun computer kit for all ages.' And then, on a macro level, it was to link niche technology to people to help break down the social frameworks we've created in the past three decades. Gross social inequality, a management class that is more centralised than it's ever been since the Great Depression. And an economy that has tons of top-heavy growth, but none of the broadly distributed growth that was characteristic of, say, the 50s and 60s. That's the macro story." What Kano wants to do, then, is give power to the people.There is a coding frenzy out there. Money is pouring into it, from hedge funders speculating on programming startups to ordinary people inspired to back projects such as the coding-for-infants toyPrimo. Michael Gove has made coding part of the national curriculum: all secondary schools must teach coding, and primary schools introduce it, from September 2014. Recently, I heard Tony Hall, the head of the BBC, say in a speech that there were three languages in the world: English, Mandarin and code (a slightly hackneyed maxim, but still). Hall's enthusiasm means that BBC producers are currently scouting out all tech startups, phoning known coding gurus, asking them for Big Ideas. The Great British Code-Off? Strictly Come Coding? That kind of stuff.More prosaically, schools are rushing around, frantically trying to skill up their teachers so that they can teach code.Code Clubis an organisation that puts schools in touch with computer developers so they can help run after-school clubs for nine- to 11-year-olds. It is overwhelmed with requests. I know, because Patrick's school is one of them. No luck as yet: every available programmer is run off his or her feet, with a full-time job and umpteen help-me asks.Emma MulqueenyrunsRewired StateandYoung Rewired State, which bring self-taught programmers together, inviting them to events where they use open source data to make websites and apps that solve real-world problems. When she started Young Rewired State in 2009, with a one-day event, only three children turned up. Now, however, YRS is thriving and Mulqueeny has noticed changes. "The kids used to say, 'We'dnevertell our friends that we spend time doing this,' " she says. "But now they're proud – they give talks to their year groups."We used to get the stereotypical, 15- to 18-year-old, isolated geek," she says. "Now, we're seeing 10-, 11-, 12-year-olds, more mainstream kids who might be brilliant at maths and were introduced to coding by their parents."Brilliant at maths... hmm. Can everyone code? At the moment, coding is presented as an easy route to a well-paid programming job, as though every child will latch on to it and zoom fromScratch, where you get a cartoon cat to walk into walls, to complicated programming languages such as C++. But some people's minds don't work like that. You can show a group of kids an engine and only a few will want to take it apart to see how it works. Not everyone can code well enough to be a programmer."No," agrees Mulqueeny. "But children should have a degree of computational thinking. They should know that Google is an algorithm and what an algorithm is. If you introduce junior school children to the vocabulary of code, then it might spark an interest. And all kids need digital skills, so they're not only safe but in control of their digital world. Our kids' computer literacy at the moment is naff all."(As an aside, she recommends that out-of-work 16-year-olds should have a go at learning Ruby, the programming language most often used in making mobile apps.)We have an interesting talk about teaching. Mulqueeny believes that, fundamentally, coding lessons challenge much more than teachers' skills. They challenge what a teacher is."The traditional model is that the teacher imparts knowledge to the children," she says. "But if there aren't enough teachers with the knowledge, why not just let the kids teach themselves? Give them a list of websites and let them try stuff out." She recommendsTreehouse, an American organisation that teaches coding by video in steps. "Or just go to YouTube and use it as your own private tutor. If you get stuck, ask Twitter."There are teachers who are already coders (check out the inspirational Alan O'Donohoe,@teknoteacheron Twitter), but they are rare. After all, unless it's their hobby, why would teachers be computer savvy? Their work internet network is closed; very few of them have everyday experience of footering on the net, messing about on social networks, trawling YouTube, playing internet games, messaging friends, encountering safe and unsafe environments. They live different digital lives to their pupils.So different, in fact, that some secondary schools send letters home telling parents not to let their teenagers on to Facebook or Instagram. You might as well demand that they don't fiddle with their bits.We're on our way home from Kano. I'm thinking about their office and realise what it reminds me of: my old office attheFacemagazine in the 90s. A small, motivated, slightly odd team of people who don't quite fit in anywhere else, obsessing about stuff they love. I also remember a quote that Mike D from Beastie Boys gave me back in thoseFacedays. He said: "You can be entrepreneurial without being exploitative."Klein said to me: "For a long time, the notion was, you build a business by doing whatever the hell you want, and then you institute a corporate social responsibility programme and throw a few bucks back. But the model that I think is growing now, and you see it withKivaand with Toms Shoes, is … a realpolitik notion. For better or worse, we live in some of the most free-market times in history, and thus the lever to most quickly and effectively be an influence on the world is the free market. People can sponsor Kano kits to get them to Nairobi, or Johannesburg, or north London. It's all possible."It's easy to be seduced by smooth gadgets that help you live your life. But there's a whole world out there that isn't as shiny, isn't as owned by corporations. It's possible to like Beyoncé and John Grant; to love your iPad and your notepad; to visit the Science Museum and go home and make a rocket out of Lego and land it on a football moon. Sometimes, my children spend hours playing computer games. Sometimes, they spend hours making homemade badges. They don't see the difference, really. If you allow kids in – to a museum, an institution, inside a closed world – they'll find a way to have fun.Patrick is back onMinecrafton my phone. He looks up. "I really liked that," he says. "It was one of my favourite days. Can we get a Kano? I want to play with that Pong game."Get smart: more coding schemes for youngstersPrimo, a game that aims to teach young children coding without the need for literacy.
I hate being rained on. I especially hate it when it's cold. You'd have thought that with all our 21st-century Google-Glass exploring-Mars engineering marvellousness, we would have made more progress on the problem of rain. But no. The umbrella is a few thousand years old and is nowhere near an optimal solution, especially in blustery windy weather. Wet-weather clothing works if you wear it, but most people don't because it looks so awful.From a materials-science perspective, the best solution for the British weather would be an invisible waterproof coating that you can spray on the clothes you actually do want to wear. Excitingly such materials have now been invented; they borrow tricks from nature, and they may yet get us singing in the rain.Traditional waterproofing involves materials that are hydrophobic – in other words molecules that repel water. Waxes and other oily materials fall into this category because of the way they share their electrons at an atomic scale. Water molecules are polar, which means they have plus and minus charged ends. Waxes and oils prefer their electrons more equally distributed and so find it hard to conform to the polarity of water, and in the stand-off they repel each other. Hence oil and water don't mix. This hydrophobic behaviour is bad for vinaigrettes but good for waterproofing.Nature uses this trick too but is much better at it. Go into a garden during a rain shower and have a look at how many leaves repel water so effectively that water droplets sit like jewels glistening on their surface. Lotus leaves have long been known to have this superhydrophobic property, but no one knew why until electron microscopes revealed something very odd about the surface of the lotus leaf. There is a waxy material there, yes, but it is arranged on the surface in the form of billions of tiny microscopic bumps. When a drop of water sits on a hydrophobic surface it tries to minimise its area of contact, because it wants to minimise its interaction with the non-polar waxy material.The bumps on the lotus leaf drastically increase this area of waxiness, forcing the droplet to sit up precariously on the tips of the bumps. In this, the Cassie-Baxter state, the droplet becomes very mobile and quickly slides off the leaf. So by manipulating just the bumpiness of its surface, lotus leaves are far better at repelling water.The mobility of the droplets has another effect. By zooming around the surface of the leaf rather than sticking, the droplets of water collect small particles of dust, hoovering them up. This cleaning mechanism of these superhydrophobic surfaces is called the lotus effect.Superhydrophobic surfaces have been synthesised and studied in labs for decades, but it is only recently that commercial versions have been produced. Now there are quite a few coming on to the market (egneverwet.com), and they are impressive – when water is poured on to these surfaces it behaves like mercury and bounces off.The trick, as with the lotus leaf, is to create a microscale patterned non-polar surface. The fact that these sophisticated surfaces can be sprayed out of a can is a triumph of nanotechnology. As with the lotus leaf these coatings not only keep things dry, they also keep them clean, since a lot of what constitutes dirt arrives on your clothes as splashes of liquid that subsequently dry leaving a residue. If the droplets of bolognese sauce, curry or mud don't stick but bounce off, then they won't leave a stain.There are many other applications for these coatings, such as reducing the window cleaning bills on skyscrapers; keeping paint clean on cars; making sofas immune to red wine; and in its key role as waterproofer extraordinaire, keeping your mobile phone safe when it is dropped down the loo.Of course, I just want to spray all my clothes with it and so release myself from the bind of having to worry about whether it is going to rain on my way to work. I hesitate from doing this only because one of my favourite films isThe Man in the White Suit, a 50s classic starring Alec Guinness that explores the scenario of a materials scientist who invents clothes that never need mending or cleaning. For those who haven't seen the film, I won't spoil the end but suffice to say everything doesn't go according to plan.I suspect there might be a twist in the tale for these commercial versions of superhydrophobic materials too, but I hope not. I really do feel that it would be a momentous achievement for mankind if 2014 was the year we all stopped getting soaked in the rain.
Whether it's our humdrum reliance on supermarket self-service tills, Siri on our iPhones, the emergence of the drone as a weapon of choice or the impending arrival of the driverless car, intelligent machines are woven into our lives as never before. &nbsp;It's increasingly common, a cliche even, for us to read about the inexorable rise of the robot as the fundamental shift in advanced economies that will transform the nature of work and opportunity within society. The robot is supposedly the spectre threatening the economic security not just of the working poor but also the middle class across mature societies. "Be afraid" is the message: the march of the machine is eating into our jobs, pay rises and children's prospects. And, according to many experts, we haven't seen anything yet.&nbsp;This is because the power of intelligent machines is growing as their cost collapses. They are doing things reliably now that would have sounded implausible only a few years ago. By the end of the decade, Nissan pledges the driverless car, Amazon promises that electric drones will deliver us packages, Rolls-Royce says that unmanned robo-ships will sail our seas. The expected use of machines for everyday purposes is already giving rise to angst about the nascent problem of"robot smog"as other people's machines invade ever more aspects of our personal space.&nbsp;As economically significant, perhaps, as the rise of super-gadgetry is the growing power of software to accurately process and respond to data patterns. This raises the prospect of machines reaching deep into previously protected areas of professional work like translation, medical diagnostics, the law, accountancy, even surgery.&nbsp;As yet, this techno-hype isn't matched by much hard evidence. According to the International Federation for Robotics, the use of robotics in leading advanced economies has doubled in the last decade – significant, but less than you might expect.The experience, however, varies dramatically: uptake exploded in China, while the UK lags far behind its competitors. The key question is whether the upward trend is about to take off, giving rise to sweeping changes in production that dislocate large tranches of the workforce.&nbsp; &nbsp;That's certainly the view of several highly influential US economists, such as leading blogger Tyler Cowen from George Mason University, and Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee from MIT. In works with bracing titles such asAverage is OverandRace Against the Machine, they have seized the public debate with their genre of arresting, unequivocal and futuristic argument that blends techno-optimism about the potential of machines with chilling generational pessimism about the divisive consequences for much of society.Brynjolfsson and McAfee, whose new bookThe Second Machine Ageis set to be one of the zeitgeist works of 2014, argue that the digital revolution is about to crash into our jobs market. It's taken a while –Timemagazine awarded the personal computer machine of the year in 1982 – but, they contend, the technology has now matured to a point where it will have the same scale of impact on production as the steam engine once did.Similarly, Cowen speculates that the future belongs to a gilded 10%-15% of workers whose skills will augment intelligent machines – the rest can look forward to long-term stagnation or worse. The harsh labour market experience of the young over recent years is a mere taster of what's in store. Growing numbers of low-skilled workers risk being unemployable: there won't be a wage at which it will be worth employing them. Swaths of the working poor will make ends meet only by migrating to areas offering very cheap housing, crumbling infrastructure and low taxes.Welcome to the American future: burgeoning favelas leavened only by free Wi-Fi. Some of this has a dystopic,Blade Runnerfeel – it's striking how much of this economic futurology comes from the US. The more sober UK debate is concerned with deciphering the empirics of the recent past rather than conjecturing about the future.&nbsp;At the LSE, the respected economist Alan Manning, who has led work on the polarising impact of technology on our jobs market, laments only half-jokingly that he'd like to have the time to develop a new subdiscipline on "science-fiction economics". It would bring rigour to our understanding of possible societies in which machines do radically more and humans less. For now, we look overseas for visions of where the robots may lead us.As with all prophecies of doom, or indeed those of an impending economic boom, we should treat such visions with caution. Predictions about the uniquely transformational yet job-killing impact of technological change are as old as capitalism itself. There's never been an era without plausible experts warning the population that they are on the cusp of a new, usually scary, world resulting from technological breakthrough.&nbsp; Occasionally they're not wrong; mostly they are. Which isn't to downplay technology as the motor of economic change.&nbsp; Time and again – from spinning wheel to steam engine – it has had disruptive implications for the workforce. But labour displaced from field or factory eventually found new, more productive roles, demand expanded, living standards rose.&nbsp;The lag, however, can be a long one. Not long before his death in 1873, John Stuart Mill remarked that the industrial revolution had not yet had much impact. This seemed an extraordinary observation, but it captured at least a partial truth. As the economic historian Brad DeLong has shown, from 1800 to 1870 real working-class wages grew at just 0.4% a year before tripling to 1.2% from 1870 to 1950 (reaching almost 2% in the golden postwar decades). Similarly, we are yet to experience the true gain, whatever it turns out to be, as well as the pain, of the robot era. &nbsp; &nbsp;To get a better sense of the impact of technology on our labour market we don't need to rely entirely on frothy speculation about the future. There is a decade or more of research to draw on. The rise of information and communications technology (ICT) is hardly new. The dominant view, both in the UK and elsewhere, is that it has already been eroding a swath of jobs that involve repetitive tasks capable of being automated and digitised. This has disproportionately affected roles in the middle of the income distribution – such as manufacturing, warehousing and administrative roles. &nbsp;This doesn't result in lower overall employment – for most economists the main change is to job quality, not quantity.&nbsp; There has been a rapid growth in demand for high-skill roles involving regular interaction with ICT, as well a rise in lower-paid work that is very hard to automate – from caring to hospitality. Consequently the balance of employment has shifted upwards and downwards with less in between; as Manning puts it, the labour market has been polarising into"lovely and lousy jobs". The impact of technology has been gradual but inexorable – "it only goes one way", he tells me. In some sectors the decline in employment and relative pay has been dramatic: the typical heavy goods driver receives less in real terms today than a generation ago.&nbsp; &nbsp;Some of this is contested.Recent evidence suggests the extent of polarisation may be overstatedas it hasn't taken into account entirely new middle-income roles that replace old ones. Others point out that job-title inflation means thatyesterday's mid-level jobs are sometimes counted as today's high-level ones.&nbsp; Some roles that are popularly assumed to have fallen prey to machines have adapted and survived – as President Obama realised to his cost when he asserted that ATMs have led to the demise of bank tellers (their numbers have risen).&nbsp; And it's important to keep a sense of proportion: between 1990 and 2010 employment in hard-hit occupations in the UK like skilled trades fell by 25% and administrative jobs by 20%. Big losses, but they hardly represent the death of mid-level jobs.&nbsp;A narrow focus on technology is also inadequate, as it fails to explain some of the big shifts of the last decade like the explosion in rewards at the very top –60% of the enormous increase in the slice of income flowing upwards to the richest 1%over the last decade went to those working in finance. To lay this at the door of the anonymous force called "technology" is to excuse way too much. Sure, developments in ICT were relevant, but they don't explain political choices over deregulation or account for rapacious rent-seeking by the financial elite.&nbsp; Wage inequality has many authors, from the demise of collective bargaining to the rise of globalisation.As the influential Washington-based EPI thinktank has argued: don't make robots the fall guy.Nor does an exclusive techno-focus illuminatethe post-crisis polarisation of our jobs market, which has seen recession-busting increases in high-paying jobs in sectors like business services alongside a big growth in low-paid work, with sharp falls in between in sectors like construction. Further signs of the impact of technology? Doubtful. This pattern has coincided with a demand-starved economy, an investment strike by business and plummeting wages. Indeed recently the robots could be forgiven for worrying about their prospects given the falling cost of labour.&nbsp; It all adds up to a complex story. The hollowing out of the jobs market is real and important. But its scale can be overstated and technology, though crucial, is by no means the only factor at work. None of this means we should be sanguine about the future.&nbsp;Given the uncertainties and the capacity of market economies to adapt to shocks, many will assume that things will continue much as they have done. Perhaps. But if the techno-enthusiasts are at least partly right, the consequences will be far-reaching.&nbsp;Fortunately, perhaps, at least some of the issues that this would mean grappling with are more extreme versions of those we should be worrying about already. The rise of the robot is likely, for instance, to result in an increasing share of GDP flowing to the owners of capital at the expense of labour – something that has recently been occurring across many OECD countries (though less so in the UK than is often assumed). An acceleration of this should rekindle interest in finding ways to distribute the ownership of assets more evenly as well as finally prompting a serious discussion about shifting some of the burden of taxation from labour towards wealth. &nbsp;Accelerating wage inequality, together with a rise in economic insecurity, would sharpen the need to bolster our working-age welfare system at a time when it's already creaking and has few political friends.Whether the greater democratisation of economic risk – if those in medicine, law and accountancy also feel the pressure – would shift the political dynamic remains to be seen.&nbsp;We also need to focus on those occupations that are widely expected to grow in number and are dramatically less likely to be displaced by machines – such as care of the young and the old. They are heavily reliant on the state. Securing the fiscal basis and public consent to fund these crucial labour-absorbing industries over the next ageing generation, already an enormous issue, would become even more pivotal.Our historical weaknesses on education policy would cost us more dearly. The wage penalty arising from flaky sub-degree-level qualifications – a longstanding weakness – would rise, as would the premium for those who can combine rigorous analytical thinking with creativity. Massive wage returns are likely to flow to those with applied postgraduate degrees – ensuring fair access to them would become a more central feature of distributive politics.Just as importantly, we need to prevent robot-fear being used as a force for fatalism. There are already voices arguing that the march of the machine means that a decent wage-floor is simply unaffordable. Yet the evidence that the minimum wage has worked well without costing jobs is vastly superior to that suggesting we are entering a new era of machine-peril. Let's not get too spooked.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;JM Keynes, writing in 1930 as the Great Depression intensified, was prophetic about today's public anxieties.&nbsp; "We are suffering from a bad attack of economic pessimism ... people say that the rapid improvement in the standard of life is now going to slow down." He dismissed this sentiment, putting it down to the upheaval of rapid economic change, and argued that his generation's grandchildren – today's baby-boomers – would be better off, which of course they are.&nbsp;We should be equally confident our own grandchildren will also grow up in a digital economy that is far richer than today's, driven on in large part by further technological breakthroughs. It's harder than ever, though, to have the same confidence that this greater prosperity will be evenly shared out in the "age of the robot".&nbsp; &nbsp;Gavin Kelly is chief executive of Resolution Foundation
Let's get the negatives out&nbsp;of the way first. The&nbsp;boot's very small. And… and that's it, really – the only thing you could possibly find wrong with this one. All right, it&nbsp;is quite expensive, too, and probably has no place in the modern world. Pretty, though. Go on: treat yourself.The boot really is tiny. Open it up and it's like: WTF-Type! Never mind golf clubs, you'd be hard pressed to squeeze a club sandwich in there. My girlfriend's small mini-break wheelie suitcase won't go in, so we end up repacking, in a couple of plastic bags, glamorously.Oh, and my girlfriend doesn't fit in either. Nothing to do with her size, simply because of the people-to-seats ratio: there are three of us and three into two don't go. So she's on the train because our child can't yet be trusted to get out at the right station, not being two yet.But then this isn't a car for couples with children. Or luggage. Just toss in a spare pair of knickers and a&nbsp;bottle of champagne, and roar off romantically (the roar is lovely). A&nbsp;child may be the result, in which case you'll have to rethink the wheels; for now, though, live a bit.Nor is it a car for people with golf clubs, not just because they don't fit in, but because it's simply too cool for golf. The other Jaguars – even XJs – are for golfers, their bellies, their dodgy trousers and probably their dodgy politics. This one's for me.The F-Type is the first two-seater Jag, the first proper sports car, since the E-Type. It's too early to tell if it will inherit that lovely creature's iconic status, but I suspect not. The E-Type must have been absolutely extraordinary when it first appeared in 1961: a new threat, big and long and thrusty. The F-Type doesn't have that shock factor. That's not to say it isn't beautiful. It is, from every angle: prowly and purposeful from the front, classic and clean from the side, elegant and sculptured at the back. Rear of the Year 2013, no question.And to drive it's a blast. It feels like a proper old-fashioned sports car: you're low and encased, in touch with the road. The ride is quite firm, but it's perfectly balanced and feels lighter than the 1,600kg it weighs. This is the middle one, with a three-litre V6 supercharged engine that gives 380 horsepower. There's a&nbsp;V8 that gives you a hundred extra horses on top, but I can't imagine who'd need them, apart from maybe Catherine the Great.For us – me and my son – this will do. It's bright and cold, and we're blasting through Oxfordshire with the roof down, freezing our ears off but happy as Mr Toad. Driving shouldn't be so much fun; it&nbsp;probably won't be for much longer. Quick, before they make it&nbsp;illegal. Poop-poop.Jaguar F-Type V6SPrice£67,520Top speed171mphAcceleration0-60mph in 4.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption31mpgCO2emissions213g/kmEco rating2/10Cool rating9/10• This article was amended on 6 January 2014. V65 has been corrected to V6S.
ThiefPS4, Xbox One, PS3, PC, Xbox 360Master thief Garrett is back, and this iteration is already being compared to the classic Dishonored, which makes it all the more exciting.Out 28 FebTitanfallXbox One, Xbox 360 and PCFrom part of the team behind Call Of Duty, comes Titanfall, a game about shooting people and giant walking tanks. Designed to be played online against many other similarly armed soldiers, it's easily the most promising Xbox One, Xbox 360 and PC exclusive.Out 14 MarDark Souls IIPS3, Xbox 360, PCBeing savagely punished for mistakes you make may not be everyone's idea of a good night in, but mastering Dark Souls' brutal rules, ruthless enemies and appallingly gigantic levels is part of the joy.Out 14 MarMetal Gear Solid V: The Phantom PainPS4, Xbox One, PS3, Xbox 360It's going to be cheap - just £20 to download for PS3 - and open world, letting Snake wander about. Expect to delight in some new characters along with the series' hallmark navel-gazing.Date TBA 2014Mario Kart 8Wii UIt's mostly business as usual at the world's most popular cartoon go-karting series, but this promises new trinkets along with more familiar mechanics, like baby versions of its characters.Out Spring 2014The Elder Scrolls OnlinePS4, Xbox One, PC, MacDespite being single player, past Elder Scrolls games managed to have the limitless scope that makes massively multiplayers games so addictive. Elder Scrolls Online is the MMO the series always felt as though it was, bringing even greater scale and a living, breathing, dangerous fantasy world.4 Apr for Mac and PC, console versions out in JunDestinyPS4, Xbox One, PS3This first-person shooter-meets-massively-multiplayer online game has been designed to make it welcoming for casual players, something MMOs have traditionally been a bit bad at. Made by Bungie, creators of the Halo franchise, it should be worth a look.Out 9 SepTom Clancy's The DivisionPS4, Xbox One, PCSociety is collapsing again, but this time without total apocalyptic chaos. Full of delicious novelties, including possibly the first useful iPad integration with a console game.Out Winter 2014Halo 5Xbox OneXbox One-only shooters look like they're going to be well worth the wait. Unlike Titanfall, Halo 5 has such a long legacy to attend to it can't do much reinvention, but if Halo 4 is anything to go by, this should be a cracker.Date TBA 2014The Evil WithinPS4, Xbox One, PS3, Xbox 360, PCShinji Mikami, the man behind Resident Evil, believes the genre he popularised needs to rediscover its rank roots. His attempt to foster a scarier experience is The Evil Within, a game about cops, monsters and a man's rapid descent into madness.Out 2014• This article was amended on 7 January 2014. An earlier version said that Titanfall is exclusive to Xbox One. It is also available for Xbox 360 and PC.
She&apos;s survived wave after wave of redundancies. But finally this week, BlackBerry&apos;s grim reaper caught up with Alicia Keys - and axed her job as Global Creative Director.The appointment in January 20134 of Keys - better known as a singer and songwriter who has won multiple Grammy awards - at the launch of the Z10 phone, puzzled many. Was she getting paid? Almost certainly. Was she a fantastic advertisement for BlackBerry? Well, given that soon after being appointed, she tweeted from an iPhone - the horror! - it looked for a few minutes as though things would come to an embarrassing end. Butshe blamed it on hackers, so that made it all right, and she got on with.. whatdidshe do again?According to BlackBerry, it certainly wasn&apos;t a sinecure - not at all. BlackBerry told us: &quot;We thank Alicia for her many contributions including providing creative direction for the BlackBerry Keep Moving Project which attracted more than 40 million visits, advocating for women in STEM [science, technology, engineering and mathematics] and launching the BlackBerry Scholars Program. We have enjoyed the opportunity to work with such an incredibly talented and passionate individual.&quot;And was she paid? &quot;We cannot disclose specific details on the terms of the contract.&quot;Since Keys took up the previously nonexistent reins of Global Creative Director, to globally creatively direct things, BlackBerry&apos;s staff numbers have shrunk from around 12,300 in January 2013 to 11,500 by September 2013 - at which point management said that another 4,500 jobs would go over the next few quarters, taking the company down to 7,000 staff worldwide.At that point someone seems to have noticed &quot;Keys, Alicia&quot; on a staffing form somewhere and said &quot;What has she creatively directed for us globally lately?&quot;Well, not quite. Keys&apos;s departure is really about the death of the &quot;BlackBerry Keep Moving&quot; project, a formless idea which aimed to get writers (Neil Gaiman), filmmakers (Robert Rodriguez) and musicians (Keys) to bandy the BlackBerry name around and bring young people to the company site, where they could be enthused with the benefits of new phones.As you could predict, it didn&apos;t work, especially given BlackBerry&apos;s woeful financial position. Although it used the &quot;Keep moving&quot; tagline on its advertising, the fact that there was a whole scheme behind it passed almost everyone by.There is someinside scoop offered by the Hollywood Reporter, which says that Keys had originally signed up to &quot;develop ideas and content for the Keep Moving project, which got some stage presence during her US tour early in 2013, and then effectively vanished. There were weekly discussions on the phone, it says - but all the BlackBerry executives who were on the Keep Moving project have now gone. &quot;She got on a sinking ship,&quot; it quotes &quot;a source close to Keys&quot; as saying.Judging by the tweets from the BlackBerry account using the #KeepMoving hashtag on BlackBerry&apos;s site, the Keep Moving project hasn&apos;t, well, moved since August.BlackBerry's Keep Moving page shows no sign of movement since August 2013. Photograph: /public domainWe&apos;ve previously examined the question of quitewhat it is that celebrities bring to tech companies, or vice-versa. The answer seems to be: not much either way.Will.i.am with Intel CEO Paul Otellini at CES in Las Vegas in January 2012. He played a song on his Ultrabook. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesThe list of participants isn&apos;t short. Besides Keys, there&apos;s spinning-chair-torch-Olympian Will.i.am, who in January 2011became director of creative innovation at Intel(raising the question of whether Intel also has someone in charge of uncreative innovation, and/or creative copying). Is his name synonymous with Intel? Has it sold more ultrabooks? We&apos;ll leave that to the marketing specialists.iPhone user Jessica Alba explains to Microsoft's Joe Belfiore why she's going to use Windows Phone 8. A few months later, she went back to her iPhone. Photograph: Stephen Lam/Getty ImagesThen there&apos;s Jessica Alba, who helped Microsoft launch Windows Phone 8 in October 2012 - and I think we can all agree that it was her presence on a stage looming over Joe Belfiore which has helped it to a double-digit market share in countries such as Mexico.Alba, who waxed lyrical about the benefits of parent-friendly elements of the new OS such as Kids Corner,went back to using an iPhone only seven months later, as evidenced byher tweets.Lady Gaga appears with Polaroid's chief operating officer John Pollock to announce their design partnership. Photograph: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty ImagesNor should we forgetPolaroid and Lady Gaga. She, too, became its Creative Director, appearing at CES in 2010 to launch camere glasses. Their names have of course become as intertwined and interchangeable as chalk and cheese - principally because Polaroid was heading for bankruptcy, and couldn&apos;t afford to follow through.Just the jobs? &hellip; Ashton Kutcher in his role as Steve Jobs for the film Jobs. But the job he took is with Lenovo. Photograph: Glen Wilson/APA so-far unknown in terms of his impact on a company is the actor Ashton Kutcher,hired - apparently - by Lenovo in October to be a product engineer. On what? Here&apos;s what USA Today was told:&quot;This partnership goes beyond traditional bounds by deeply integrating him into our organization as a product engineer,&quot; said David Roman, chief marketing officer at Lenovo. &quot;Ashton will help us break new ground by challenging assumptions, bringing new perspective and contributing his technical expertise to Yoga Tablet and other devices.&quot;We&apos;ll have to wait for news of precisely what part of former chemical engineering undergraduate Kutcher&apos;s expertise is being brought to bear on the Tablet (which was already on sale before his hiring).Meanwhile, Keys&apos;s departure does leave the door open for BlackBerry to take up the offer from another Canadian to help it out.Justin Bieber offered in 2007 to be a &quot;brand ambassador&quot; for the company, but was turned down flat by marketing executives. Maybe it&apos;s the only thing that could tempt him out of retirement.
TheInternational Consumer Electronics Show(CES) in Las Vegas kickstarts the year in gadgets, as electronics companies attempt to reinvigorate consumers deflated by the Christmas blowout with new and shiny products for the year ahead.Marking the rise of content as king, Sony’s chief executive Kazuo Hirai will officially open CES at 08.30 Pacific time on Tuesday (16.30 in the UK, 11.30 on the US east coast), and at 09.00 will be talking about the intersection of content and hardware – in which Sony, a content company through its music labels, movie and games studios, obviously has a vested interest.You might recall that CES always used to open with a Microsoft keynote – but in 2012Steve Ballmer bid farewell, as did Microsoft from official presence at the show. Last year&apos;s keynote, as you&apos;ll recall, was by that well-known consumer technology personality ... (* Answer at the end.)The show will actually open to the press on Monday, so here is a quick run through the major trends of what is expected to be on display this year.Gaming, but not from the traditionalsA computer-generated rendering of a Steam Machine Photograph: ValveIt may not be theElectronic Entertainment Expo (E3), which takes place in Los Angeles every June showcasing the latest and greatest the gaming industry has to offer, but gaming is likely to play at least some role at CES.Sony, for instance, could show off the product attempting to rival virtual reality goggle manufacturer Oculus Rift, which promises to give the wearer an immersive 3D video experience.However, the rise of theSteam Machineis likely to be the biggest gaming news from CES this year, with Valve’s vision of aLinux-basedgaming console to take on the might of Sony’s PS4 and Microsoft’s Xbox One.Announced in September, with 300 prototypes already sent out to testers, Valve’s assault on the living room is set to go on sale this year, and several of the machines are expected to be on show at CES, possibly from various manufacturers.With 50m users of its Steam gaming digital distribution platform able to buy almost 3,000 games, Valve and its Steam Machines could be a real threat to the dominance of Sony and Microsoft in the living room gaming market.Yet more wearable techFitness trackers galore, but will they do anything more than just nag the lazy? Photograph: Richard Drew/APWearable technology such as fitness trackers and smartwatches promised much in 2013, but products such as theSamsung Galaxy Gearand theSony Smartwatch 2failed to live up to expectations.Body-worn sensors, currently taking the form of fitness trackers such as theMisfit ShineandNike Fuelband SE, are expected to proliferate this year as the technology within them becomes cheaper to produce. Intel and Archos, for instance, have already announced that they will have new smartwatches and fitness gadgets, while the Pebble smartwatch company is promisingsomething &quot;special&quot; for CESthis year.As a result, the “Digital Fitness Area” at CES is being expanded by 30% to make room for more companies exhibiting more fitness-associated devices. Social connectivity, where a wearers&apos; fitness statistics are compared to their friends, colleagues or fitness nemesis, is likely to play a much larger role as devices become more and more smartphone and tablet-app integrated.Whether these devices will do any more than simply nag wearers for being lazy remains to be seen, but there is solid potential here for connected devices to do more than just tell the tracked that they don’t sleep very well.Look out for a plethora ofGoogle Glass-like wearable smartglasses too, as device manufacturers attempt to beat Google to widespread availability of head-up displays, as well as all manner of &quot;smart&quot; apparel including solar-charging bags and high-tech clothing.Tablets, big and smallMicrosoft Surface Pro 2 is just one of many expected Windows 8.1 tablet/laptop hybrids.Mobile World Congress, which takes place in Barcelona in late February, is traditionally the exhibition at which new smartphones and tablets are announced. CES 2014 is likely to reflect the massive expansion of the tablet market, however, especially inthe low-end, small budget tablet computer marketseen in 2013, with ever more tablets from the likes of Samsung, LG and a small army of Android tablet manufacturers.But it won’t just be Android on show at CES – Microsoft, Intel and AMD are expected to have a raft of larger Windows 8.1 tablets, convertible laptops and ultrabook/tablet hybrids on show, too, as the PC industry struggles to reignite its sales from their current decline.Flexible displaysFlexible displays have been promised since 2005. Will 2014 be the year they become reality? Photograph: Yoshikazu Tsuno/AFP/Getty ImagesFor better or worse, flexible displays seem to be invading consumer technology, mainly driven by Samsung and LG, which manufacture the OLED (organic light emitting diode) screen technology that makes bendable screens possible. Flexible displays might be almost ready, but we&apos;re still years away from circuitry that can be bent too, so their applications will certainly be limited.CES 2013 saw Samsung show off its flexible display smartphone prototype, and this year is likely to see yet more phones and other devices with bent screens that are nothing more than gimmicks.TheSamsung Galaxy Round, for instance, should make an appearance at the show, which has a curved screen, while LG is likely to have its G Flex curved Android smartphone on display too.Curved 4K TVs, because we canCurved OLED TVs, slightly larger than a person laying beneath, are likely to be on show whether they're just a gimmick or not. Photograph: APTelevision screens curved for no real good reason should also be out in force at this year’s CES. Having seen a good showing at theIfa exhibitionin Germany in September last year, curved displays are highly likely to mate with the ultra-high definition (UHD) 4K screens to yield earth-shatteringly expensive curved 4K screens.More than likely to still be in a prototype stage – or perhaps in a state where one screen around 80in on the diagonal will cost as much as a sports car – these curved screens with at least four times the number of pixels compared to regular high definition televisions are unlikely to be available in high street stores any time soon, but are heralded as the future by some.Something to actually watch in 4KKevin Spacey in House of Cards soon to be available in 4K ultra-high definition. Photograph: Melinda Sue Gordon/APAfter the death (or at least zombification) of 3D TV, the buzz around ultra high definition is unlikely to stop at the curved and unfathomably large 100in-plus displays. UHD content is expected to be present in force at CES this year, marking wider availability of the next generation of video content.Netflix, for instance, has already announced that it will provide streams of its in-house TV show House of Cards in 4K resolution for its next season through partnerships with “major TV vendors” to be unveiled at CES this year.Season twoof the award-winning show is set to premiere in February this year; Netflix says a broadband connection as slow as 15Mbps should be capable of carrying the show due to new encoding technology. (That&apos;s not a typo - it&apos;s fifteen, not 1.5.)Google&apos;s YouTube has also announced that it will show off a new, higher efficiency system for its existing and new 4K content that aims to reduce the bandwidth required to stream the 4K video.Whether internet service providers will be able to handle the bandwidth demanded by 4K streams remains to be seen.More 3D printing2014 could be the year that 3D printing gets the content to make it mainstream. Photograph: Fabrizio Bensch/Reuters/Corbis3D printinghas had a bumper 2013, with machines even making it onto the UK high street andservices available in supermarketsfor 3D scanning and printing with your weekly shop. This year promises to be even bigger for the &quot;second industrial revolution&quot;.Makerbot is holding its own press conference, while the the area dedicated to 3D printing machines and content creation is bigger than ever this year, showing that even more companies, machines and products are moving into the new fabrication space.As with 4K television, 3D movies – and even Blu-ray discs before it – the future of 3D printing is content, and it will live or die by what is available to actually print. This year the methods and services by which people actually create the printable 3D models are likely to be key to 3D printing.But for all that, it&apos;s never safe to assume that what emerges from CES shines a light on what is going to be important in the year ahead – as we discovered when we looked back atpast winners of the &quot;best of show&quot; awards.Our CES coverage starts on Monday athttp://www.theguardian.com/technology/ces2014.* The keynote speaker in 2013 was no less a consumer industry figure than the chairman and chief executive of Qualcomm**.** Qualcomm is a chip-maker***.*** Paul E. Jacobs. That&apos;s who it was.• Need more future-gazing? Readwhat the Guardian Tech reckons2014 holds for us
I enjoyed your article aboutbuying a Dell Vostro as a good, no-nonsense option, and I am thinking of doing that to replace an old Dell Dimension E520. The Vostro that I have my eye on has Windows 7 whereas my current desktop has Vista. My concern, as an elderly duffer, is the potential cost of renewing expensive programs. Will my Microsoft Office 2007 and Adobe Elements 6 discs still be compatible with the new machine?Will I also be able to transfer my documents and my email addresses and emails, and tools such as Adobe Reader and Flash? What are the possible expenses/pitfalls in upgrading to a new computer from an old one?Richard LynasMicrosoft Office 2007 will work well on your new Windows 7 PC. Adobe Elements 6 came out before Windows 7, so it may not be fully compatible. The Windows compatibility centre allows users to vote on whether a program is compatible or not, and the current score forElements 6is 3-3.Microsoft recommends a paid upgrade, but buying the currentAdobe Elements 12will cost you £54.71 from Adobe (until January 9) or about £60 fromAmazon.co.uk(and personally, I'd go for the boxed DVD). There have been lots of improvements since Photoshop Elements 6 came out in 2007, so it may well be worth upgrading.Commercial programs sometimes have problems because software companies now track licences online. A second installation may be seen as a pirate copy. For this reason, it's a good idea to uninstall programs from your old PC before you install them on the new one. If Photoshop Elements 6 doesn't load in Windows 7, or says "Licensing for this product has stopped working," then you will need toApply the Licensing Service Update.To move your emails and data -- but not your installed programs -- download the free Microsoft program Windows Easy Transfer. You'll probably need the version from here:Windows Easy Transfer for transferring from Windows Vista (32 bit) to Windows 7. Download it to your Vista PC and run it there. Windows 7 already has a copy built in.Make a fresh startWhen you get your new Vostro, you will need to go through an automated setup process that sets the time, date and location, and creates user accounts with names and passwords. After that, go to Windows Update and install the latest patches. To do this, click the Orb in the bottom left, typeupinto the search box, and select Windows Update. With luck there will not be many. However, Windows Update installs files in batches, so it's important to go back several times. If Windows 7 installs 12 updates, that doesn't mean there are only 12 updates to install. There could well be hundreds.Once Windows 7 is up to date, you can think about removing any potentially unwanted programs or PUPs, whichI wrote about recently. The only ones you are likely to get with a Dell Vostro are Dell's backup software, which you should keep, and a free trial anti-virus program, which you can remove if you want. This may involve going to the AV supplier's website and downloading a "removal tool". I'd certainly look for one as modern anti-virus programs are plumbed in very deeply, to try to prevent malware from disabling them.If you want a free anti-virus program,Avast!andAVG Anti-Virus Free 2014are good options. Many people use the lightweight but less thorough Microsoft Security Essentials, in which case it's a good idea to run periodic scans withMalwarebytes Anti-Malware. In fact, that's never a bad idea.Install free utilitiesMost of us use some of the thousands of free Windows utilities such as, in your case, Adobe Reader and Flash. In general, you should not transfer these from one PC to another: download the latest versions instead. You can do this by visiting a lot of different websites, or you can get them all from an app store,All My Apps. It can also remind you of upgrades, but if you find that annoying, you can uninstall the All My Apps program or turn it off.TucowsandMajorGeeksare also good sources.For Windows 7, I use and recommend the Firefox browser, Secunia's Personal Software Inspector, Slimware's SlimCleaner, Piriform's CCleaner, Paint.net, FreeFileSync, DoubleKiller, Dropbox, the Windows Live suite (if not already installed) and theK-Lite Codec Mega Pack. I also use Media Player Classic instead of Windows Media Player, and Cubic Reality'sCubicExplorerinstead of Windows File Explorer, though these may not be to everyone's taste.Don't install Oracle's Java at this stage, as it's a security risk. You can install it later if you find you can't do without it.Other useful free programs include Auto Hotkey, Ditto (a clipboard manager), Evernote, Process Explorer and Skype.When downloading utilities, either use All My Apps (or a similar trustworthy site) or links from the supplier's website. Avoid using links from Google adverts. Also, be extra careful when installing free programs, because some software suppliers earn money by foisting unwanted programs on you. These PUPs include toolbars from Ask or Google, or Google's Chrome browser. Be extra extra careful when installing things from Adobe and Apple.In a few cases, you may want to copy a utility from your old PC because you don't like the latest version. I have a couple of these, such as Wisdomsoft's ScreenHunter Free version 4 (a screen capture program) and Microsoft's FreeCell and Cards.dll from 2004. There are several websites that stock old versions of programs includingoldversion.comandOld Apps.Backing things upSetting up a Windows PC just the way you want it takes time, and you don't want to do it more than once. To avoid this, I use Windows 7's Backup and Restore program to take a snapshot of the hard drive and store it somewhere safe. The Vostro hard drive includes a hidden Recovery Partition, but this may take you back to the beginning, with no updates etc. When fully set up with programs and data, run Windows 7's Backup and Restore or Dell's DataSafe Local Backup program to back up your PC to an external hard drive, and keep it backed up on your chosen schedule.I also keep separate backups of important folders such as My Photographs and My Work. I use FreeFileSync to copy these to another external hard drive. The routines are saved so I just have to click the BatchRun.ffs_batch file and then hit the Synchronise button. Current work files, created in Microsoft Office, are backed up to my 25GB Microsoft SkyDrive so I can get at them from anywhere. Everybody has different requirements: just figure out what works for you.Finally, a small confession. I think I have given you appropriate advice, but there are lots of ways to do things. When I switched from a Dell Dimension running Windows XP to a Vostro running Windows 7, I did it slightly differently. I took the hard drive out of the old PC, slotted it into anIT-735 USB2 / e-SATA combo 3.5" SATA Hard Drive Enclosurebought from Amazon, and plugged it into a USB port on the new PC. This made copying files much easier. I've forgotten which registry hack I used to take ownership of the old drive, butOwnership Changershould do the job.Either way, a good new PC should be dramatically faster and much smoother running than your seven-year-old Dell Dimension. I reckon you'll be sorry you didn't upgrade earlier.
The digital gaming service Steam was down for over an hour on Friday after being targeted for a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack.Two Twitter users,@chFtheCatand@LARCENY_, have taken credit for the hacks, and also for a similar attack on Battle.net, the login system used by World of Warcraft and other games produced by Blizzard.The attack was apparently unrelated to a parallel set of attacks, co-ordinated by a group calling itselfDerpTrolling, against EA&apos;s Origin online gaming service. Origin was sporidically offline for a period of almost 24 hours.DerpTrolling had previously brought down the servers for Dota 2 and League of Legends, two popular &quot;multiplayer online battle arena games&quot;. Those actions sparkedcriticism of popular Twitch streamer James Varga, who was accused of egging on the hackers.DDOS attacksuse thousands of infected PCs, known as &quot;bots&quot;, to send brief messages that overwhelm the servers of its target. Steam&apos;s store and community features have been responding slowly or not at all throughout the night.Varga, whose videos of League of Legends matches attract hundreds of thousands of views, egged on the DDoS attackers, telling them to take the servers down if his team started to lose.None of the attackers have yet spoken of motivations for the attack, but all seem to be doing so for little more than their own amusement.
