Glasgow city council plans to post details of 230 paintings and drawings on a website to ensure that none of the city's art works were stolen from Jewish homes during the second world war.The council has joined in a wider national effort to eliminate the possibility that the works hanging in British galleries were looted by the Nazis. The pieces include works by Picasso, Cezanne and Whistler and will be posted later this week on theNational Museums website.As the art works have been on show in Glasgow's galleries for many years, the city council expects that if any of the paintings had been stolen by the Nazis claims would have been lodged already. Works will be posted on the site if galleries lack documentation that accounts for their whereabouts between 1933 and 1945.A national effort to uncover stolen Jewish art works began two years ago. However, despite participation by the British Museum, the National Gallery, the Tate Gallery and the Victoria &amp; Albert museum - which have posted a total of 600 pieces on the site - no works have been established as stolen Nazi goods.Glasgow council has said that if a successful claim is made, a repatriation process will begin.
Shareholders who lost billions of dollars in the internet boom and bust are fighting back in a series of crippling class action lawsuits.A report in today's Times newspaper says that Wall Street banks are facing up to 100 of these lawsuits, brought by shareholders who claim that bankers artificially inflated the flotation prices of dot.com stocks. The lawsuits allege that bankers used illegal techniques to pump up prices when the stocks were first offered for sale. Many internet stocks have seen prices fall dramatically almost immediately after flotation.The suits involve companies such as music site MP3.com, online advertising company Doubleclick, and internet software firm Ariba. Ariba first traded on Nasdaq in June 1999 for $23 per share; yesterday the stock price closed at $6.70. MP3.com was worth $1.87bn at its flotation in July 1999. Today the company is worth $325m.The lawsuits - 21 of which have already been filed in Manhatten federal courts - are further hitting share prices as both the banks and dot.coms struggle to cope with legal fees. Some of Wall Street's biggest banks have been named in the lawsuits, including Bear Stearns, Credit Suisse First Boston, Merrill Lynch and Salomon Smith Barney, according to the Times. All deny any wrongdoing.The US Securities and Exchange Commission is already investigating claims that some bankers accepted bribes from clients to allocate them shares in the initial public offering of certain internet companies. The SEC investigation also covers allegations of "laddering", a practice in which bankers ensure that a stock's price will continue to rise after flotation by lining up clients to buy stock at a set price on a set date.Related stories26.05.2001: Lawyers count cost of aborted floats08.05.2001: A second look at the Guardian's e50The e50: After the goldrushUseful linksIPO.comNasdaqDoubleclickAribaMP3.com
Sales of digital cameras have outstripped those of traditional 35mm film cameras for the first time, according to Dixons.The retailer said that 54% of customers buying cameras in April chose digital technology over  film, proving that holidaymakers are willing to store their photographs on disk rather than in traditional albums."This is a sea change in consumer photography," said Ian Ditcham, marketing director at Dixons. A spokesman for the company added that the resolution of digital pictures was now good enough to compete with film, and customers preferred the convenience of sending their photos to friends and family instantly over the internet.The store also credited the falling price of digital technology and improvements in the design and production of digital cameras for the change in sales patterns.The best selling cameras at Dixons during April were the Olympus C-860 , the Kodak DC215, and the Fuji MX2200.Useful linksDixonsShortcourses digital photography resourceKodakFujiOlympus
You've got to love LA. Any town with a pro shop called The Merchant of Tennis gets my vote. And it's appropriate that E3, the Electronic Entertainment Expo, one of the world's biggest video games conferences, should take place near Hollywood. Not that you can see the studios from the smog-encrusted city centre that houses the two giant Expo halls, but their closeness brings home that games could challenge movies as the 21st century's most dynamic art form.Games are already rivalling Hollywood economically. In the US last year, gamers shelled out $8bn (&#163;5.65bn) for their fix, as much as was taken at the box office. Worldwide, the industry is worth at least $30bn, yet how many people in the UK have heard of grands fromages of the industry such as Ken Kutaragi, the father of PlayStation? There are more PS1s in the UK than digital set-top boxes, and no one gave them away. But there is little mainstream interest in this extraordinary industry compared to the forest's worth of column inches dedicated to Big Brother, Survivor, Pearl Harbor, Don Giovanni and Hear bloody 'Say.In part, I suspect this is because, to outsiders, the games world seems trivial and unstimulating - the preserve of spotty teenage boys who have only two uses for their right hand, neither of which involves writing. At E3, there was undoubtedly a large coterie of boy-men with goatee beards, long, surfers' trousers, blocky shirts and a complexion resulting from chemicals and pizza. But equally, one could detect significant creative and business changes in the industry that will enable it to reach out beyond its hardcore following.For example, Myst III, an already popular title, has 45 minutes of embedded live-action sequences, as well as quality animation and graphics. What is this new form of content? A movie? A game? TV? The edges blur as this new medium appropriates the lessons of the old, with swooping tracking shots and close-ups, while resolutely charting an interactive path that produces an intensely satisfying experience of being in the movie.Narrative is important in the best of this new output, and it's not simply a question of how many gory, slimy things you can chop the head off in 60 seconds (nothing wrong with that, I might add). Some of the new breed of creatives are searching for characterisation and identification in just the same   way as drama writers and directors have done since the Greeks.The other two major events of the E3 week were the launch with much hoopla and tub-thumping of Microsoft's chunky X box and the emergence of the PS2 as a multimedia entertainment centre, with a Netscape browser, AOL content and services, flash technology and Real Media streaming.I was at the Sony press conference, along with 400 of its closest friends, to share in the announcement of Telewest's deal with Sony to link the PS2 to our set-top box. This will deliver games on demand and multi-player gaming, and possibly trigger a new creative approach to gaming - episodic rather than one big hit. More like TV drama than a movie.The quality of consumer feedback on characters, situations, ease of use and level of interest will allow games developers an in-depth sense of what the customer wants. But it should also enable them to take risks with different forms and formats, rather than simply create more mega games.There is a strong argument that games may be as important to the development of broadband as football is to multi-channel TV. We wait to see. But we know that games will be as important as movies. This will be even more the case if the games community moves deeper into the mainstream.Evidence of the emergence of a new obsession with online gaming was demonstrated by the two days the inhabitants of E3-world spent discussing the subject. Massive multiplayer games, in which hundreds of thousands of subscribers play one another across the web, have grown enormously in the past few years, but again if this is to break into the mainstream (other than as bridge, chess or poker), it has to find its audience in a simple, compelling way. As I sat listening to panellist after panellist trying to work out ways to make broadband gaming pay, I was reminded of multi-channel TV. At first there was deep scepticism in the traditional industry. Then some brave souls made investments in kids' networks, education channels, movies. Then some really brave souls bought a shed-load of sports rights and changed the face of the industry. Advertisers and consumers paid, and the rest, as they say, is Rupert's balance sheet.The games world could look like this - a basic offering funded by advertising, an on-demand business paid for by subscriptions and big events, the Pearl Harbor or FA Cup Final of Gaming, as a form of premium purchase. Highly creative, two-way broadband games are the industry's next big challenge. On the evidence of E3, I've no doubt that they'll be up for it.&#149; David Docherty is managing director of broadband content at Telewest
The attack by computer hackers on the world's leading anti-hacker unit last week showed that nothing is impregnable in cyberspace. The US government-funded Cert co-ordination centre was paralysed by a flood of bogus email data requests. The attack was the culmination of a dramatic surge in computer onslaughts in the last four weeks. High-profile UK victims included ITN and BT.Evenwww.attrition.org,the website that monitors this sinister activity, has confessed that the 'burden of keeping up with all the busy hackers out there has finally become intolerable'.Attrition has monitored more than 100 website defacements a day, three times the combined total for 1995 and 1996 - statistics that are sobering for any business developing a commercial website.In 1999, 273 organisations reported $265 million in losses from security breaches, according to the FBI. Most losses were the result of financial fraud and the theft of proprietary information.In turn, the spread of com puter crime has created a boom for companies offering IT security solutions. Research company IDC predicts that the global market for outsourced security services will grow from $5.5 billion in 1999 to $17.2bn in 2004.Globalism has created its own digital nervous system. We don't realise that when we connect to the internet from home, someone may be watching our every move.In California, wireless technology has created the latest fashion in drive-by crimes. All it requires is a Palm Pilot type device with a plug-in wireless network card. An opportunistic hacker can simply park outside any promising corporate target and invisibly log on to any conveniently open and unsecured wireless network gateway. Within minutes the company network and the information it holds will be 'owned' by the hacker, who may simply be carrying out the exercise for personal amusement.A close encounter of this kind becomes even more serious, if the target happens to be a government agency - or   a leading software company: the most recent victim was Microsoft, from whom valuable product information was stolen.If Microsoft can't defend itself against a determined intruder, who can? Only this month the company's UK website was defaced by the hacker group 'Prime Suspectz' with a simple redirect page and the unremarkable message: 'Thank you for visiting. You are now being redirected to the Microsoft UK website. Please click here if   you are not redirected within 5 seconds. &#169;2000 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.' In the lower left-hand side of the page was the legend 'Prime Suspectz owned Microsoft again!!!'While the 'old economy' crime of physical theft of IT equipment remains lucrative, the internet is catching up as the preferred environment for the clever criminal. Cybercrime is 'clean' - there is no risk of physical violence and personal danger is low in contrast with other crimes.Information theft (especially of credit card numbers) by physical or electronic means is increasing. Research suggests that consumer confidence has been shaken by reports of high-profile web crimes and that online fraud schemes are constantly being developed that cannot be tackled by traditional detection.This has led to a demand   for internet-specific screening systems.A report from CyberSource suggests that vendors and consumers should be educated about security processes, but that there will be a high cost to businesses if they decline all but the safest orders in order to protect themselves from the risk of fraud. The preferred solution is for companies to limit their   exposure by using new tools that analyse internet transaction risks.Even though cybercrime is perhaps the fastest growing industry of the new economy, most businesses are still not taking adequate precautions. In the UK, companies still have a long way to go in grasping that simple anti-virus protection is where a security policy starts, not where it ends.DK Mattai, managing director of Mi2G, a leading security risk consultancy, believes that many businesses have caught on to the havoc a virus infestation can cause and have responded accordingly with antivirus software.But he observes that few companies recognise that a continuous cycle of security assessments is needed to monitor and update procedures and software, to best utilise firewalls and intrusion detection systems and thus to protect IT systems from hacks, cracks, viruses or disgruntled employees'.Last month saw the much-publicised launch of the UK's own national Hi-Tech Crime Unit. With the blessing of the Home Secretary, 80 specialist officers and &#163;25 million, its remit is broad and involves the investigation of two emerging types of criminal activity:&#149; New crimes, new tools: hacking, cracking and denial-of-service attacks.&#149; Old crimes, new tools: Crimes against the person using the internet and involving fraud, identity theft and stalking.Asked whether it were possible, given the resources at his disposal, to both scale and tackle the growing and diverse internet crime danger, Detective Chief Superintendent Len Hynds, head of the Hi-Tech Crime Unit, said: 'The first challenge is, of course, to measure the scale of the threat. Then, and only then, can we begin to benchmark and prioritise activity.'That said, no single organisation could hope to tackle alone all the crime problems posed by the internet. I'm optimistic that the multi-agency approach the unit represents can act as a catalyst.But given the international nature of the problem, the concerns of Government and the economic threat that such virtual lawlessness represents, is the arrival of this relatively small and specialist police unit simply an example of trying to use a cork to plug a leaking dam?Professor Jim Norton, head of eBusiness at of the Institute of Directors, thinks not: 'New tools provide new opportunities for old crimes; e-Business is no exception.'The police and other agencies need new skills, approaches and tools to respond, but these must be proportionate to the risks involved. They must not impose unreasonable burdens on business or unduly infringe personal privacy.'And therein lies the dilemma. The functionality of any system is inversely proportional to its security. It has to be a trade-off. Nothing can ever be 100 per cent secure in a wired world.Promises of action and new legislation, even against the threat of paedophilia, as suggested by Home Secretary Jack Straw last week, can alert us to the scale of the problem, but there is little evidence that an explosion in internet-related crime can be contained, let alone defeated.Brave words from politicians hold no currency in cyberspace. Its more lawless constituents have little reason for concern while they can operate, at will, from jurisdictions outside of the reach of western government agencies.The internet has opened the lid on a Pandora's box of personal and commercial threats: its demons have been loosed upon us all .
BritishTelecom will this week try to face down accusations of intransigence over rivals' access to its local networks by striking a deal with struggling telecoms operator Redstone.Under the deal, named Macronet, BT will allow Redstone access to its fibre-optic cable in order to connect its digital exchanges with each other and with its customer networks. Redstone claims that, because it will not have to dig up roads to lay cables, Macronet will cut the time involved in building a national network, and slash the   cost from around &#163;1 billion to &#163;100 million.BT described the deal as 'another way it could generate a commercial benefit from unbundling the local loop' (jargon for allowing rivals to install high-speed cables in its local exchange) and estimated that it could add up to &#163;150m to revenue over five years.But the deal is unlikely to please rivals such as Energis and Colt, which are also keen to offer cheap, high-speed internet access and services such as video on demand. Redstone puts its equipment in purpose-built boxes out side BT's premises. Energis and Colt want to get their own equipment into BT's exchanges, so Macronet will not help them.Ben McClure, telecoms analyst with Old Mutual Securities, said: 'Redstone is not a very big competitor to BT. It could be that this is a way for BT to say they are co-operating with competitors, but picking the weakest one.'Redstone has a pilot digital service in Portsmouth with some five small-business customers. It plans to extend this to five more cities, but lacks the finances.
The whole world is rushing to join the information revolution. Everyone wants to be connected. It is generally believed that the only debate worth having in the "new era" is how to ensure that everyone has access to cyberspace. Now an equally important issue is beginning to loom: is too much access as big a problem as too little? Is it possible that the information and telecommunications revolution is speeding up human activity at such a rate that we risk doing grave harm to ourselves and to society?Two experiments by American scientists reported recently should give all of us reason to ask where we are heading in this era of instantaneous global electronic connections. In the first, two Harvard University teams succeeded in slowing light down to a full stop, holding it in limbo, then sending it on its way again. Light travels at a speed of 186,000 miles a second and is thought to be the fastest form of energy in the universe. This marks the first time light has ever been stopped and temporarily held in storage, and researchers hope it will lead to a new type of technology revolution called quantum computing and quantum communication. Quantum technologies could vastly speed up both computing and communications in the coming century.In the second experiment, scientists at Princeton succeeded, for the first time, in making a light pulse travel at many times the speed of light. While researchers were quick to point out that nothing with "mass" can exceed the speed of light, scientists now believe that a "pulse" of light can. The physicists conducting the experiment hope that their work will lead to a dramatic speed up of optical transmission rates.These experiments bring us to the cusp of a new era in human history: we   are beginning to organise life at "the speed of light". Every day, new software and telecommunication technologies are being introduced to compress time, accelerate activity and process greater stores of information. We live increasingly in a nanosecond culture. But is it possible that the very technological wonders that were supposed to liberate us have, instead, begun to enslave us in a web of ever-accelerating connections from which there seems to be no escape?A new term, 24/7 - around the clock activity, 24 hours a day, seven days a week - is quickly coming to define the parameters of the new temporal frontier. Our fax machines, email, voice mail, PCs and cellular phones, our 24-hour trading markets, instant around-the-clock ATM and online banking services, all-night e-commerce and research services, 24-hour television news and entertainment, 24-hour food services, all vie for our attention.And while we have created every kind of labour- and time-saving device and activity to service one another's needs and desires, we are beginning to feel we have less time available to us than any other humans in history. That is because the new services only increase the diversity, pace and flow of commercial and social activity around us. For example, email is a great convenience - until we find ourselves spending much of the day frantically responding to each other's email. The cell phone is a great timesaver - except that now we are always potentially in reach of someone else who wants our attention.Today, we find ourselves in a far more complex interdependent temporal world made up of ever-changing webs of human relationships and activity - a world in which every available minute becomes an opportunity to make another connection. Descartes' dictum, "I think, therefore I am," has been replaced by: "I am connected, therefore I exist."What happens when our lives are embedded in around-the-clock relationships operating at the speed of light? The telltale signs of our new time angst are everywhere. Stress-related illness is rising dramatically all over the world. Much of it is attributable, say the experts, to information overload and burnout as more and more people find themselves unable to cope with the pace, flow and density of human activity made possible with new lightening-speed technologies. In the UK, three in 10 employees suffer mental problems each year from stress-related behaviour. Stress-related illness and absenteeism costs the economy the equivalent of 10% of its GDP.According to a recent report of the International Labour Organisation, one in 10 adults worldwide suffer stress, depression and burnout. The ILO predicts a dramatic increase in stress as even faster technologies are introduced and globalisation accelerates. Stress related diseases - including depression, heart disease, strokes, cancer and diabetes - are rising so quickly, say some observers, that stress may become the leading cause of illness.The new, fast-paced 24/7 society is having other profound effects on people's lives. Around-the-clock activity has led to a serious decline in the number of hours devoted to sleep. In 1910, the average adult was still sleeping nine to 10 hours a night. Now the figure is less than seven hours in highly industrial countries: an extra 500 waking hours a year. But our internal biological clocks are set to the rotation of the planet and daily, monthly and seasonal temporal rhythms. We are biologically designed to go to sleep after sunset and wake at sunrise. Massive sleep   deprivation, brought on by the frantic new pace of living, is increasingly being linked to serious illnesses including diabetes, cancer, strokes and depression.Nowhere is the "speed of light" society having a greater impact than with the dot.com generation. Millions of children (especially boys) are being diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in the US, with a rising number of cases in Europe. Sufferers are easily distracted, unable to focus their attention; impulsive and quickly frustrated. But if a child grows up surrounded by video games and computers, and comes to expect instant gratification, is it any wonder that he develops a short attention span? Quicken the pace, and we risk increasing the impatience of a generation.Is the hyper-speed culture making all of us less patient? Already, new stress related, anti-social behaviour patterns are beginning to emerge. "Desk rage," "road rage" and "air rage" have become part of the popular lexicon as more and more people act out their stress with violent outbursts. In the click-click culture, we shouldn't be surprised if everyone is poised for a hair-trigger response.Perhaps we should be asking what kind of "connections" and what types of "access" matter. If this new technology revolution is only about speed and hyper efficiency, then we might lose something even more precious than time - our sense of what it means to be a caring human being. Until now, we have asked only the question of how best to integrate our lives into the new technology revolution. We need to ask a deeper question. How do we create a social vision that makes these new "speed of light" technologies a powerful complement to our lives, without them taking over our lives?&#149; Jeremy Rifkin is author of The Age of Accesscomment@guardian.co.uk
In cyberspace, nobody is safe. A group of computer hackers has claimed the ultimate scalp by bringing the website of the world's premier anti-hacking centre to its knees for three consecutive days.Despite boasting sophisticated defences and some of the finest minds in computer security, the CERT coordination centre, the US government-funded early warning facility, was left powerless as its website was engulfed by a flood of bogus email data requests.Last night, experts at CERT, which issues global alerts and advice on hacking and virus threats from the University of Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, were still battling to get their site back online as the well orchestrated assault continued unabated.To carry out the attack - known as a distributed denial of service - the hackers did not have to penetrate CERT's defences. Instead, they took control of other computers and used them to bombard the site with so many spurious requests for data that legitimate visitors were unable to get in.The centre's website is one of the primary security resources for IT professionals around the world. Since the attack began, CERT has been forced to rely on email and its telephone hotline to distribute information.Denial of service attacks are almost impossible to defend against. It is also difficult to trace the culprits, as they program the commandeered computers - known as zombies - to generate bogus email addresses to obscure the source.Denial of service attacks are becoming an increasingly popular weapon for hackers. According to research published this month by the University of San Diego's super computer centre, there are 4,000 such at tacks worldwide every week. The same computer was attacked 102 times in one week.CERT is well used to being targeted by hackers trying to make their name, but the latest attack is remarkable for its ferocity and its duration. Since 3.30pm on Tuesday, the site has been hit with demands for data 200 times higher than the normal peak.Ian Finlay, an internet security analyst at the centre, said no data had been compromised. "We are taking steps to make services available, and we are in touch with various organisations to help us investigate and resolve the attack."
So there you are sitting in a cosy flat in Aberdeen when you get the chance to write a book about football. There is just one problem: the book has to look at the game worldwide, and you can't leave Aberdeen for work reasons.Tricky one huh? And 10 years ago it would have been an impossible task but, thanks to the internet, something that would have been harder than Scotland winning the World Cup is now as much of a stroll as Manchester United winning the Premiership.Of course, the first place where the internet comes in useful is for research. Scotland may have the largest research library in Europe - the Mitchell Library in Glasgow - but even that pales in comparison to the good ol' world wide web andGoogle.Thanks to the web, the main quality you will need when searching information on most topics in the people's game is patience, because of the huge number of returns.Newspapers, articles, magazines and video clips from across the world were all at my fingertips, withAlta Vista's Babel Fishfeature all too happy to translate any foreign articles for me.But there was more to it than the usefulness of the web. While it was a great resource, email was even more useful in allowing me to interview people living in places that time difference made it nigh-on impossible to chat with in real-time.Email also saved me the hassles of transcribing interviews, with the ability to cut and paste saving a lot of time, though I found that people were happier to chat for long periods of time than actually type out long answers (it felt less like work for them).Unfortunately voice recognition software has not yet reached the level where it can transcribe straight from a tape recorder, but one lives in hope for the next book.The online communities that email has spawned were also very useful in speaking to the everyday football fan. Sites such asTopicahave thousands of mailing lists, covering most teams from the giants like Barcelona to smaller teams like Partick Thistle, with the only problem being the sheer volume of mail that comes into your mailbox when you sign up for too many.People reluctant to share original video, audio or paper files could easily get them digitised and emailed over, though this resulted in hellish phone bills that threatened to be higher than Roy Keane's &#163;50,000 weekly wage.Other aspects of modern technology also came in handy, especially my Handspring Visor personal digital assistant, which was great for taking notes on the road, or typing chapters up in strange locations thanks to its folding keyboard.It also came in handy when a person threw a hefty punch at me after taking exception to some of the matters that would be appearing in the book - Glasgow's sectarian problem to be specific. It would have floored me if the PDA (which in this case stood for Punch Dispersal Assistant) hadn't taken the impact. Unfortunately the Visor screen was shattered by the punch, but at least it gave me a chance to get away. If it hadn't, there is a good chance I'd now be writing about voice software that could work in hospital wards.Back on the computing side, scanners also came in handy and Umax's share price must have rocketed with me picking up three of their machines after each of them packed in after being moved just once.The scanners - admittedly sub-&#163;100 machines - had a habit of sounding like an pneumonia-ridden grandfather first thing in the morning after being moved on and off a desk.After the third replacement packed up, I gave up: the amount of time it was taking trying to coax each machine into working could be better spent just typing in the documents I would have rather have scanned.Getting the book to the publishers was also made a lot easier thanks to using email, though there were problems: Microsoft Entourage's settings in sending email kept converting quotations marks and apostrophes into small numbers, for some bizarre reason.Email also obviously made it a lot easier for my editors to get back to me with queries, though for the life of me I couldn't work out their proofing system in Word, so the final revisions and draft were carried out using hard copies instead of on-screen.And even now, after the book has been written and published, technology is still helping out - in selling it. While there are a lot of fun moments in writing a book (and a lot of rotten ones too), nothing beats logging on to Amazon and finding out that you've leaped more than 120,000 spots in their sales rank in just one day.Of course, that leaves me with another 8,000 sales spots to go before I get to number one. But if a wee team from Manchester can win the European Cup then surely that shouldn't be too hard, right?&#149;  Football Inc: How Soccer Fans Are Losing The Game is published by Vision Paperbacks at &#163;9.99.
Sugar Secret DiaryPC 	&#163;12.99 Global Software Publishing	***Marie-Kate and Ashley Pocket PlannerGame Boy Color 	&#163;24.99 Dualstar Interactive/ Acclaim Interactive	****The right gadgets are becoming as important as the right brand names to the so-called tweenage generation - eight to 12-year-old girls keen to ape the looks, attitude and consumption patterns of their teenage sisters.Mobile phones are, one imagines, the key object of desire. But PDAs (personal digital assistants) are surely not far behind. After all, organising her life is one of the most obvious ways a young girl can assert her growing sense of self.In the past, this kind of thing was done with secret   journals. In the future, it will no doubt be done with My Little PalmPilot. In the meantime, parents could do a lot worse than buy the Sugar Secret Diary for their pre-teen daughters. This bundles together elements familiar from the successful magazine of the same name (horoscopes, a dream dictionary, numerological tests to divine whether you are compatible with your friends) with a diary/organiser program. Users can put friends' contact details in a database, enter dates in their diaries and type innermost thoughts into the journal, which is password-protected to keep it from prying siblings and parents.It all works well enough, the design is clear and efficient, and the package as a whole is   pretty affordable. That said, you can't help feeling that a girl's journal/diary belongs on a more intimate piece of technology than a PC. Journals are supposed to be kept close, in bags, under pillows - something that is possible with the Marie-Kate and Ashley Pocket Planner for the Game Boy.If they have passed you by, Marie-Kate and Ashley are celebrity twins and tweenage icons in the US (their TV show is screened by Nickelodeon over here). Perhaps they might draw a few fans, but the Pocket Planner actually does a pretty good job of selling itself. As with a grown-up PDA, you can enter friends' contact information, create To Do lists and enter events in a diary. Entering   information involves moving a cursor over an on-screen keyboard and the whole thing can be password-protected to keep personal info private.There are also several simple games to play: virtual fruit machines and matching pairs, a virtual pet to look after, star sign matchers and a crush indicator. Here, you "scan" a potential suitor with your Game Boy (you point it at them, push a button and it makes a beeping noise as if it is doing something), then Marie-Kate deliv ers her verdict.You also get several tools: a stopwatch, a telephone dialer and something called G Mail. This lets you send messages to someone else with the Pocket Planner. You need to be within two feet of each other, and pressing the right buttons at the right time, but it is kind of fun.Unfortunately, the Pocket Planner does not seem to have been localised: during set-up, the twins assume you live in the US. But that is a small thing, really.Generally, the program works well. Real teens might get sniffy about it. But it looks like a pretty good way of distracting tweenage daughters desperate for a mobile phone.
Hansori tunesMarket analysts reckon that the main reason for sluggish sales of MP3 players has been the meagre amount of storage they offer. Hoping to address this is Hansori which releases a pair of players in the UK this week.Its top-end model, the Hansori Han 33UVS  features 96MB of storage built-in (most comparatively priced models have 64MB) and it is also one of the few players compatible with the new SmartMedia 128MB storage cards. If the two are combined the player can hold 224MB worth of music, or nearly four hours of MP3 tunes. The only drawback is that the 128MB SmartMedia card is, at around &#163;120, not a huge amount cheaper than the player itself, which retails for &#163;180. The small silver-finished unit also offers voice recording facilities, a graphic equaliser and file transfer via USB.A second player, the Hansori Han 14X, is also compatible with the 128MB SmartMedia cards. The key difference is that this &#163;150 player has 64MB storage built-in. More details fromwww.mp3players.co.uk.Panny's GPRSPanasonic is staging a two-pronged attack on the mobile phone market with its debut GPRS model and a budget Wap handset. Due in August, the GD95 will be among the first GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) models to go on sale. Consumer GPRS was introduced last week by BT Cellnet, with only one model, the Motorola Timeport 260, available at launch. GPRS phones offer faster download times for text data than standard GSM models, and, as they maintain a permanent connection, there's no dial-up required.The silver-finished GD95 boasts a significantly larger screen than its Motorola model, and although Panasonic hasn't confirmed a price it is likely to be less expensive. Similar to previous Panasonic phones the GD95 can be configured to send and receive email through the user's existing SMTP/POP3 internet accounts. Other facilities include the latest Wap 1.2 browser, T9 predictive text input, a built-in modem, vibrating alert, a recordable ring tone option and voice memo. Talk time is rated at 300 minutes with standby at 190 hours.Panasonic is pitching its other new mobile at the youth market. Available in a choice of three colours the GD35 features a Wap browser, alarm, vibration alert, calculator and a game. Talk time is rated at 2 to 4 hours, with standby at 175 hours. More details fromwww.panasonic.co.uk.JVC shrinksJVC has unveiled what it is billing as the world's smallest and lightest digital camcorder. The &#163;1,300 GR-DVP3 Miniature, right, has dimensions of 43mm(w) x 115 (h) x 80mm(d) and weighs just 340g without battery and tape. JVC claims that it was designed to be small enough to fit into a jacket pocket.The camcorder can record images of up to 520 lines resolution on to Mini DV cassettes. It can also be used as a digital still camera, capturing images and then storing them on its accompanying 8MB SD (Secure Digital) card. Users can also convert DV footage into MPEG 4 video in the camcorder, which is saved on the SD card, and then transferred to a PC to be emailed or posted on the web.Convenience facilities sported by the camcorder include: Digital NightScope for low light shooting, 10x optical and 100x digital zooms, and digital effects.JVC is also offering buyers the chance to edit their videos online. Each Miniature allows users to upload their footage to a website called UcreateTV for editing. Here they can further enhance their home movies by adding momentous historic film from the newsplayer.com archive (dismantling of the Berlin wall, moon landings, and so on).A slightly cheaper version, the &#163;1,100 GR-DVP1 has also gone on sale. The only differences between the two models are that the DVP1 is finished in silver and has a DV output, but no input. The GR-DVP3 features both a DV input and output.Both models are on sale now - more details fromwww.jvc.co.uk.
Between now and the end of July, the nation will be gripped by reality TV. Whether we like it or not, the next round of nobodies will enter our lives and yes, we will find ourselves warming to them; eventually knowing all about them; and inexplicably debating their actions and merits with complete strangers.Welcome to the second summer of reality TV, and welcome to the Godfather of Big Brother, Survivor.This time around, the websites have been planned for months and servers have been maxed up to take the strain of massive traffic.Last year Big Brother was caught slightly off guard - the website was a last minute addition and was put together in a matter of weeks.But the popularity of the webcasts set internet broadcast records, albeit when the website wasn't creaking at the seams. In the end, it was all handled rather well, although Channel 4 never managed to launch an SMS alert service - instead the Sun newspaper decided to rehash website content and send out text messages.Also this time around, the other media strategies have been planned well in advance. For reality TV junkies, SMS will become an essential adjunct to a television set and a web connection. Battle lines have already been drawn and Vodafone and BT Cellnet have taken sides, Vodafone withITVand Cellnet withChannel 4.While some think Survivor will win the ratings war, if only because of ITV's massive audience potential, Big Brother could yet come out on top in the SMS arena. For starters, Big Brother SMS alerts will be accessible to all mobile phone users no matter which network they use, as opposed to Survivor messages, which will only available to Vodafone's 12m customers.Both Vodafone and Cellnet are banking on premium rate services to expand their coffers but Vodafone, the market leader, just so happens to be first, and so far only player, to launch a premium SMS service - a billing mechanism whereby the user pays anything up to &#163;2 for receipt of a message.But, as always, Cellnet is not too far behind and pundits reckon its soon-to-launch billing system could be even more flexible than that of Vodafone's.Survivor junkies will have to pay an average of 20p per message for a wide range of messages and services, while Big Brother die-hards have to buy a pre-pay voucher at &#163;4.99 and choose from three different SMS packages. Clearly, both networks are out to make money from this experiment in mass market entertainment messaging.In the end, Vodafone may cave in to demands from frustrated non-Vodafone customers and pay the extra for other network users to get Survivor messages.But, ultimately, the popularity of the SMS services may all boil down to the quality of the content and characters, not forgetting the giddy excitement that can be generated from a message telling Big Brother obsessives of two housemates being in bed together - "live on the internet now".With Survivor being pre-recorded, it may not be able to make people react in the same way by an SMS alert as the live and unpredictable Big Brother. These deals may just be one-off reality TV deals, but one cannot help but see the similarities from the partnerships. Vodafone has the biggest subscriber-base of all the UK networks; it is going after entertainment; and it wants to be mass market.Its deal with ITV, the biggest commercial entertainment channel in the UK, therefore, makes absolute commercial sense, particularly if a deep and meaningful longer-term relationship can come out of this.Cellnet, being sharp, commercially minded and not one to sit back and let Vodafone make all the money from SMS has plumped for Channel 4, a deal that sets out its stall for a younger, slightly quirky, yet mainstream, audience.But what of Orange and One2One? Neither have yet done anything of note in the SMS arena but it's not necessarily just a case of them dragging their heels.Orange is pursuing a bullish strategy that is focused entirely on its own SMS goals and seems to be disinterested in partnering with other companies to provide services.One2One wants to do clever SMS deals and premium billing services, like Vodafone, but it was too nervous to jump headfirst into SMS by signing a deal with Survivor. It wants lucrative deals with other companies but needs to cut its teeth on something that won't grind its servers to a halt.Regardless, it's going to be a fun summer. Holidays and time away from the office may never be the same again.Imagine for instance, being away from your computer when an alert arrives telling you something crucial is happening - it may end up costing a fortune in internet caf&eacute; bills.
Even if Microsoft's Xbox games console flops, it should do at least one useful thing: it should stop people thinking of the company as merely a PC software firm.That is, of course, where the bulk of the Redmond-based giant's money comes from. However, during the past five years, Bill Gates's programmers have been tackling a wider and wider range of devices, from home games consoles such as the Xbox to server software for mainframe data centres.This is not just a matter of biffing Sony, Palm or IBM on the nose. Microsoft is betting its future on superseding Windows.So far, Microsoft has had limited success with its diversification programme. Its online service, MSN, launched in 1995, has been trounced by AOL, which now has about 30m members. Its set-top box software, WebTV, which has been used in Sony and Philips STBs in the US since 1996, has not taken off, and Ultimate TV is only just coming into use.Microsoft's commercial TV system - which includes Microsoft's TV Server and TV Advanced client software - has also made a slow start, though Portugal Telecom's TV Cabo cable network is using it for an interactive service that will be launched on June 7.Microsoft's consumer electronics operating system,   Windows CE, has struggled in the handheld computer market, and the Sega Dreamcast, which also used CE, failed in the games console market. However, sales of CE-based palmtop computers did start to take off last year when version 3 was launched under the PocketPC label. The iPaq PocketPC is now a hot item, and while Palm is thinking of using unsold organisers as landfill, Compaq can't make enough of them.This year, Microsoft has also entered the mobile phone market. At least four companies are developing mobile phones based on a specialised version of the   PocketPC-style software, including Sagem in France and Sendo in the UK. Still, consumer acceptance - or rejection - is still many months away.In the business market, Microsoft has promoted what its rivals would call network computers (NCs) running Windows from a centralised server instead of a local hard drive. This year, it has also made a play for the mainframe data centre market with a high-priced version of Windows 2000 Advanced Server software.Next year, with partners such as Compaq, it will also target the portable wireless   notebook market with the Tablet PC, which can be used without a keyboard. Soon, you should be able to buy almost any kind of computing device running Microsoft software. And this is not just the culmination of the company's "Windows everywhere" strategy from the early 1990s. It is the foundation for Microsoft's move to the next level, with .Net.The fact is that whatever Microsoft does, not every device will run Windows. However, every device - every games console, every mobile phone, every computer - could run Microsoft.net software, and access a whole range of web-based services.Microsoft has already changed its "mission statement", which is now "to empower people through great software any time, any place and on any device," according to Bill Gates, Microsoft's co-founder, chairman and chief software architect.Microsoft is by no means the only company developing software to meet the needs of a networked world. Rivals include America Online with things like AOL TV, IBM (WebSphere), and Sun (One). But these projects are "on nowhere near as grand a scale" as the one Microsoft is attempting, according to Chris Le Tocq.Until recently, Le Tocq was Gartner Dataquest's principal analyst, but this is such an important area, he   has founded Guernsey Research to focus on web-based services. Le Tocq says: "Microsoft is rewriting the internet as it wishes it had been written in the first place - as a Microsoft platform."In the computer industry, a platform is what you need to build applications. In the early days, the platform was the hardware, and it was usually owned by IBM. You needed a specific type of computer to run particular applications, just like you need a specific type of console to run particular games.In the next stage, the platform became the operating system, the core software that makes the hardware work. The operating system might be Unix or GNU/Linux, or Microsoft's MS-DOS or Windows. The point was that as long as software ran on your chosen operating system, you were no longer locked in to one hardware supplier. You could buy from IBM or Compaq or Dell or thousands of others.Today, the operating system is still the key to the market. But in the future, Microsoft, IBM and many other companies think the   platform will be the internet. And just as the operating system meant users did not have to care very much about hardware, the internet platform could make the operating system "an 'under the covers' choice," according to Scott Hebner, who markets IBM's rival to .Net, WebSphere.But if it does not matter which operating system you used, then you may as well use Linux, because it is free. Thus Microsoft stands to lose about $8bn a year, which is roughly a third of its annual revenues.This is why .Net is so important. Microsoft has seen lots of companies dominate a particular market and then fall into decline when the technology moved on. Thanks to the web, computing is now moving on, at high speed, and Microsoft wants to be the first company to win two successive platform wars.Of course, this does not mean Microsoft is giving up on Windows. Gates never lets his troops forget that Windows has to deliver the best .Net experience. After all, web services are making little if any money, and Windows is paying the rent.But Microsoft is also refettling all its Windows products to make them part of the .Net eXPerience. Office XP, due at the end of this month, continues the idea of selling software as a service, and includes .Net's "smart tags". Windows XP, the new version of Windows 2000 due on October 25, has Passport   built in: simply logging on to your PC will log you on to Microsoft.net. Or at least, as much of it as currently exists.But the main argument is about standards. The net is based on them; Microsoft isn't. So why does the net need .Net?Microsoft's response is that the whole .Net strategy is based on XML (eXtensible Markup Language), which the W3C (Time Berners-Lee's World Wide Web Consortium) has anointed as the universal language for e-commerce.Microsoft and others have used XML to develop Soap (Simple Object Access Protocol), which was proposed as a standard jointly with IBM, and then received the backing of Sun, among others.Microsoft, IBM and Ariba also started the development of UDDI (Universal Description, Discovery and Integration), which acts as a sort of Yellow Pages for the web services platform, enabling different websites to find one another and exchange information.All these are or look like becoming open standards, and they seem to have   more or less universal support, at least among the major players. As Ray Daniel, director of Hewlett-Packard's E-Services Europe, puts it: "Everybody is talking the same language. They have to, otherwise it will never happen."Everyone at Microsoft also insists that the .Net platform is also open. For example, Jenny Duff, industry manager for Microsoft UK's public sector business, says: ".Net will be completely standards compliant - XM, Soap, UDDI etc   - and it will be the same standards as everybody else."But while no supplier is beyond criticism, everyone seems to distrust Microsoft's stand on standards. IBM's Hebner says: "Even when they do implement &#91;standards&#93;, they are doing it in the context of a Microsoft-proprietary platform" - though that is also an accusation others level at IBM.Le Tocq argues that "while XML is an open platform, &#91;things&#93; you develop with it need not be, and Microsoft's aren't". Indeed, he sees .Net as Microsoft doing what it has already done with Windows: "It has created a platform, created the tools, and now it's busy writing the applications that are going to use it."The tools - things such as Microsoft's Visual Studio.net and C# language - will enable millions of software developers to create .Net applications very easily. Developers will use .Net because it could provide a very large potential marketplace.Users will use .Net because it provides access to a large pool of applications, and anyway, they already have it in Windows XP and perhaps Office XP."From Microsoft's perspective, this is a tried and true business practice," says Le Tocq. "And try as I might, it's tough to see where the holes are."A hailstorm comingIf .Net is a platform for programming the internet, then Hailstorm is an example of Microsoft's .Net programming. It is not a single application but a set of services, based on Microsoft offerings such as the Passport authentication service and MSN Instant Messenger.At the launch on March 19, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates said: "Hailstorm is not exclusvely tied to any particular operating system. We make it particularly easy to get at Hailstorm from Windows, but that can be done with any platform out there." He said software tools to allow companies to develop for non-Windows clients would appear later this year.Companies using Hailstorm to create applications include American Express, eBay, the web auction site, and Expedia, Microsoft's travel website.Contrary to some reports, one organisation not using Hailstorm is the British government, although it is using some Microsoft products in the Government Gateway project. A cabinet office spokesperson says: "The Gateway doesn't run on Hailstorm - it isn't even out yet - and there are no plans to use Hailstorm in the Gateway. The Hailstorm team &#91;from Microsoft&#93; has given us a presentation on it, but there are a lot of presentations of new technology."Jargon busterMicrosoft.netA standards-based framework enabling web servers to exchange data or services using XML, and thus deliver a range of services to any device with access to .Net client software. The system is under development. Full .Net applications may start to appear at the end of next year or in 2003.XMLExtensible Markup Language: the universal language for e-commerce. XML is similar to HTML (Hypertext Markup Language), which deals with the appearance of web pages, rather than what anything means.SoapSimple Object Access Protocol: an agreed method of transmitting XML data using HTTP, the hypertext transfer protocol used to send HTML.UDDIUniversal Description, Discovery and Integration initiative: a way for web sites to offer each other services: a sort of Yellow Pages for the programmable web.HailstormA set of Microsoft services, such as its Passport authentication system and MSN Instant Messenger, that can be used as building blocks to develop applications for Microsoft.net.
Go GooglyOne thing really irritates me about IE5: the Search button takes you to MSN. Is there any way to change it to go to, say, Google?Rob Wilsonrob@helics.comJack Schofield replies:Click the Search button, then click Customize. This offers you a choice of four search sites: MSN, Excite, Voila and UK Plus. Pick the one you want and press OK. Sorry, Google is not available (or not in my version).However, go to Google atwww.google.com/options/defaults.htmland look half-way down the page for the section called Make Google Your Default Search Engine. Download the file called Google.reg, and double-click it. This will change the Windows Registry to make Google the default search engine.Also, if you are very keen on Google, you can add a whole Google toolbar to your browser. Go towww.google.com/options/toolbar.htmlGames 2000I have recently upgraded to Windows 2000 on a new PC. On trying to install Microsoft games, which I had purchased for my old PC running Windows 98, I got an error message along the lines of "wrong operating system".Is there a way to install/run these games on Win 2000? If not, is Microsoft within its rights to force consumers to purchase new programs each time it generates a new operating system?Judit Carsonjudit.carson@mulcaster.co.ukJS:Games are usually written to run a specific class of PC and the requirements are   specified on the box. This may include a specific type of graphics card or sound card, processor, memory, hard disk space and so on.There is no guarantee a game will run properly if you use a PC with a different specification or a different operating system.This is more of a problem with Windows games because - unlike Sony, Nintendo and Sega - Microsoft does not control what games are written for PCs, or charge developers a licence fee.Of course, one of the things holding back consumer acceptance of Windows NT/2000 is that many publishers have not bothered to make their programs compatible with it. You might have thought Microsoft would take its own advice. However, supporting NT/2000 would have added to the development cost and probably not increased sales.Windows XP, the new version of Windows 2000 due on October 25, includes a lot of new code to provide extra compatibility and many more games will run. (XP will pretend to be Windows 98, for example.)Online storageI am leaving my place of employment and decided that instead of spending   hours copying personal files on to floppy disks, I'd simply copy them to a web-based storage site. I spent days searching for something suitable and finally decided onwww.idrive.com. It was very simple and offered such great services as drag'n'drop between the i:drive and my C: drive from Windows Explorer!However, over the past three days, I have not been able to drag and drop a single file without getting an error message!Secure, stable 100% free web space for backing up files? Does it exist?Tunu Sokiritunu.sokiri@ slipstream-sds.comJS:If it did, it would be over-run with people using it to swap pirate software or pornographic movies. Yahoo Briefcases work pretty well, though the maximum file size is somewhat limited. You can get as many as you like athttp://briefcase.yahoo.com.A trickier but more efficient alternative is to use FTP (file transfer protocol) with a program such asCute FTPorBulletproof FTP. You can get up to 50 megabytes of FTP-accessible space from some of the free web page sites.However, if you had a Mac, you could get 20 megabytes of free space from Apple athttp://itools.mac.comMail rescueI have deleted some important emails from the Deleted Items folder in Outlook Express 5 by mistake. Is there any way I can undelete them? The help file recommends no more than moving emails from the deleted items folder to the inbox.Jon Pauljon.paul@nes.co.ukJS:There may be some hope, because it can be quite hard to delete messages from Outlook Express 5, except by mistake.Deleted items are stored in   a file called Deleted Items.dbx, which you can find using F3 or Start|Find|Files or Folders. Copy this file, load the copy into Microsoft Word and you may find something of interest by using the Find command (Control-F). However, bear in mind that dbx is a binary file format and does not make much sense at the best of times.There is a freeware program called DBXtract ( chattanooga.net/~scochran/ DBXtract.htm ) that you can run with OE5 closed. Tick the box marked Recover Mode and it will try to recover deleted messages.However, when I tried it, I did not manage to recover anything useful.Download DBXtract, move it to a new folder (such as C:\Program Files\DBXtract) and make sure you set this folder as the output path.
Hello, are you here with the Boo party?" I asked one woman standing by the bar.
   "Sorry? Er, no," she said and turned back to chat to her friends. This wasn't
   going to be as easy as I thought.About 25 former employees of the world's most notorious start-up, which has
   since become a symbol of the dot.com boom and bust, were supposed to be in
   this Soho pub. Last Friday night was the anniversary of the closure of Boo.com. But if they were there I couldn't find any.Pretty soon it became clear why. They were hiding. For days after last year's
   events, many had been harassed mercilessly by the press, feeding off the story
   of the death of the internet revolution.Eventually my contact arrived, and a mention of my failed internet magazine
   brought me into the fold - gallows humour is popular among the digerati these
   days.Aptly named The Midas Touch and sited in Soho's Golden Square, the pub became
   the favoured watering hole of the Boo dot.commers as their company spent less
   than a year burning through $135m of venture capital from JP Morgan and
   Benetton's Bernard Arnault. It gave rise to legends of young people in
   champagne-fuelled start-ups with more cash than sense. 
   The legend, of course, is always different from the reality, and the people who
   gathered in the pub last week were the employees who may not have seen the
   flights on Concorde, for which the firm's two most famous founders, Kajsa
   Leander and Ernst Malmsten, became notorious.Aggy Finn, a technology consultant, recalled heady days of going where no
   company had gone before. "The atmosphere at Boo was fantastic, and we all still
   keep in touch. It's fun to have been part of something that has such notoriety
   now. You've got to remember that it was a firm that was trying to do something
   radically different to what had come before." He eventually left to set up the
   European office of Antfactory.com, one of many ailing incubators.Boo was a multinational start-up. It launched simultaneously in 18 countries ,
   and subsequently opened a call centre in London, staff fielding calls from all
   over the world. Chris Whyte, who helped build Boo's website, said: "It was a
   pretty wild outfit. Half the conversations around the office were in different
   languages, but because everyone was quite young, it gave it a great
   atmosphere."Kate Quinn, a recruitment consultant with Boo who left for a telecoms firm after
   Boo's demise, said: "It was fun, funky. There was money available and we thought
   we had a good product. We were breaking new ground, and today it's difficult to
   do that on the internet."But when it came, the end was swift. Quinn said at the time it was devastating.
   "I heard on the Wednesday night (May 17), when the board had its final
   management meeting. In the morning I just walked around in a daze, looking at all
   the people and the computers and thinking: 'All this is just going to be empty
   offices and scraps of paper soon.'    "Later that day all the staff mobile phones were cut off." Whyte, who left just
   two days before Boo went bust and later joined BT, said: "It took me three
   months to get my final paycheck."As another ex-Boo looked deeply into his beer, he said: "It was a shame. We
   might have spent a lot of money but revenues and people were coming in. We
   made 200,000 in our last two months, and had 300,000 visitors." But this was
   in no way going to keep this size of venture afloat. It was like trying to sell
   hotdogs from Harrods - the expense of the company was just too big for the
   amount of business it could bring in.Press photographers snapped people in tears as they left the office. "It was a
   very aggressive situation. We even had to cover up the office windows to stop
   the photographers," said one. 
   Feelings among the ex-staff about the three founders of Boo remain mixed.
   There remains just a whisper of resentment that they could not make Boo work,
   even though it has since become apparent - even to the likes of Amazon - that
   e-commerce is not that easy.The original founder, Patrik Hedelin, was mentioned more than once in favourable
   terms by the ex-Boos, but when I ask about Leander and Malmsten, I'm met
   mostly with silence or a guarded "No comment". 
   What about rumours that the founders are now writing a book, with a film
   possibly in the offing? "They're entrepreneurs. We all tried to make something of
   the experience, so why not them as well?"One ex-Boo has been approached by the ghost writer of Malmsten's book, but is
   sceptical: "I'm not sure how much more they can squeeze out of this. But I'd like
   to appear as myself in the film!" And, despite what you would think, having
   "former Boo employee" on your CV is not the black mark some might expect it to
   be. "When a company saw I'd worked at Boo it practically got me a job on the
   spot," said one.The postscript to Boo's end was the purchase by Sparza of the technology
   behind Boo and some of the people who built it. But for many, this has been an
   equally poisoned chalice, as investment has slowed. Sparza people at the reunion
   were the most guarded about talking about the past, lest it reflect too much on
   their near future.As for the website, it was eventually resurrected last October as a gateway to
   other retailers. The US company Fashionmall bought Boo's logo and domain name
   for an estimated 250,000. Most ex-Boo employees shrug their shoulders:
   almost none had looked at the site since leaving. 
   One thing is for sure. If you are an ex-Boo you are worried about the future, as
   are most people inside internet companies. "I doubt I'd go into a standalone
   internet company these days," said one. "I'd rather join something that was also
   part of a real-world business."&#149;  Mike Butcher was with Industry Standard Europe, which closed last month.
Britain is in the middle of the biggest pre-electoral spending boom in recent memory (retail sales volume is up 6% year on year) but you wouldn't think so from monitoring the internet.Shopping on the net accounts for barely 2% of turnover according to the latest government figures. And that, overwhelmingly, represents sales of old economy goods rather than products and services created by the web - such as email, search engines, web storage and information in general.But all this is about to change if producers have their way. They are hoping that 2001 will go down in history as the year the web became monetised and the internet ceased to be free at the point-of-sale.The web began as the world's biggest mutual movement in which institutions and individuals freely exchanged information and software across the globe for the price of a local call.When the money men tried to move in, they were hampered by three things. First, the nature of the internet itself, where the cost of producing an extra unit of a digital product, whether a film or song, that consists of bits of data is virtually zero. Second, there were far too many producers. Third, even if companies had conquered the first two problems, they still had to find a solution for the third - the lack of an effective and secure payments system.Some of the early pioneers of electronic money have sunk without trace. In the last week Beenz.com, which raised &#163;56m from wealthy investors to provide a quasi internet currency, announced a drastic scaling down of its activities.But at the same time, Mondex, one of the pioneers of the "electronic purse" method of payment announced a change of strategy. It will devote all its energies to providing a speedy, secure method for web payments for others (such as banks) to adopt. It will retain the electronic purse element (you have to load your smart card with money as you do with pre-paid phone cards) but payments   can be made on a peer-to-peer basis. This means you can pay direct without going through a central server, which is expensive and time consuming.It is a smart idea but Mondex still has the problem it started out with - it needs a critical mass of customers and it must find a way of persuading net users to start paying for services.To this end Mondex (a subsidiary of MasterCard) last week published the results of an ICM survey. It revealed that people were now prepared to pay for a lot of things they have hitherto been getting free on the net, ranging from 32p for up-to-date news to 89p (on average) for downloaded music. Unfortunately, the survey didn't ask any obvious supplementary questions - such as would you be prepared to pay for it even if you could still get it free somewhere else?The danger is that it will be the giants of the industry, such as AOL and Microsoft, which are able to afford long-term cross subsidisation of services such as email, that are most likely to emerge the winners.Their strong brand and/or market position also makes it easier for them to charge. PA, in the UK, is also in a strong position. It makes a lot of money from providing sports results (including most of the football results texted to mobile phones after or during the match), although it is very coy about talking about it.At the other end of the spectrum are the niche groups prepared to pay for specialised information (such as the bird watching group that charges &#163;600 a year for information about where rare birds can be found). In between is a vast treasure trove of information that is free because consumers can switch to another source if they are charged. Small wonder that so many companies have turned to business to business (B2B) applications where profits are more assured.Meanwhile, practically everyone from Yahoo! to Teletext is testing the consumer market to see if they can "monetise" the net by raising prices. Netimperative.com, the internet news gathering site, is planning to charge after surveying members to test their willingness to cough up.One of the fastest growing consumer services in the US, with 2.5m members, is Keen.com, a web company that refers you to experts (real human beings, would you believe) who answer your problems on the telephone on a pay-per-minute basis at premium rates.Once again, the old economy is coming to the rescue of the new.
The truth is out thereThe web has always been home to the most whacked- out theories, not least of which is the search for extraterrestrial life. But last week, the search for ET took a potentially serious turn when the hallowed halls of the Washington Press Club hosted the launch of the Disclosure Project.Made up of nearly 350 former US military and intelligence personnel, the project not only insists that UFOs exist, but its organisers now want an official inquiry to find out why the evidence of their existence has been kept from the public.UFO technology, they say, could solve the energy crisis and end global warming. The project also wants a complete stop to the "weaponisation" of space. Check out the deadly serious webcast at:www.disclosureproject.org.MetamuteOne of the internet's great survivors, Mute magazine, has been shouting about art and technology since 1992. Last year it announced it was taking a sabbatical to sort itself out - many feared that the break would prove permanent. But Mute is back with a totally revamped website atwww.metamute.org. Welcome back.DoodleOnline art seller Eyestorm has launched a snazzy little e-card service atwww.eyestorm/bump. Doodle uses the crude graphic interface found on digital watches and calculators and invites users to make up their own letters and email the results to friends. Be prepared to waste the entire afternoon.Dream onThe Collective Unconsciousness Project (TCUP) might sound like the Rugby Club by another name, but it is in fact an online community interested in dreaming. Users record dream diaries or skip from dream to dream seemingly at random through a lovely flash-animated interface. Certain key words are used to give the sense that connections are being made. SeeCurrent FormJam todayCelebrating the cultural exchange between London and Tokyo, more than 40 artists are taking part and details can be found here. There are also some delightful screensavers, wallpaper and desktop icons atwww.onlinejam.co.uk.In the mixUK garage virtuoso MJ Cole has just launched a new website atwww.MJCole.com. The site boasts an "interactive studio" (PC only) which uses exclusive samples from MJ Cole and lets you create and mix tracks live with a 12-channel mixer, drum machine and sequencer. There are also several tracks to download for free.Meanwhile dub reggae legends Lee Scratch Perry and the Mad Professor are now mixing it online atwww.proteinOS.com/275and hip hop pioneer Grand Master Flash has his own website atwww.grandmasterflash.com.Tank ZoneE4.com- the online arm of Channel 4's new digital TV station - has just added ancient video game Tank Zone to its impressive roster of online games. It is slick enough to be worth a few visits, especially as it offers a multi-user option. Channel 4 has also revamped its Big Brother website in time for the new series atwww.bigbrother.terra.com, while you can find Big Brother's big rival, Survivor, at:www.itv-survivor.com.Camera planetMeanwhile, Camera Planet is a new US site that wants to bring reality TV even closer to you. Prospective subjects have been calling up the site and if selected, CameraPlanet asks them to shoot a first-person reality TV short and send footage (plus camera) back to CameraPlanet, where it is edited and screened. Seewww.cameraplanet.com.Use itGood news for Usenet users: Google is gradually restoring the old Deja service. You can now search back to 1995. Seehttp://groups.google.com/ advanced_group_search.O-N-L-I-N-EWorldpop has teamed up with G-A-Y to launch a microsite that will broadcast live performances from the legendary London club night. Melanie B and Steps are among the first of many high-profile artists set to be filmed and broadcast by Worldpop. The microsite also has loads of other features, including interviews, G-A-Y radio and promoter Jeremy Joseph's own weekly column. Seewww.worldpop.com/g-a-yYou've been...The Desperate Optimists follow up their groundbreaking online soap operawww.map50.comwith a new drama, this time set in the near future and involving a mad scientist and a deadly virus. The Optimists used real people and filmed at six locations in London. Seewww.londonframed.com.New &amp; noted&#149;  Tate Modern continues its series of webcasts atwww.tate.org.uk/modern/programmes/live.htm.&#149;  Check out the Canadian plan for world domination atwww.standonguard.com.&#149;  A new secondhand office furniture site has been launched atwww.wantdontwant.com.&#149;Avantenoise.comis a new MP3-based music website that pays musicians.&#149;  Book tables in restaurants around the world atwww.bankrestaurants.com.Six of the bestElection satireTwo jabs specialwww.rancon.co.uk/prezza/main.htmlSilence Haguewww.urban75.org/useless/hague.htmlUnspin the spinwww.spinon.co.ukVote Bob Dobbswww.thefreeparty.org.ukThe Guilty Partywww.guiltyparty.ccHistory of election cartoonshttp://politics.guardian.co.uk/gall/0,9352,488233,00.html
Once you have opened an Outlook Express account and have set up one or more pop3 services, you can read, write and save mail offline using a variety of features included with your Outlook Express package. (Seewww.guardian.co.uk/Archive/Article/0,4273,4161071,00. html to find out how to set up an Outlook Express account).One of the most helpful features, the Address Book, lets you store an assortment of contact details, including email addresses, inserts the addresses automatically into your mail and can create multiple or mass mailings. This can be useful if you want to send lots of people the same email - a newsletter or invitation, for instance.Some web mail services, such as Yahoo!, also have address books that you can synchronise with your own, moving addresses from book to book.Putting names, addresses and more in your book.1.Open Outlook Express by left clicking on the Desktop or Toolbar icon or Start| Programs|Outlook Express.2.When the page opens, the dialing software will too. Click on "work offline".3.Open the Address Book by clicking its icon in the Toolbar which is in the second row at the top of your screen.The top row contains File, Edit, View, Tools, Message and   Help. If the Toolbar isn't there, click on View then Layout. Place a tick against Toolbar on the page that opens. Left click "apply" and the necessary bar will appear and will be there whenever you open Outlook. Some addresses may already be in your book, as Outlook automatically adds addresses from received mail.4.To add others, once the book is open, left click on New, then New Contact.5.Fill in the required information in the appropriate fields on the page that appears, (see photo).6.To add other information, family or business details, notes, conferencing or digital signatures, click on each of the tabs at the top of the page.7.If you want to change any of the information you have written, click on Edit. When you have finished, left click on OK .This will return you to the Address Book.8.To read any of the information, left click on Properties.9.Print the contents of your address book by opening it, left clicking on Print. If you only want to print a single name, tick "selection" and highlight the name you want ; to print all the names, tick "all".10.If you want to add a new address from a piece of email, while the email is open, left click on Tools then Add Sender to Address Book.Inserting a name or names1.Open Outlook Express and click on Work Offline.2.Click on New Mail in the upper left Toolbar.3.When the email form appears, the cursor will be blinking in the "To" box. Just to the left of the cursor is the word To: and a small icon of the address book. Click on this.4.A page will appear allowing you to select the recipient or recipients. Run down the list, highlighting the chosen names and clicking on To: or Cc: or Bcc: after each name. You can also write the name of the contact in the Find box and click on the word "find". When you have inserted all the names you want to be included in your group, click OK.You can also create group mailings in which a preset collection of names can be inserted by a single click.To set up a group1.Open your address book and click on New then New Group. A board will appear asking you to enter a name for your mailing. Use something easily recognisable such as My Family. Click on Select Members and insert names from your address book. You can type additional names and addresses and click Add or use the New Contact button to input more complete   information. Click OK when finished.2.The Group name will appear in your address book in bold. When sending to the group, open a new message, click on the To: button and either write the group name in the "find" box or run down the list until you find it. Highlight the group name, click on TO: then OK.3.Enter a title in the Subject field and write your message in the main field. Press Send and the "dialler" will appear to let you go online.4.If you want to write a batch of mails and send them all at once, after each email is finished, go to File|Send Later. When the last piece of mail is finished, click on Send.Tips1.Remember it is bad netiquette (net manners) to use mass mailings to bombard people with email they did not ask for.2.To save the contents of your address book in case of hard disk failure, put a formatted floppy in the disk drive. Open the Address book, click on file, then Export then Address Book. Write a name in the File Name box. If the Save In box at the top says My Documents, click on the arrow at the end of that box and select 3 * Floppy (A:). Click on Save.
Sony dealsSony Computer Entertainment Inc (SCEI) has formed a "strategic alliance" with America Online (AOL) "to accelerate the development of next-generation entertainment through PlayStation 2". This involves delivering "the AOL experience", which includes develop ing a version of the Netscape browser for PS2 users who buy the extra hardware, including a hard disk drive, keyboard and mouse. AOL, which bought Netscape, uses a version of Microsoft's Internet Explorer as its default browser.Second playSony and RealNetworks have also announced a deal to make RealPlayer 8 available for the PlayStation 2. The RealPlayer will make "streaming media" including film clips and news broadcasts available to PS2 users.UK angleIn the UK, Telewest, the cable TV company, says it will add   Sony's PlayStation 2 games console to its broadband network. Features are expected to include multiplayer gaming, downloads and pay-per-play games.Technical trials are expected to start around the end of the year. For Telewest, David Docherty said that the move "demonstrates our commitment to maximising the revenue potential of our broadband network".No doubt the same naked commercialism will apply to other broadband-capable devices, including Microsoft's Xbox. Less than a year ago, Microsoft bought a 23% shareholding in Telewest Communications plc for roughly $2.6bn in stock.Dragons awayUbi Soft, the French software publisher, is developing games    based on the Sony Pictures martial arts movie Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Titles will be available for the PC,   Sony PlayStation 2, Nintendo GameCube and Game Boy Advance, and Microsoft Xbox next spring. But rights to Jackie Chan's martial arts movies - Sony Pictures again - have been sold to US developer, Activision.More Dragons should be out before Christmas, when 3DO releases Dragon Wars of Might and Magic for the PlayStation 2. This will be "the first aerial-based adventure game in the Might and Magic universe", says the company.Finally, Manchester United's fire-breathing captain, Roy Keane, is endorsing Eon Digital Entertainment's forthcoming footie game, International League Soccer, also for the PS2.
18 WheelerDreamcast 	&#163;29.99 AM2/Sega	***Race cars, ride motorbikes, pilot aircraft - gaming lets you do all of this from the comfort of your sofa. But, if you are a fan of truck driving, then you have been out of luck. Until now, that is: 18 Wheeler, the latest Sega arcade conversion for the Dreamcast, lets you drive a variety of HGVs (heavy goods vehicles) across the US.You may have seen the game in the arcades. In fact, you could hardly miss it: it was housed in a two-seater cabin with horn and colossal steering wheel. The aim of the    game was to beat your competitor's truck and reach the checkpoints in the allotted time, using the horn to clear cars from your path. All great fun, of course, but the game was easily finished within 30 minutes or so. Longevity is not important while you are   perched in a noisy arcade cabin ... but, when sitting with a joypad looking at the telly, it is.Realising this, Sega has added some new modes specifically for this Dreamcast conversion. Now you can try parking your truck or   compete in two-player races. Otherwise, the DC version retains the authentic heavy "feel" of the arcade game, with the wide turning curves you would expect of a 20ft oil tanker.Graphically this is arcade perfect, too, especially the   well-animated tornados and roadside scenery. Nevertheless, for &#163;30 you expect something that lasts for more than a couple of hours, and only the parking tests and multiplayer offer any sort of lasting challenge.Still, at least driving a truck   is an original game concept and one that bodes well for the future. Unfortunately, reports that Sega is looking to expand the franchise with "3 Wheeler" - the long-awaited Reliant Robin game - remain unconfirmed.  (GH)Rainbow Six: Rogue SpearPlayStation 	&#163;29.99 Red Storm Entertainment	**Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear Urban OperationsDreamcast 	&#163;19.99 Red Storm Entertainment	****The Bridges of Madison County was a decent enough movie - but a pretty dreadful book. And as the varied fortunes of the Rainbow Six series demonstrate, games are no less prone to the same phenomenon. Strategy title Rainbow Six was widely regarded as a hit when it emerged on PC; its sequel, Rogue Spear, won similar acclaim; the N64 version also got the thumbs-up. The PlayStation incarnation, however, was not so well received, let down by samey levels, substandard graphics and fiddly controls. Now Rogue Spear has made the   switch to PS1, and few lessons, it seems, have been learned.The basic mechanics are unchanged: after selecting your team from 30 soldiers, you must outfox and outgun a terrorist organisation over 16 increasingly tough missions.RSRS on PlayStation boasts three more levels than the PC original, but these offer little more variety, and gameplay is still beset by blocky character models and counterintuitive controls. The designers will blame much of this on the limitations of the console and controller, but there are plenty of PS1 titles with as many commands that are easier to pick up, and others, such as Final Fantasy IX, that look stunning.Urban Operations, a missions disk for Rogue Spear now available on Dreamcast, is a different kettle of fish: an add-on that actually adds something on. As well as the obligatory new missions, it offers new weapons, eight new multiplayer maps, and best of all, a custom mission builder that offers hours of gameplay.The most unusual aspect of Urban Operations is that the difficulty has been racked up a few notches. This is largely because of the inclusion of an entirely new factor: civilians, which adds a whole new dimension to an already challenging experience.  (AB)Eurofighter TyphoonPC 	&#163;29.99 DID/Rage Software	****Flight sim fans have always been considered the trainspotters of the gaming world. It is easy to make fun of them, as The Fast Show did in its second Last Show Ever when the ginger clown pretended to fly his wife to the Seychelles by making her sit in an armchair while he played Microsoft's Flight Simulator for 11 hours.Not that they do not deserve it, specially when you consider that they buy expansion packs with names such as Custom Panel Designer, Jumbo 747-400, and the classic Fasten Your Seatbelts, There's Some Slight Turbulence Ahead.Eurofighter Typhoon steers away from this frightening and twisted world of frustrated commercial airline pilots to deliver a fast and   furious combat experience. Its emphasis on fun rather than realism may alienate the more hardcore fans, but it is a welcome relief for the rest of us.This does not mean that inexperienced players will be able to start pirouetting through the skies while simultaneously slamming a pair of missiles into an enemy jet straight away.Flight sims require a lot of   effort and patience. But at least in Typhoon you will be able to take off without having to read a Tolstoy-sized manual.The real Eurofighter Typhoon aircraft does not enter service until next year, but the game is set in 2015 against a complicated political background, when Nato must defend Iceland from a Russian invasion.You have to manage six pilots - although most of the actual management is taken out of your hands - and control their brave exploits above the geysers and snow-topped mountains.In an eerie reflection of the recent US spy plane fiasco, the consequences for crash-landing on enemy territory are dire, and illustrated in cut-scenes where your pilots are questioned and given a beating.If Quentin Tarantino did not burst your Top Gun fantasies when he interpreted it as a homosexual allegory in the film Sleep With Me, this could be your ticket to air combat heaven. And you will not need an anorak to enjoy it.  (MH)
With 60,000 attendees, 2,000 games, and a million shouts of "awesome", it could only be one thing. E3 - the world's largest and most important videogame conference - was in full swing and Los Angeles was in party mode.After a transitional 18 months that has seen the end of established formats such as the N64 and Dreamcast, the videogame industry is looking to a bright future with the show seeing the first proper demonstrations of two new hardware platforms - Nintendo's GameCube and Microsoft's Xbox. Both dominated E3 and though neither is due for UK release until spring 2002, they showed enough promise to threaten Sony and their market leading PlayStation.The Nintendo booth was packed throughout, with attendees trying out the first GameCube releases, including the new Mario game, Luigi's Mansion. Other Nintendo releases included action epic, Starfox Adventures and the fighting game Super Smash Brothers Melee. Perhaps the most interesting title was Pimkin, a Lemmings-style puzzle game designed by Zelda creator, Shigeru Miyamoto.Apart from the Nintendo releases, other GameCube software was thin. Other than LucasArts, with the graphically stunning Star Wars: Rogue Squadron 2, and Sega,   with three titles on display, there was little else to see.But while Nintendo seems to be following its usual path of self-reliance, Microsoft, with little experience in the area, has welcomed developers to the Xbox. The surprisingly bulky console had over 80 titles on display at the show and it was clear that Sony has a serious challenger to its domination of the market. Standout titles were futuristic battle game Halo and the innovative Munch's Odyysee. Project Gotham, an update of Metropolis Street Racer on the Dreamcast, was less impressive but some of the graphics the machine produced were extraordinary, especially the water effects on Blood Wake.Nevertheless, it will take more than impressive visuals to change gamesplayers' perceptions of Microsoft, which lacks the credibility of Sony and others. Richard Taversham, UK head of Xbox marketing, accepts this but emphasises the importance the Seattle-based company are putting on Xbox: "The launch will be bigger than Windows 95," he says.Sony was always going to have a difficult show. Lacking the glamour of a new hardware launch, the emphasis was firmly on the games. After a disappointing first wave, the next batch promised a bright future for Sony's mega console.Standout titles included James Bond: Agent of Fire, Soul Reaver 2 and the Ghost and Goblins copy, Maximo. Other biggies included the truly eerie Silent Hill 2 and the violent Devil May Cry, which was the first 1m-selling PS2 game in Japan.Elsewhere, Jak and Daxter - a colourful Nintendo-style platformer - and Herdy Gerdy - showed the diversity on the format. Metal Gear Solid 2 still drew a crowd but   it was a far cry from the show-stopping antics of last year and shows how the overall graphical standard has risen in only a year.In among the noise and power of the console launches it was easy to miss many PC games. But there was enough to suggest that pessimistic predictions of the format's future are premature. Return to Castle Wolfenstein and Aliens Vs Predator 2 were impressive sequels, while Lara Croft creator Toby Gard's latest title, Galleon, and cop title Max Payne, showed that for visuals at least, the PC cannot be beaten.Elsewhere the trend towards strategy and first-person shooting games continued, with little that deviated from these proven formulas. However, when done well, like Medal of Honor Underground, the lack of imagination matters less. The biggest treat, and possibly game of the show, was Republic. This ambitious title, set in a fictitious eastern European state, allows you to control numerous characters as you try to gain domination. With attention to detail bordering on the obsessive, Republic is one PC game to watch.Perhaps a real sign of future trends was in the handheld and mobile sectors. Nintendo's Game Boy Advance is out in June and software support was in heavy evidence, with Bam Entertainment's first person shooting game,   Ecks Vs Sever, particularly impressive. The first proper upgrade to the 12-year-old original, the GBA, has upped the ante in handheld gaming. Graphically and sonically the machine is a vast improvement and the amount of games available showed the machine has a promising future. Perhaps the only real competition comes from an unlikely source - mobile phones.Nokia's Snake game showed how popular mobile gaming could be and developers are flocking to produce games for Wap and new handsets.Richard Teversham says: "E3 2001 will be remembered as a pivotal show, with the two hardware launches and impressive games across the floor."
How did you first encounter computers?The word Amstrad still makes me hyperventilate! I had a primitive word processor with no hard disk. It had eye-frying martian-green-on-black letters and a churning dot matrix printer whose idea of high quality was going back and inking over the same line twice. I thought things could only get better. Wrong! I moved on to anOlivetti. I spent a week trying to get to grips with the temperamental beast and its dreadful Word Star program. I didn't know that software was changeable! I would spend three hours writing something that would normally take 30 minutes. I picked it up in a fit of rage and threw it out of the window. I got my typewriter repaired and held out on getting another computer until I truly had to.What are you using now?AniMac. I was seduced by the fact that it wasn't that awful putty colour and boasted silent operation. It is silent, and pretty, but in retrospect I regret my decision. The amount of trouble I've had with it has undone all the confidence I got towards computers with my long-running Mac Performa 630. The iMac crashes daily. I have taken it to experts, paid for home visits, had systems and software reinstalled and reinstalled again. It seems happy with only one word processor, Word 98, which I find loathsome. Its lack of built-in disk drive is also a drawback, and I've yet to find a keyboard that has anything like the nice, light, clattering touch of my old Mac keyboard.Why do you think Mac users are so loyal?Initially they were far more writer-friendly than early PCs. Before getting the Performa I had a Hewlett Packard and having to venture into DOS to find lost things was scary. Doing away with DOS was the Mac's best selling point_that and the fact that the magazine and publishing worlds were using them. Once you're hooked with a certain system, you tend to stick with it. It's a bit like changing banks - too much trouble, however badly they treat you!Was the net useful for researching your book?It's a bit of a minefield because so much that is posted is either superficial or entertainingly untrue. There were moments when it was invaluable. The net helped me uncover photos of Gainsbourg's old home and lyrics to a Frankie Howard and June Whitfield spoof of Je T'Aime.Any favourite places on the web?My favourite is the soothingjesusdressup.com.Googleis my favourite search engine. I've bought one obscure book throughAmazonbut I haven't used it to get my cat food yet!Visit:www.skelter.demon.co.uk
On the recordsYour article Doctoring Sicknotes (Online May 17) highlights one of the many dilemmas faced by GPs in the NHS today. The issue of confidentiality needs to be addressed, and it goes beyond the scope of your article.Many practices, like mine, keep all consultations on computer. Clause 65 of the Health Social Care Act allows the health secretary to have access to information that patients believe is highly confidential. I can no longer promise that my patient's secret really is secret.We are going to have to decide whether to take a (retrograde?) step, and keep highly sensitive information in paper format only, just to keep it out of the clutches of bureaucrats. I personally would not release any information about a patient without the strongest protest, and without informing the patient that this was about to happen.We have other worries - DNA tests, for example. Some insurance companies already demand access. I can only advise my patients to be cautious before agreeing to one, and to take out all the insurance cover they will ever need prior to having the test.Despite rules protecting privacy, I foresee a situation where political masters will expect the local hospital and out-of-hours to have access to confidential data. This would mean hospital managers would be able to see the records of their employees, since once information is outside our surgery, it is effectively in the public domain.There has been no open debate about this.Dr Paul D. Oldfieldoldfieldmajor@aol.comSlow textHaving read all about the increase in text messaging in Britain I should have seen it coming.  Text messages I have sent   to people, and that have been sent to me, have at times slowed to a crawl - taking up to two days in some cases.But will the mobile companies upgrade their networks? The response of my network was to say that text messages "can take up to 72 hours" to reach the recipient. Great! So things have to get 50% worse again before anything changes! Is anyone else suffering SMS slowdown?Joe Halljoe.hall@philosopher.co.ukEase of useI am writing in response to Victor Keegan's article (May 17) about GPRS/Wap phones. In asking the question "GPRS phones - good or bad?" one has to make the distinction between the data transfer technology that is GPRS and the hardware/software configuration by which we use it. The main problem with Wap and GPRS on a phone is not the data transfer, but creating a user interface that can utilise the available data.The problem is not GPRS but the phone's operating system. I assume connecting a GPRS phone to a Visor/ Palm/PC will make for fast downloading and viewing of email and the web. And this use of mobile phones is the best way to utilise their speed because then you can attach them to a decent interface.The consumer has been led to believe that the phone's speed is the central concern of functionality, but it is not. It is the good ol' GUI again. Wait until phones have colour PDA screens and decent software and then we will have the functionality we want in a single device.Thomas Sharpetom@easygreens.demon.co.ukWhat benefit?The reference to the Klondyke in the article "Genetic codes on a smart card" (Science May 17) seems most appropriate.The discovery of gold spawned a region of gangsters, thieves, murderers, disorder and mayhem. Some gold was found and a few non miners made money.But where is this Klondyke now, and what did it contribute to the happiness and well-being of humankind?Ron Pressronald@press2000.freeserve.co.uk
New guidelines for online fundraising have been published this month which set out standards for selling goods, retaining data and contracting out to online shopping malls.The Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers (ICFM) is about to publish its code of practice on fundraising on the internet. A voluntary  collaboration by charities, consultants, and umbrella bodies, the code is a much-needed source of practical advice for the voluntary sector.The guidelines offer advice in two sections. Firstly, they address issues related to using a charity's own internet presence, and secondly they  advise on using the services of third parties, such as charity shopping malls and online auction companies. Issues covered include minimum legal  statements for a charity's website, setting up secure online donation systems, online handling of personal data, and selling goods or services  via the internet.This is the professional membership body's first published advice regarding the internet. ICFM has already published a range of codes of practice and guidance notes for its members covering issues such as the use of chain letters, payroll giving, fundraising in schools, and reciprocal charity mailing.The first UK charity websites were published in 1994 and the first online credit card donations taken in 1995, so independent advice from the national body of fundraisers has been awaited for some time.Of course, many of the issues raised overlap with other ICFM codes of practice, such as that on the Data Protection Act 1998 and indeed with other legislation. The code therefore includes a list of relevant legislation, together with a brief glossary for those fundraisers new to internet fundraising.The team behind the code of practice was drawn from all aspects of the voluntary sector, and represented some of the leading and experienced practitioners. Charity staff from RNIB and Christian Aid contributed, as did sector umbrella body Charities Aid Foundation.Bates, Wells and Braithwaite provided commercial input as did e-commerce consultants Horwath Consulting, and internet fundraising consultancy Fundraising UK.Chaired by Judith Rich OBE, founder of Cards for Good Causes, the volunteer team worked over six months to produce the document. ICFM then consulted  widely and sought comments from its members, associates, and other relevant bodies such as the Charity Commission and the Home Office.The Code of Practice will be published for members in the next edition of ICFM Who's Who in Fundraising. In addition it will be made public in the middle of May on the ICFM website. Although directed at a UK audience, it is expected that its practical detail will ensure it is consulted by  non profit organisations from around the world.The team behind the code is aware of its limitations. For example, there was no attempt specifically to cover digital TV and mobile phone  applications. Equally the team tried to reduce the technical obsolescence of the code as much as possible, recognising that it will need reviewing on an annual basis. The level of prescriptive advice was also debated and, where possible, legal requirements were distinguished from recommended best practice.The code is the most detailed advice given to fundraisers anywhere in the world from their national professional body. While it won't guarantee online successes on the scale of Comic Relief's recent 2.9m in online donations, it should help charities integrate the internet with their fundraising effectively and professionally.&#149; Howard Lake is director of Fundraising UK Ltd and publisher of UK Fundraising
The love affair between the British public and the mobile phone has reached new heights, according to a major survey published yesterday.Despite persistent gloom and massive job cuts in the global mobile industry, the number of British households owning at least one phone has leapt to almost 70% from less than 50% in the past year.The boom, according to JD Power and Associates' annual mobile phone survey in the UK, has been fuelled by the insatiable demand for pre-paid mobiles, which accounted for 90% of new phone sales in the   past 12 months. The pre-paid craze, in turn, is being driven largely by 16- to 17-year-old consumers.The results guarantee Britain's status as one of Europe's most enthusiastic mobile markets, with consumers displaying a zeal surpassed only by their Scandinavian counterparts.But, while the survey will offer some hope to the beleaguered mobile industry, other findings suggest that optimism is unlikely to last long.The results also show that wireless application protocol, or Wap, phones - which offer internet access - have abjectly failed to encourage consumers to use their mobiles for any thing other than voice calls and text messages.Less than 10% of mobile-equipped households had a Wap-enabled phone. Of those which did, only one in three had owners that used its internet capabilities.Worse still, the survey found that the proportion of people interested in accessing the internet from their mobiles had dropped to 25% this year from 33% in 2000.The findings will deepen the industry's pessimism about the prospects for a third generation of mobile handsets - known as 3G - which will offer constant internet access, faster downloads and features such as conference calling.Last year, five mobile networks pay a combined &#163;22bn to the Treasury to secure licences to run the new 3G networks. There is little evidence, however, of consumer enthusiasm for mobile internet access.Many telecoms analysts are sceptical that those companies will recoup their costs.On a more positive note, however, the survey reveals that the growth in mobile ownership is being matched by growing customer satisfaction with the mobile networks.For the fourth year running, Orange, which was bought by France Telecom last August, achieved the highest level of customer satisfaction, five points ahead of its nearest ri val, One 2 One, whose approval rating improved by seven points in the past year.Gunda Lapski, JD Powers' director of telecommunications and utilities in Europe, said: "It is evident from this year's study results that all providers have focused on improving customer service. This has certainly paid off in both pre-pay and contract markets."The standard being set by the leading service providers is high and they realise that they must use customer satisfaction as a way of differentiating their products."&#149; Almost 70% of UK households now have a mobile phone, compared with fewer than 50% last year&#149; The number of households with more than one mobile has increased by 15% in the past year&#149; Only 10% of households have a Wap phone, of which only one in three are used for internet access&#149; The proportion of people saying they are interested in accessing the internet from their mobile has dropped to 25% from 33% last year
What does the slowdown in PC sales mean? To the big computer manufacturers -  Compaq, Gateway, IBM, Dell - it's just an unwelcome blip on a rising trend, a regrettable intrusion of old economy business cycles into their brave new world.However, to observers such as Don Norman, the celebrated computer design guru, the slowdown heralds something quite different: nothing less than the beginning of the end for the personal computer as we know it. In Norman's view, the PC is doomed because it is too complicated for ordinary human beings. Making serious use of a PC, he says, requires a level of technical proficiency that is way beyond the average citizen. The learning curve is just too steep. And besides, most people have better things to do with their time than learn about Windows system calls.And why is the PC so complicated? Answer: because it's a general purpose device. Given the right software, a PC can do an astonishing range of things - from spreadsheet number-crunching and word processing, through speech recognition and three-dimensional graphics to interactive games, musical composition, web publishing and a zillion other things.The machine on which I'm writing this holds most of my favourite music tracks and can play them on demand. It also holds my family's collection of digital photographs, and allows me to display and edit them to my heart's content. It hooks up to a webcam and to the net, it can send and receive faxes, and so on.To Norman and his colleagues, however, my computer looks awfully like the domestic electric motor in the 1918 Sears Roebuck mail-order catalogue. Electric motors were a big deal in 1918. Sears sold a magnificent model that could do virtually anything provided you possessed the appropriate attachment. Under the headline 'Aids that every Woman Appreciates' the catalogue explains that the $8.75 'Home Motor' can drive a fan, churn milk, whip cream, sharpen and grind tools and do dozens of other useful tasks. There was even a vibrator attachment, though its uses are left to the imagination.In the years since that catalogue was published, the electric motor that was such a big deal in 1918 has become ubiquitous. Electric motors are everywhere nowadays - in watches, cameras, hi fi systems, washing machines, microwave ovens, fridges, power tools, garage doors and heating systems.In fact, they are so common that we no longer notice them: they have effectively become invisible. And they have also become incredibly specialised - nobody sells general-purpose motors any more.And that, says Norman, provides a good analogy for what will happen to computers. They will become miniaturised, ubiquitous and invisible, metamorphosing into specialised 'information appliances'. Thus if I want to send an email in the future, I will no longer have to boot up a PC and load a mail program. Instead, I'll just open my email device and start typing (or dictating, or whatever).For most people the decline of the fiendishly complex PC is something devoutly to be wished for. They look forward to an age of simple devices that you just switch on and use. But a downside to these information appliances is only now beginning to surface - namely that they will be intrinsically more controllable by the industries that make them and provide content to run on them.For example, heavy-duty copy protection can be hardwired into such devices. This will prescribe exactly what the owner is allowed to do with them in a way that is impossible with the complex old personal computer.In other words, we may wind up exchanging the complexities of freedom for the restrictions of specialisation. Norman may well be right about the fate of the generalist PC. But we may live to rue its demise.John.Naughton@observer.co.uk
Paedophiles who adopt false identities to roam the internet in search of children to abuse face five years in jail under anti-stalking laws to be announced today.Young computer users are being increasingly targeted by adults who pose as teenagers to strike up email 'friendships'. They may win trust over several weeks by exchanging harmless chat or sending attractive images to download before attempting to set up meetings or make sexual suggestions.Home Secretary Jack Straw will outline detailed plans for 'paedophile prevention orders' - effectively injunctions in cyberspace which would target potential offenders before they reach the stage of physical contact.Adults could provide enough grounds for police to seek an order through the magistrates' courts just by lying about their gender or age in online 'conversations' with children.Breach of the order banning further contact would bring criminal proceedings, up to five years' jail and automatic inclusion on the sex offenders' register.'These orders will mean that as soon as you feel there is a cause for concern you can get in before there is any contact,' said a Labour Party source. 'Such approaches are very difficult to tackle under existing laws.'Critics will question how practical the orders will prove if offenders try to conceal their identities by using fake email accounts. Parents will still need to be vigilant to find out who their child is talking to online. Straw will call for software designed to protect children to be installed on all PCs targeting the family market.His proposals stem from a taskforce set up by Ministers involving police, children's charities and internet pro-viders. Television presenter Carol Vorderman, who has campaigned on the issue, yesterday welcomed the move.'I am delighted at the speed with which the Labour Party has responded and the pressure that this will put on the industry,' she said.
It has been a torrid year for Frank Quattrone. Only 18 months ago he was the most successful internet deal maker in the US and one of the most powerful men on Wall Street. Now those days may be over - and not just because of the downturn in technology stocks.The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating the activities of Quattrone and his team at the Swiss-American banking giant, Credit Suisse First Boston in 1999 and early 2000. New internet companies were white-hot investments at the time, and bankers such as Quattrone allotted shares to institutional investors before they came to market.If you were one of the lucky ones to be granted an allocation, you were almost guaranteed to see the value of your shares soar when they floated on the open market. For many such investors, millions were made in minutes. Now the US regulator wants to know what they may have given the banks in return.Quattrone, 45, denies any wrongdoing, as does CSFB. So do many of New York banking's most august financial institutions, which have also been dragged into this unseemly controversy. Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers - all have been served with subpoenas demanding information about their conduct as underwriters for technology companies that floated.Further woes were piled on to these and other banks last week, when it emerged that the US Attorney-General's office had summoned a federal grand jury in New York to investigate further.
Nobody knows when these inquiries - already nearly six months old - are  likely to end, but criminal charges are possible. At CSFB, several of Quattrone's colleagues are also facing questions from the National Association of Securities Dealers.Quattrone was poached from Deutsche Bank in 1998, and he took with him no fewer than 100 subordinates. His closely knit team is said to have generated $1 billion in revenue for CSFB. 
A CSFB insider said: 'Quattrone runs his own research, his own vertically organised mini-bank. Many of the technology analysts for the firm in New York and California answer to him.'
Quattrone, who is based in Silicon Valley in California, seems to have enjoyed the trappings of his success. 'Frank's friends' would be treated to expensive dinners and regular skiing trips to fashionable Aspen in Colorado. At the same time, he was in a position to indulge his less conventional tastes for Seventies clothing and karaoke.The shine was taken off such antics with the collapse of the technology market last year. The SEC entered the game last autumn, apparently acting on a tip-off from an aggrieved hedge fund.
With a reported pay packet of up to $100m a year, of course, it's unlikely that Quattrone will ever really want for anything. But having been the golden boy of America's tech stocks boom, he and his fellow super-bankers are beginning to look mere shadows of their former selves.
And other disconsolate champions of the new economy also have reason to worry. If allegations of under-the-counter deals between banks and institutional investors are proven, the institutions, too, will have to face the consequences. Questions will also be asked about how much the floating companies themselves knew.Beyond that can be heard the distant stampede of litigious small investors, who will be quick to seek redress from the courts if it emerges that they have been the victims of market-rigging. Class action lawsuits have already been launched against CSFB, Goldmans, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Salomon Smith Barney and others.Ultimately, their success will depend on the outcome of the US authorities' inquiries. But the claims contained in their court submissions, which remain to be proven, make dramatic reading.
Take, for example, one claim against CSFB being brought by small investors in connection with the December 1999 flotation of software distributor VA Linux Systems, on Nasdaq. Quattrone is not a defendant in this case and is not understood to have had personal involvement in the deal.
But his employer was the lead underwriter at the offering, which at the time was the best-performing initial public offering of the decade. From a starting price of $30, the Linux shares closed at $233 after a single day's trading.NV Linux itself and two of its executives, chief executive Larry Augustin and vice-president Todd Schull, are co-defendants. The plaintiffs say they are liable because it was their responsibility to ensure the truthfulness of the prospectus. But their most scathing allegations are reserved for CSFB. They say it 'engaged in a pattern of conduct to surreptitiously extract inflated commissions greater than those disclosed' in the prospectus, and accuse the bank of 'other acts of misconduct'.The court submissions claim: 'Credit Suisse solicited and received additional, excessive and undisclosed commissions from certain investors, in exchange for which it allocated to those investors material portions of the restricted number of Linux shares issued in connection with the offering.' This, say the plaintiffs, was contrary to the terms set down in the flotation prospectus.'In some cases,' they allege, 'the amount of the commissions was determined ex post facto by arrangements including specific formulas tied to investors' profits on the offering.' They claim this was done without other investors knowing.The lawsuit  accuses the bank of concocting illegal market-rigging schemes with some of the same customers, in which the clients would buy additional Linux shares after the stock had floated.'Such tie-in arrangements,' it says, 'were designed to, and did, maintain, distort and/or inflate the market price for Linux shares in the aftermarket.'It adds: 'Unbeknownst to investors who purchased in the aftermarket, the increase in share price was a result, in part, of the tie-in arrangements which locked in demand for Linux shares in the aftermarket at levels well above the offering price, thereby unlawfully and deceptively manipulating the market in Linux shares.'The plaintiffs say this violated SEC regulations, and they accuse CSFB of breaking Nasdaq's rules of conduct.In conclusion, they claim that the bank deceived the investing public, artificially inflated and maintained the market price of Linux shares, and caused ordinary shareholders to buy Linux stock at artificially inflated prices.CSFB is accused of 'fraud and deceit upon the purchasers of the company's common stock'.
All the banks deny any improper conduct in their role as underwriters, and they plan to contest the legal actions. A CSFB spokesman said: 'Our initial public offering practices are in line with the industry. The industry's practices are considered proper by law.'
Men and women use the internet in entirely different ways, and have distinct styles of writing emails, according to new research.'There are pretty good odds at being able to guess the gender of someone just by reading their email,' said David Silver, an assistant professor in the School of Communications at the University of Washington. 'Many studies have found that men using email tend to supply answers or give a response that shuts down the dialogue. Women are more prepared to open up the discussion. They're also more prepared in a chat room to say "I don't know. What does everyone else think?"'Male messages tend to be basic - confirming someone is right, telling them they are wrong or offering solutions to problems. Women tend to keep conversations going and ask more questions. They aren't afraid to admit ignorance, or that they are wrong.A study by Dr Susan Herring, a linguistics expert at Indiana University, has also shown that men tend to make strong assertions, disagree with others and use profanity, insults and sarcasm. By contrast, women tend to use diplomatic assertions along with questions, offers, suggestions and polite expressions.The balance online is shifting to empower women. Silver said a huge change had occurred in global internet use in the past few years as women lay claim to a medium previously dominated by 'geeky' men.'Many women in the mid-Nineties were put off the internet by slang,' he said. 'They would also go into chat rooms and get insulted - or 'flamed' - very often. The old internet chat rooms were racist, homophobic and often very sexist. There was a lot of misogyny online. So women simply started their own chat rooms.'Silver pointed to a series of studies into the differences between male and female behaviour online. One study showed women were a lot less hierarchical in their use of the internet. In one chat room for academics it was noticed that female undergraduates, graduates and faculty members all treated each other equally. In the same chat room, researchers noticed women were a lot quicker to share information, and happy to share booklists with colleagues. The study also found that, while women confess online to not knowing an answer, men prefer to stay silent.The news comes as the gender balance in internet use shifts towards women. In the UK, women account for 40 per cent of those online at present and this is expected to rise to 60 per cent by 2005, according to a survey by leading analysts, Forrester. Experts predict that 68 per cent of those who come online next year will be women.In the United States, The Pew Internet and American Life project has released a study showing that 51 per cent of internet users are women.nick.walsh@observer.co.uk
Richard Li, the falling star of the Far East new media establishment, yesterday admitted that he may look for a new man to run his internet and telecoms firm Pacific Century CyberWorks following a series of personal setbacks.Mr Li, the 34-year-old son of Hong Kong billionaire real estate magnate Li Ka-shing, was responding to reports that he was preparing to relinquish his day to day control of the business to concentrate on group strategy."I will consider &#91;appointing a chief executive&#93; after the next full-year results announcement," Mr Li, PCCW's chief executive and chairman, said. "But this is a big 'if'. It has to be the right person. This is a precious company to me. I would not just stuff any CEO in."Mr Li, Asia's highest profile dot.com entrepreneurs, last year came to the attention of stock markets around the world by launching a series of raids telecoms firms.His biggest triumph was beating Rupert Murdoch and Singapore Telecom to a $36bn (&#163;25bn) stake in the Cable &amp; Wireless backed Hong Kong Telecom.However, the sharp decline in the value of both telecoms and internet stocks, combined with some damaging personal publicity has seen PCCW's share price and Mr Li's reputation decline. In the year 2000 PCCW posted a net loss of $886m.Some analysts say that he lacks the experience needed to integrate and manage what is now a sprawling business.Mr Li has also had to deflect personal criticism after admitting that he never actually graduated from Stanford University in the US, despite the company assuring investors that he had.Despite the criticism Mr Li insisted he will hold on to his chairmanship role and said there would be no change until PCCW's evolution from internet to telecoms business was complete.
Fans of Sony's PlayStation 2 may soon be able to take each other on at their favourite games regardless of where they are in the country.The Japanese company has struck a deal with Telewest to make its games available over the company's TV network.Telewest has invested millions on enabling homes around Britain to have speedy internet access and interactive TV through broadband technology.The alliance is the latest in a string of tie-ups this week by Sony as it tries to transform the game console into a home entertainment hub with capacity to handle internet access, telecoms, broadcasts, movies, music and games.The deal is one of the first European link-ups between a broadband network and computer entertainment.Sony said it would be testing downloading facilities that could eventually allow customers to try out new PlayStation 2 games with Telewest later this year. It would also look into the feasibility of multi-player gaming via the cable firm's network.A Sony spokesman said this could see customers from across the country linking up to a central server and waiting for challengers - be it one opponent for a football match or 21 others to form the whole grid for a grand prix.Other services may allow opponents to send each other messages during games as events happen.Shares in Telewest rose 3.75p to 121.75p by the end of the day.
Online hyping of films broke through into the mainstream with the cleverly designed Blair Witch site, but Steven Spielberg's new film A.I. has taken it to a new level. It has been hard to miss reports in recent weeks, online ond off, of the film's mysterious network of supporting websites. Talk of them has set chatrooms ablaze the world over.Films like The Blair Witch Project, X-Men and Memento have used the web to blur the boundary between fiction and reality, but no film has gone as far as A.I. It has spawned a world online, not just a website.But where are these sites which everyone is talking about? The trail over the last few weeks has started with the credits attached to the film's second trailer.In it, Jeanine Salla is credited as a sentient machine therapist: not a bad position considering there are no truly sentient machines.This clue sparked some interest among the technologically literate target audience of AI. A few online investigators have had a quick look to see if there actually was such a position or person anywhere - and the results   are more than surprising. A quick hit on Google turns up a number of websites, fully developed, some of which refer to each other.These include:http://bangaloreworldu-in.co.nz, an international university that researches cutting-edge AI;www.metropolitanlivinghomes.com, a magazine detailing the developments of "living homes";www.katenei.com, a living home architect and designer;www.martinswintondesigns.com, another living home architect/designer, but the surname is of actor Haley Joel Osment's human family in the film.It also includes the homepage of a family calledChanand one for the Salla family, atwww.familiasalla-es.ro.Digging about these pages and hitting some links, tells the surfer that an Evan Chan has been murdered with humans and AIs suspected.To top off the websites, there are phone numbers and email addresses, which are real and reveal more pages and details to be accessed.For example, go towww.bangaloreworldu-in.co.nz, the fictitious university where Jeanine Salla is head of the AI department. On her personal page you'll find her number, but calling it puts you on to   her voicemail, which tells you to press two if you're calling about Evan's funeral. Jeanine leaves a number for Nancy who, on her voicemail, has the date and location of Evan's funeral.After that, if you go towww.coronersweb.organd look up Evan's case file, you discover Evan was killed by a trauma to his head.Then go towww.spcb.org, take a look at the animations and you see that one of the AIs is named Nancy, who may or may not be the Nancy on the voicemail...But there's more. There are sites about rights for AIs -www.inourimage.organd the flipside,www.unite-and-resist.org, which promotes the termination of AIs.Then it gets clever. Going to to the Sentient Property Crime Bureau's Most Wanted Page you can find hidden text in the page by viewing the source code, which looks like hacker talk.For example: "Gosting the SPCB filz, it seemz th? R looking 4 a robot in conekshun w/the deth uv a therml enji neer cald Evan Chan. Whi the hot prsoot? -The robots a 1st ordr pees uv Belladerma as, a ? $ sex slav."To add to the fun, Warner Brothers recently held a press conference for the film, and business cards for Ms Salla were handed out while movie representatives apologised for her absence by saying she had to attend a funeral.In a further twist, it has been hinted that the sites are being constantly monitored and updated, with more layers being added, while others are removed, giving the impression of an organic, live entity, like the real world.What it all means no one knows yet, but the discussions are certainly hyping up interest for the film.Warner Brothers has hinted that the way things are going, they may forego a lot of traditional advertising to keep up this interactive experience. And it has set the rules for internet sites promoting films for years to come. The net can look forward to many more online treasure hunts.
It's that time of year again. The first sighting of baby bunnies dicing with death on roadsides everywhere signals the start     of the lemmingesque stampede of young and not-so-young couples up the aisles of a thousand British churches.If you began     planning your wedding during your O-levels, well done, you've got it sussed. But if you have left it until the last minute, fear     not. Don't waste time trudging round the shops. Get online, and organise the perfect wedding in double-click time from the     comfort of your armchair. You don't even have to get dressed.There are lots of sites that give good general advice. The     prettiest ones arewww.confetti.co.ukandwww.webwedding.co.uk. Their range of subjects is truly vast, from engagement     to wedding day, to honeymoon. You can find out things you need to know, such as legalities, etiquette and contact details for     local suppliers. You can ask the expert. You can also find out things you don't need to know but are fun, such as the     meanings of flowers.Avoid the tragedy of a boorish bouquet by double checking withwww.usabride.com. These sites are so     useful that the sheer weight of information could scare anyone into a lifetime of singledom. Where should the blushing bride     or groom start? Start with a venue.www.churchnet.org.ukhas links to churches of most faiths in your area. If you prefer     something more secular, check out the possibilities atwww.places-to-marry.co.uk. Or head up the annual migration to     Gretna Green atwww.gretnagreen.com. The site says that 13% of all UK weddings take place there each year.Avoid drifts     of freezing confetti on the A74 by consulting www.theaa.com . Make sure your date does not clash with the England v     Germany World Cup Qualifier (September 1, 2001) or you will lose the menfolk to the public bar. Visitwww.eventwise.co.ukto check your date against the UK sporting calendar. You would not want to be saying "I do" when Goughie is screaming     "Howzat!" after Hayden gets an inside edge. I know I wouldn't. But the bride may lose her man to more than just cricket.Public speaking is the most terrifying ordeal for many of us. Make it easy by visitingwww.hitched.co.uk, which gives     examples of real speeches and good advice. If you are having a church wedding, keep the guests entertained with some nice     music. You probably know what you want. It's the one by whats-his-face on that advert. Find out what it is and who it's by onwww.wedalert.com. I had problems downloading tunes but this site provides the music forwww.milliron.netwhich download     more easily.The tunes sound as though they are being played on the bastard offspring of a Bontempi and a Stylophone, but     they are all the more enjoyable for that. Promise me you will have the Maestoso from Saint-Saens Symphony No 3 in C. Only     the pure in heart will not think of Johnny Mathis. If all this talk of churches reminds you that you are making a promise in     the eyes of your God and your friends, make sure you're doing the right thing. Check that you have a chance of hitting your     10th anniversary by completing the relationship quizzes atwww.couples-place.com. Marriage is a lot harder if you don't do     your homework first, and the advice at www.relate. org.uk is thought-provoking. You may be soulmates, but if her Mars is in     Libra and yours isn't, should you cancel the vicar? Find out atwww.love.astrology.com. So it's true love.Celebrate by     slobbering over the online wedding lists available. You can discover who is your stingiest relative by visiting     www.debenhams.com and highlight what you want among the dross of stuff you need. You know the dilemma: Scalextrix     versus ironing board.Selfridgessays it will bung on another 5% to the generosity of your guests.If     your best mate is a true friend, then he or she will take a look atwww.partyparties.co.ukbefore organising your stag or hen     night. Fill in a few details and the site will envelop you with adrenaline soaked ideas like paintballing or go-karting, or blissful     pamper weekends, as well as the traditional nosh, booze and boogie themes. And all in your locality - a disadvantage if you     misbehave. To avoid recognition, go to Blackpool for the weekend (seewww.partyparties.co.uk). If you already live in Blackpool,     why not take a trip to La Tomatina, the tomato throwing festival at Bunol in Spain? Visitwww.cyberspain.comfor further     details.Hens, tickle the bride's fancy with some well-chosen goodies fromwww.cocky-hen.com. If she wants to disappear     from embarrassment, rent a magician from www. themagicbusiness.co.uk . Prepare for the mornings after with a trip towww.beergeer.comwhich has a narrow range of hangover cures rated for effectiveness. For emergency measures, visitwww.hangoverguide.com, which has a great First Aid page. If you are finding all this difficult to cope with, there is always     Vegas. Visitwww.vegas.combefore jetting off west to plight your troth in sunny splendour. You don't have to dress like     Elvis, but it is bad manners not to.
Nippy machineIt is not always remembered that the world's first business computer was used in west London by Jo Lyons, the tea-shop company. But this year is the 50th anniversary of Leo    (Lyon's Electronic Office), and an international conference is being organised to celebrate it. Seewww.is.lse.ac.uk/BusinessComputing50for details, andwww.leo-computers.org.ukfor more about Leo.This year has also seen the 100th anniversary of the first transatlantic radio transmission by Guglielmo Marconi. Patricia Hewitt, e-Minister, opened Marconi plc's celebratory site at www. marconicalling.com . The content could be interesting but, sadly, the design is unremittingly hostile to the millions of web users with impaired vision.Vote HottieIf the creators ofAmihotornotwere on a royalty, they would be very rich. The number of workalikes keeps growing, and now includes localised versions such aswww.amihotornot.com.au,www.amihotornot.de,www.amihotornot.nland so on. One of the latest variants,Am I Electable or Not?, has a topical local angle, and the Fantasy Cabinet is worth a look. But it would have been more fun if the site's designers had cloned the statistically much more interesting    approach used byPick The Hottie. This site has got even better since I last mentioned it here, with the addition of a MyHotties facility.God's DebrisThe prolific Scott Adams has written a non-Dilbert book, and is selling an electronic version for $4.95 athttp://dilbert.com. The intro and a brief chapter are available free. "People under the age of 14 should not read it," says Adams.Children can be diverted to the new promotional but    educational game, Dilberito (direct link,www.dilberito.com. However, when they win, you'll have to explain what a nemesis is.Top TaraThe web is full of people beavering away at specialised databases and search engines, many of them hugely useful to people in their particular subject areas. Examples range from The Film Box Office Database atwww.boxofficeguru.com/film.htmto theFencing Search Engine. Of course, you have to know where to find them. The answer is Tara Calishain's brief newsletter, Research Buzzwww.researchbuzz.com. It does make you wonder how we ever managed without such things aswww.lighthouseclothing.com/database/searchdatabase.cfmandhttp://country-music-club.com.Buy linesThe commercial web is still showing signs of life.Iris Spectaclesis flogging designer eye-wear online, whileThe Original Swedish Wheat Heat Companyis offering pillows filled with organic wheat and lavender: therapeutic when heated in the microwave, apparently. However, if you are more concerned with love, life, and lips, then Blistex would rather you visited its lively new site atwww.blistexlips.co.uk.Grace notesThe Mighty Organ is a webzine that has more in common with Lord Gnome than E Power Biggs. It has an impressive list of contributors, many of them based around London, who usually get paid for writing, but here are busking online for free. The Organ has some way to go, but it has not made a bad start. Seewww.themightyorgan.com.PerverseAre you one of those people who thinks there just isn't enough filth on the web? If so, help is at hand. You can "pornolize" any site just by typing the address into thepornolizer. The same technique has been used for years to "jesusify" sites fromwww.askjesus.org, though that address no longer works. However, you can still"dialectize" a siteor even shred it atwww.potatoland.org/shredder. The extremely foul-mouthedSearch Bastardis still going strong, too.Car shotsJohn Frankenheimer, Guy Ritchie, and Ang Lee are among the big-name directors making Hire Films - shorts that feature BMW cars. You can even download a BMW Interactive Film Player to play them, for the PC (4.5MB) or Mac (7MB): this adds features to Apple QuickTime 4.1.2 or later. The first two in the series are showing now atwww.bmwfilms.comNew &amp; noted&#149;  For the world's biggest, possibly only, collection of gay advertising, go towww.commercialcloset.org&#149;  Not just what it sayswww.this-page-intentionally-left-blank.orgbut a project.&#149;  Think of it as Google with pop-up knobs on:www.ilor.com&#149;  Scientific American now has some favourite websites. Seewww.sciam.com/explorations/2001/051401top50&#149;  You may not be able to watch an American state-sponsored execution on the web, yet, but you can hear some atwww.soundportraits.org/on-air/execution_tapes&#149;  See the celebrity lav seats auctioned for charity atwww.flushed.org.ukSix of the bestDouglas AdamsThe Tributeswww.douglasadams.comThe Guidewww.bbc.co.uk/h2g2/guide/A5932The FAQwww-personal.umd.umich. edu/~nhughes/dna/faqs/ dnafaq.htmlThe Edgewww.edge.orgThe Profilehttp://books.guardian.co.uk/departments/science fiction/story/0,6000,327512,00.htmlThe Linkshttp://dir.yahoo.com/Arts/Humanities/Literature/Authors/Science_Fiction_ and_Fantasy/Adams__Douglas
Surf in the sunEver dreamt of sitting in your garden checking your e-mails on your laptop via your home phone line? BT is claiming you'll be able to do just that with its new DECT wireless phone system and modem.The &#163;250 BT On-Air 1800, consists of a base station that is home to the modem and a module that attaches to a PC via its USB socket. The two connect wirelessly enabling users to surf the internet or send e-mails   via their laptop, within 50 metres of the base station indoors, and up to 300 metres outdoors. The system is compatible with Windows 98, Me and 2000 but not Macs (although Apple users could use the Airport system to do the same thing for around the same price). Also featured in the base station is a digital answering machine that can store 15 minutes of messages.The On-Air 1800 goes on sale in two weeks - details fromwww.bt.comAlways thereIf the idea of having your personal digital assistant (PDA) surgically implanted has ever crossed your mind you'll probably want to try out a new gadget from US-based Orang-Otang Computers.The company recently launched the Peel-It, a $50 device that enables users to keep their PDA in view at all times. It works by securing    the PDA to a swivelling platform that is worn around the wrist. According to Orang-Otang the PDA is held very securely. To prove the point, company photos show users playing the guitar and bouncing a basketball with their PDA permanently in eye-view. The Peel-It also comes with a case that wraps around the PDA when it is not in use. Take a gander at the parade of wearable gadgets the company has recently patented. These include the Cuff-Cam Wearable Camera, Flippo Phone and Flippo Audio Recorder, all of which pop out from devices that are tucked under the user's sleeve. See it all atwww.orang-otang.comHard disk hi-fiYamaha is set to become the first mainstream hi-fi manufacturer to launch a hard disk   based hi-fi recorder in the UK. The Japanese company will launch the &#163;600 CDR-HD1000, below, later in the summer.The unit is different to models available in the US from companies like Audio ReQuest in that it does not use the MP3 compression format. Music is ripped from its CD player and then stored on its 20 gigabyte hard disk in its original format.Yamaha claims that it is refusing to cut corners in terms of sound quality, although without compression this limits the number of discs the unit can store to 30. Music can then be burned on to CDs via the unit's CD   recorder. Yamaha is unlikely to have the market to itself for long as Philips, Sony and Harman Audio are all rumoured to be launching hard disk based recorders by the end of the year.Also new from Yamaha is a range of home cinema/audio components that connect to PCs and Macs via their USB sockets. The &#163;250 AP-U70 two channel amplifier/ processor, &#163;330 RP-U200 five channel surround sound amplifier complete with an integrated tuner, and &#163;220 DP-U50 personal surround processor will all be on sale by the end of the month. Seewww.yamaha-audio.co.uk
How much of the saga do you need to hear to recognise it as your own?Please select from the following menu: You'll need to call the customer help line. You must call the billing department. The computer must have done that. I don't know why. Please hold. Who are you holding for? Please hold. Please select from the following menu.We've all been there by now. Fighting to have that random $23 charge removed from a credit-card bill, along with the extra finance charge. Explain ing the story to countless, clueless customer care counsellors - spending so long on the dispute that, even a resolution in our favour would end up yielding about three cents per hour spent on the phone.These stories are symptomatic of how end-stage market bureaucracy fails us. It looks a hell of a lot like what happens when totalitarianism fails (or, to some twisted individuals, succeeds). And it is about as scary as a Kafka story.Take my ongoing struggle with the telephone company. I signed up for a DSL high-speed internet service more than a year ago. About a month later, I began receiving letters, apologetically informing me that my home was ineligible for DSL. I was to send back the special modem and wait until the service was available in my area. Fine.A month later, the monthly charge for DSL service appeared on my bill. I called the number on my bill, and was re-routed and disconnected for much of the rest of the day. After about a week, I managed to get someone on the phone who understood what DSL was."But you don't have DSL service, sir," he said."I know.""This is the DSL department.""I know. I'm being billed for DSL service.""You shouldn't be.""I know.""Well what do want me to do about it?""Take it off my bill.""You'll need to talk to billing.""They say to talk to you.""Let me connect you to billing.""This is billing.""I need to get a DSL charge off my bill.""Are you dissatisfied with your DSL service?""I don't have DSL service.""Then why is it on your bill?""I don't know.""Let me check with the DSL department. Please hold."Pause."Sir, you don't have DSL service.""I know.""Then how do you expect us to disconnect it?"And on it went. No one at the phone company could figure out why or where the billing was coming from. After six months of calling the company every month and going through exactly the same procedure, I encountered Alicia.Alicia was a customer service representative with spirit. She loved her company and its patrons. She understood that mine was a problem requiring a real fix. She gave me her personal extension and vowed to stay with me until the end.I worked with Alicia for five weeks. We spoke every day and worked diligently to find out which division of the company still believed I had DSL service, and why.Alicia took my case to the company president's office.   Eventually, it was decided to take a radical step: my entire account would be "purged" and "reset". This process was guaranteed to erase everything the company knew about me. I would be reborn.The procedure took three days. I even lost my phone service for a few hours as my symbolic death and rebirth was carried out. All for the cause. Then, on a chilly but sunny Tuesday morning, Alicia called to tell me the operation was a success. My account was as fresh and clean as a new baby. And there was no sign of DSL. Alicia and I wept together, and said our goodbyes.A month later, I received my phone bill. And there it was - charges for DSL service. Six months' worth, covering the entire fictional billing period from before.I called Alicia immediately -   I still knew the number by heart. All I got was her voicemail. I told the machine what had happened, but Alicia did not call back. I called her voicemail box every day for a week.Was Alicia on vacation?I called the main office to enquire about Alicia's whereabouts. But no one knew who she was. She didn't work at the company. She never did.In another few days, her voicemail was changed. It now belonged to someone named Martin in the human resources department. He told me that Alicia must have been one of the people "let go" in the last round of lay-offs.My new friends at the phone company say I should learn to live this way. "Is it really so difficult to call the company once a month and have the charge removed?" they ask me. "At least you don't have to pay it."The object of the game, according to this new generation of customer service representatives, is merely to survive in the new landscape of computer-driven commerce.This philosophy is commonplace and profitable. When short-term revenues increase as a result of a company's refusal or inability to refund improper charges, there is little incentive for it to do anything about it.Since machines are making the decisions anyway and, since no one is punishing them for displeasing customers, they go on in this fashion. And how long will a human being fight for six dollars? Thirty dollars? One hundred?Everyone has his price threshold - it's just a matter of staying below the customer's tolerance level, and slowly pushing it upwards.But, in the long term, this leads to a downward spiral of diminishing returns. Customers eventually get fed up and change companies, or simplify their lives altogether for fear of more strife.We are being conditioned to avoid interaction with large companies. With shrinking long-term revenues, the companies need to lay-off staff. Computers are entrusted with a greater proportion of the customer experience, and the cycle continues.Ultimately, the market will correct this, too - even if this means reducing its impact on our lives. Just as the bureaucratic excesses of communism lead to inefficiencies so great that the system collapses, the dehumanising effects of corporate capitalism eventually create customer experiences so dire that human beings seek to find roles for themselves that don't involve playing consumer.
It looks like the latest website craze: a site that exposes unfaithful lovers with information provided by the general public. But despite being featured in the national media, the site atwww.cheatingscum.comis not the litany of lost love it appears to be. In fact, it has turned out to be an elaborate hoax."The site took on a life of its own," explains the site's creator Dan Oliver. As deputy editor of .net magazine, a consumer internet title, Oliver wanted to show how the successful marketing of a website could be done for next to nothing. The site was assembled in a few hours and - apart from an afternoon spent in London with a sandwich board - had an advertising budget of zero. More than 10,000 people visited the site in its first week."We'd witnessed a number of high-profile dot.coms crash while a lot of people were saying that you had to plough thousands of pounds into the marketing of your website," says Oliver. "We   wanted to show that with a bit of imagination you could do it for nothing."Oliver collected email addresses of reporters on national newspapers and broadcasters. Next, he created a mailing list, wrote a fake press release and sent it out. Within two hours the site had received a hundred hits. The Mirror, Capital Radio and e-marketing bible Revolution, picked up the story. Not one of them thought the story was a hoax.For legal reasons the site could not use the dozens of submissions that were now being sent in. Instead, it used pictures of family and friends, and colleagues at .net wrote about the "cheating love rats" themselves."None of the people who reported on the site did any research into it. If they had, they would have found out that it was all totally fictitious," says Oliver. "The   national media really need to take a look at the way they report internet stories. The tabloids only seem to be interested in the net in a negative way. We just wanted to play them at their own game."CheatingScum is an example of viral marketing: a cheap and imaginative way for companies to get their message across. Viral marketing depends on internet users helping to promote a product or service for somebody else."For small companies, viral marketing is now the most important way to market your website," claims Oliver. "When you employ viral techniques you are targeting people who are already connected to the internet. It's all very good placing a billboard ad in the street, but there is little guarantee that the people are going to remember to log on."For CheatingScum to work virally, Oliver had to persuade   visitors to the site to tell others about it. "This was the best marketing tool we used," says Oliver. "Because one in five people who visited us would actually refer it to a friend. When that carries on you get a kind of daisy chain effect and your hits can go through the roof."And it is not just small companies who are employing viral marketing techniques. Earlier this month, Ford launched a viral marketing football game to support its sponsorship of the Uefa Champions League. Viral marketing is also being used by Coca-Cola, Nestl&eacute; and by the producers of the new Spielberg movie A.I. Even the main political parties are adopting viral techniques in their election campaigns.But with the likes of Ford now adopting viral techniques, how long will the small players be able to keep their edge? "The most effective viral marketing is a bit tongue-in-cheek and irreverent," says Oliver. "I don't think Ford and Coca-Cola want to be associated with that."
How intrinsic is IT to modern design?It has increased the immediacy with which you can vary things. You can make cleaner changes rather than rubbing out. Also nowadays, huge amounts of shared information can exist in cyberspace. Until we have an intelligent drawing board, however, sketching and visualising ideas will remain faster with a pencil and paper.How has the net changed the way businesses present themselves?We work with a lot of TV, media and telecoms companies and we often find that project managers are very young. They come from the "MTV culture" and are very comfortable with the net. Nowadays instead of using flip-boards or PowerPoint presentations that last 25 minutes, our designers have moved towards using Flash (seewww.macromedia.com/software/flash). I've got a 1Mb document now that encapsulates what I do in around two minutes.What advances in software/hardware does an architect enjoy?The two most popular software packages that allow us to order, layer and create files in two and three dimensions areAutoCADandMicroStation. We can model from basic data, or some designers who are using complex designs might decide to model and digitise it. We also use predictive models where we can look at the forces - environmental, fluid, structural - that come to bear on buildings.3D StudioandLightscapeare very popular with us. Simulation is important, and also, to compete globally, the modern architect needs a lot of bandwidth.Any preference between Mac and PC?I started with a Mac and I feel more comfortable with one. There are more applications you can run on a PC, which is just market economics. Some firms have remained very loyal to the Mac. They have good interfaces - it's easy to go between drawing and word programs. However, because of the size of our servers and the need to swap information worldwide, we're pushed into working with the industry standard, which is PC.Is the net anything more than a powerful display tool?Much more. We're seeing at real estate level a shift away from the 2G to the 3G city. People are locating where they can get fast access to bandwidth and data. We're working with Harvard on a predictive model of the 3G city map.Any favourite websites?Inter Milan's siteis my home page.Tomato's siteis always interesting,as isMarconi'sandAllessandro Mendini's.Visit:www.aukett.com
Giant KillersSega Dreamcast	&#163;29.99 Io Productions / AAA Games **Just as the football season draws to a close, AAA Games has released the first (and probably, last) Dreamcast football management game. This is a brave move, considering both the state of the Dreamcast market (near dead) and the history of console footy boss titles (mixed).While PC owners, with essential stat-storing hard drives, have been treated to classics like the peerless Championship Manager, the console choice has been limited, with only Codemasters' LMA Manager approaching the Premier League standard. Now there is Giant Killers - a title first released on PC and aimed at the younger Alex-Ferguson wannabe.You can choose levels, from easy (&#163;25 million Man Utd), medium and hard, although the latter two provide the only   real challenge. All the usual options are here, from team tinkering to training, although there are limitations with the transfers: you can't scan other squads for bargains and have to rely on the general list.Surprisingly, the match sequences are text only, rather than the animation you might expect on a console title. Of course it works, with imagination offering more excitement than any, inevitably repetitive, visuals.Unfortunately, controlling a football management game on a console doesn't feel quite right. There is a niggling feeling of genre incompatibility, with hard drives and monitors seemingly more conducive to sheepskin wearing glory.But for PC-less footy fans, this is your only choice on Dreamcast and, considering the lack of competition, AAA has done a solid job.If you own both a PC and a DC, then forget it; Champ Manager is cheaper and infinitely superior. But, considering its format limitations, Giant Killers has lifted itself above mid-table mediocrity.  (GH)Alone in the Dark: The new nightmareSony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Darkworks/ Infogrames ***Although survival horror began in the movies, it has been scaring the games world ever since 3D Ant Attack on the ZX Spectrum. One of the early contenders was Alone in the Dark, a genuinely creepy PC adventure that spawned two reasonable sequels. So has the old timer still got what it takes, or is it too badly decomposed?The first shock is not altogether welcome. AITD has definitely been shaken by Capcom's successful Resident    Evil series. The game engine seems almost identical, with superior graphics but at the loss of the original's Gallic charm. The game begins with a clueless agent standing outside a building, piecing together clues about Shadow Island by discovering documents or occasional radio transmissions and running like hell. Similar, too, is the   movement, with an irritating eight-directional control, making it hard even to negotiate your way down a corridor. The game would have been more playable were it in a first-person perspective but consoles excel at this perspective, so that is what we get.There are plenty of original touches, though. The torch casts an atmospheric pool of   light that both reveals hidden items and scares away smaller monsters. The music (by The Police's Stuart Copeland) is excellent, as are the sound effects in general. It is also a long game with plenty of replay value.Does this sound like scraping the barrel? Well, yes - AITD is a competent adventure with loads of locations to visit, more than 20 characters to interact with, and around 190 monsters to dispatch.Unfortunately, it is too like Resident Evil for comfort, and the genre has moved on a great deal since then. Undying on the PC proved that you can combine the tension of survival horror with the speed and immediacy of a shoot-'em-up and compared to that, AITD seems sluggish and predictable. It is a shame, but AITD no longer packs the punch it once did. Sorry.  (MA)Harvest Moon: Back to NatureSony PlayStation	&#163;19.99 Natsume/ Ubi Soft ***If you combined Sim Farm, Maxis's farming simulation, with bits of The Sims, and presented it as a role-playing game, the result would be pretty close to Harvest Moon.Given the success of those Maxis games, the combination could also be very popular - certainly, Harvest Moon's fans rate it very highly.Though new to me, the belated PlayStation version has been preceded by Bokujo Monogatari or Harvest Moon games for the Super Nintendo (SNES) and Nintendo 64, and three versions for the Game Boy.Actually, Harvest Moon: Back to Nature comes across a lot like a Game Boy game. The graphics are nice and detailed, but the screen designs have a GB-like simplicity. The sound effects are GB-like chirps. The hero - you - wears a baseball cap back to front and has the big eyes and big feet typical of cutesy Japanese characters in Nintendo games.The problem with the game is that it is a very slow starter. The intro seems to go on forever and, when you   start running what was once your grandpa's farm, you still don't have much of a clue what to do. However, the basic idea is that you have to plant seeds, water the plants, buy and tend chickens, cows and sheep, and generally run the place at a profit.You can also woo one of a handful of village beauties, and perhaps marry your childhood sweetheart.Unlike Sim City or The Sims, however, you can't just leave HMBTN running.You have to remember to hug your dog every day, talk to the horse, feed the sheep and so on: the chores have to be done. However, you should be able to find time to explore the area, relax in a hot spring, and play mini games such as Chicken Sumo and the annual Town Tomato Fight. These relieve what can become tedium.HMBTN is rated OK for ages three and up, and Ubi Soft reckons the target market is 8-12 year olds. They may need some parental help, and this looks like a good family game. (Virtue is rewarded: skiving off is not). It also has a lot of depth, so it should appeal to older players, too - as long as they are not put off by the Japanese graphics and sound.Harvest Moon does not provide instant gratification, but it could grow on you.  (JS)
Sid's linksSid Meier, the game designer behind Civilization, Colonisation and Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri, has been talking to Maxis's Will Wright, the man behind Sim City and The Sims, about SimGolf. The game involves building and managing a golf course, just like Sim City.The two programmers have been competitors for almost two decades. However, things have changed since Meier left Microprose (which was swallowed by Hasbro Interactive, which was sold to Infogrames) and Maxis was taken over by Electronic Arts. EA will publish SimGolf on the Maxis label later this year. See Gamespot athttp://gamespot.com/gamespot/stories/previews/0,10869,2717147-1,00.htmlMeier has been developing SimGolf at Firaxis, the company he co-founded after Microprose. Meanwhile, devotees of intelligent war-gaming are waiting for the company to ship Civilization III. Still, progress is being made, according to the Civ III website (seewww.firaxis.com/civ3).ResultsElectronic Arts, the biggest independent producer of computer and video games, has reported annual revenues down slightly to $1.3bn. In the last quarter, the company lost $12m on sales worth $307m.Larry Probst, its chairman and chief executive, said: "PlayStation and Nintendo 64 sales declined significantly and were only partially offset by PlayStation 2 sales, which were hampered by shortages of PlayStation 2 hardware."EA had 14 PS2 titles out for Christmas and claimed a 40% market share for the format.Activision, which did not bet heavily on the PS2, fared better. Its annual sales increased by 8.4% to $620m,   and it turned in a profit of $21m, compared with last year's $34m loss.However, Activision is thought to be working on 13 games for Microsoft's Xbox console.On the wayChampionship Manager, the essential football management game, is to make its first appearance on a games console: Sports Interactive is   developing a version for Microsoft's Xbox. It is due to be a "European launch title".Sky-diving fans who also like surfing might be tempted by Skysurfer, from Swing Entertainment, which is supposed to combine both. It should be out on the PlayStation 2 this summer.Space combat fans who also like first person shooters will find the two combined in Maelstrom, according to Virgin Interactive. The game should be out for the PS2 at Christmas. And while we're future-gazing, Revolution Software is developing Good Cop Bad Cop, which should be out on next-generation consoles towards the end of next year. This is "the ultimate cop game", says the company.
Mind the gapYour report on the use of the internet by political parties missed out on one of the biggest problems for the unwary voter - the number of sites claiming to provide comprehensive links to MPs and candidates but which in fact have many gaps in their records.Both the Guardian and the Independent have printed in the last few months stories criticising politicians for not having more websites which were in fact predicated on surveys that, at least in the case of the Liberal Democrats, seriously undercounted the number of sites.Rather ironically, another example of this problem is one of the sites which the article mentions,www.ukpolitics.org.uk. Similarly the Parliament website mentioned has often had problems with gaps in its information.A far more reliable source is theDMOZ catalogueor the political parties' own web sites.Mark Packmarkpack@cix.co.ukClassic noteJohn King (Feedback May 10) may rest assured that there's plenty of classical music accessible through RealPlayer.Try Radio 3 at:www.bbc.co.uk/radio3or the more eclectic Dutch station, de Concert-zender atwww.concertzender.nlfor starters. It seems to me that John is confusing the medium with the content. RealPlayer delivers music: the presets that come with it are just to get you started. After that it's up to you.Entering "classical radio europe" in Google gives plenty of hits...Peter Gillingsp.gillings@ic.ac.ukMini marvelsI was pleased to read that 8cm CDs are making a comeback, albeit for MP3-encoded   material. I bought quite a few of these tiny little marvels in the late 80s, when you could get an 8cm, 4-track, 20min CD single for about &#163;3.50.Not only are they easy to handle when out and about, but they play without skipping even in a non-buffered portable CD player, because they are smaller and hence stiffer than 12cm disks and so are not as affected by shaking.They also represent the reason why Sony bought Columbia Pictures and other content providers in the 1990s. The 8cm format CD was intended by Sony to be the definitive format for singles in the future, and Sony also produced a beautiful little portable CD player to play them - it was about the size of today's mini-disc players, years before they were invented.The idea failed because few companies would release material on to the format. From then on, Sony and other hardware makers bought up content providers so they could ensure there was enough "software" available for their hardware.Chris Rogerschristopher.rogers@glmca.mcs.gov.ukOS X-ratedIn his review of the new iBook, Neil McIntosh wonders whether the 500MHz G3 processor is sufficient for OS X. I am running an original iBook with a 300MHz processor with OS X installed and have encountered no problems, although it does reduce the amount of disk space I have left.Philip Smithphilip.smith@clara.co.uk
Last week, in the dying days of this parliament, the government did the unexpected: it nationalised something: your health records.Clause 65 of the Health and Social Care Act, rushed through parliament at the end of last week, allows the health secretary to open your newly computerised records to any organisation he considers in the public interest - requiring neither your consent nor knowledge. Patient and privacy groups are furious this has taken place without consultation or debate.During its third reading in the House of Lords on May 3, Labour minister Lord Hunt said that "informed consent" will be the aspiration, ie the government will try to gain your informed permission before access is given.But an amendment from the Conservatives to make such consent compulsory was not included."If the clause is passed into law in its present form... it will cause irreparable damage to the relationship of trust between clinicians and their patients," said Conservative peer Earl Howe, describing the move as the "sovietisation of British medicine".Instead, the government allowed an amendment requiring the health secretary to consult a statutory advisory committee. This body's advice will be fully published before patients' files are opened without their knowledge or consent, but the committee's   findings will not be binding. Such requests will also need to be passed by parliament.Why does the health secretary want these powers? Health records are increasingly held on computer, making them easier to process and analyse. The National Health Service is slowly implementing a system of standardised electronic patient records which, over the next few years, will supplant paper and non-compatible computerised patient data. Furthermore, in a few years' time, your health records could include a record of your DNA.However, the particular trigger for this clause is that use of personal data without consent is illegal under the Data Protection Act of 1998. Under these principles, if you give your doctor information to help cure you, it should not be used for any other purpose without your permission - except for containing the spread of contagious diseases such as tuberculosis, where permission-seeking is suspended under a provision allowing data release if there is a medical necessity.But doctors also pass on data to organisations such as cancer registries, which track   and analyse cases of the disease. Last December, doctors' regulator the General Medical Council (GMC) said the privacy laws meant medical staff should halt this transfer. "It became quite clear that just about every doctor in the land was breaking the law," says a spokesperson for the GMC, which delayed implementation of its advice until October 2001 to allow time for a solution to be found.Separately, in 1999 the government had lost a court case against a firm called Source Informatics, which collected anonymous prescription data to use in sending targeted mailings to doctors - rather like supermarkets using loyalty card information to send potential customers junk mail."The government was concerned (the firm's targeted mailing) would have put up the NHS drugs bill," says Lyn Whitfield, the editor of Health Service Journal's IT supplement. To stop this, the clause in question contained   provisions to control use of prescription data by companies, yet allow detailed patient data use with the health secretary's permission.In the Lords, the Conservatives argued that using anonymous prescription data for targeted mailing was fine, but using personal patient data without permission was not. Labour chose to agree with the first of these points, dropping the section opposed by business, but retaining the section opposed by patient and some medical groups. The Liberal Democrats chose to side with Labour, quoting comments from the Information Commissioner Elizabeth France, who examines abuse of data protection laws. France's office says her comments should not be taken as a political endorsement of the clause.After the wrangling, almost no one is happy. Medical researchers are furious. This is partly due to concern that the advisory body will not be able to agree research by October - the Cancer Research Campaign is calling for this deadline to be pushed back - but there is a more fundamental reason.Ben Traynor, a doctor writing for the Guardian's health pages last month, put forward    the argument that asking for patients' permission produces "consent bias" in medical data, as certain types of people (such as the mentally ill) are more likely to refuse to allow their information to be used (www.guardian.co.uk/Archive/Article/0,4273,4169457,00.html).But Dr Fleur Fisher, a campaigner for healthcare privacy, argues that the new act will produce "non-consent bias": some people will effectively remove their data by refusing to reveal health problems."Immigrants and refugees, if they feel their data will be accessed, will be very hesitant about seeking health care," Fisher argues. "Also, young professional women are very protective about their health information, given the fallacious judgments that are made on the basis of whether someone has had a sexually transmitted disease or a termination."In one way, this is more damaging than consent bias, where data may be skewed, but at least those wanting medical privacy receive treatment.Dr Richard Sullivan, head of clinical programmes for the Cancer Research Campaign, argues that cancer registries have an exemplary record of maintaining confidentiality, and can be trusted with patient records. "Research is peer-reviewed, it goes through ethical committees," he says. "It's up to us to explain why   this research is important."Some think the government's compromise of a statutory advisory committee provides adequate safeguards for patients. "We were quite angry about the original clause," says a GMC spokesman. "But we're absolutely delighted with what we have now." A similar committee for social security, set up in 1993, has never been overridden by the equivalent secretary of state, he adds.But others disagree. "Putting the advisory committee, which is something we are participating in, on a statutory basis is a step forward," says Gary Robjent, parliamentary officer for the   British Medical Association, which represents general practitioners. "However, there is nothing on the face of the Act that explains that in the first instance, confidential patient information will only be used if consent is sought. The government has given assurances - but governments and ministers are transient."Simon Williams, assistant director of the Patients' Association, goes further. "We're very disappointed this wasn't dropped. We consider it an abuse of power, and damaging to the doctor-patient relationship."Although the government said its motivation was to pro tect the data-flow to cancer registries, the health secretary can - if parliament agrees - allow other organisations access. "This thing about cancer registries has only come up since the row broke out," says Lyn Whitfield at Health Service Journal. She points out that within the NHS, there are organisations such as a prescription fraud-busting squad, who could certainly make use of records.At the Cancer Research Campaign, Dr Sullivan admits that clause 65 gives the health secretary powers that could be "a double-edged sword". He says new privacy legislation specifically for health research is needed. Data protection   laws now require specific consent to be sought from a cancer sufferer to allow their records to be used by the cancer registries, he says. Asking general permission to use a patient's medical data is not allowed: "It's not like having a donor card." Sullivan favours an opt-out system, where patients concerned for their privacy could exclude themselves.And Caspar Bowden, the director of the IT think-tank the Foundation for Information Policy Research, says uses for our health data could be found elsewhere within government. A government white paper already contains plans to detain people with personality disorders before   they commit a crime - and evidence for such disorders could be found within health records."Under the Data Protection Act, use of, for example, genetic data would be subject to a test of necessity," says Bowden, if it were for use on health grounds. "Under this clause, this can be overridden on the grounds of expediency, in perpetuity. Eternal vigilance is now required."The health secretary now has permanent, wide-ranging powers to grant access to your health data without your knowledge - and not just for causes you might support. Did you even know it was up for grabs?Genetic codes on a smart cardThe information revolution goes far beyond patient records. In June 2000, scientists announced the completion of the first draft of the human genome project - a three billion letter "text" of the entire DNA of a representative human.This was just a beginning. Researchers are now beginning to decipher the millions of tiny variations in the genetic code which account for the tiny differences between individual humans - and the differences in their medical histories. Researchers already have the complete DNA sequence of a growing number of parasites and infectious microbes.Such genetic data, combined with the actual medical records of a nation, will open a kind of Klondyke for doctors, disease researchers and drugs companies. In many cases, scientists will have the complete, detailed instruction manual for both the infection and the victim. Knowing the works of pathogen and host so intimately, they should be able to predict exactly where to throw the spanner to halt the disease with the fewest side effects.But they still have to work out what genes do, how they do it, and why they do what they do at a particular time. Experiments with fruit flies, nematode worms and mice will answer some questions - but the real answers will come from matching individual genetic information against real lives. The Medical Research Council, the Wellcome Trust and others are hoping to compile a register of 500,000 middle-aged volunteers who will donate their DNA and then take part in a 20-year study of their health and survival rates. Individual case studies won't answer many questions . But a huge experiment involving all kinds of people could throw new light on why some people die and why some survive better than others.Such research will open the way to new treatments that will ease suffering and save lives. But it also raises huge questions of personal privacy. Who does such data belong to? Who should have access to it, and under what circumstances?The questions are real: increasingly, patients will be monitored in their own homes, and consult programs called expert systems before seeing a "real" doctor. And when they do, the consultant could be a face on a screen many miles away, accessing data by optical link. How do we prepare for a world in which people will carry not just their medical histories, but their entire genetic code, on smart cards?Yesterday, the European Commission announced &#163;12m investment in "bio informatics." The future is on the way. Are we ready for it?  (TR)
Your brain, with its billions of neurones, is more powerful than the mightiest supercomputer. So why do you have so much trouble multiplying 573 by 617? And why can't you remember where you left the car keys? According to Australian scientists, the fault lies with our higher-level thinking which blots out a whole range of skills we would otherwise be able to use. New research suggests that there may be a way to release these hidden talents. But there may be a danger.Some people - known as autistic savants - have no problem with lightning calculations. They can work out what day of the week any given date falls on in an instant. Others draw architecturally accurate pictures from memory after a single glance, or repeat a tune note-perfect.The character portrayed by Dustin Hoffman in Rain Man was based on a number of real savants. These skills are rare among autistic people, but the question is why they occur at all. Is this a kind of compensation mechanism, or something more complex?There are competing theories of autism, but it is generally accepted that, while autistic people perceive the details of the world, they do not make connections and grasp it as a whole. They lack "global processing".If you were shown a scene with some trees and a row of houses, your attention would be grabbed if smoke and flames were billowing out of one window. This is the most memorable feature and if you were to describe the scene, that is what you would concentrate on.An autistic viewer might be struck equally by every single detail. The smoke and flames might be no more noteworthy than an unusual arrangement of roof tiles. It seems the autistic brain does not have an editor, so every bit of information is presented to the conscious mind. This is why autistic people tend to find new situations overwhelming.Autism occurs in varying degrees. At the mildest end are people with Asperger's Syndrome. They tend to be punctual, meticulous and often completely absorbed in a hobby such as model trains or computer programming. They have good memories and powers of concentration, but tend to be awkward in social situations whose unwritten rules they find incomprehensible.Difficulties with communication are a consistent feature of autism, although there is some evidence that autistic people may be able to communicate better with each other than with non-autistics.At the extreme end of the autistic spectrum are those who never learn to speak. They fail to develop what psychologists call a theory of mind - the understanding that other people have thoughts and feelings. They may not even be able to recognise the shifting patterns of light around them as other human faces. This leaves the profoundly autistic locked in their own world, remote from contact with others.Early theories of autism considered it to be a mental illness related to schizophrenia. It is now recognised as a neurological condition in which a crucial part of the brain fails to develop.According to Allan Snyder and John Mitchell   of the Centre for the Mind at the University of Canberra, this is what allows savant skills to emerge. They believe that all of us have the ability to see and remember the world in detail, but that the information is filtered out by high-level processes before it is allowed to reach our conscious mind. Autistic types may not get the big picture, but they can tap into brain functions like unconscious calculation and eidetic (photographic) memory.An alternative theory of autism suggests that the features of autism, such as the appreciation of fine detail, are developed as an alternative to central coherence. According   to this view, savant skills are developed in isolated brain areas, and there is no equivalent in the non-autistic brain.Transcranial magnetic stimulation has given researchers the opportunity to investigate these theories. TMS involves applying a modulated magnetic field to stimulate or suppress activity in a specific area of the brain.Robyn Young at Flinders University and Michael Ridding of the Royal Adelaide Hospital carried out an experiment to find out how applying a field to the frontal temporal lobe would affect volunteers' ability to carry out a task.The results, as yet to be published, show that TMS could improve function. Some volunteers were better at calculating days of the week, while others could draw a horse more accurately from memory under the   influence of TMS.The details are yet to be released, and only 17 volunteers were involved, but the effect certainly seems to be real. The test subjects did not    show anything as dramatic as the skills of autistic savants, but these are early days. Further experiments with different skills and different parts of the brain will follow,   and the technique will be refined. If Snyder and Mitchell are correct, we all have tremendous potential.The prospects are exciting, but any application will be delayed until we know whether there are any long-term effects. As with autism, there is likely to be a trade-off of mental skills - Young and Ridding found that their subjects had a reduced short-term memory when TMS was applied.History shows that performance-enhancing drugs often turn out to have side- effects. During the second world war, millions of amphetamines were issued to air crew and other personnel who needed to stay alert for long periods. Only later was it discovered that the drug could produce psychosis.However, millions of people are already engaged in an experiment of this kind.   Mobile phones expose the brain to electromagnetic radiation. The field is much weaker than that used in TMS, but it has a detectable effect on the brain.Dr Alan Preece of the Bristol Royal Infirmary carried out tests which showed that a simulated mobile phone field could improve reaction time. The mechanism involved is not yet clear.The effects of a mobile phone call persist after the exposure ends. Swiss researchers found that brain activity was altered for up to three-quarters of an hour   after calling. A form of TMS has been used successfully to treat depression, with daily sessions lasting half an hour for two weeks. This can lift depression for up to six months. It seems electromagnetic fields can leave their imprint on the brain for quite some time. If you just want to fire up you magnetic brain-booster to do your annual accounts, you do not want to be locked in savant calculator mode for a week.There is a great deal still to be discovered. The initial findings should lead to a greater understanding of autism and the workings of the brain in general.The good news is that we may be able to reshape brain function at will, using magnetic fields to bring out hidden talents. The bad news is that we may already be doing so unwittingly.
Damian Aspinall, son of the late entrepreneur John Aspinall, is betting on his family's 40-year association with gambling by bringing his online casino company to the stock market in a deal worth &#163;45m.Aspinalls Online will be formed by reversing Mr Aspinall's privately owned internet casino group GVI into Gaming Investments, an AIM-listed cash shell where he is also a director.Mr Aspinall said GVI was growing at a rate of 50% per annum and last year recorded a &#163;3.5m pretax profit from a &#163;10.9m turnover. "This will be the first profitable internet company to float in the UK," he said. "Apart from porn, gambling is the only business model that appears to be working on the internet."GVI is registered in Bermuda and will soon open a gaming portal offering casinos, sports betting and a VIP club for high-rollers.Dozens of similar offerings have sprung up but Mr Aspinall believes that his family's name will count. "With a lot of these online gaming guys you don't know whether you're going to get paid, whether the odds are fair or if your credit card details are going to be nicked. The Aspinalls have been around for 40 years; people trust the name."Gaming Investments will fund the acquisition and the raising of a further &#163;5m by issuing new shares to shareholders in GVI and new investors.
One great thing about email is that you can now send pictures, programs, MP3 music files and pirated clips of first-run
   movies by attaching them to messages. The disadvantage is that people can send you the same sorts of things, clogging up
   your mailbox and bumping up your phone bill as you spend hours downloading rubbish you don't want.So think twice before you use the information in this step-by-step, or better still, ask first. If you send people large
   pictures they don't want, you can expect to be "flamed" (sent vituperative email) and may be added to the recipient's list of
   "blocked senders". 
   Before sending a picture, find out how big it is. The size is shown alongside the file name if you opt to see details in the file
   manager, such as Windows Explorer.If you view files as icons, check the picture's properties sheet. To do this in Microsoft Windows, right-click the file and
   select Properties from the menu. On an Apple Macintosh, highlight the file's icon and select Get Info from the Finder menu.If the picture is between 50K and about 200K, you should be OK. A 56k modem can download a 200K image file in about a
   minute. However, if you have taken the pic ture on a digital camera, or created it by scanning a print, it could easily be five
   or 10 times that size. If so, you will need to use a paint program to convert it to a smaller JPEG (.jpg) file. 
   Resize the image so that the longest side is no more than about 600-800 pixels, and if it is still too large, reduce the
   quality.My sample picture of Maxis founder Will Wright, creator of Sim City and The Sims, had a resolution of 1050 by 1680
   pixels - far too big for an average 800 by 600 pixel screen - so I reduced it to 420 by 672 pixels in Paint Shop Pro. This also
   reduced the file size from 106K to 30K, which should only take a few seconds to download.Move the new file to a convenient directory, such as C:\My Documents\My Pictures in Windows. 
   A picture is actually sent as an encoded text file. However, you won't need to learn how to encode and decode it: your mail
   software will do it for you. You only have to send it.Step by step1 Run your email program: in this case, we'll use Outlook Express 5.2 Click the New Mail icon on the far left of the toolbar.3 Click on To: and select the person you want to email from the address book.4 Type in a subject line and message in the usual way.5 Click on Attach, the paperclip icon on the toolbar. (Or go to the Insert menu and select File Attachment.)6 When the File Open dialog box appears, select the file you want to send.7 Click on Attach: Outlook Express will attach the file to the message. A new section is added to the header to give the name
   and size of the attachment.8 Click on Send. The message will be saved in the Outbox until you next send and receive a batch of email. Click on the
   Outbox and you can look at the message to see that the picture has been attached correctly.9 Click on the toolbar icon marked Send/Recv, to send and receive all mail. The message will be sent, and a copy stored in
   the Sent Items folder.It can be hard to see a picture properly while it is attached to a message. However, the attachment can be saved separately.
   In Outlook Express, you can either right-click on the image and select Save Picture As, or go to the File menu and select
   Save Attachments. 
   Unfortunately, Outlook Express does not provide a simple way to detach the attachment, so that you can delete it without
   deleting the email message as well.&#149;  Next week: Sending emails to groups of people
It may sound like a road safety campaign from the 70s, but today the Green Cross Code is just one example of how charities are harnessing the power of the internet to lobby political parties in the run up to the general election.The Green Cross Code is an internet campaign run by Friends of the Earth (FoE). The idea behind it is not new. "Every pressure group asks supporters to write to their MPs," says Martin Williams, FoE spokesman.However, there are problems with this traditional call to arms."The trouble is that many people don't know who their MP is, or what constituency they live in. Our website gives people access to this information by simply tapping in their postcode."During the general election campaign supporters are able to find out who is standing in their constituencies. They are also able to download a template letter expressing their concern about environmental issues. This can be posted or faxed to the candidates. Alternatively, if they click a few more drop boxes on screen, the letter can be dispatched directly to the would-be MPs via email.Williams stresses that FoE has been offering this type of service to supporters for years. The new technology has just made the process much more efficient. "We used to mail out huge lists of different candidates and addresses to supporters. The internet is very good for enabling people to sort out data quickly and easily."While FoE has developed their internet campaign themselves, other charities are using the services of Advocacy Online. This internet service company develops and runs online campaigns for voluntary organisations.During this election it is running a site for Age Concern which allows browsers and supporters of this charity to lobby candidates about issues affecting older people. Like the FoE site it generates details about parliamentary candidates based on people's postcode. It also allows browsers to send letters to the local media as well."Our target base is the 'silver surfer', the older people using the internet," says Age Concern's Emma Aldridge. "This site allows grassroots people to have their say. We provide model letters but we emphasise that they need to be customised and related to personal experiences."Most voluntary organisations can also improve their campaigns by using the internet. Richard Hebditch, parliamentary officer at National Council for Voluntary Organisations says: "It offers the means by which supporters can lobby. It also provides the information for people to lobby themselves. All in all, it's very empowering."Globe View 2001 is an alliance of 29 organisations, including Oxfam, Action Aid and Save the Children, seeking all-party action on international issues. Supporters can download Vote For Me campaign posters, which display pictures of children from the developing world.The major environment campaigns have also come together to sponsor a site called vote-environment.org.uk. This allows the public to compare the main political parties' stance on key green issues. Again, it can generate personalised letters and emails but these can only be sent to party headquarters rather than the candidates themselves.All campaigners are keen to know how many people take part and how effective they are. Technology provided by Advocacy Online allows Age Concern to do this. Graham Covington, its managing director, said: "When supporters send an email to politicians or the media from the site this triggers a follow-up email from Age Concern. This is sent to the supporter a fortnight later asking if they got a response."Mr Covington argues strongly that online campaigning is not about "sending 10,000 emails to crash politicians' computers", rather, "it seeks to develop on line communities which, over time, will work and campaign together".He says that online campaigning has not replaced traditional "off-line" techniques. In time, he argues, campaign groups will migrate to online campaigning because it is much easier to use.Most campaign groups are keen to develop new ways to use the internet to improve their campaigning and to involve their supporter bases and advocacy work.The Future Foundation's Joe Saxton shares this enthusiasm. He does, however, cast doubt over whether it will have much effect during the election period: "It's the one time when politicians are away from their PCs and laptops. They are in the real world talking to people on their doorsteps. Most will not have time to even open their emails."
A major rift is looming in English cricket over negotiations for the sale of online and wireless rights, which could net the game &#163;100m over the next 10 years.A disagreement between the England and Wales Cricket Board and the First Class Forum, one of its constituent bodies, may be brought to a head this afternoon.A meeting of the forum at Lord's will receive a report of a working party, set up under the chairmanship of Robert Griffiths QC to seek bidders for the rights. The report is expected to recommend proceeding to the next stage of negotiations.The working party, commissioned by the First Class Forum and with members not only from the 18 first-class counties but the Professional Cricketers' Association, MCC, the ECB itself and Team England, is representative of all aspects of the English first-class game.But senior members of the ECB are believed to be against the working party continuing   negotiations on its behalf; it seems to believe that the tail is wagging the dog. Instead it wants to keep things in-house. The disagreement may cause a massive rift between the game's governing body and those who play it, and dis- rupt talks at least in the short term.Already, after a week in which it has been announced that Australian cricketers will have annual earnings in excess of A$1m (&#163;360,000) within three years, Griffiths has referred to the massive potential for top England players of the future to earn sums "beyond the wildest dreams of the present generation"."Remuneration traditionally has been linked to ticket sales and broadcasting rights," he explained yesterday, "but online and wireless rights extend way beyond that. These are very exciting times."The role of the working party has been to take the online rights and the secondary rights relating to mobile-phone technology and to find a bidder. Griffiths has succeeded in doing this, gaining "significant" interest from   telecom companies, and he believes the working party is in a position to proceed to the next stage of negotiation, with revised bids and hopes of completing deals within the next two months.One such part of the negotiations could be the sale of the online rights to Channel 4, which has already had its television contract extended by two years and is believed to own some part of the rights already, through a negotiating oversight by the ECB when the original deal was drawn up. Such a sale, though, would require all the constituent groups to come together in agreement.Cricket is uniquely placed among sports for online development, with its deep statistical and historical base, the astounding global interest especially in Asia, and the massive potential in, for example, the development of internet betting."It is incredible that what is essentially a Victorian game can have such a huge potential. We cannot afford not to take advantage of this," Griffiths said.
British Telecom has delayed the launch of the world's first commercial 3G mobile phone network after a software bug crashed its prototype phones.BT planned to unveil the revolutionary service in the Isle of Man later this month, but the company's main equipment supplier has told the telecoms group to put its plans on hold.BT has pushed back the launch to the end of the summer after Japanese firm NEC said it would not be able to fix the bug in time.A BT spokesman denied that there had been a row with the technology company."There is no row between us. But we have decided to put the launch back to the end of summer," he said."There is a glitch with the software and we are working flat out to get it stabilised."The software bug cuts off mobile phone users as soon as they move out of the range of the transmitter that originally connected the call.The glitch prevents the phone from connecting to another base station and means that customers cannot use a phone while on the move.Despite today's setbacks, BT still expects to be the first operator to launch a commercial 3G service in Europe.The 3G mobile phone will offer high-speed internet access and video images, with BT paying 9.5bn for the licences that allow companies to offer the services."When we come to launch we still expect to be the first in Europe and possibly the first in the world to launch 3G," added the spokesman.However, the delay is bad news for a telecoms sector that has been battered by mounting concerns over the value of 3G networks.Related stories14.05.2001: Bland kept out of BT licence talks11.05.2001: Agency's decision adds to BT's debt11.05.2001: BT under pressure on Yellow Pages11.05.2001: BT holds out begging bowl11.05.2001: BT lost the plot, shareholders lose the dividend11.05.2001: Cutting BT down to size10.05.2001: Bonfield hangs onMediaGuardian.co.uk special reportBT in crisis
"HELLO SEXY," says the message. "MY NAME IS HEIDI AND ME AND MY FRIEND ARE HORNY. CLICK HERE TO CUM JOIN THE ORGY PARTY NOW". Welcome to the world of myHotmailinbox. This is spam: every time I'm logged on, friends of Heidi visit like persistent - and, I should point out, uninvited - door-to-door salesmen.But then, it's never been hard to find porn on the net. For those on the lookout the stuff is everywhere, not just on websites but in newsgroups and chat rooms - and, according to a new survey, those on the lookout increasingly include children and teenagers.The research, from net monitoring agency NetValue (you can read it atuk.netvalue.com), found that one in five online under-17s use porn sites - remaining for an average of 28 minutes.     On one level it's surprising that the number isn't higher. The survey also found that more than one in nine children under 17 connect to the net at home - and that the UK is second only to Norway in the numbers of young users. The number of under-17s online in the UK has grown by 44% over the past six months, from more than 1m in October to almost 1.5m in March.Under-11s account for 249,000 users in the UK, with 1,236,000 users aged between 11 and 16.  There is web-based software that is now available to stop children accessing unsavoury sites - which can be so stringent that news sites often find themselves closed off. But any imaginative teenager can get round those restrictions in 10 minutes and access what they like. According to the survey, more than one in four also visit gambling sites, which shows exactly how ineffective age restrictions on websites are.Just as we wouldn't have the video industry today without porn, we wouldn't have commercial websites either - almost all web e-commerce models were originally tried out on adult sites. A friend working at a web broadcaster tells how all the video editors would scour adult sites for hints on improving their live streaming. "Look at the pixellation on that," would be the cry.  And many, many net operations were built, at least partly, on porn. TakeYahoo!for instance, which has caused a minor revolution among some of its users by withdrawing adult material from its sites. Go to Yahoo! UK now, type the word "porn" into a search engine and it will bring up a worthy page titled "pornography issues" and an interesting article in Salon magazine about Louis Theroux - but not much else.     It's a far cry from the old days of Yahoo!, which has sold X-rated products for two years and even employed staff who specifically surfed adult sites for the directories and placed sex banner advertising on connected searches.Now that is officially over, after the Los Angeles Times ran a piece criticising a decision by the portal apparently upping the amount of porn content. Following the French court case over the auction of Nazi memorabilia on the net, the last thing it needed was another outcry. So Yahoo said it would cease selling adult products, and accepting banner ads from porn sites, and   auctioning adult movies, and would cut down on sex-related message boards and chat rooms.   It's not alone:Lycosis reassessing its porn policy andMSNhas reaffirmed its blanket ban. Big search engines likeGoogleandAltaVistastill return adult content without question but the general move is towards a more Disney-fied net.But this fails to deal with the root cause. In the same way that a video and TV in the bedroom can be used as a substitute for childcare, surely any parent who provides unlimited access to the net for a young teenager is more responsible than the portals and gateways for what those teenagers access?     At least the video market is regulated in a consistent way. How much worse is the potential of the net, where regulation is an Orwellian nightmare. And there is no system yet that would work. For a start, it would have to be international and run by a body with clout - can you imagine some official at the UN publishing approval ratings for a website?This is the question that they face: mainstream portals blocking access to porn won't stop it existing or prevent the insatiable demand for it. But what it could do is take away the essential principle of the net: the free movement of information. And, sooner or later, someone will have to deal with that.There is one issue missing from this debate, of course. It's that now old fashioned word: "exploitation". While middle-class parents worry about what their child is up to in the bedroom, there is another group forgotten by them and, I suspect, by web users too. This group is largely silent, witness only to the whims of someone with a webcam or a digital camera. These are the children of the same age who feature in the same websites. They could do with some concern, too.&#149; Simon Rogers is deputy editor ofGuardian Unlimited
&#149; Diary is pleased to bring you yet another gob-smacking, must-enter competition. Courtesy of Pagecount, diary has five dot.com monopoly sets to give away - well somebody has to give them away seeing as most of the "properties" are, ahem, currently in limbo. But they're the kitschest, most essential coffee table accessory a net-kid can boast, and everyone wants one. Honest. What feat do you have to perform to land one? Simple: just send an email to yours truly with your own entries for a dot.com graveyard monopoly board.  And we may even develop our own version of the game ...&#149; Diary is busy saving up for Zoom, Arcadia and Associated Newspapers' ISP. While arguably Zoom is one of the better ISPs around, it is still fish-out-of-water territory for the retailer and the publisher, especially now that practically all the other fishies that threw money at ISPs a few years ago have got out. Publicly, Arcadia boss Stuart Rose has been hinting that Zoom is a "non-core loss-making asset" that he was not content to carry on supporting, but they daren't yet say the dreaded: that they'd like to offload it. Diary implores you Stuart - come to us first.&#149;AOL's been getting it in the neck lately, and quite deservedly. For yonks they have had subscribers by the short and curlies, locking them into a service that it is near-impossible to escape from. Public backlash ahoy. Radio 5 Live and BBC2's Working Lunch have got on the case, and punters have mailed Diary with their sad plight - how the heck do you end a subscription with AOL? Mr Michael Duffy, from Click Thinking, said it took him hours - and no fewer than 15 phone calls - to get connected to an operator on the cancellation line. Even then, they tried to talk him out of cancelling by offering him a free month. The cheek of it, says Duffy, who now has bunny-boiler nightmares every time he sees AOL's glamorous computer genie Connie pop up on TV. Nasty.&#149; An extraordinary marketing ploy from192.com, the scary information people database, landed in Diary's inbox last week. It claimed to be from a friend in "Sunny Barbados" - a Sarah Anderson (who?) at the email addressmailout@192.comwho says she'll "turn my business around" and fly me out to the Caribbean for free. Intrigued, Diary calls up the freephone number ("it patches straight through to me here on the beach") and discovered the rotten truth. "Oh it's just a marketing gimmick for 192.com's new CD-rom," pipes the girl at the other end, "I can enter you into the prize draw though if you like." Reassuringly she concludes: "Don't be worried, we've had a lot of people call up confused by the promotion." So clearly it worked then.&#149; Amy Vickers is new media editor ofMediaGuardian.co.ukamy.vickers@guardian.co.uk
