Korea&apos;s LG Electronics is said to be preparing to exit the traditional PC market, as worsening margins and sales make it uneconomic, presaging a shift to tablets, smartphones and &quot;hybrid&quot; PCs.The announcement could come at next week&apos;s Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, where LG will have one of the first press conferences of the whole event.According to the Korea Timesthe company has even considered a wholesale exit from Windows PCs as its sales have shrunk. The conglomerate is struggling to turn itself around as a number of its divisions compete in low-margin sectors such as TV and displays.Data provided to the Guardian by research company IDC suggests that LG has seen its PC shipments almost halve over the past three years, from 1.65m in 2010, to 1.48m in 2011, to 0.94m in 2012. IDC estimates that LG has shipped 0.67 million units through the first three quarters of the year – suggesting that its 2013 total will be less than that for 2012, at perhaps 0.91m after allowing for the seasonal uptick in fourth-quarter sales.At the same time, LG&apos;s management has instituted a policy in which all of its divisions have to become profitable by 2016, or face closure.That will put extra pressure on its PC business. While its smartphone business has yo-yoed in and out of profitability, it is unclear how profitable LG&apos;s PC business has been, especially given its small scale in the world market. The five largest manufacturers – HP, Lenovo, Dell, Acer and Asus – ship between 4m and 13m PCs per quarter, and collectively have more than 60% of the Windows PC market, leaving slim margins for other companies.Korea Times quotes an unnamed executive saying that &quot;The market for conventional PCs has been losing its lustre as smartphones and tablets are replacing the products. We are reviewing various options in a bid to improve the profitability of our computing business … it&apos;s true that LG has been allocating its resources to popular connected and portable devices.&quot;It also quoted another unnamed employee as saying: &quot;There will still be a need for traditional PCs for years yet, such as applications for PC gamers and enterprises. But it doesn&apos;t make sense to put more resources into the money-losing business.&quot;Another reason for the shift is that the Korean government has decided to favour smaller companies in buying PCs for state-owned companies, effectively shutting both LG and its larger Korean rival Samsung out of a key home market.LG includes PCs in its &quot;Home Entertainment&quot; division, which also includes TVs. It has made no mention of its PC business except to say that there has been &quot;slow demand&quot; and that it has focused instead on &quot;profitability operations&quot;.Samsung has also begun shifting away from conventional PCs, where it is a minority player shipping around 4m devices per year, in favour of other models such as &quot;hybrid&quot; computers with a detachable keyboard. Those, however, have not so far been hugely popular with consumers.The shift reflects broader changes in the PC market, whereshipments are expected to have declined by about 10.3% in 2013compared to 2012, and no significant change is expected in 2014.An LG spokesperson told the Guardian: &quot;LG&apos;s policy is not to comment on speculation.&quot;LG PC shipments, 2010-2013. Source: IDC. Figures for 4Q 2013 estimated by the Guardian based on first three quarters and expected 2% uplift from fourth-quarter sales. Photograph: /Guardian/IDC
Since the middle of the twentieth century, economic prosperity has been equated with a consumerist society with ownership at its core.But in today’s hyper-connected world, this view of the world is beginning to change. The abundance of assets along with the relative affordability of almost anything, high-tech consumer platforms, the digitisation of products, close-knit social media communities and the economic downturn of 2008 have all meant that collaborative consumption is flourishing.As children, many of us were used to bartering, swapping or trading. But these networks are now wired up globally, so this kind of networking and exchanging is second nature, even between strangers and across myriad commodities.eBay could be said to be the poster child of this movement, but many sectors have been disrupted. A raft of well established businesses seem here to stay, from travel (AirBnB) to transportation (Zipcar,Lyft) and fashion (GirlMeetsDress), crowdfunding (RocketHub,Kickstarter) and peer lending (Prosper) to collaborative inventing (Quirky) and skills (TaskRabbit,Zaarly), and from smart mobs to knowledge (Quora). What Quora shows is that even the expense of becoming an expert – through on-the-job experience, training programs, and education – is being shared between strangers.A hyper-consumption economy, to paraphraseMilton Friedman, is a “ponzi scheme” which clearly fell apart again in the last recession. It is true that most of the older generations who have lived their lives prioritizing private ownership are less ready to fully benefit from this trend. It is the young who are leading the way, understanding that it is not the DVD they want but the movie it carries, not the drill they need but the hole it creates, and the needs or experiences these assets fulfil rather than the assets themselves. Today time, experience and access trumps possession.In October 2012, GirlMeetsDress andParkatMyHousewere featured in a report produced by Zipcar called &apos;Pay-As-You-Live - the Business of Sharing in the UK. It revealed that this new pay-as-you-live lifestyle is changing the retail paradigm, with a market in the UK estimated at £22.4bn.The main reasons given for hiring, rather than buying were:• Cost per use – 60%• Not being able to afford to buy it – 53%• Depreciation in value – 38%• Ongoing maintenance costs – 45%• Flexibility to upgrade or change styles – 29%On a basic level GirlMeetsDress.com provides millions of women the ability to rent designer dresses and accessories for a fraction of the retail price, allowing them to look and feel beautiful for all of their social events. In reality we help create those &quot;Cinderella moments&quot; for hundreds of women every week, be it an 18-year-old wearing her dream Alexander McQueen dress to a prom, or a savvy hard-working executive that simply wants to wear an asymmetric ruffled yellow dress from the latest Lanvin collection.When we launched back in 2009, the recession mindset dominated. It meant that &quot;cost per use&quot; was a huge driver, as being smart with money and where to spend it was highly regarded.But it was also clear that people have since realised that experience and time are the most precious commodities we have, and that consequently ownership is becoming more irrelevant than ever before.•Xavier de Lecaros Aquisefounded his first startup after university before working in banking and tech investment, and then co-foundingGirlMeetsDressin 2009• This article was amended on 6 January 2014 to correct details of the Pay-As-You-Live report.
Every year, the Consumer Electronics Expo names one product the Best in Show. It&apos;s the one piece of kit which is supposed to sum up the show, and be the highest quality release of the upcoming year.The winners are chosen by the &quot;official media partner&quot; of CES. In 2014, that will be Engadget, but CNET had the role from 2005 to 2013, and TechTV had it before then.But with the benefit of hindsight, what they chose doesn&apos;t always look too good. How many of the products selected have actually gone on to blaze new trails in their categories? How many have become household names, and how many were just flash-in-a-pan trends?The best of show winners over the last ten years can be roughly split into three categories: the boring, the wrong, and the TVs.And the winner is.. boring!The boring category holds those winners which can&apos;t really tell us anything about the future of tech; awarded the top slot for quality, rather than blazing new trails, they were certainly good examples of their type, but just as certainly forgotten the instant a better version came out.That includes 2005&apos;s Best In Show, theYamaha YSP-1&quot;digital sound projector&quot;. A $2,000 speaker, the YSP-1 used digital modelling to bounce sounds off the walls and ceiling, in theory offering users surround sound without needing to install a full circle of speakers around them. But even by the time of its release two months later, reviewers were doubting this was worth the price increase, and the sound quality never quite lived up to promises.The LG model BH100 - 'Super Multi Blue' player which played discs in the Blu-ray and HD DVD format, shown during a news conference Sunday, Jan. 7, 2007 at CES. It won 'Best In Show'. Then it was redundant. Photograph: John Gurzinski/APAlso filed under boring is 2007&apos;s Best In Show, theLG Super Multi Blueplayer. It had a single purpose: be the first that could play both Blu-Ray and HD DVD discsin the same drive. For that privilege, you had to spend £1,000, enough to buy (in the words of gadget blog Crave) &quot;an Xbox 360 with the optional HD DVD drive, a PlayStation 3 and a Wii, and still have enough change for a bottle of overpriced lager from a tediously trendy London bar&quot;. And then, less than a year later,Toshiba abandoned the HD DVD format, ceasing all production of the discs and drives for the rival hi-def format.Then there&apos;s 2004&apos;s winner, theDenon NS-S100 multimedia server. Made by the Japanese high-end audiovisual equipment manufacturer, it was an A/V receiver, Sky+ style personal video recorder, and digital media streamer in one. Or, in other words, it let you play video that was stored on your computer on your TV. Inotherother words, it was 2004&apos;s equivalent of the Apple TV, another spectacularly underwhelming product which barely anyone bought because of the tiny niche it served.Great screen, shame about the...TVs may be able to fit into the boring category, but there&apos;s so damn many of them that it&apos;s worth breaking out into their own bracket. A TV - atelevision set- won the Best Of Show award in 2008, 2010 and 2012, each time telling us less about the future and more about where the hyper luxury end of the market was going.Philips&apos; 2008 winner, theEco TV, was a 42in LCD screen with a number of power saving features. Panasonic&apos;s 2010 winner was a3D TV(which got special praise for actually including a pair of the necessary 3D glasses). LG&apos;s 2012 winner was a55in TVthat used organic-LED technology to provide a brighter picture with a 4mm thick screen. At least the judging panel haven&apos;t yet seen fit to award the prize to the buzziest of buzzwords, the &quot;smart TV&quot;. (Though give it time...)And the winner is... wrongBut for a truly wonderful look at the scale of wrongness the CES awards panel go for, it&apos;s worth seeing the times they tried – and failed – to get the zeitgeist.Creative Zen Vision:M player - CES's Best in 2005. PRTake 2006&apos;s winner, theCreative Zen Vision:M. As with almost all of Creative&apos;s post-2001 audio players, it can best be described by the Apple product it&apos;s mimicking, in this case the device now known as the &quot;iPod Classic&quot;. The same height, and width, as an iPod, but thicker and heavier, the Zen&apos;s apparent edge was, as ever, in the features list: its screen had richer colour, it had an FM radio, a voice recorder, and could let users carry round their Outlook data.The Palm Pre, winner of 2009's Best Of Show at CES. And then... Photograph: Rick Wilking/Reuters/REUTERSThen there&apos;s 2009&apos;sPalm Pre. In fairness to the judges, the Pre was actually a noteworthy contender. With its &quot;Cards&quot; UI, it pre-empted Apple&apos;s iOS 7 multitasking by four years, and it featured clever hooks to get contact, email and calendar data wherever it was needed.But the smart ideas were underpinned by a slow operating system built entirely in HTML and a stubborn refusal to ditch the hardware qwerty keyboard which left the physical phone chunky and oversized. (Not actually as big as in the picture.)A little over a year later,HP acquired Palm, and brought out two final models of the Pre before shuttering the line completely in 2011.Motorola Xoom, CES 2011 winner. Photograph: Yoshikazu Tsuno/AFP/Getty ImagesIn 2011, CES was full of tablets, rushed out in the year since Apple&apos;s iPad started the race. It was clear that they were the consumer electronics story of the day, and the eventual winner, theMotorola Xoom, was arguably the best of the lot.Of course, given Apple&apos;s longstanding absence from CES, &quot;the lot&quot; was limited to the early Android tablets and the BlackBerry PlayBook, a tablet computer which required a separate phone to handle emails. By the time the Xoom actually came out, Apple had released the iPad 2, rectifying the biggest problems of the first and leaving even less room for error. The Xoom wasn&apos;t a terrible gadget, but it certainly wasn&apos;t the best device of the year. It wasn&apos;t even the best tablet of the year. And its shipment figures were awful -fewer than a million over three quarters.So when this year&apos;s best in show is announced, take a step back before assuming that it&apos;s a marker of the future. On past evidence, it&apos;s just as likely to be last year&apos;s trend in a fresh coat of paint.No pressure, Engadget.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBump Blog — All good things...Back in September,we announcedthat the Bump team was joining Google to continue our work of helping people share and interact with one another using mobile devices.We are now deeply focused on our new projects within Google, and we've decided to discontinue Bump and Flock. On January 31, 2014, Bump and Flock will be removed from the App Store and Google Play. After this date, neither app will work, and all user data will be deleted.We've taken much care to make sure that you can retain any data you have in Bump and Flock. At any point in the next 30 days, simply open either app and and follow the instructions for exporting your data. You'll then receive an email with a link containing all of your data (photos, videos, contacts, etc) from Bump or Flock.More holiday filings in Rockstar's battle with Google-Android &gt;&gt; The Essential Patent BlogRecall that Rockstar started asserting patents it acquired from Nortel by filing a lawsuit in E.D. Tex. on Halloween against Google and certain Android handset manufacturers (see ourNov. postthat also summarises Rockstar's acquisition of Nortel's patents).  On Christmas Eve, Google responded by filing aComplaintin N.D. Cal. seeking a declaratory judgment that the patents asserted against Android handsets are not infringed.On New Year's Eve, Rockstar responded by filing anAmended Complaintagainst Samsung that adds Google as a co-defendant based on Google's Nexus line of handsets manufactured by Samsung.Not unexpected. Things are going to get nasty.'Samsung, Apple in talks over patents' &gt;&gt; Korea TimesA senior Samsung Electronics executive said Thursday the firm is holding working-level discussions with Apple to find a breakthrough in their patent disputes."Yes. Working-level discussions are now underway," the top-level Samsung official said, confirming earlier reports by The Korea Times that the two firms have resumed "peace talks" to end their patent feud.Samsung earlier agreed with Apple to submit a joint settlement proposal before 8 January to the US federal Judge Lucy H. Koh, who has presided over the patent cases since 2011.They have another trial scheduled for March. They held settlement talks before the 2012 trial. Didn't result in a settlement.Tweeting "Happy New Year" around the world &gt;&gt; GithubSome Twitter code showing how greetings spread around the world, by country. Neat, and open source too.Singer Alicia Keys to leave role as BlackBerry's global creative director after year-long collaboration &gt;&gt; CTV NewsHer involvement with the company drew criticism from some outsiders who said, despite the decidedly corporate title, Keys was little more than a celebrity who was brought in to help promote its BlackBerry 10 smartphones.BlackBerry has insisted that Keys had a more direct involvement in its operations, highlighting her work on a four-year scholarship program that encouraged young women to enter specific science and technology fields.She did what? That stayed cleverly under the radar. Someone call Justin Bi... oh.It's not a church, it's just an Apple Store &gt;&gt; Re/codeWaly Mossberg (at the new post-AllThingsD site):I've been a reviewer for a long time, and, like all tech reviewers I know, I've been struck by the vehement ad hominem attacks and baseless accusations made by tech cultists who disagree with all, or even part, of your review.Of course, if you are in the business of dishing out opinions, you must be prepared to receive contrary points of view. That's fair, and reasonable, and helps one learn. But the tech cultists can't get their heads around the idea that people — anyone, not just a reviewer — might see the same facts about a product or company and come to different conclusions.Instead, too many of these acolytes resort to accusations of corruption (you were paid to praise a product) or laziness (you must not have really tested it). These kinds of comments, tweets, blog posts and emails come from people who often have never tried, or even held, the product in question.We're shocked,shockedthat that could happen.Windows Server on ARM processors? I don't think so. &gt;&gt; getwired.comWes Miller of the research company Directions On Microsoft:For some odd reason, people arefascinatedwith the idea of ARM-based servers. I've wound up in several debates/discussions with people on Twitter about Windows on ARM servers. I hope it never happens, and I don't believe it will. Moreover, if it does, I believe it will fail.ARM is ideal for a client platform – especially a clean client platform with no legacy baggage (Android, iOS, etc). It is low-power and highly customizable silicon. Certainly, when you look at data centers, the first thing you'll notice is the energy consumption. Sure, it'd be great if we could conceptually reduce that by using ARM. But I'm really not sure replacing systems running one instruction set with systems running another is really a)viable or b)the most cost effective way to go about making the infrastructure more energy efficient.Oppo N1 With CyanogenMod review: you have to start somewhere &gt;&gt; Android PoliceDavid Ruddock tries the first phone to come with CyanogenMod preinstalled. It costs $599, and is a testament to the challenge of achieving subsidy through scale:The real performance drag, though, is the capacitive buttons. The response time is just awful - I should not feel latency when using capacitive touch buttons. This issue was present on both Color OS and CM, so I have to assume this is a lower-level problem either with the hardware or a driver. It makes using the phone maddening at times. The touch targets on the buttons are also tiny, and the haptic feedback can scarcely claim to be worthy of its own name, it's much too weak to be felt in many situations. The backlights for the buttons are no better, and I often found them too dim in bright sunlight.This isn't to say the N1 is particularly slow, it's just not the kind of experience - in terms of raw performance - I'd expect after spending $600 on a phone that came out at the end of 2013.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
This is the year that cities become even smarter. Local authorities and councils the world over have invested in social capital and connected infrastructure with the aim of better understanding the needs of their citizens.The Watershed arts venue in Bristol, for example,organised a Playable City Award in 2013, whose aim was &quot;to commission an original, future-facing work, that used creative technology to explore the theme of the playable city.&quot; London, meanwhile, has introduced bins that send text messages when they are nearly full and has used sensors installed under parking bays in the West End to relieve congestion in the area – and the city is manually moving Boris Bikes to bays people are cycling from but not cycling towards (generally, if it&apos;s at the top of a hill).In 2014, more cities will iterate and experiment. They&apos;ll implement new technologies to not only create a better connected city but to enhance the environment. That could include street lights switching on due to residents complaining about the lack of light on Twitter. There&apos;s a great number of opportunities available – and that&apos;s an exciting prospect. -Siraj DatooGamesDestiny from Bungie, creators of Halo, is set to make 2014 a year to remember.Although the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One launch games were largely disappointing, 2014 will certainly see both machines move up a gear. The twin giants of the release schedule will be the epic space opera Destiny from Bungie Software, and Titanfall, the new sci-fi shooter from Respawn Entertainment. This is basically the makers of Halo versus the creators of Call of Duty in one galactic face-off. There will be robot limbs and crashed space ships everywhere.And the carnage won&apos;t end there. 2014 is a year of gigantic action blockbusters. Ubisoft has its cyberpunk romp Watch Dogs, as well as the ingenious online multiplayer strategy shooter, The Division. The PS4 has intriguing steampunk adventure The Order: 1886, while Xbox One has the new post-apocalyptic thriller, Quantum Break, which ties in with and interacts with a TV series of the same name. We can expect more of this media crossover &quot;excitement&quot; as the barriers between games consoles and set-top boxes crumble.More intriguing perhaps is the rise of persistent online worlds and emergent simulations. We&apos;re getting three very interesting space exploration titles in the form of Star Citizen (from the creator of the legendary Wing Commander series), No Man&apos;s Sky from tiny UK studio Hello Games and Starbound, from another British developer, Chucklefish – the latter two promising vast procedurally generated galaxies.But closer to home, this will also be a year of ideas. From Chris Hecker&apos;s fascinating asymmetrical two-player body language game Spy Party, to Jonathan Blow&apos;s Myst-like adventure The Witness, to the storybook mythology of Tengami and the heartbreaking adventure title That Dragon Cancer, 2014 will mess with our heads and expectations of what games are. And if you don&apos;t want to be messed with, that&apos;s fine – there are sequels, so many sequels. Hotline Miami 2, Dark Souls II, Metal Gear Solid V and the hugely promising Elder Scrolls Online. 2014 will take a brave look at the future of gaming technology, but it will bring the past along for the ride. -Keith StuartPatentsNokia holds many key patents, and is not afraid to use them.Sick of hearing about patent lawsuits between big-name tech companies? Bad luck – 2014 is going to bring more of them, after a relative lull in 2013. The part of Nokia that isn&apos;t being sold to Microsoft is sharpening its patent portfolio, and has begun exercising it successfully against HTC. Next in line is Google (particularly Google Maps) and other Android handset makers.Apple and Samsung will also be back in a Californian court in March, in a second trial in which each is asserting five patents – in Apple&apos;s case, all relating to function, not &quot;how it looks&quot;. Samsung&apos;s list includes two standards-essential patents (SEPs) – which it&apos;s obliged to license, so it&apos;s hard to see it prevailing on those.Besides those, Rockstar, a company which owns a $4.5bn haul of patents from now-dead Canadian network company Nortel (and is in turn owned by Apple, Microsoft, Ericsson, Sony and BlackBerry), has filed patent infringement cases against Google, Samsung, HTC, Asus, LG, Pantech, Huawei and ZTE – all Android device makers. In a countersuit, Google says that Rockstar&apos;s lawsuit is put &quot;a cloud on Google&apos;s Android platform; threatened Google&apos;s business and relationships with its customers and partners, as well as its sales of Nexus-branded devices&quot;.All to play for in that one – and Rockstar has a cherry on top, which is a separate case against Google where it claims the search company infringes a search patent filed in 1997, before Google even existed. -Charles ArthurEmerging market smartphonesThe Chinese market for smartphones has been expanding like a balloon, and it&apos;s continuing. Expect 230m handsets to be sold there in 2014, almost all of them &quot;AOSP&quot; Android (not running Google services).India too is growing fast – millions of people there will be getting their first smartphone in 2014, and that could change the complexion not only of the mobile market, but also the country itself. One of the strongest phone brands in India? Nokia. Is this going to be Microsoft&apos;s chance?And South America is being targeted by handset makers interested in getting Firefox OS into peoples&apos; hands. There&apos;s everything to play for as huge numbers of people get their first internet connection.- Charles ArthurWearablesFitness trackers or personal nag machines?With luck, 2014 will be the year that wearables actually become wearable – rather than being nagging devices that hassle you to take more steps to meet your &quot;daily exercise quota&quot;. The key problem is crossing the gulf between being &quot;something you wear&quot;, and &quot;something you want to be seen wearing&quot;.Google Glass still has dorkiness problems, for all its evident usefulness. All eyes are on Apple to do something there, but it can be the smaller companies that surprise. -Charles ArthurPCs and tabletsThe Microsoft Surface Pro 2 was a full Windows 8.1 computer squeezed into a tablet formfactor and weighed the same as a laptop.The market for PCs (desktops and fixed-keyboard notebooks) will be flat, at best, but Microsoft – and computer makers – have a lot staked on &quot;convertibles&quot; with detachable keyboards, and touchscreen laptops.However, there&apos;s no sign that people are interested in them. We like our PCs in traditional packages, and all of Microsoft&apos;s efforts with the Surface haven&apos;t persuaded people that they need one; it&apos;s a weight thing. Thinner and lighter always wins on mobile, and even the new generation of Surface isn&apos;t thin and light enough to beat other tablets. (And success then comes down to how many apps they can run.)Rumours of a larger Apple tablet - up to 12in? - could mean that the iPad is ready to mature and expand into newer segments. Tablet sales are still rocketing, and even if many are being used as TV replacements (certainly the case in Asia), it&apos;s still an opportunity for app developers to get in front of users. -Charles ArthurCheaper, ever cheaperTesco's Hudl tablet cost just &pound;119 and flew off the shelves.The budget tablet market exploded in 2013, filling the void left largely untouched by Apple, Google and other big-brand manufacturers such as Sony and Samsung. Lower specified, but cheaper-priced Android tablets costing in the £100 rangeflew off the shelves, especially in the run-up to Christmas.Surprise entries fromAldi,Argosand Tesco made headlines, with the latter&apos;sHudl tablet showingthat devices around £100 could perform well enough for the average consumer and inspire impulse buys.This year is likely to see that downward pressure on price continue, with more and more affordable tablet computers available as more people who wouldn&apos;t have considered buying a computer let alone a tablet at prices well over £100 purchase them.Tesco has already confirmed that it is working onan updated Hudl tablet for release in 2014, while other British high street brands are likely to follow suit. We&apos;ve already seen tablets go on salefor as little as £30, so could 2014 be the year that tabletsfell out of cereal packets?Buyer beware, however, as you get what you pay for with these ultra-low cost tablets – and for tablets such asthe terrible Argos MyTablet, your money is better saved and spent elsewhere.– Samuel GibbsThe boring matters matterAmazon is working on a Prime Air drone delivery system that could deliver packages in 30 minutes or less, but regulatory challenges stand in its way. Photograph: ZUMA/REXSilicon Valley&apos;s attitude has always been to ask forgiveness rather than permission. Sometimes, the law catches up with the companies that push their luck, and they are forced to close or comply – although, all too often, the damage has been done. Napster may have been shut down, but our relationship with paying for music has never quite recovered. Other times, the law is forced to change to accommodate the shifts that technology has made possible. That&apos;s why you can now use your Kindle on a plane during take-off and landing.But in recent years, the gap between the cutting edge of technology and the cutting edge of regulation has been getting smaller and smaller, and 2014 could be the first year in which the roles are reversed. For 3D printing, wearable computing and personal drones, legislators are already gearing up to tackle whether – and how – the law should react.These technologies haven&apos;t yet hit the mainstream, but they have already sparked consternation in the public. 3D-printed guns have already sparked legislation in congress, West Virginia is set to become the first state to ban using Google Glass in a car, and the FAA is committed to reviewing the rules that currently ban companies such as Amazon from using drones to deliver goods. But the biggest fight hasn&apos;t even warmed up: that will be the battle around self-driving cars. If you thought it was hard to convince regulators to let you use electronic devices on planes, try to find a regulator who will be happy to have a driver asleep at the wheel. –Alex HernTruly smart technologiesGoogle Glass could be the future, if it can get over its image and imaging problems. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesWe&apos;ll see the app store for Google Glass open early this year, and so will finally start to see what wearable, immersive technology will be capable of once developers start to explore the device fully to a wider audience. Expect to see Google working hard to make consumers feel more comfortable with the concept of pervasive image and video recording, challenging and shifting the norm of what is socially acceptable.Also expect to see Google continue to try to refocus its core search business around social, and with more disquiet from marketers, publishers and businesses as they realise they are being pushed into using Google+.The education space will become increasingly interesting, with everything from the newly invigorated computer science curriculum in UK schools, to the spread of open online learning courses; it will be interesting to see how many of the prestige UK universities choose to exploit their status and reputation by publishing some free courses as a marketing tool.Tech entrepreneurs will keep expanding into increasingly diverse niches, so it will be amusing to try and pick out the most obscure market being disrupted in 2014.As for a few new year wishes, I&apos;d like to see some meat on the bones of the 3D printing movement to take it beyond novelty into something useful, practical and relevant for most civilians. I&apos;d also like to see some big steps in services that aggregate all, or a lot, of our data for us, and automate the administration of living, whether that&apos;s bills or dentist appointments. Whatever the answer is, it needs to cut out the tedium of filling in boxes with details that machines should be able to do for us. Google Now, but more so. And as ever, could somebody please, please make email better?- Jemima KissBitcoin and other cryptocurrencies"Bitcoin accepted here", reads a sign at the entrance to a bar in Berlin-Kreuzberg, Germany. Photograph: AlamyI&apos;m wary about making predictions about bitcoin, and cryptocurrencies in general. The first time I wrote about them, in March of 2013,I said that the value of bitcoin looked like a bubble. If, instead of writing the piece, I&apos;d went out and bought £100 of them, I&apos;d currently be sitting on bitcoins worth a little under £2000. The Alex Hern Regrets Index is near an all-time high.But I do, fundamentally, stand by what I wrote back then. The price of a bitcoin looks ever more out of proportion with the number of people using it, and that&apos;s a state of affairs that cannot continue. This time last year, the cost of one bitcoin was $13; it is now hovering around $800. And yet, this time last year there were 39,000 bitcoin transactions per day, a number which has barely moved at all,currently standing at 41,000. People are paying ever more heady sums of money for a currency they are steadfastly not using.But the dying days of 2013 provided a hint as to how this trend will continue into the New Year, with the explosion in value of the &quot;altcoins&quot;.Because bitcoin is an open-source software project, the programming code at the heart of it is available for anyone to take and use in making their own cryptocurrencies, known as altcoins. The first and biggest of these, Litecoin, was created in October 2011, and exploded in value in November 2013, its price shooting up tenfold in a matter of days.The next month saw the creation ofDogecoin, an altcoin that had one killer USP: a picture of an adorable Shiba Inu on the front and a website written in multicoloured comic sans and faux broken English. Look, it&apos;s the internet; don&apos;t try to understand.But the association withthe popular Doge memealone was enough to give Dogecoin the cachet required for its own boom and bust. At its peak, around Christmas, when 30m Dogecoins were stolen in a hacking attack on a Dogecoin bank (another new commonplace of cryptocurrencies), the haul was worth around $18,000.So, my prediction for 2014? An extrapolation: the smart money, getting bored of Bitcoin, will start moving on to the various altcoins, chasing the massive profits they can no longer get from bitcoin proper. They&apos;ll see their own bubbles of hype and investment, with diminishing returns each time. And by the end of next year, there will still only be a few people actually using bitcoin as a payment mechanism for anything other than illegal and fringe-legal purposes. –Alex HernMicrosoft, Apple, and GoogleMicrosoft, Apple and Google all rely on huge amounts of server power for their globe-spanning services. Photograph: Connie Zhou/APMicrosoftis going to go through big changes in 2014: the arrival of only its third chief executive, replacing Steve Ballmer, comes as its revenue streams and business models are under growing attack. Mobile computing is becoming a tsunami, eroding the traditional reliance on the desktop and Office. As Microsoft pivots into being a &quot;devices and services&quot; company (which will also own its own handset company, bought from Nokia), it will be competing on every front with Apple and Google.Prediction:there will be high-profile departures and murmurings of dissent as the new chief executive digs in. Consumers will continue to ignore Windows 8. The coming death of Windows XP (in corporate terms) in April will prompt first-quarter commercial PC sales, but see a lull afterwards. Windows Phone will make gains at the low end, but be unable to dislodge Android or iOS at the high end.Appleis on its third chief executive if you only include Steve Jobs and John Sculley (and ignore the revolving doors of the mid-90s). Tim Cook&apos;s genius at operations shows in how Apple is now making scores of different versions of the iPhone for different markets, yet everyone thinks there&apos;s only one (the iPhone for the new China Mobile 4G system, for example, differs from all others sold worldwide).Every new year sees a raft of wild predictions about the unicorns Apple must release or be condemned to obscurity, at least in commentators&apos; eyes. Every year Apple predictably doesn&apos;t do them. So what will it do?Prediction:it won&apos;t release a TV – the same TV it hasn&apos;t released for years. It might update the Apple TV set-top box to do more (add an App Store?), but that&apos;s been a &quot;safely wrong&quot; prediction for years too.It will probably release a wearable something-or-other; a watch seems most likely. Filing for &quot;iWatch&quot; trademarks, as it has in Europe and Japan, is a good sign that something&apos;s afoot. Shouldn&apos;t there be leaks from the supply chain by now, though?A bigger iPad Air – iPad Pro? – looks likely. A touch-based Macbook Air, though, doesn&apos;t.Googleis only on its second chief executive (and even he was the original one). It&apos;s still a relatively young company, but its rapid growth has seen Larry Page reining in some projects that haven&apos;t been core to what Google does – collect information and collate it.Google+ is core;Google Reader wasn&apos;t. And selling adverts is the ultimate core. Quite where Google Glass fits into this isn&apos;t yet clear; nor is Motorola, which loses huge amounts of money while selling fewer handsets each quarter.There are also lingering antitrust hassles: besides Europe, where the questions about Google&apos;s integration of its vertical search such as shopping and maps into its front page have gone on for three years, Canada has now begun asking exactly the same questions. It&apos;s a big inconvenience for Google – though the bigger headache might be the patent lawsuits referred to above.Prediction:Google Glass will go on limited sale, and have limited success; its best use is in narrow commercial applications. Android will continue eating the mobile world, and getting into embedded systems, though frequently without Google services embedded. -Charles ArthurThis article was amended to reflect the fact that the Playable City Award was organised by the Watershed arts venue in Bristol.
Chinese budget smartphone maker Xiaomi plans to sell 40m handsets in 2014, more than double the number it sold in 2013, its chairman said on Thursday, reinforcing the company&apos;s ambitions to outsell more expensive offerings from Apple and Samsung Electronics.Shipping that many handsets would put Xiaomi into the world&apos;s top 10 smartphone makers for the first time.Lei Jun, who is also co-founder of the tech firm, made the projection on Sina Weibo, China&apos;s most widely used microblogging site, and it was reposted on Xiaomi&apos;s website.&quot;We again promise, we will at least supply 40m phones in 2014!&quot; he wrote. China is the world&apos;s biggest market for smartphones.Xiaomi&apos;s business model – offering &quot;flash sales&quot; of its mobile phones which generate excitement among would-be buyers, and have seen thousands sold in seconds – has led to its rapid rise. In August ittempted Hugo Barrato leave his position as head of the Android team at Google to come and work for the company as its head of global business.Barralater explainedthat Xiaomi is happy to sell phones essentially at cost, and then to make money from selling services on them, and noted that countries such as India, Russia and Indonesia were &quot;sweet spots&quot; for its business. Xiaomi is expected to start selling its phones in Singapore later this year.Lei said privately that Xiaomi had sold 18.7m smartphones in 2013 – a 160% increase from 2012 – and that sales revenues, including taxes, rose 150% to 31.6bn yuan (£3.16bn).Xiaomi&apos;s sales growth far exceeds projections for the global smartphone market, which is expected to expand at an annual rate of 18% a year until 2016, according to research firm Canalys. Overall growth in China is far greater than the world market, because there are more people there who don&apos;t yet have a smartphone, and people tend to replace cheap phones much more quickly – on average every 13 months, according to data collected by sites there.Xiaomi&apos;s cheap yet sleek phones are popular in China, where Samsung Electronics remains the market leader. Xiaomi&apos;s handsets sell for between £79 and £248, much lower than the £447 price tag for the least expensive iPhone 5C model or a Samsung Galaxy Note II, which can retail for £345.The company even managed to briefly rank sixth by market share in the second quarter of 2013, one notch above Apple. But the launch of the iPhone 5S and 5C in the third quarter propelled Apple to third place there, behind Samsung and Lenovo.Apple is poised to boost its sales in China after itsigned a deal last month with China Mobile, the world&apos;s largest mobile carrier by subscriber numbers. The deal could generate $3bn in revenue in 2014 for the U.S. firm.
For the past five years, a silent army of video makers have been populating YouTube with clips of themselves playing computer games.What might once have seemed an unlikely sub-genre has proliferated across the network and been rewarded with its own channel, called Let&apos;s Play, or LP. For gamers, it&apos;s a chance to combine their video production skills with an innate understanding of the connective power of the internet to create channels dedicated to clips of their game-play.The goal is not to get laughs, create a viral hit, or even to be competitive; gamers and their subscribers simply love games enough to want to watch other people play. Playing well helps, as does focusing on a popular game – MineCraft channels are particularly popular.The figures speak for themselves; 24-year old Swedish gamer Felix Kjellberg’s channel,PewDiePie, is the most successful Youtube channel ever with more than 17 million subscribers. He has left One Direction’schannel, with its measly 10 million subscribers, for dust.But it&apos;s not all about the unifying love of gaming. Youtube, which is owned by Google, runs aPartner Programwhich means that the owner of a video channel can earn a share of the money made from video ads on the site.One hundred subscribers might not earn a video maker a penny, but 100,000 might buy them a new laptop. And once content attracts a regular audience of more than one million people, those creators become managers of viable, lucrative businesses. Youtube makes no distinction between whether the creator is a seasoned multimedia professional, or an teenager from Hull with editing software and an Xbox.John Green&apos;s mission for AFC WimbledonOne YouTuber with a dedicated following is John Green, already the successful author behind a string of young adult fiction books. Despite being an American, Green has been using his YouTube channel to sponsor the London football club AFC Wimbledon.In collaboration with younger brother Hank, Green has a range of educational and vlog-based Youtube channels. Since their first joint channelBrotherhood 2.0launched in 2007, their enthusiasm and creative range have afforded them legendary status and millions of passionate fans – fans who self-identify as &quot;nerdfighters&quot;.The two also have their own Let&apos;s Play channel calledHankgames, which originally featured Hank playing the games Assassin’s Creed and LEGO Harry Potter. But since 2011 it has been dominated by John Green’s efforts at FIFA, a football video game with leagues and clubs that reflect reality but can be customised and &quot;managed&quot; within the world of the game. Despite admitting he is “really bad” at it, tens of thousands watch Green play, coming from his main channel and wider online fan-base.Ad revenue surpassed five figuresGreen has developed a rather endearing persona on Hankgames. While calamitous action unfolds on screen, Green imparts anecdotes, socio-political analysis and the kind of life advice you might expect from his day-job as a best selling author and progressive digital campaigner.When advertising revenue for this channel passed five figures, it was the potential as a campaign tool that made Green think “something could be done with that money besides buying diapers”.AFC Wimbledonwas founded in 2002 by supporters of Wimbledon FC, a long-established club which was moved from London to Milton Keynes and renamed the MK Dons. By 2011, AFC Wimbledon had played their way through county leagues and conferences to reach League Two, the fourth-highest division overall in English football.Green does not support AFC Wimbledon – he is a life-long Liverpool fan – but many of his literary protagonists are have-a-go heroes and the nerdfighter community that populates Youtube, Tumblr, Twitter, Etsy and the rest have a strong DIY ethic. So the community-oriented football club struck a chord with Green’s core values.“Wimbledon had this institution, that was an important part of their community, kind of ripped away from them. And they rebuilt it but it&apos;s still very very new. It&apos;s a wonderful thing, and one of the great stories in sports in the 21st century, but it is still a new thing. So, anything that we can do to help out with that – we&apos;re excited to do it.”Wimbly Womblys and nerdfightersHaving hit upon the sponsorship idea, he created a new FIFA video game team called the AFC Wimbledon Wimbly Womblys, to star in the Youtube videos that will earn ad revenue relative to how many views they receive. Then he approached the club, who he describes as &quot;initially a little confused&quot;. It was hard to explain Youtube ad revenue and nerdfighters to “people running a football club, not spending all their time on the internet&quot;.It helped that he already had solid fundraising credentials. In addition to supporting the microfinancing networkKivain the developing world, the Green brothers recently formedSubbable, a portal through which viewers can directly support Youtube creators through voluntary subscriptions. It is aimed primarily at education channels, which incur high production costs but might not attract a big enough audience to sustain on ad revenue alone.Their most ambitious and innovative campaign to date is theProject for Awesome(P4A – the nerdfighter motto and name of Hank’s indie record label isDon’t Forget to be Awesome). For two days in December, anyone could upload a video to Youtube under the P4A banner to promote a charity of their choosing. The drive, established in 2007, has outgrown the nerdfighter community to become a Youtube-wide event. Hundreds of individuals around the world upload videos, usually in the form of a vlog, along with high-profile creators such asHannah Hart(My Drunk Kitchen) andCharlie McDonnell(charlieissocoollike).The brotherstake it in turns to livestream throughout the drive –on Youtube via Google Hangouts – to motivate donors and feature selected P4A videos. Their aim is also to engage the community in an open discussion of P4A, its purpose and goals, since transparency is another of their key ideals: “I think if you&apos;re honest with your audience they will respond much more generously than you would expect.”In 2012, P4A videos generated $450,000 in donations to the charities they promoted.The candid familiarity of the entire event is a theme running through the Greens’ Youtube presence and is part of what enables nerdfighters to feel such passion for the community they helped create. It is also what allows Green, he suggests, to partner with a lower-league English football club and convince his mostly American fan-base to throw their substantial enthusiasm behind it, even though, he says “most of them have never seen an actual football game”.Lively interaction between Green, AFC Wimbledon and the nerdfighter community soon emerged online - in digital ecosystems designed to nurture such unlikely relationships.“[With] almost every single video that I upload, the real AFC Wimbledon official Youtube channel comments on the game and my terrible play. Nerdfighters love that – they love seeing the real AFC Wimbledon replying to me on Twitter or commenting on the games.&quot;Green invited subscribers to design hoardings, which will go on display at AFC Wimbledon’s ground in the new year, emblazoned with the words: The Nerdfighter Community: Helping AFC Wimbledon get it Wimble-Done!He is eager to clarify, however, that “we&apos;re not sponsoring AFC Wimbledon purely out of charity. We&apos;re sponsoring AFC Wimbledon because we care about the club and its mission and we think that it&apos;s a cool thing to be associated with&quot;.The sponsorship money is likely to go toward essential kit and helping pay players fair wages. But, as with his Youtube output, Green is particularly focused on young people: “What I&apos;m interested in is youth teams and developing - making sure that football is available to kids. It was a really important part of my childhood.&quot;Despite this being a complicated series of events, the fundamental factor in this story is an abundance of passion - for football but also for online human interaction. Looking to the future, Green says: “I wish more gaming channels would sponsor AFC Wimbledon. I&apos;d like to see them go all the way up to the Premier League just on the strength of ad dollars from organised passionate communities.”•PewDiePie unseats Miley Cyrus as world&apos;s most popular YouTube channel
The self-styled &quot;Syrian Electronic Army&quot; (SEA) hacking group has embarrassed Microsoft&apos;s Skype messaging service after taking over its Twitter account, Facebook site and blog, and using them to post claims that they sell data to governments.It also posted what appeared to be the contact details for outgoing Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer on its Twitter account,saying&quot;You can thank Microsoft for monitoring your accounts/email using this details&quot;.No actual Skype accounts or passwords seem to have been affected by the hack, though.Skype managed to regain control of the account, and in astatement, later acknowledged the hack: &quot;You may have noticed our social media properties were targeted today. No user info was compromised. We&apos;re sorry for the inconvenience.&quot;Security consultant Graham Cluley suggested that the Skype team had used the same passwords for its Twitter account and blog system, enabling the SEA to take over both. Of the SEA&apos;s takeover of the Facebook page, he said it &quot;adds more fuel to the fire that Skype screwed up by committing the cardinal sin of using the same password for different sites,&quot; he said.Skype's blog was hacked by the Syrian Electronic Army hacking group to post allegations about data sales. Photograph: /Public domainPrism warningThe hackers, who are sympathetic to the rule of Syrian&apos;s president Bashar Al-Assad, gained control of the blog system used by Skype and posted a blog entry headlined &quot;Don&apos;t use Microsoft emails (hotmail, outlook). They are monitoring your accounts and selling the data to governments&quot;.That post - since deleted - seems to be a reference to the claims made following the Snowden disclosures thatMicrosoft and Skype have been targeted in the Prism programby the US National Security Agency (NSA) for data collection about people using the company&apos;s services.Microsoft bought Skype in May 2011for $8.5bn, though the NSA seems to have targeted Skype before that.Skype isunder investigation by Luxembourg&apos;s data protection commissionerover its alleged cooperation in the Prism program.The SEA has targeted a number of high-profile media organisations, including the Associated Press, the Guardian, New York Times, and Washington Post, to take over Twitter accounts belonging to them. Its methods tend to be consistent, using &quot;phishing&quot; techniques to grab passwords from large shared groups, and then exploiting the control of accounts. But it has never been known to carry out any malicious large-scale attacks.The SEA has seen its Twitter account repeatedly deleted for hacking; the account it is now using has only been active since the end of July 2013.The SEA is believed to have a handful of members,some based in Dubai, rather than operating from within Syria itself.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle's Eric Schmidt suffers from memory loss problems … &gt;&gt; Google+Jack Schofield noted something about Eric Schmidt's Bloomberg TV appearance:According to a weird story at +VentureBeat it's his fault that Google missed out on social networking. Unfortunately the writer neglects to mention that Google launched its own social network, Orkut, in 2004, at almost exactly the same time as Facebook. (Admittedly it was accused of knocking off somebody else's code, but this is Google.What Jack didn't recall was that Google also bought the Twitter-like Jaiku at about the same time as Twitter was growing, when the two were roughly the same size and on the same growth curve. So Google didn't overlook social at all. It fumbled it.Windroid: What if Microsoft forked Android? &gt;&gt; VentureBeatChester Ng of SweetLabs:Windroid could still support Windows Phone apps in parallel, enabling Microsoft to piggyback the Android app ecosystem while building out its own.A Windroid phone could have exclusive (or, at least the best) integration of Word, Excel, Powerpoint for productivity, Skype for communications, Xbox for entertainment, Nook for reading, Bing for search and navigation, IE for browsing, and so forth. Microsoft is the one company that can replace nearly all of Google's services one-for-one with a compelling alternative.A Windroid phone could be offered at a lower cost than traditional Android to device makers and consumers if Microsoft waived the $5-10 per-unit patent royalty it currently collects. Waiving that royalty would be a boon for device makers.Makes a lot of sense.Surface Pro 2: Day... what day is it now? &gt;&gt; TechnoviaIan Betteridge:Thinking of Surface Pro 2 as a tablet is a category error. The Surface Pro 2 just isn't a tablet. It just looks a bit like one – and, importantly, I'd make the mistake of listening to its proponents, who demand it should be treated like one.To give a concrete example: All the talk about Surface Pro 2 as a tablet had led me into the category error of wanting to use apps for everything, when perfectly good web apps exist and are fully-supported by Internet Explorer.Take Feedly or Pocket as examples. I was looking for a decent Pocket client (hint: there isn't one) when I could use the web site. This reflects the way I would work on my Mac, but is very different to the way I'd work on the iPad, where web apps tend to be a last resort.Or take my annoyance at how horrible the Surface Pro is to use in portrait mode. The answer was simple: Stop using it in portrait mode. Forget, in fact, that portrait even exists as an option.He says it's " a good laptop which can sometimes be used as a tablet-like device, rather than a tablet which makes much of what a laptop does redundant."(In aprevious article, he suggested that the 64GB model really doesn't have enough storage.)Scoble says Google Glass is doomed &gt;&gt; Google+Robert Scoble (yes, really) has a thoughtful piece about why 2014 might not be Glass's year, but future ones could be:I think I figured this one out after talking to hundreds of people. Most are disappointed in themselves and their lack of ability to put their phones down. They fear that if they were to go with Glass they would just totally lose themselves to their mobile addictions. They are right to be scared of that. If Glass actually worked the way I'm dreaming of I would be even more addicted to our online world than I am today. People are scared of losing their humanness.It's not just Google: the many feuds of Rap Genius &gt;&gt; Washington PostGoogle is just the latest in a long list of people, companies or other entities who have had beefs with the lyrics site. The company and its outspoken founders have a habit of rubbing people the wrong way. Here are just a few of the many examples.Rap Genius doesn't come out smelling of roses, to be honest.The Mac Pro Review (Late 2013) &gt;&gt; AnandTechAnand Lal Shimpi:The last time I did a Mac Pro vs. OEM PC comparison, Apple came out quite competitive on pricing although a DIY system wins by a huge margin. The same is true for the new Mac Pro. I poked around Dell, HP and Lenovo websites looking for comparable systems. It seems like Ivy Bridge EP systems are still a bit rare, with Dell not offering any. Both HP and Lenovo offered fairly comparable systems.Guess which was cheapest. Note: contains benchmarks.How we made the 3D New York City flood map &gt;&gt; ProPublicaJeff Larson and Al Shaw:we wanted to create a visualization that would show readers the impact Sandy had, how much impact a potential flood could have, and how the measures laid out in Bloomberg's plan, if implemented, might protect the city.Lovely maps. Of course London had flood maps produced by the team at UCL years ago...In-app purchases take over app revenues &gt;&gt; eMarketerLeaving aside ad revenues earned by app developers and focusing only on revenues to app stores, Distimo found that 98% of Google Play store revenues and 92% of Apple App Store revenues in November 2013 came from free-to-download apps that offered in-app items for purchase. That compared with 89% and 77%, respectively, just 11 months earlier.What's the business model for apps going to be a year, and five years, from now?Sony, Panasonic to end OLED TV plans &gt;&gt; DigitimesSony and Panasonic were originally hoping to drive down costs of OLED TV panels in order to compete in the market against Korea makers. However, until the end of 2013 the Japan makers have yet to resolve the bottlenecks and therefore will not be able to mass produce the technology in the near future.The makers could produce a limited amount of panels but they would be priced high. Additionally, as Ultra HD TV panel pricing continues to drop and as more Ultra HD content is being produced, the makers believe that cooperating on Ultra HD TV production will bring in better business opportunities in 2014.A 55in OLED TV currently is priced around US$8,000 while an Ultra HD TV of the same size is around US$3,000.Huge price difference. (Who buys 55in TVs?)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
From forcefields to gene testing, some of the technology that came to the surface in 2013 sounds like the future we&apos;ve all been waiting for. Uber, Waze and Whatsapp are new companies doing things with tech that disrupts the old guard. But Tor reminds us that not everyone has access to the same internet that we all rely on day in and day out.TorTor – formerly known as The Onion Router – is the most popular of the many anonymising services that exist online. A user&apos;s traffic is bounced around multiple nodes of a peer-to-peer network until it comes out the other side, untraceable and anonymous. It hit the news due to sites such as Silk Road requiring their customers to use Tor, a fact which worries the various activists, opposition groups and privacy advocates for whom anonymous browsing isn&apos;t a luxury but a necessity.•A beginner&apos;s guide to TorTribal headphonesOnce upon a time, just wearing white earbuds was enough to mark you out as a mugging target: the cachet of an iPod in the early 2000s was nearly limitless. But over time, Apple&apos;s products proliferated, and competitors copied the style until, by 2013, the least cool thing possible was to still be using the stock headphones which came with your smartphone. Instead, this year saw the rise of tribal headphones: whether you wear Skullcandy, Beats by Dr. Dre or Urbanears marks you out as a member of a particular scene in just the same way that clothes, piercings and hairstyles have done for years.•Twenty years ago the most important thing for a teenager was their trainers. Now it&apos;s the brand covering their ears that mattersTwitter goes public…After Facebook went public last year, the world anticipated Twitter’s IPO announcement. Unlike Facebook, which saw computer glitches in NASDAQ’s system delay trading by half an hour, Twitter chose to list their stock on the New York Stock Exchange, bringing an end to NASDAQ’s monopoly on internet-focussed companies. Twitter stock launched at $26 per share in November and each share is now valued at over $53 (as of 17 December).•In the process of going public, Twitter had to reveal how their business works in more detail than ever before… and gets seriousWhile 2013 was a good year to be in possession of some Twitter stock, it was also the first year the social network had to face up to the responsibilities that come from hosting communication between 220 million users. In August, the site had to deal with a number of high-profile users receiving rape and bomb threats from misogynist attackers, andit was forced to update its rulesto more easily ban the offenders. Then, in December,it all kicked off again.•Anonymous-related Twitter accounts suspended after misogynist abuseUberSan Francisco-based startup Uber may currently look like a slightly more switched-on version of your local minicab firm, but the company has aims that go much higher. The same software it uses to ensure that users can get a car whenever they want, wherever they are, will also – it hopes – work to route couriers, school buses and more. Just as Amazon wants to be the Everything Store, Uber hopes to become the Everything Mover. But first it&apos;s got to solve the PR problem caused by its &quot;surge pricing&quot; policy, increasing the price of a taxi by up to eight times in busy periods, and with the fact that in some markets, it&apos;s faced trouble with the law.•Sharing economy drives into trouble with ride-sharing arrestsUltrasonic/haptic feedbackResearchers from Bristol showed that the feel of real objects could be simulated in mid-air using nothing by sound waves, potentially revolutionising the feedback provided by any number of touchscreen or gesture-based interfaces.•&quot;Forcefield&quot; technology could let us control computers Minority Report styleVineBefore Instagram video was launched, Twitter unveiled Vine – six-second video clips that play in a loop and are quick and easy to upload and share. While not an instant hit, the app soon found a devoted following, and over the last year some fantastic work has been done on the platform.•In the future, everyone can be famous for six secondsWaterproof phonesWaterproof technology is the future – especially if you ask Sony, who’ve kitted out their flagship smartphone and smartwatch with waterproof shells. We’re probably not going to forget the poor souls who got tricked into thinking their iPhones became waterproof once they updated to iOS7.•&apos;Waterproof iPhone&apos; ad hoax tricked users into destroying their handsetsWazeThis Israeli startup was one of the hottest acquisitions of the year, with Apple and Google reportedly battling to acquire its technology, which uses crowdsourced traffic data to provide drivers with up-to-the-minute congestion information. In the end, Google won out – at acost of $1.3bn.•In the end, even Waze didn&apos;t help Google win the maps warsWhat does the Fox say?Billed as &quot;2013&apos;s Gangnam Style&quot; from the off, this viral video from Norwegian duo Ylvis never quite made it to the heights of Psy&apos;s megahit. It tried just a bit too hard, and wasn&apos;t catchy enough. But it was fun while it lasted.•Whatdoesthe Fox say?WhatsappWhatsapp would have been unimaginable in the pre-iPhone days. Its sole purpose is to let users use their all-you-can-eat data contracts to send and receive texts and picture messages for free. It is, in short, everything the mobile phone carriers feared could happen if data became pervasive. And with 250 million users worldwide, it&apos;s starting to scare more than just the titans of text messaging. Both Twitter and Facebook have strengthened their own messaging services in an attempt to stave off the up-and-comer.As texting turns 20, could Whatsapp take the place of SMS?WinkleviiTwin Olympic rowers Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss once sued Mark Zuckerberg for allegedly stealing the idea for Facebook from them, but they had a new shot at fame in 2013. On 11 April, they announced they had acquired a hoard of bitcoins then worth $11m – representing a substantial share of the nascent currency&apos;s total value at the time. As it happened, their announcement came almost exactly as the bubble burst, instantly wiping out much of their investment. But they held on, and by the end of the year, their share was worth well north of $100m.•The Winklevoss twins, and why you need to careXbox OneMicrosoft&apos;s newest console has got off to a rocky start. Even before it was launched it suffered an extraordinary self-inflicted PR blow when Microsoft announced that the console wouldn&apos;t play pre-owned games, nor allow users to lend discs to friends and family. The company quickly revised that, and its actual launch has been somewhat smoother, selling 307,000 consoles in the week leading up to Christmas. With supply constraints kicking in, we won&apos;t know for sure if the bad publicity hurt the console until well into 2014.• Review:lots of potential - but ultimately a PS4 underdog23andMePersonal genome testing was supposed to be the big thing of 2013, but reality got in the way. 23andMe is one of the best-known personal genome testing companies in the US, principally through its links to Google – which has invested in it and the presence of Sergey Brin&apos;s wife Ann Wojicki on the board. Founded in 2007, it offers a kit for $99 which tests customers&apos; DNA for genetic markers of illness and infirmity.It&apos;s similar in principle to the $3,000 test (by another genetics company), which confirmed that Angelina Jolie carried the BRCA1 mutation that markedly increased her chances of breast cancer. But 23andMe got into trouble with the FDA over what it can, and can&apos;t, tell users. The problem? Getting a false report that you carry a gene for cancer isn&apos;t a good thing, and 23andMe couldn&apos;t handle those risks.•23andMe suspends marketing after failing to meet FDA requirements3D PrintingIf there&apos;s one buzzword that has dominated the year, it may well be 3D printing. Things that have been 3D-printed this year include:a plastic gun,a metal gun,nine christmas presents(that &quot;look like I bought them in a panic at a jumble sale for 10p&quot;),five Guardian writers,shoes,dresses,a robot arm,a 7&quot; single, andhomes for hermit crabs.But in 2014 we&apos;ll see the other side of 3D printing, as issues of legality and usefulness come into play. Sure, youcanprint all those things – but how many do you actually want? And of those you think would be good, how many designs do you actually own the copyright for? &quot;Pirating&quot; an action figure or a dress might have sounded nonsensical five years ago, but it&apos;s the reality for the future.•One day, every home may have one4GThe superfast mobile broadband that promises to reinvent, or at least radically speed up, the internet on your phone, tablet or laptop, 4G finally became available in more than just big urban areas – although it&apos;s still extremely pricey. EE, the largest 4G operator, plans to roll it out to the countryside as an alternative to wired broadband. Now, when do we get 5G?•The 4G auction: what was it all for?
A new year burst of 9 links for you, as picked by the Technology teamSome Windows 8.1 PCs are still suffering from limited or no Wi-Fi connectivity &gt;&gt; SoftpediaSeveral users have reported limited or no Wi-Fi connectivity, a bug that previously affected Surface tablet, but now became a widespread issue also targeting PCs and other tablets.Fast-forward two months after launch and users are getting the same errors, with many turning to the officialMicrosoft Community forumsto express their frustration.Seems to be Centrino-related - so principally affecting those using older machines.Don't want your laptop tampered with? Just add glitter nail polish &gt;&gt; Wired.comSome travellers affix tamper-proof seals over ports or chassis screws. But these seals can in fact be replicated or opened cleanly in minutes by anyone with even minimal training, Michaud and Lackey said. They instead advise borrowing a technique from astronomers called blink comparison. Here's where the glitter comes in.The idea is to create a seal that is impossible to copy. Glitter nail polish, once applied, has what effectively is a random pattern. Once painted over screws or onto stickers placed over ports, it is difficult to replicate once broken.Neat and inexpensive.Firefox phone - first impressions &gt;&gt; Kelli ShaverUsing a low-end Keon Firefox:This phone won't blow you away if you're used to an iPhone or a newer Android phone. There are times where it is downright sluggish by comparison, but let's look at the target market.This is a phone designed to bring the internet to people who otherwise can't afford to buy a smartphone, which is still the vast majority of the world's population. This phone is more than capable of delivering on that promise. It gives you the internet, in full colour, on a large display, with a decent amount of memory and storage space.Which is fine, except it will be competing against very cheap Chinese Android phones. Where is its unique selling point (USP), given that those rivals will be also be able to run browser apps  - and downloaded apps too?China Mobile expands 4G lineup as Samsung to Sony add handsets &gt;&gt; BloombergChina Mobile is selling 13 handsets for its fourth-generation network, up from four devices at the start of service three weeks ago, as market leader Samsung Electronics and rivals vie for early adopters.Samsung's Note 3 is available for 5,399 yuan ($892) before subsidy at China Mobile's store at the carrier's Beijing headquarters, in addition to the Note 2 that went on sale earlier this month. The Note 3, the most costly device offered on the 4G network, is available free with China Mobile's most expensive monthly service plan of 488 yuan.Though iPhone pricing won't be available until 17 January, however.Reading digital sources: a case study in ship's logs &gt;&gt; Sapping AttentionA historian goes digital:Ship's logs can illustrate what it might mean to build this historical expertise on a digital source base. The sources I've been working with--climatological records from the National Oceans and Atmospheric Administration--are obviously historically interesting and neglected. In addition to the Maury collection I've been examining, it contains extensive records of the US Navy in World War II, the Japanese merchant marine over much of the post-Meiji period, and millions of other records that show the commercial and military interconnections of the world at sea. They're problem is that they are essentially intractable to more traditional forms of historical analysis, while still significantly less complicated than the massive textual collections in which I (like most humanists) see the greatest potential for future research.And here's the video.Archos smartwatches teased with "pebble-like" design &gt;&gt; SlashGearWhat we're seeing with the very, very brief preview of the set of watches - plural - that Archos are bringing to CES is a display attached to a band. Suggesting this machine is "pebble-like" implies that we've got an e-ink display, and by the looks of it, they've got a curved display ready for action as well.Archos is known for bringing on devices with rather low costs, and this watch collection appears to be no stranger to that legacy. They've suggested that they'll have a smartwatch as inexpensive as £50, likely less than $100 USD for showing off at the Las Vegas-based convention. What could such a machine possibly do with such a tiny cost?What's wrong with in-browser cryptography? &gt;&gt; Tony ArcieriWhy not put cryptography in the browser? Isn't it inevitable? This is a perpetual refrain from various encryption products which target the browser (names and addresses intentionally omitted). While the smarter ones try to mitigate certain classes of attacks by shipping as browser extensions rather than just a web site that a user types into their address bar, there is definitely a push to a model where you can get the latest greatest crypto code by typing a friendly address into your URL bar.What's wrong with this? And will WebCrypto fix it? I don't think so. Let's look at the good, the bad, and the ugly of in-browser cryptography and the WebCrypto API.Most of the ugly is the fact that it's in a browser. He specifically has a go at Kim Dotcom's MEGA and its promises of security.Japan mid-tier camera makers face shakeout as smartphones shatter mirrorless hopes &gt;&gt; Yahoo FinancePanasonic, like peers Fujifilm Holdings and Olympus, has been losing money on its cameras since mobile phones that take high-quality photos ate into the compact camera business. This year, compact camera sales are likely to fall more than 40% to fewer than 59m, according to industry researcher IDC.Meanwhile, sales of mirrorless cameras - seen as a promising format between low-end compacts and high-end single-lens reflex (SLR) cameras - are sputtering as buyers put connectivity above picture quality.A 40% drop in Panasonic's overall camera sales in April-September left the imaging division vulnerable as the company's mid-term plan to March 2016 demands unprofitable businesses turn themselves around or face the axe.Connectivity is the logical must-have for cameras to have any chance of competing with smartphones.Thoughts on Google's Android version charts &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson digs into the Android platform details, such as screen size:The "Normal" screen size remains massively dominant, even though it was based originally on the T-Mobile G1, and represents a range of about 3.5-4.5in. Though it has fallen from 100% in 2009, it still represents around 80% of all Android devices hitting the Play store today. Given that almost all new high-end Android devices today have screen sizes in the high 4 inches range and often 5 inches or larger, this is a useful reminder that these devices are not representative of the Android base as a whole.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Happy New Year! Anyone fancy talking about games?
Apple has denied any knowledge of a National Security Agency tool to hack into iPhones after newly-released documents showed the tech giant’s bestselling phone was targeted by the spying agency.Documents released Monday showed the NSA had worked on software that would allow it to remotely retrieve virtually all the information on an iPhone including text messages, photos, contacts, location, voice mail and live calls.The software, DropoutJeep, was first disclosed byDer Spiegeland security researcher Jacob Appelbaum. The NSA slides are dated 2008, a year after the first iPhone was launched.In a statement, Apple said: “Apple has never worked with the NSA to create a back door in any of our products, including iPhone. Additionally, we have been unaware of this alleged NSA program targeting our products. We care deeply about our customers’ privacy and security. Our team is continuously working to make our products even more secure, and we make it easy for customers to keep their software up to date with the latest advancements.“Whenever we hear about attempts to undermine Apple’s industry-leading security, we thoroughly investigate and take appropriate steps to protect our customers. We will continue to use our resources to stay ahead of malicious hackers and defend our customers from security attacks, regardless of who’s behind them.”According to the slides, DropoutJeep required “close access methods” in order to be installed on an iPhone, meaning NSA agents would need physical access to the device. However, the slide notes: “A remote installation capability will be pursued for future use.”The slides mention iOS5, an iPhone operating system that was launched in June 2011 and updated by iOS6 in September 2012. It is not clear whether the NSA managed to develop the ability to perform remote installation. Given that Apple sold 250m iPhones in its first five years, large scale implementation of DropoutJeep seems unlikely by close access methods.The spyware is one of the tools employed by the NSA&apos;s ANT (Advanced or Access Network Technology) division to gain backdoor access to various electronic devices. According to Applebaum, the NSA claims a 100% success rate on installation of the program.Apple, along with its peers, has consistently denied working with the NSA unless it has been legally compelled to do so. The NSA documents, first obtained by whistleblower Edward Snowden, have revealed that the NSA has developed the capability to hack other companies,including Google and Yahoo, without their knowledge.The slide is dated four years before the NSA included Apple in its Prism monitoring program. Apple was the last of the big tech companies to be included in the program, designed to ease data collection for the NSA. Microsoft, by contrast, joined the scheme in 2007, according to the NSA’s slides.
What does 2014 hold? According to Eric Schmidt, Google&apos;s executive chairman, it means smartphones everywhere - and also the possibility of genetics data being used to develop new cures for cancer.In anappearance on Bloomberg TV, Schmidt laid out his thoughts about general technological change, Google&apos;s biggest mistake, and how Google sees the economy going in 2014.&quot;The biggest change for consumers is going to be that everyone&apos;s going to have a smartphone,&quot; Schmidt says. &quot;And the fact that so many people are connected to what is essentially a supercomputer means a whole new generation of applications around entertainment, education, social life, those kinds of things. The trend has been that mobile is winning; it&apos;s now won. There are more tablets and phones being sold than personal computers - people are moving to this new architectureveryfast.&quot;It&apos;s certainly true that tablets and smartphones are outselling PCs - in fact smartphones alone have been doing that since the end of 2010. This year, it&apos;s forecast that tablets will have passed &quot;traditional&quot; PCs (desktops, fixed-keyboard laptops) too.Disrupting businessNext, Schmidt says there&apos;s a big change - a disruption - coming for business through the arrival of &quot;big data&quot;: &quot;The biggest disruptor that we&apos;re sure about is the arrival of big data and machine intelligence everywhere - so the ability [for businesses] to find people, to talk specifically to them, to judge them, to rank what they&apos;re doing, to decide what to do with your products, changes every business globally.&quot;But he also sees potential in the field of genomics - the parsing of all the data being collected from DNA and gene sequencing. That might not be surprising, given that Google is an investor in 23andme, a gene sequencing company which aims to collect the genomes of a million people so that it can do data-matching analysis on their DNA. (Unfortunately, that plan has hit a snag: 23andme has been told to cease operating by the US Food and Drug Administration because it has failed to respond to inquiries about its testing methods and publication of results.)Here&apos;s what Schmidt has to say on genomics: &quot;The biggest disruption that we don&apos;t really know what&apos;s going to happen is probably in the genetics area. The ability to have personal genetics records and the ability to start gathering all of the gene sequencing into places will yield discoveries in cancer treatment and diagnostics over the next year that that are unfathomably important.&quot;It may be worth mentioning that &quot;we&apos;ll find cures through genomics&quot; has been the promise held up by scientists every year since the human genome was first sequenced. So far, it hasn&apos;t happened - as much as anything because human gene variation is remarkably big, and there&apos;s still a lot that isn&apos;t known about the interaction of what appears to be non-functional parts of our DNA (which doesn&apos;t seem to code to produce proteins) and the parts that do code for proteins.Biggest mistakeAs for Google&apos;s biggest past mistake, Schmidt says it&apos;s missing the rise of Facebook and Twitter: &quot;At Google the biggest mistake that I made was not anticipating the rise of the social networking phenomenon - not a mistake we&apos;re going to make again. I guess in our defence were working on many other things, but we should have been in that area, and I take responsibility for that.&quot; The results of that effort to catch up can be seen in the way that Google+ is popping up everywhere - though it&apos;swrong to think of Google+ as a social network, since it&apos;s more of a way that Google creates a substrate on the web to track individuals.And what is Google doing in 2014? &quot;Google is very much investing, we&apos;re hiring globally, we see strong growth all around the world with the arrival of the internet everywhere. It&apos;s all green in that sense from the standpoint of the year. Google benefits from transitions from traditional industries, and shockingly even when things are tough in a country, because we&apos;re &quot;return-on-investment&quot;-based advertising - it&apos;s smarter to move your advertising from others to Google, so we win no matter whether the industries are in good shape or not, because people need our services, we&apos;re very proud of that.&quot;For Google, the sky&apos;s the limit: &quot;the key limiter on our growth is our rate of innovation, how smart are we, how clever are we, how quickly can we get these new systems deployed - we want to do that as fast as we can.&quot;It&apos;s worth noting that Schmidt has a shaky track record on predictions. At Le Web in 2011 hefamously forecastthat developers would be shunning iOS to start developing on Android first, and that Google TV would be installed on 50% of all TVs on sale by summer 2012.It didn&apos;t turn out that way: even now, many apps start on iOS, and Google TV fizzled out as companies such as Logitech found that it didn&apos;t work as well as Android to tempt buyers.Since that, Schmidt has been a lot more cautious about predicting trends and changes - although he hasn&apos;t been above the occasional comment which seems calculated to get a rise from his audience, such astelling executives at a Gartner conferencethat Android was more secure than the iPhone - which they apparently found humourous.Here&apos;s the full video:Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google, forecasting 2014 on Bloomberg TV
It&apos;s hard to date the birth of email, a communications medium that grew from the melting pot of the various proto-internets of the 1970s. But if one has to be picked, 1 August 1982 is as good as any.That was when Jon Postel, one of the fathers of the internet, publishedRFC 821, a technical paper laying out a standard called Simple Mail Transfer Protocol, or SMTP.More than 30 years on, that standard is still in use. But despite tweaks along the road, it hasn&apos;t been able to keep up with all that we demand from a communications medium in the 21st century. Some of that relates to simple problems with the user experience: email doesn&apos;t fail gracefully, as anyone who&apos;s received an arcane &quot;delivery has failed&quot; message after mistyping an address knows, and it&apos;s far too easy to fool recipients into thinking an email was sent by someone else.But the biggest difference between the internet in 1982 and the internet in 2013 is the need for security; and that&apos;s something which email barely addresses.More than a handful&quot;You have to remember that the email protocols that we’re using today were developed when there were only a handful of people on the internet – back then it was called DARPANET – and everybody trusted everybody else,&quot; says Ladar Levison, the founder of secure email service Lavabit.“Security was never baked into the protocols, it’s really become an afterthought. And as a result, messages are passed over the internet in plaintext. It’s hard to develop a system which is backwards compatible but is secure by default. In fact, it’s impossible.”Levison learned that the hard way. Lavabit was an attempt to make email secure by offering users the ability to encrypt their data even while it was stored on his servers. It was popular in the security community, and ended up being used by Edward Snowden, the NSA leaker.But that led to attention from the government, and Levison couldn&apos;t fight it. Faced with a fine of $5,000 for every day he didn&apos;t hand over the keys to his encryption, he complied, and then immediately shut down the service to prevent his users&apos; data being compromised.&quot;This experience has taught me one very important lesson,&quot;he wrote at the time: &quot;Without congressional action or a strong judicial precedent, I would strongly recommend against anyone trusting their private data to a company with physical ties to the United States.&quot;Shortly after Lavabit closed its doors, a second secure email service followed. Secure communications company Silent Circle shut down fearing that the legal pressure Lavabit would face could be turned to them next.&quot;We were sitting on metadata [information about emails, such as sender, recipient and time of delivery], so we knew it was only a matter of time before someone would come to us,&quot; says Mike Janke, Silent Circle&apos;s co-founder and chief executive. &quot;Email was different – the rest of our products have no metadata, no IP logging, no way – but email was fundamentally broken.&quot;&quot;Somebody&apos;s in a heap of trouble&quot;What led Janke to declare email broken is the one security flaw it has which simply cannot be fixed. In order for messages to reach their recipient, a certain amount of metadata must be sent without any encryption.Think of it as though you&apos;re sending a letter. No matter how secure the envelope is, if you don&apos;t write the address on the front in such a way that every postal worker can read it, your letter isn&apos;t going to arrive.The information that accompanies emails is normally innocuous: things like the recipient&apos;s address, time of delivery, and the address of the sender. But even that can cause trouble.&quot;What&apos;s happened more recently is just that everyone has become aware that metadata is becoming increasingly important, that the message headers mean a lot,&quot; says Phil Zimmermann. He is another co-founder of Silent Circle, but he has an earlier claim to fame as the creator of PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) a popular method for encrypting the contents – but not the metadata – of emails.PGP was created in 1991, and what it does, it does well: 22 years later, there is still no indication that any security service in the world can break it. But while PGP can render the message itself unreadable, it can&apos;t do anything about the message&apos;s metadata. And now Zimmermann thinks that is a problem.&quot;You&apos;re a journalist for the Guardian, you know that the Guardian sometimes writes stories that are of great interest to intelligence agencies. Well, what if the intelligence agencies want to see if a journalist at the Guardian is talking to a particular sensitive source? All you have to do is find that so-and-so, some government employee, is talking to some journalist at the Guardian. Then somebody&apos;s in a heap of trouble.&quot;Even outside of sensitive situations like that, email metadata can still represent a security issue, because what it represents in aggregate can be a very different thing to what any individual email says.Collect enough metadata together, and you have a complete picture of someone&apos;s friendship networks, sleeping patterns, and working hours, all without reading a single email.&quot;I have a design for a new system.&quot;If email can&apos;t be fixed, it must be replaced. A new service, built from the ground up with security in mind, could overcome the problems that toppled Lavabit and Silent Email.&quot;We met with Ladar first at a privacy conference in Seattle,&quot; says Jon Callas, the chief technical officer of Silent Circle. Like Zimmermann, Callas has a pre-Silent Circle claim to fame, as the creator of PGP Universal, which lets companies host PGP-enabled email in the cloud.&quot;Ladar gave me some notes that he&apos;d had on how to do a more secure email system. I wrote Ladar back and said that I think that email as it exists today is hopelessly broken, but I have a design for a new system.&quot;Before Levison and Callas spoke in Seattle, Dark Mail had been intended to as a Silent Circle product, following on from the company&apos;s encrypted text messaging and phone calling services. But their discussion led to a grander aim.&quot;Ladar liked the ideas,&quot; Callas says, &quot;and we had some other phone calls and talked about how we could take the idea and turn it into an infrastructure that many companies could do. We thought it would be even better to open it up to the whole world.&quot;At Inbox Love, an email conference held in Mountain View, California, the home of Google, on 30 October, Silent Circle and Lavabit announced the result of that design:Dark Mail Alliance. Two months later,Levison has the support of almost 3,000 kickstarter backers to add to the momentum, having raised more than $200,000 on the site to support cleaning up the code and releasing it to the public.&quot;I didn’t want my daughter growing up in a world like that.&quot;The first time I met Janke, Silent Circle&apos;s chief executive, he was wearing a FitBit, one of a new wave of personal fitness monitors. Given how deep he is in the (necessarily) paranoid world of cyber-security, it seems perverse that he would strap on a black, wristwatch-sized band that monitors his movements, location and even whether his sleep is restful or turbulent.&quot;My daughter bought it for me for my birthday,&quot; he explained. &quot;I’m also good friends with the developer, and I’m also a geek, so I love to try things out. I tried out the Nike Fuelband for a month – Jon Callas and I were the among the first 72 people on the Pebble watch. I wore that for a couple of days and it annoyed me so much I sold it on eBay, it was unbelievable.&quot;I love the biohacking to exercise, but dear God I don’t want that shared with anybody on a database. Right? So I don’t want to download anything to an app. Fitbit works … you can stop it doing that, I have, but it minimises what I can do with the app.&quot;I have to have very good digital hygiene. I have throwaway phones, throwaway iPads, I have two different MacBooks. Do I want to do that? No. I mean, that’s not anything I ever viewed as the way I ever really want to live and enjoy technology. But the deeper you go down the rabbit hole, the more you begin to see where it can go.&quot;That sort of &quot;paranoia&quot; – as he himself describes his attitude to technology – fits better with his company&apos;s mission than the gadget geek side of him does. But it seems like it would have clashed with his previous job, as a US Navy SEAL sniper. Instead, he says that&apos;s the reason he moved into cybersecurity in the first place.&quot;I first saw the massive surveillance capabilities with my travels around the world as a SEAL … It never clashed with my role. In fact, it just heightened it. Then, as a business man, I saw how business secrets and IP was stolen in every hotel wifi around the world – and yet the general public ignored it. I didn’t want my daughter growing up in a world like that.&quot;By virtue of the business they&apos;re in, Janke and Silent Circle now straddle the gap between nations and the underworld. &quot;We have three customer bases. A lot of them are private citizens, human rights groups and journalists, who just don&apos;t want the government eavesdropping on their conversations.&quot;Others are governments. Janke proudly recounts how the firm had to turn off some security features so that the US government could even see the traffic in order to verify it was secure enough for the military to use.And then there are businesses. &quot;We started to get an awful lot of calls from law firms in South East Asia, in the span of a month,&quot; he says of one such group. &quot;It turns out that in that area, law firms are allowed to hack each other. And that information can be used in court. So if I&apos;m being sued, I pick the law firm that has the best hacking group.&quot;But all of those groups pale compared to the goal for Dark Mail: everyone. &quot;We will be successful if, in three years , 50% of the world&apos;s emails are sent through this Dark Mail architecture.&quot;&quot;Security should be the default of architecture. If you choose to use a free service like a map service, you should know what you are giving up. For me, I&apos;m fine if Google knows my wife and I were searching for a new restaurant and how to get to it; I&apos;m not fine with them mining every one of my personal texts, emails and searches. Individual citizens the world over should have the ability to decide what they want to share and what they don&apos;t.&quot;
At this point the Tech 128 gets a bit closer to home: internet porn, drugs, um ... Microsoft and tablets. Now read on, but be ready to hit the &quot;filter&quot; button at any time if you feel uncomfortable.Sex/filters/Cameron pornUnder pressure from campaigners, the UK prime minister declared that Something Must Be Done About Porn, where &quot;porn&quot; seemed to be hazily defined. It&apos;s an idea that has been pushedsince at least 2011, when ISPs agreed to make them &quot;opt in&quot;. (In Australia, it wasgoing to be opt-out, and then itsuddenly wasn&apos;t. Never let it be said that Australian politicians can&apos;t change their mind.)By July, Cameron had the bit between his teeth andannouncedthat by the end of 2014 ISPs would present all internet users with an &quot;unavoidable choice&quot; on whether to use filters. He also pressured Google, Bing and Yahoo to block searches for illegal sites online - something with which Googlefinally complied in November.The trouble with filters, of course, is that they aren&apos;t perfect -particularly computer-based ones. Expect trouble over this.Silk RoadWhat&apos;s a bitcoin useful for? Often, it seemed, buying online drugs and illegal goods/services (including, if the affidavits around some of the arrests are to be believed, assassinations) at the marketplace hidden in the depths of the dark web. Accessible through the anonymous Tor network and trading in virtual bitcoin currency,Silk Roadbecame a byword for all things stealthy and outside the ambit of the authorities. Until, that is, the FBI shut it down and replaced its front page with a sign saying &quot;THIS HIDDEN SITE HAS BEEN SEIZED&quot; – raising the obvious question of how the site could really be hidden if you were looking at it, and quite what &quot;seized&quot; means in the context of a virtual object.The closing of Silk Road didn&apos;t make much difference: replacements, including onecalled Black Market Reloaded, sprang up almost overnight.Smart citiesDown these smart streets a man (or woman) must go ... to find acity that&apos;s smart. Getting sensors and intelligence embedded into the way that huge conurbations work is becoming imperative as we have more, and newer, super-cities. Seoul, South Korea, is in the lead here, intrying to capture real-time traffic information. More broadly, you can also look at the Chinese government&apos;s perhaps reluctant decision to make air quality data available as a step towards smarter cities in the Three Kingdoms – try the China Air Quality Index app (iPhoneorAndroid).Smart cities, however, need planning on a big scale to get them right: you don&apos;t want to decide after your roads are built that you need embedded sensors at every crossing. Equally, if you plan too early you can lock yourself into redundant technologies. The makers of smart cities are just grappling with the challenges ahead.Smartwatches &amp; wearable techTracking our every twitch, step and move, fitness trackers and wearable sensors proliferated in 2013, but smartwatches generally failed to live up to the hype.Rumours of an Apple &quot;iWatch&quot; surfaced in February when Bruce Tognazzini, one of its earliest employees,blogged about the idea– breaking a long silence. Tognazzini is well-connected, and so many hares began running. When Appleapplied for an iWatch trademark in Japan, andsupplier figures began surfacing, it seemed all but certain that there would be a new product after the iPhone and iPad.There wasn&apos;t – so Samsung leapt in tofill the nonexistent gap with its Galaxy Gear, which was universallyreviled by reviewers, leaving even its own executives talking of &quot;unripe fruit&quot;.Sony too tried to capture peoples&apos; attention with a smartwatch – and mostly failed.In fact the best-selling smartwatch of the year came fromPebble, maker of the eponymous smartwatchfunded through a Kickstarter project in 2012 that had 85,000 buyers. Thousands more have been sold since it went on sale in some US supermarkets. So ironically, a tiny company funded through crowdsourcing has had more success here than a giant mega-corporation. Isn&apos;t that the most encouraging technology story of the year?SnapchatTake a picture or video, decide how long, between 1 to 10 seconds, you want the recipient to view it for and then draw on top of it and/or add a caption. It&apos;s no-strings-attached picture messaging, as once viewed it is gone forever. The 23-year-old founder reportedlyrejected a $3bn buyout offer from Facebookearlier this year.Is thatall there is to Snapchat? Well, in effect, yes; but that&apos;s a lot right there. It captures the modern desire for some sort of transience, in a world where it seems like everything we do is recorded permanently whether by us or by something else. The question is, will transience be enough to give Snapchat staying power?Sonos Play OneWireless music is one of those things that seems like it has been promised forever. Sonos has been working away at it. While its earlier products had been expensive, in 2013 it released two products – thePlayBarandSonos One– which suggested that good-quality sound with wireless remote control and internet connectivity at an affordable price weren&apos;t mutually exclusive. The Play One in particular, for £169/$199, will fill a good-sized room with solid sound.Spotify2013 has been a big year for Spotify – but, at least to start with, not all the news was good. The company was forced to fight off competition from Google and Apple, who each launched their own streaming music services in the summer.Apple&apos;s iTunes Radio remains US-only for the time being, but Google Play Music All Access presented a more serious competitor – if not a name which rolls off the tongue – offering much the same service as Spotify&apos;s premium package for the same price.As the summer drew on, Spotify came under pressure from a second direction, with Radiohead frontman Thom Yorke criticising the company for underpaying artists.Yorke withdrew all of the music by his side project Atoms for Peace from the site in protest, tweeting: &quot;Make no mistake, new artists you discover on Spotify will not get paid. Meanwhile shareholders will shortly be rolling in it. Simples.&quot;But by the autumn, the service was fighting back. It launchedan all-out PR blitzto convince artists that it was actually paying a fair rate: &quot;Spotify has now paid out a total of more than $1 Billion USD in royalties to-date, $500 Million USD of which we paid in 2013 alone!&quot; And then, in December, it massively increased its free offering, letting users on mobile phones stream their playlists for free –but only in &quot;shuffle&quot; mode. To top it off, it announced an exclusive deal with Led Zeppelin asthe only streaming service carrying their music.Steve BallmerHaving been the chief executive that people (especially Microsoft investors) loved to hate, Steve Ballmer&apos;s abrupt announcement in August that he was going to step down within the next 12 months came as a shock. Ballmer had been in charge since January 2000, when he took over from Bill Gates. In anemotional farewell speechat the last all-hands company meeting he would lead, Ballmer talked of the company as his &quot;fourth child&quot; and said: &quot;Children leave the home, but I guess in this case I&apos;m leaving the home.&quot;It transpired that he had been forced out by a combination of the board and activist investors weary of seeing the share price go nowhere while Google and Apple capitalised on the smartphone revolution to see their valuations rise – Google&apos;s market capitalisation (the aggregate value of all its shares, nominally the market&apos;s guess of its total future profits) passed Microsoft&apos;s back in October 2012.The search is now on for a new chief executive, amid a Ballmer-driven reorganisation into a &quot;devices and services&quot; company which also removes the silos that led to divisional infighting. The question is, will the new leader come from inside or outside the company? And how will she or he make a mark on the company? Even though Office and Windows are huge moneyspinners, their base is threatened by the PC slowdown and the rise of tablets.Some have suggested that Stephen Elop, once leader of the Office division before he left to head Finnish handset maker Nokia, will be next in line. Certainly he has the experience in both software and hardware – and Microsoft is buying Nokia&apos;s handset business. For many, he&apos;s the favourite.StickersYou have a messaging app. You need it to make money. You can&apos;t charge for the app because all the other messaging apps are free. What do you do?The answer: stickers. At least that&apos;s theanswer used by Lineand others. The advantage of stickers (which give users paid-for extra emoticons) is that you can keep coming up with new ones, and they tie users to you to some extent. BlackBerry&apos;s BBM is free. Should we count the hours until it starts offering stickers or their ilk?Tablet explosion!Budget tablets available for a little as £30 forced touchscreen computers into the mainstream, as the intersection of price and performance meant affordable tablets could replace traditional computers for most people. In a number of cases the cheap tablets were being used as replacements for TV sets or DVD players, but certainly for consuming digital content. And at the higher end,tablets could replace key functions of a &quot;PC&quot; – and so take over its tasks, or do things it couldn&apos;t. The market for &quot;PCs&quot; - desktops, and laptops with fixed keyboards - has hit maturity, research companies concluded.Tesco&apos;s HudlAsurprisebudget tablet entry from supermarket Tesco, the Hudl proved that anaffordable tablet could provide a decent experienceand perform what most people needed most of the time. We&apos;ll have to wait for 2014 for sales figures, but the Hudl could establish itself in the UK alongside other smaller tablets.Thorsten HeinsWhen Thorsten Heins was appointed chief executive of RIM (as it was then known) in January 2012, replacing co-chief executives (and founder) Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie, many people asked &quot;Thorsten Who?&quot; He had been the chief operating officer – in effect, the man who got the trains to run on time.Trouble was, the trains at RIM (which rebranded itself BlackBerry in January 2013) were running very late. Its BB10 software for its new handsets arrived a year behind schedule in January, and on the Z10 – a touchscreen smartphone that nobody wanted.However, Heins made a name for himself with some outspoken comments: in March hecalled the iPhone &quot;outdated&quot;because, he said, their users couldn&apos;t multitask without changing app (apparently nobody had told him about Apple&apos;s Notification Centre). In that interview he acknowledged that &quot;we absolutely need BB10 to turn us around&quot;. In April hesaid that in five years, &quot;I don&apos;t think there&apos;ll be a reason to have a tablet any more&quot; and that &quot;tablets themselves are not a good business model&quot;. But he added that &quot;in five years, I see BlackBerry [being] the absolute leader in mobile computing – that&apos;s what we&apos;re aiming for.&quot;Oh well.Things got worse, and in NovemberHeins was fired as a $4.7bn bid by Fairfax Holdings collapsed. The company brokered $1bn in cheap convertible debt. It has also stopped making the PlayBook tablet.Tim Cook &amp; Jony IveApple&apos;s chief executiveTim Cookmust be good at ignoring outside noise, because there was plenty of it in 2013: Apple hadn&apos;t invented anything for years (after all, the iPhone and iPad came out on a three-year cycle and now there was nothing), the iPhone didn&apos;t have 99% of the market, and what&apos;s more, he wasn&apos;t Steve Jobs. Even Carl Icahn saw the chance to prod a bit,buying some Apple stockand then – as is his wont – complaining that it should pay bigger dividends, especially from its cash pile.Cook had some uncomfortable moments,appearing before the US Congress to defend Apple&apos;s tax arrangements(including a jaw-dropping Irish company which didn&apos;t seem to be housed in Ireland). Apple put out an advert whose message (&quot;this is what we do&quot;) seemed more aimed at its own staff, to remind them what they did, than actual buyers.Then in June thenew iOS 7 software designwas unveiled: it was the first time Jony Ive, Apple&apos;s famous head of hardware design, had had his hands on the pixels too. Some loved it, others hated it, but it seemed to match the modern sensibility better than the now-ageing faux-leather of its six-year-old predecessor.Ive then had phones to match – the 5S, unlockable with a fingerprint, and the cheaper (but not that much cheaper) 5C, where the &quot;C&quot; stands for colour. A biography of Ive by Leander Kahney revealed him as a key element and, sometimes, obstacle in Apple&apos;s development of new products, but one who is always thinking a few years ahead: his team had been working on designs for an MP3 player long before 2001 when the iPod was released.Now Cook and Ive face the tough task of satisfying people in 2014. No doubt they&apos;ll fail with many – while pleasing many others.TinderSwipe narcissistically through pictures of the opposite sex in your local area who are also Tinder users. If you would consider &quot;getting to know&quot; a person you can swipe the other direction and if said person reciprocates then you two are deemed a match and you can start a chat together. Tinder gave the lie to the idea that location date-matching could only be done for same-sex couples using Grindr.Toca BuildersApps for children are a sort of hinterland: overlooked by many big-name publications, but focussed on furiously by app makers who realise they could make tons of money from them. Toca Boca is one of the most successful makers of childrens&apos; apps, and has had more than 40m downloads in total since starting in March 2011. Itsnewest app is Toca Builders- which is like Minecraft without the gaming. (Yes, Minecraft doesn&apos;t have much gaming to start with. Let&apos;s move on.)Björn Jefferey, its chief executive, says: &quot;As an app developer, our intention is never to replace the parent, and I&apos;ve never met a developer who tries to replace physical play with digital toys. The two aren&apos;t mutually exclusive, and they can even be combined.&quot; To which we say: is that some sort ofhint?Last instalment tomorrow
Google has marked the countdown to 2014 with a disco-themed Google Doodle on New Year&apos;s Eve.The animation shows the digits making up 2013 doing a halting jig on a stage under a glitter ball while the number 4 waits to take its place in the line-up.Clicking on the Doodle takes the user through to a page of results listing New Year&apos;s Eve festivities, news articles and other results from around the world.A further link on the search homepage goes to Google&apos;s Zeitgest 2013 interactive, giving highlights of the year in video, the top 100 searches, search trends, a 2013 gallery and a page of year-in-review lists ranging from celebrities to song lists, recipes, sports teams and TV shows.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Console Living Room &gt;&gt; Internet ArchiveThe home console market is credited with slowly shifting attention from the arcade craze of the early 1980s and causing arcades to shrink in popularity, leaving a small percentage of what once were many.Through use of the JSMESS emulator system, which allows direct access to these programs in your browser with no additional plugins or settings, these games can be enjoyed again. Simply click on the screenshot or "Emulate This" button for each individual cartridge, and on modern browsers the games will just start to run. As nostalgia, a teaching tool, or just plain fun, you'll find hundreds of the games that started a billion-dollar industry.These games are best enjoyed in an up to date version of a modern browser. Currently, there is no sound in the games, although that feature will be added soon. Please read carefully regarding key mappings of the games and programs, to use them in your browser.Free games. Don't say we don't do anything for you. Choose from the Atari 2600, 7800, ColecoVision, Magnavox Odyssey, or Astrocade.Google, Apple forge auto ties &gt;&gt; WSJ.comApple and Google already compete fiercely in an array of digital businesses, ranging from smartphones and tablet computers to mobile apps and Web browsers. With 80 million new cars and light trucks sold each year, automobiles represent a significant new opportunity for Internet-based software and services."The car is becoming the ultimate mobile device," said Thilo Koslowski, an analyst at the research firm Gartner who specializes in advanced in-car electronics. "Apple and Google see that and are trying to line up allies to bring their technology into the vehicle."The annual event known as CES has in recent years become an important showcase for advances in automotive electronics, including the kind of autonomous driving technologies that Google has helped pioneer.Scholarship, Integrity and Going Viral &gt;&gt; UCL Social Networking Sites &amp; Social Science Research Project UCL UCL Social Networking Sites &amp; Social Science Research ProjectDaniel Miller (who carried out the "teens not using Facebook so much" study):Was this big news?Well not really, the very reputable Pew Research Centre in the US had published a report called 'Teens Haven't Abandoned Facebook (Yet)' on 15/08/2013. So I was not the first to note these trends. However, while Pew found that in the US Facebook still takes the bulk of teens' attention, I observed that in The Glades it was now relegated behind its rivals and used for family much more than for peer communication. That is why I could say with confidence that with respect to coolness Facebook is 'dead and buried' for these teens. But then their survey ended in Sept 2012. By 5/11/13 Pew had published '5 sites teens flock to instead of Facebook'.I don't think anyone reading my original blog post would be misinformed. I don't ever suggest that Facebook is doomed. I state clearly that Facebook is expanding in other field-sites and age groups and that these same teens retain Facebook for family purposes. My data overwhelmingly made the case for this loss of cool.Schemer to be discontinued &gt;&gt; Google Operating SystemAccording to an internal version of the site, Schemer will be discontinued. "Schemer is being shut down soon. Sign in to get your data before it's gone," mentions the site. "We had launched over a year ago to help people to do more awesome stuff, and it has been quite an adventure for us as well! However, we have come to the difficult decision to shut down Schemer." It's not clear when it will be discontinued.Launched around 760 days ago. As a reminder, typically Google services that are killed off survive about 1770 days. Those which are killed survive 1452 days (on average; SD = 766).I, Glasshole: my year with Google Glass &gt;&gt; Wired.comMat Honan wore an Explorer set in all sorts of situations, for months, and concludes:Glass, and the other things like it, won't always be ugly and awkward. At some point, it's going to be invisibly indistinguishable from a pair of glasses or sunglasses. Meanwhile, Google is going to continue getting better and better at figuring out what to send you, based on where you are and when you're there, and what you've done in the past. Third-party developers will create amazing new apps, things we haven't thought of. Its form will encourage new functions, new ideas, new realities.And here's the thing I am utterly convinced of: Google Glass and its ilk are coming. They are racing toward us, ready to change society, again. You can make fun of Glass, and the assholes (like me) who wear it. But here's what I know: The future is on its way, and it is going to be on your face. We need to think about it and be ready for it in a way we weren't with smartphones.Facebook Pages: No one is talking about you! &gt;&gt; being practical"PJ":So why is [Facebook Pages] a dead product? If a Facebook page (as a product) that has over a million users connected to it, but generates only 2% engagement and possibly even less viral factor is as good as dead. As a transaction product (like ecommerce) the conversions from Facebook Page will be further down since your posts reach a smaller percentage of 'your Facebook audience'.Going forward if the audience that you are building through Facebook Page is never going to engage with your posts, it might be a better option for advertisers to consider simply running CPC advertisements to target the necessary demographic, take users to their website and engage them there (back to pre-social media days of Facebook).Problem for Facebook and its users.. such as...The woes of Facebook - where else to follow me &gt;&gt; The Culinary LifeStephanie Stiavetti:I have 8,000 followers [of her page on Facebook]. Over the past few months my engagement has slowed to less than a trickle – a tiny fraction of what it was at the beginning of the year. Now, when I post to my Facebook page for The Culinary Life, only 100 people see those posts (on average). That is about .01% of my followers. Facebook then tries to charge me $20 so that you can see my content. Given that I don't make any money from the stories and photos I post – please note there are not any ads on my site – paying hundreds of dollars a month to access you, the fans who willingly liked my page, is just not possible.Something Microsoft has never fixed: why Windows is slow to start up &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson:You can speed up Windows startup by going through case by case and disabling startup items that you do not need. Here is auseful guide. It is an unsatisfactory business though. Users have no easy way to judge whether or not a specific app is doing an important or useful task. You might break something. When you next update the application, the startup app may reappear. It is a mess.Microsoft should have addressed this problem aggressively, years ago. It did put great effort into making Windows boot faster, but never focussed on the harder task of bringing third-parties into line.Ironically, many of the problems are fixed in Windows RT - the one with the Damoclean sword hanging over it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's New Year's Eve! Any plans for tonight? Mammoth Blood Bowl tournament perhaps?
Now we come to the space where people played, interacted and disputed. Whether patents or selfies, there was controversy and absorption to be had everywhere.PewdiepieTwerking and rubbing yourself with a foam finger at award shows may whip up controversy and millions of YouTube views, but the real king of the video streaming platform is a Swedish 24-year-old who films himself playing video games.Miley Cyrus only managed to stay on top of the YouTube chart for a month before PewDiePie – the alter ego of Felix Kjellberg –regained the throne. With more than 15 million subscribers and more than 200m views most months, it looks likely to remain one of the most popular channels in 2014 – its only constant challenger being the Turkish music industry channel MÜ-YAP.Pierre OmidyarNot content with raking in billions of dollars from his online auction site, the founder of eBay decided to plough $250m into setting up a news organisation. Inspired, he suggested, by the revelations published by Glenn Greenwald from the Snowden disclosures, herecruited Greenwald. He&apos;s putting about the same amount in as Jeff Bezos paid for the Washington Post. Shall we come back in five years and see which one is more famous?PinterestCreate boards for different categories and pin pictures to the boards. A way to store online images that you love, or just to appreciate photography. And also a way for a company with no perceptible revenues toraise huge amounts of cash at startling valuations- wouldn&apos;t you pin a $38bn valuation to your wall?Prison ArchitectWant to run a jail? Of course you do! That&apos;s why you&apos;re gagging to play Prison Architect. It&apos;s pretty hard to disagree that you want to play something based on Maslow&apos;s hierarchy of needs. We can&apos;t remember where in the Maslow&apos;s pyramid it is that building and managing a jail comes – somewhere between Serco and G4S, we think – but it&apos;s a radical idea that is sure to be popular in at least some boardrooms.•Prison Architect – the game that asks, what&apos;s it like to run a jail?PS4Sonyintroduced a games console. It&apos;s called the PlayStation 4 – a name which surprised almost nobody, given that its previous consoles were the PlayStation, PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3. It sold a million of them in a weekend, neatly refuting the idea that nobody was interested in games consoles any more, and 2.1m in its first two weeks – including 250,000 in the UK.Andrew House, chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainment,gave a helicopter view of progress in December, suggesting that any supply constraints will ease in spring and more games will become available.Quantified self movementThe &quot;quantified self&quot; – AKA, in the words of writer and editor Paul Carr, &quot;vanity metrics&quot; – began in California, naturally, so that beautiful people could measure just how much more beautiful the number of steps they had taken were making them. There areplenty of opportunities thoughto do more, for example in real-time health tracking, game mechanics, and other fields. For some, the ability to publish what they&apos;ve done is one of the biggest attractions of quantified self apps. Some, such as cycling, have become social so that people can race against others in different locations.QuipWith tablets becoming a Big Thing, what people have been looking for more and more is a word processor that is born on a tablet – not a cut-down desktop idea, but something designed with touch control from the start.Quip is a collaborative word processorthat looks more like a chat app so that you can see the thread of edits and changes by other people who are working on a document with you. After all, why should a document that will never be printed pretend to be a sheet of paper?Raspberry PiReigniting interest in coding and providing a platform for all sorts of projects, hacks and learning opportunities, the Raspberry Pi captured the imagination of children and adults alike,selling more than 2m computersby the end of November. A British success story.(Google) ReaderInkilling the popular (among its users) social RSS readerfrom 1 July, Google reminded people that even if a service it offers is deeply loved by users, if it doesn&apos;t generate advertising revenue or in some other way fit into its aim of gathering more information about users, then it&apos;s going to get a ride in the boot up into the mountains.Reader was an RSS reader that also let you share links with other people, so that you could get some idea of what was popular. Journalists in particular found it useful. But many groups found its social aspect, which had been almost accidental in its development, essential. Google instead tried to fold the sharing elements of Google Reader into Google+.Reader turned out to have a staff of roughly zero, but probably around 12m users – almost all of whom migrated to Feedly. In March, Buzzfeed noted that &quot;Google Reader still drives far more traffic than Google+&quot;. This may still be true even with Reader gone.For some small blogs, though, having Reader as an avenue through which they could be exposed to a wider audience was crucial. Without it, smaller voices have less chance of being heard.ResogunAll hail the PlayStation 4! If you like that sort of thing, anyway.Key launch titlesincluded Resogun, which was free for subscribers to the PlayStation Plus online gaming service. We thought it looked like a bit of a &quot;flashy retro shooter&quot;, but it quickly rose in everyone&apos;s estimations to become a game of the year: &quot;an old-fashioned arcade shooter that reinvents Armageddon as a frantic cascade of beautiful particle effects&quot;, in thewords of Nathan Ditum.RockstarThere&apos;s a long backstory to this one. In summer 2011, Google (paired with Intel) lost a four-day 20-round auction for the patent portfolio of bankrupt Canadian telecoms company Nortel. Its final bid was $4.4bn; the winners – a consortium called &quot;Rockstar BidCo&quot;, consisting of Apple, Microsoft, Sony, BlackBerry and Ericsson –bid $4.5bn.Google&apos;s executive chairman Eric Schmidt later said the price had been &quot;too high&quot;, though Google then rushed to buy Motorola Mobility – with its giant patent portfolio – for $12.5bn in August.Apple and the others set up a company called Rockstar to administer the ownership of the patents. In principle, Rockstar is a &quot;non-practising entity&quot; (NPE) – AKA a &quot;patent troll&quot; – since it doesn&apos;t make anything, just asserts rights over its patents. Patent trolls are very unpopular in the US.Everything went quiet with Rockstar until at the end of October 2013, when itfiled lawsuitsin the Eastern District of Texas (which is notoriously patent-holder-friendly) against Google, Samsung, Huawei and HTC.Google is accused by Rockstar of infringing search technologies on a patent filed in 1997 – before the search company was founded – and on six other patents; it&apos;s seeking damages and royalties. The other lawsuits accuse the handset companies of infringing patents relating to mobile phones. In response, Google has filed a countersuit trying to move the case to California and asking a judge to dismiss the claims.Quite how this will end up is anyone&apos;s guess: the cases are bound to take years, but if Rockstar wins it could put a nasty dent in the profitability of smaller Android handset companies – and if Google ends up paying a per-search tithe to an Apple-owned company, relations between the two will be more strained than ever.Ross UlbrichtUlbricht is a 29-year-old San Franscican, whose housemates knew him as a currency trader going by the name of &quot;Josh&quot;. They knew he was a quiet loner, who cooked steak dinners for himself and spent independence day at home, but none of them expected the FBI to turn up one day andarrest Ulbricht, charging him with running Silk Road, the biggest online drugs marketplace the world has ever seen.Ulbricht says he is &quot;not excessively concerned&quot; about the future. Key to any case will be whether the FBI can tie him to ownership or operation of the site – the location still remains a mystery, hidden as it was through the obfuscation of the Tor network. The FBI also seized a large and very valuable stash of Bitcoins which it said were being used by Silk Road.RovioThe Finnish company is famous enough to have featured obliquely in Armando Iannucci&apos;s satire on the US politics, Veep (when Selma Meyer visits Helsinki and is given a giant Angry Bird clock). From there it&apos;s only a short step tolanding in Hollywood, which is where the company – or at least some idea around it – seems to be headed.Well, it worked for Moshi Monsters, which is entertaining popcorn-guzzling children as you read this, so why not something involving flightless catapulted birds demolishing loosely-built structures housing pigs? (There&apos;s been a mildly successful version, we recall, with a wolf instead of the birds, though we think the script might need some redrafting – the ending wasn&apos;t so favourable.) If Aardman gets the gig, they could reuse some of the Plasticine from Chicken Run. Win-win.Satoshi NakamotoNobody knows who she or he is, nor even whether s/he is a single person or a group (though the latter seems unlikely). The pseudonymous Japanese name is a fake. But that is the given name of the inventor of Bitcoin, one of the Guardian&apos;s ten people of 2013.The New Yorker suggested it might be a Finnish researcher, Vili Lehdonvirta, at the Helsinki Institute for Information Technology. He laughed and denied it. The writer then suggested that Michael Clear, an Irish researcher, might be. He denied it too. Fast Company magazine pointed out that a patent filed in August 2008 by Neal King, Vladimir Oksman and Charles Bry seemed to have some similarities to Bitcoin&apos;s technologies; all three have denied being Nakamoto.It&apos;s widely believed that Nakamoto has a huge hoard of Bitcoins created back at the currency&apos;s dawn, which could now be cashed in for vast amounts. But again, there&apos;s no proof. All we have is Nakamoto&apos;s original 2008 paper – and Bitcoin.Self-driving carsThere&apos;s been lots of hubbub about self-driving cars – which seem simple in principle, but are actually very hard to do in practice (how do you avoid suicidal pedestrians, whose fault is it if there&apos;s an accident, how do you allow for changing roads if it works off a downloaded map, what if your internet access dies, what if the computer crashes, and so on). Yes, we&apos;ve had self-driving aircraft for ages, but traffic at ground level is a lot less predictable than that at 30,000ft.Google is best-known for touting the idea, but it turns out (as along New Yorker articlepointed out) that lots of vehicle manufacturers are working on the same idea – though they&apos;re thinking ofassistingthe driver, notreplacingthe driver, for all sorts of reasons. Meanwhile,Milton Keynes could be getting driverless &quot;pod cars&quot; as soon as 2017, according to business secretary Vince Cable. Under the £1.5m project, they&apos;ll share pathways with pedestrians and &quot;have sensors to avoid collisions&quot; to cover the one-mile gap from the shopping centre to the rail station. (Business hint: this may be a good time to set up an accident law firm in Milton Keynes. You know how clumsy pedestrians can be.)Selfies2013 is undoubtedlythe year of the selfie; it found its way into the Oxford Dictionaries Online in August and was then named the Oxford Dictionaries Word of the Year last month. (Note: &quot;Oxford Dictionaries Online&quot; is emphatically not the same thing as the Oxford English Dictionary, aka OED.)Some notable selfies this year? That time Beyoncé agreed to pose in a selfie (while performing) – oh, and that other time that three world leaders decided to snap a selfie at Nelson Mandela’s memorial.The question is: are selfies a pointer to our need to verify ourselves among the sea of incoming media showing the faces of others which threatens to inundate our own identity, or an indication of a growing narcissism and self-absorption to the exclusion of outward reality? Answers on the back of a philosophy student, please.Next instalment tomorrow
Mike Lazaridis, one of BlackBerry&apos;s founders, has cut his stake in the struggling company from 5.7% at the end of 2012 to 4.99% as its woes continued.A holding company that Lazaridis controls took advantage of a jump in the company&apos;s share price – despite it reporting a quarterly loss of $4.4bn and a 56% slump in revenues – to sell 3.4m shares, realising $26.45m. But there might be almost no profit in the move, as he had increased his holding by 3.1m shares in 2012 – and during that year the price of BlackBerry shares was almost always higher than the recent sale price.Lazaridis&apos;s move,noted in a filingwith the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), comes after hefailed to gather finance for a buyoutof the company during the summer as it looked as though it was going to be sold for $4.9bn to a consortium led by Fairfax Holdings, a Canadian private equity group.Lazaridis, 52, hadincreased his holding at the end of 2012by 3.1m shares, apparently in expectation that the release of the new BB10 software in January would boost the company back towards the success it had enjoyed between 2007 and 2010. But his former co-chief executive Jim Balsillie, who with Lazaridis piloted the company towards its global success, sold all of his 26.8m shareholding – 5.1% of the shares – by the end of 2012.That could mean that Lazaridis has taken a loss on the 3.1m shares bought in 2012 unless he bought them in a narrow window between 19 and 26 September, when the price was below $7.Handset exitLast week BlackBerry announced that it was effectively giving up making handsets as sales of its new BB10 models disappointed for the third quarter in a row, posting a $4.4bn quarterly net loss on revenues that had plunged 56% to $1.2bn. The company is likely to have dropped out of the world&apos;s ten largest suppliers of smartphones for the Christmas quarter.Yet investors have indicated that they see promise in the plans by the new BlackBerry chief executive, John Chen, to turn it into an enterprise software company handing off handset design responsibility to Foxconn, the Taiwanese manufacturing company that also assembles phones and tablets for Apple.For Foxconn the five-year deal, announced by Chen on Friday, will give it the chance to design BB10 handsets aimed at markets in southeast Asia – the third-largest business segment by revenue for BlackBerry after the Europe, Mideast-Africa and North American segments.Foxconn, however, will also be taking on the &quot;inventory risk&quot; – the problem of being left with handsets that customers don&apos;t want and which it cannot sell. BlackBerry has successively written down $934m and $1.6bn on unsold inventory of handsets and other inventory, mostly of BB10 handsets.• Where did the BlackBerry Z10 come in2013&apos;s smartphone smackdown video?
Better late than never!
We're back with a burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGalaxy Nexus &amp; Android 4.4 (KitKat) FAQs &gt;&gt; Nexus HelpIs Google releasing Android 4.4 as a system update for Galaxy Nexus?No, Galaxy Nexus phones won't be receiving the update for Android 4.4 (KitKat).Why isn't Galaxy Nexus receiving the update to Android 4.4?Galaxy Nexus, which first launched two years ago, falls outside of the 18-month update window when Google and others traditionally update devices."Traditionally"? When did this tradition start, exactly? And is this "18-month update window" well known?"No one at Google is Returning Our Calls" &gt;&gt; Digits to DollarsJay Greenberg has been talking with Chinese handset OEMs, who want access to "full Google" Android (aka GMA) so they can attack the export market:it appears that Google has not fully delegated the GMA to the baseband providers, preferring to keep that power firmly rested in Mountain View. And to be fair, it is no easy task for Google to operate in China. That being said, all the OEMs we spoke with said they would be happy to sign agreements in Hong Kong, which after all is just over the border from Shenzhen.The net result of all this is that the small vendors, who collectively ship several hundred million phones a year, have to make do. If you buy a phone on the streets of Shenzhen, even a device with no obvious branding on it, you are probably getting a phone that has access to the full G-Suite. My contacts tell me that 'cracked' G-Suite keys are readily available in China.So here we come to the crux of the problem. Android wants to use the Google Suite to control Android as best as they can. But corporate Google just wants billions of people to have ready access to all of Google's offerings. The compromise in China means cracked software codes, and all the security implications that those likely entail.One OEM told me that he had tried repeatedly to reach out to Google but got no response. I found this story very resonant, as it was exactly what they told me four years ago about Microsoft.Greenberg has posted a number of first-hand experience posts from China, all of which are worth reading.How a fabricated story about Iron Maiden's love of music pirates became internet truth &gt;&gt; TechCrunchGregory Ferenstein:Wouldn't it be awesome if heavy metal icons Iron Maiden leveraged data about which regions of the world pirated their music to plan a multi-million dollar global concert tour? Yeah, it'd be awesome, if it were true.So awesome to my anarchistic ears that I was halfway through reblogging the reblog of a Rolling Stone story before I learned that I couldn't actually verify any of the facts.Pretty sure the band is called Iron Maiden, though. ("Halfway through reblogging" is a scary phrase. Not "Before I began writing..."?) The source? A Guardian story which correctly reported that Iron Maiden has been touring Brazil, and that that country is a place where it sees lots of Bittorrenting, and that it has probably been successful at turning file-sharers into fee-paying fans. But no suggestion that theyplannedthat link.The new Apple Mac Pro is here - but can we build it better (and cheaper) PC DIY Style? &gt;&gt; FuturelooksStephen Fung:Apple launched their new Mac Pro (aka the trashbin, bazooka tube, water boiler, etc.). And while it's impressive how Apple's "highly modded PC" is able to meet thermal and power requirements in such a tiny size, all of this normally comes at a price, which is traditionally known as the "Apple Tax". We set out to find out just how much of a "tax" there is this time around by pitting their highest spec'd machine against what we could build with industry standard, off the shelf parts, available today. Here's what we came up with.Have a guess at how much cheaper they managed it.2009: Mum, Daad, grandma, get off Facebook! &gt;&gt; theguardian.comFrom March 2009:18-25-year-olds make up a third of Facebook users on their own (hence the prevalence of photos tagged "drunk at PARTY!!") - but also Facebook is ageing faster than the real population.What does the invasion of Mum, Dad, and the grandparents mean for Facebook? That's harder to discern. Perhaps more advertising opportunities - because the older generation is more accustomed to react favourably to adverts? Or more potential revenue, because that generation has (or used to have) more money?But the more interesting question is whether this will mean any change in the culture of Facebook.And you get your answer in 2013, whenFacebook is "dead"to teens in Europe.Slow sales of flagship smartphones to affect vendor rankings in 2014 &gt;&gt; DigitimesLG originally projected to sell 10m units of its Optimus G2 flagship model in 2013, but global sales have so far reached slightly over 2m units, the observers noted.The release of the G2 was too close to the launch of the Nexus 5, which affected sales momentum of LG's own flagship model, added the sources.Huawei has so far shipped only over 3m units of its latest flagship model, the Ascend P6, lagging far behind its shipment target of 10m units.Nobody's putting any numbers on how many HTC Ones have been sold either.HTC executives indicted for leaking trade secrets (update) &gt;&gt; FOCUS TAIWANSix employees of leading Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp., including its vice president of product design Thomas Chien, were indicted Friday on charges of leaking trade secrets and breach of trust.Three of HTC's materials suppliers were also indicted for allegedly helping HTC design executives make false expense claims of over NT$33m (US$1.1m).In its indictment, the Taipei Prosecutors Office said Chien, who has been detained since 31 August, had stolen and leaked key icon designs to his would-be Chinese business partners in Beijing in June. The designs were for HTC's yet-to-be-unveiled smartphone interface.Prosecutors are claiming that all but one of the accused has confessed with a maximum jail sentence of 10 years; the report also says that two of them have been "forgiven" by the company. So how valuable were those designs exactly?Hole found in Samsung's Knox security feature &gt;&gt; SiliconBeatThe hole could allow hackers to intercept email, browser activity and other activity originating from within the Knox environment."Knox symbolizes state-of-the-art in terms of secure mobile architectures, and I was surprised to find that such a big 'hole' exists and was left untouched," said Mordechai Guri, a Ph.D. student in the Cyber Security Labs at Israel's Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, who discovered the vulnerability. "This weakness has to be addressed immediately, before it falls into the wrong hands."Knox creates a secure, password-protected virtual space within Samsung devices that's supposed to allow the devices to connect to similarly secured corporate and government computers and access sensitive files without fear that those files might leak out to the outside world.But thanks to the security hole, a user could install an app in the regular, non-secure area of the phone that could compromise all the phone's communications, including those made within the Knox container, according to Cyber Security Labs researchers. In addition to exposing sensitive data, the hole could potentially be used to upload malicious files from a compromised phone to corporate or government servers, according to the Wall Street Journal.Odd that the Pentagon didn't discover this during its testing of Knox before giving it certification.Samsung edges Apple for #1 ranking in ABI Research's enterprise smartphone competitive assessment &gt;&gt; ABI ResearchNote that it's enterprise, not consumer:The vendor matrix score separating Samsung and Apple was less than a single point. Apple received extremely high marks in Implementation due to high iOS smartphone adoption by business users and because its smartphones are the most activated device within EMM/MDM platforms. Samsung, on the other hand, was ranked as more Innovative with a wider range of enterprise devices and better security features. Samsung's higher Innovation scores lead to its number one ranking.The third place ranking for BlackBerry was driven by lower Implementation scores, yet it still received high scores in Innovation. The company faces shrinking smartphone market share in an intense competitive environment. Even so, BlackBerry is still considered the gold standard in enterprise security supported by recent BES enhancements for multi-OS and dual-persona device management.Notebook vendors still conservative about 2-in-1 devices in 2014 &gt;&gt; DigitimesMost notebook vendors are still conservative about sales of 2-in-1 notebook/tablet convertible models in 2014 despite the increasing number of 2-in-1 devices.Because most peripherals for 2-in-1 devices such as keyboards are device specific, if the devices see weak sales, peripheral inventories also pile up for the vendors, the sources noted.In 2013, 2-in-1 devices had a less than 10% share in the mobile device market, and most vendors are conservative about demand in 2014 despite Intel's optimistic forecast of 10-fold growth, the sources pointed out.A sub-10% share that's going to increase 10-fold? 2014 should be interesting. (The inventory problem is the killer.)HTC Software Updates &gt;&gt; HTC United StatesAn infographic (you have to click a link) to explain why it's so hard to update phones. As with any infographic, it doesn't follow any sensible flow: quite when the provision of "No further OS updates" is triggered isn't clear at all.Online shopping digital analytics benchmark &gt;&gt; IBMMobile traffic was up 28.3% year-on-year in the US, and mobile sales were 29% of all purchases - up 40% on 2012:• Smartphones browse, tablets buy: Smartphones drove 28.5% of all online traffic compared to tablets at 18.1%, making it the browsing device of choice. When it comes to making the sale, tablets drove 19.4% of all online sales, more than twice that of smartphones, which accounted for 9.3%. Tablet users also averaged $95.61 per order, versus smartphone users, who averaged $85.11 per order.• iOS vs. Android: As a percentage of total online sales, iOS was more than five times higher than Android, driving 23% vs. 4.6% for Android. On average, iOS users spent $93.94 per order, nearly twice that of Android users, who spent $48.10 per order. iOS also led as a component of overall traffic with 32.6% vs. 14.8% for Android.• The Social Influence - Facebook vs. Pinterest: Shoppers referred from Facebook averaged $72.01 per order, versus Pinterest referrals, which drove $86.83 per order.  However, Facebook referrals converted sales at nearly four times the rate of Pinterest referrals, perhaps indicating stronger confidence in network recommendations.At this rate mobile will be the majority next year.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A Russian hacker secretly took over a computer server at the BBC before Christmas and tried to sell access to it to other hackers, according to reports.The BBC's security team believes it managed to secure the site on Saturday 28 December. It had been broken into via a server usually used for uploading large files.Reuters news agency said the hacker, known online as "HASH" or "Rev0lver", offered proof that he had broken in by posting a screenshot of the server and its files on an underground forum where he was trying to sell access on 25 December.Alex Holden, founder of Hold Security, a cybersecurity company in Milwaukee,  said the hacker didn't specify a price for access, but that the value of being able to get into the BBC server wasn't the same as that of hacking credit card details. "I doubt that the BBC stored 40m credit cards, but they have something as valuable," he said."Theoretically speaking, a hacker who is able to manipulate or fabricate a news story may crash financial markets, make millions, and cause billions in losses."When Syrian hackers managed to break into the Associated Press account in April andfaked a story about an attack on the White House, the US stock market dropped by 143 points in seconds.Holden said: "We often see high-profile companies like the BBC getting breached. Larger companies are targeted more because hackers can easily monetise their gains."It's unclear whether the hacker found any buyers or took any data, but being able to sell such access can be used by hackers as a bargaining chip to get control of other, more important servers."We do not comment on security issues," a BBC spokesman told Reuters.The attack was carried out against ftp.bbc.co.uk, a computer server that manages file uploads and downloads from the BBC. Holden spotted the hacker trying to sell access.Getting access can be a first step to taking control of a server and using it either to store stolen files and data, or to create a "command centre" for large networks of compromised PCs which in turn are used for spam and phishing attacks around the web.Justin Clarke, a principal consultant for cybersecurity firm Cylance, told Reuters that while "HASH" was only offering access to an obscure FTP server, some buyers might see it as a stepping stone to more prized assets within the BBC."Accessing that server establishes a foothold within the BBC's network which may allow an attacker to pivot and gain further access to internal BBC resources," he said.Media companies have repeatedly been targeted by the Syrian Electronic Army, which supports the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, as well as other hacker activist groups that deface websites and take over Twitter accounts.Last January the New York Times reported that it had been repeatedly attacked over four months by Chinese hackers who obtained employees' passwords.The BBC has been the target of a number of attacks. In 2012 it was subjected to a cyber-attack, allegedly from Iran, that knocked out its Persian service.
Price £8,399MPG 48.7Top speed 108mphThe MG is back, sort of. No other two letters conjure up so immediately an image of fun, affordable, sporty motoring. Still based in Longbridge, but now owned by the massiveChinese manufacturer SAIC, the marque tentatively made its reappearance on British roads last year with the unspeakably dullMG6– a bargain-basement Mondeo wannabe which managed to sell a paltry 300 motors. Where's the fun in that? Now we have the more promisingMG3– which is half the size but at least twice as good.With images of sportsters, scarves and blonde hair floating before my eyes I ring my friend Guy to tell him MG's news (I did have other things to say to him, too,actually). He was once the proud owner of an MG roadster back in the 80s. It was an unhealthy sludge colour with brown seats and a beige fabric roof, but we all loved it. For a couple of summers it was our trump card in the dating game. Who am I kidding? It was our only card."Oh no," Guy groans. "That car was a pile of rusting crap that cost me a&nbsp;fortune." Would he like to come for a test drive in MG's new entry-level hatchback? There's a pause. And then: "No, of course not."So I'm on my own. But the MG3 still wants to have fun. It's not glamorous in the way you remember an MG being, and to the young motorist who it's aimed at, the letters now mean something quite different fromMorris Garages. My teenage son informs me they now stand for Morning Glory. As in: "Bruv, man's mum came in and almost saw the MG – it was peak!" Nevertheless, the  MG3 is a sharp-looking car. It's mostly built in China, with the final assembly taking place in the UK, but it is styled and designed in Longbridge, where the company employs about 400 engineers. You can still fly the flag if you want to.The car has clean lines and a&nbsp;pleasing, bold face. But it's hard for a vehicle to stand out in the super-competitive supermini class. Squint and it looks a bit Fabia, or maybe a bit Yaris, oh and definitely a&nbsp;bit Fiesta. MG has got round this by offering more personalisation options than really make sense. They claim the car has over a million possible permutations. The graphic packs cost up to £225 and you can put emoticon stickers on the roof, or a&nbsp;decal that looks like a tyre burnout. My test car seemed to be covered in fake fallen leaves – which drove me mad, as it was covered in real ones, too, being winter, and I kept trying to pick them off. Did it look cool? I'm not its 20-something target, but I think not.  I asked the boy again: "Nah, it just makes you look like a real beg."The base car starts at an amazingly cheap £8,399. Even if you go for the top-spec model, which includes an iPod connection, DAB radio, aircon, Bluetooth, parking sensor, airbags, LED running lights, cruise control and steering wheel audio controls, you still get a pound change from 10 grand.The car handles well, but it's let down by the engine. It's a 1.5-litre petrol, which for this size of car is far too big. You could live with that, but this one whines and wheezes and you have to rev it hard to make any headway. The large engine means emissions are high, though consumption is reasonable. But no one in a car this size wants to pay £140 road tax when far bigger cars attract close to nothing.This MG could be up there with the best cheap cars – but not until it gets a new engine. Either way, it's great to see MG rising again…Life-sized Scalextric on the streets of LondonScalextric (owned by Hornby Hobbies) has been working with Scorch London and Renault UK to produce their latest stunt video, showing two electric cars racing on a giant Scalextric track in London. The electric Renault Zoe vehicles were modified to mimic real Scalextric cars with competition winners racing against each other using remote controllers in a helicopter. It's a long way from the track on your parents' living room floor, but the old "racing on rails" feel still seems to be there…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter at@MartinLove166
Ever since marketing pioneer John Wanamaker quipped that half of all the money he spent on advertising was wasted, but he didn't know which half, businesses have been striving to make their advertising spending accountable.That was in the late 19th century: the department-store king could never have predicted today's $100bn deluge of advertising on PCs, tablets and smartphones. But despite the way data-obsessed marketers flock to the promise of a measurable online world, Wanamaker's conundrum is still with us – $24bn (£14.5bn) of that online spending goes on digital display advertising, and up to half of it is potentially wasted.According to Anant Joshi, director of digital analytics business Meetrics, currently up to half of all online display ads  are never seen by web users.But in a move Joshi says can only be positive for the industry, Google, which has built an advertising empire on the back of linking ads to its devilishly clever search algorithm, is now turning its attention to bringing some of that same rigour to display advertising."A big focus for us is making digital ads work for brand advertisers," said Google executive Andrea Faville. "How do you come up with a measurement for brand advertisers that works like clicks and conversion rates do? How do you tell whether a human being has actually seen an ad?"The company has introduced technology that can track the "viewability" of ads, to determine whether they are actually potentially visible to a user and not buried at the bottom of a web page.This means that advertisers who buy campaigns across the 2m websites that make up the Google display network – and includes theNew York Times,USA TodayandForbessites – will only pay for their ad if at least 50% of it is visible for one second or longer."There is a big need for more transparency online," said Joshi. "Advertisers are wanting to see more honesty about whether ads are actually being delivered to a site, whether they have been seen, and what content the ad is appearing next to."While the digital display advertising market has grown rapidly in the past four years, from $14bn to $24bn globally, there is so much ad space available that prices are very low.Even Mail Online, the largest digital newspaper website in the world, with over 150 million monthly users, is currently only making a few tens of millions of pounds in display advertising.Google says that its technology could be a game-changer, in that it will create an advertising product that can command a premium."Display inventory to date has been limitless," said Faville. "It could be that prices for viewable inventory become higher as advertisers' confidence increases in the system. There is a high likelihood of these ads being seen as valuable to marketers."Advertisers are, of course, also used to dealing with the problem of viewability when buying and running campaigns in traditional media, such as TV and newspapers. ITV'sThe X Factormay attract an audience of 10 million but it is not possible to tell how many viewers are watching an ad and how many have taken the opportunity to go and make a cup of tea."Whether it is online or television, a client is paying for a message and they need to know they are getting value for money," said Mark Popkiewicz, chief executive of TV advertising technology firm Mirriad. "Google has identified the fact that there is no guarantee online, and the hot pursuit of accountability demands there should be."However Rob Horler, chief executive of the northern European operations for media agency Aegis, is suspicious of Google's motives. "I think it is a bit oversold," he said. "Google is desperately trying to secure big brand advertisers to switch out of TV and newspapers and want the currency [online] to be seen as the same."While Google's new service marks an improvement in measurement in the digital display market, it still cannot confirm that someone actually saw an ad, only that the ad was in theory viewable.Horler, whose agency represents clients including British Airways and General Motors, said that for advertisers, effectiveness will always come down to clicks and sales, not viewability."I don't think it is about online ads being honest," he said. "It is more of a PR stunt. Google is the guru of marketing effectiveness: it invented it online. The currency for measuring the effectiveness of advertising continues to be interaction and conversion."Google maintains that all it is doing is facilitating choice for advertisers."This is just one model advertisers can choose," said Faville. "For a standard branding campaign, which is about reach and getting the message to the widest possible audience, this makes a lot of sense. Our goal is to help make digital work as well for brands as it has for performance advertisers."
You may not have noticed it, but over the past year Google has bought eight robotics companies. Its most recent acquisition is an outfit calledBoston Dynamics, which makes the nearest thing to a mechanical mule that you are ever likely to see. It's called Big Dog and it walks, runs, climbs and carries heavy loads. It's the size of a large dog or small mule – about 3ft long, 2ft 6in tall, weighs 240lbs, has four legs that are articulated like an animal's, runs at 4mph, climbs slopes up to 35 degrees, walks across rubble, climbs muddy hiking trails, walks in snow and water, carries a 340lb load, can toss breeze blocks and can recover its balance when walking on ice after absorbing a hefty sideways kick.You don't believe me? Well, just head over to YouTube andsearchfor "Boston Dynamics". There, you will find not only a fascinating video of Big Dog in action, but also confirmation that its maker has a menagerie of mechanical beasts, some of them humanoid in form, others resembling predatory animals. And you will not be surprised to learn that most have been developed on military contracts, including some issued by Darpa, the Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency, the outfit that originally funded the development of the internet.Should we be concerned about this? Yes, but not in the way you might first think. The notion that Google is assembling a droid army that will one day give it a Star Wars capability seems implausible (even if we make allowances for the fact that its mobile software is calledandroid). No; what makes the robotics acquisitions interesting is what they reveal about the scale of Google's ambitions. For this is a company whose like we have not seen before.Google is run by two youngish men, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who are, in a literal sense, visionaries. Google's shareholding structure gives them untrammelled power: while other companies have to fret about the opinion of Wall Street, quarterly results etc, the Google boys can do as they please. Where most public companies – and all governments – have nowadays little desire for risk, they appear to have an insatiable appetite for it. One reason for this is that Google's dominance of search and online advertising provides a continuous flow of unimaginable revenues. The company exercises a gravitational pull on the most talented intellects in their field – software. Since software is pure thought-stuff, collective IQ is all that matters in this business. And Google has it in spades.What drives the Google founders is an acute understanding of the possibilities that long-term developments in information technology have deposited in mankind's lap. Computing power has beendoubling every 18 monthssince 1956. Bandwidth has been tripling and electronic storage capacity has been quadrupling every year. Put those trends together and the only reasonable inference is that our assumptions about what networked machines can and cannot do need urgently to be updated.Most of us, however, have failed to do that and have, instead, clung wistfully to old certainties about the unique capabilities (and therefore superiority) of humans. Thus we assumed that the task of safely driving a car in crowded urban conditions would be, for the foreseeable future, a task that only we could do. Similarly, we imagined that real-time translation between two languages would remain the exclusive preserve of humans. And so on.What makes the Google boys so distinctive is not the fact that theydidupdate their assumptions about what machines can and cannot do (because many people in the field were aware of what was becoming possible) but that they possessed the limitless resources needed to explore and harness those new possibilities. Hence the self-driving car, MOOCs, the Google books project, the free gigabit connectivity project, theX labsand so on…And these are just for starters. A few months ago, an astute technology commentator,Jason Calcanis, set out what he saw as Google's to-do list. Here's what he came up with: free gigabit internet access for everyone for life; mastering Big Data, machine learning and quantum computing; dominating wearable – and implantable – computing; becoming a huge venture capitalist and developing new kinds of currency (a la Bitcoin); becoming the world's biggest media company; revolutionising healthcare and technologies for life extension; alternative energy technologies; and transforming transportation.If any other company had a to-do list such as this we would have its executives sectioned under the Mental Health Act. And it's possible, I suppose, that the Google founders are indeed nuts. But I wouldn't bet on it, which is why we ought to be concerned. Because if even a fraction of the company's ambitions eventually come to fruition, Google will become one of the most powerful corporations on Earth. And we know what Lord Acton would have said about that.
I might get an electric bike when I'm a bit older and my knees are knackered and I'm living in a lovely little cottage on a hill. It's a nice idea, to go for post-retirement rides without dreading the final ascent; to press a button and suddenly accelerate likeMarco Pantani gobbling up Alpe d'Huez in the 1997 Tour de France, powered not by drugs (RIP Marco) but a great big battery on the back rack.But for now, I live in Manchester, 15 miles from the proper hills of the Peak District. It's a bit of an issue when testing a bike with a battery that lasts for a maximum of 25 miles – a distance achievable only if you are disciplined and choose the lowest of the three speed settings, which kick in once you start pedalling. Sure, I could have turned off the somewhat weedy motor and used my legs and the six gears (all rather too low for me), but this is not a bike designed to be ridden naturally. It's the weight of a teenage hippo, for one thing, and drags like a child being made to go on a walk against their will.Luckily, the Hopper is foldable, so I thought I'd pop it in the back of my car. The folding process was not complicated. The quick-release saddle slides down easily (rather too easily: it often slipped down during a ride), the pedals fold in and there's a hinge on the handlebar stem and another on the frame – the latter closed with a flimsy plastic catch. It's not a surprise they've scrimped on components when you consider the bargain price.A To B, a magazine specialising in electric bikes, says you should expect to spend £1,200-plus. The Hopper, made in China and sold at Tesco, is £500.Other folders have a magnet or clip to clamp the wheels together. This has a velcro strap. It was too cumbersome to fit in the boot of myToyota Yaris, so I had to put the back seats down and use all my strength to lift it into position. Given that e-bikes often appeal to frailer riders, the sheer heft of the Hopper is potentially a problem.I decided to take it for a spin around Alderley Edge, Cheshire's answer to Chipping Norton. I&nbsp;headed out of town and up Swiss Hill, a residential cobbled road with an average gradient of 9% but sections nearer 15%. I opted for the highest speed, which on the flat is supposed to be 15mph, but going up was more like 3mph. I got only as far as the first mansion before sliding on a cobble and losing my momentum. It's always difficult to get going again on a steep hill, but it&nbsp;felt like I was dragging a Winnebago up behind me. With no "full power" option, which works even without pedalling, I had to get off and push. Less Pantani, and&nbsp;more panting and wheezing.Tesco Hopper Urban SE electric folding bikePrice£500Maximum speed15mphCharging timeFour hoursBatteryLithium ion (24V 9Ah)MotorBrushless front wheel motor with Halls sensorsWeight21kgGearsSix (Shimano twist-shift)
Listings for tablet computers shot up 25% on auction site eBay on Christmas Day, compared with the day before, as Brits moved quickly to offload unwanted presents.The site had nearly 2,000 items listed under"unwanted Christmas gifts"on Friday morning as people in the UK found themselves with an estimated £2.4bn worth of non-ideal presents.Surprisingly, many people chose to resell one of this year's most sought after gifts – an iPad Air. The latest Apple gadget outnumbered iPad Minis by four to one in listings put up on eBay on Christmas Day.Ebay claims 80% of people in the UK are prepared to resell an unwanted gift. Certainly handmade items seemed high up on the list of things to pass on. An impressive 25,000 craft items were listed for sale on Christmas Day. However, rival siteMusicMagpiesaid the gift most listed on its site on Christmas Day was Lady Gaga's album Born This Way, followed by The Inbetweeners Movie.The most unwanted gifts are DIY tools, according to eBay, but clothing is one of the hardest presents to get right, especially for women. More than 10 times more women's clothes than men's clothes were listed for sale on eBay on Christmas Day. Meanwhile, Topshop dresses, Topman shirts and Next women's jeans were among the top 10 items being sold on MusicMagpie.Hints about the bestsellers this Christmas, meanwhile, have emerged from Amazon. The online retailer, said that former Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson's book My Autobiography was its best selling book alongside children's works Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Hard Luck, the animated films Despicable Me 2 and Monsters University followed by the superhero movie Man of Steel.The retailer said more than half of its customers shopped using either a smartphone or a tablet computer. The Centre for Retail Research estimates that up to £370m was spent online on Boxing Day, which could rise to £450m on Friday. Around 13.3 million people are estimated to have turned out for the start of the clearance sales, up 2% year-on-year, according to CRR..
I had signed up to become a hacker for the day.I had no idea what to expect, or how difficult it might be. But it turned out that the hardest part about taking control of somebody else&apos;s computer was just getting my own laptop connected to the internet - which indicates the scale of the security problem that we all face.Our masterclass was trying to accurately simulate hacking into a decrepit Windows XP computer in the office of a multinational corporation, and Michael Belton, head of the penetration testing team at cybersecurity firm Rapid7, soon had me fully connected. And then the fun began.“Penetration testing” is a euphemistic term for hacking. The crucial difference is that penetration testing is done with the permission of the network owner, so it is the digital equivalent of stores paying someone to shoplift from them to ensure their security staff are awake.But if the motivations of the two are different, the methods – and end results – are the same. Which means that a penetration tester showing me the tools of his trade is a pretty good insight into how a script kiddie working with hacker collective like Anonymous goes about their business.It also neatly answers the question of a Guardian editor who found out I was attending a “hacking masterclass”: yes, it was legal, because we were only accessing systems with the permission of their owners. It’s when you start accessing everyone else’s that the problems begin.1 We started with LinuxOnce I arrived at our hacking venue, where Belton was going to demonstrate how to “own” a computer in just a couple of minutes, I was handed a USB stick with an installation of Kali Linux on it.Linux is an open source operating system, a collectively-created free alternative to Mac OS or Windows, and Kali is a version of it designed specifically for penetration testers. It comes pre-installed with all the software necessary to take control of unsecured computers (and a good few secured ones as well), as well as all the standard productivity tools a team of testers would need to work together. Most importantly, it can be shrunk down small enough to fit on one thumbdrive – and can be booted straight from it.That’s crucial for hackers, because although the temptation is to focus on their tools, the job is as much art as science. If you can get physical access to a network, there’s no need to bother trying to bypass firewalls from the outside.Faking your way into a systemSo penetration testers have been known to dress up as outside contractors, tail employees from smoking breaks, and even picking locks to get in the building. The Ethical Hackers Handbook, a guide for penetration testers, recommends practicing ahead of time the answers to common questions like “I don’t think we’ve met; are you new?” and “Who are you working for?”The same short-cuts apply elsewhere. If you’re trying to get hold of someone’s password, it’s far simpler to just get them to tell you than it is to crack their computer and read it from the memory.Again, that comes in many forms. Kevin Mitnick, formerly America’s most-wanted computer criminal before his arrest in 1995, broke into his first major network at the age of 16 by phoning up the company’s system manager. “I claimed I couldn&apos;t log into one of ‘my’ accounts, and was convincing enough to talk the guy into giving me access and allowing me to select a password of my choice,”he said in 2003.These days, people tend to be more suspicious about unexpected phone calls asking for passwords. But there are other ways to achieve the same ends. Belton showed me software Rapid7 has produced which can easily fire off an email to every employee in a company, asking them to log in to a fake version of their own website. The programme automatically strips all the assets from the real site, sets up a temporary server, and waits for people to input their passwords.The whole thing is so convincing that when the company demonstrated it to a US senator who was visiting their offices, he immediately accused his head of press of being involved, despite having seen the entire process first hand.2 Finding way in, with MetasploitBut sometimes you just want to remotely take-over a computer. What then?The first thing to do is look for ways in. There are a number of such discovery tools, from SQLmap, which automatically looks for weaknesses in large databases, to Burpsuite, which is designed to take advantage of web application, but the one we were using was nMap, a type of programme known as a port scanner.Such applications are often likened to walking down the street, trying every door just to check if one is unlocked, but that slightly underestimates the scale of the thing. Services like nMap are more akin to walking through a city trying every door, window, and loose-looking brick while simultaneously making a note of how many locks they have, what type of key they take, and when it looks like they were built.After just 45 seconds, the scan was done. It had identified our target: a computer running Windows XP Service Pack 2, released in 2004 and superseded by Service Pack 3 in 2008. (It was technically superseded by Windows Vista in 2007, but we don’t talk about Vista anymore.) Such a setup may seem like our poor sap – in reality a virtual machine running on Belton’s laptop – was being stitched up, but decade-old installations are depressingly common in the business world.A few more keystrokes, and I launched the program which would get me inside: Metasploit.The jewel in Rapid7’s arsenal, Metasploit is a one-stop-shop for cracking into computers. The programme itself is over a decade old, but has been steadily updated with new vulnerabilities as time has gone on. It’s never at the cutting-edge, where security researchers are finding new holes, but what it lacks in currency it makes up for in ease-of-use. Even the text-only version which I used (for the real hacker experience, naturally) lets you take over computers with just a few keystrokes; the full paid-for software adds a graphical user interface which can let you seize someone’s laptop with the click of a button.Like all software for penetration testers, Metasploit has a strong contingent of users who are more interested in just seeing what they can break into. “Let’s be honest, that’s what everyone uses it for,” says a Rapid7 PR sitting in on the masterclass.With the help of Belton, I picked the particular faulty door which I would make my way through. According to nMap, our target was running a Microsoft program which comes installed on all XP computers and lets them share files back and forth. But version three of the software, which the target had, has a known vulnerability (“a parsing flaw in the path canonicalization code of NetAPI32.dll,” according to Rapid7). Using Metasploit, a single-line command exploits that flaw to load the third and final part of our assault, Meterpreter.3 Taking control with MeterpreterRunning on the target computer, Meterpreter provides a backdoor through which I can take control of pretty much anything. The program never installs itself, running only in the memory, and only a particularly paranoid target will notice that their task monitor now shows an unexpected, randomly named process. If even that’s too much risk, one further command can “inject” meterpreter inside another programme, so that it stays completely invisible.While I’m connected to Meterpreter, Metasploit presents me with a list of options. Some, like the ability to dump the contents of the memory or disable the mouse, are designed to let an attacker get further into the target network. The latter is a particularly cunning mix of electronic and human methods: disabling the mouse makes the user call IT support, who may then log in to the computer remotely or in person. Where you originally only had a user account, suddenly you have taken control of an administrator.Others let you make the most of the access you already have. I can take a screenshot, record audio with a webcam, or livestream video. I can also set up a keylogger, and record everything the target types. If I want to, I don’t have to stop at Meterpreter; I can install further software, to sniff for credit card numbers, or permanently slave the computer to my own – perfect if I need to gather a few thousand together to bring down another site with a distributed denial of service attack, where a server is overwhelmed by the sheer weight of connections and breaks.How to protect yourselfThe scariest thing about it all isn’t what I can do. It’s that it’s me doing it. The software really is that simple.But a certain extent, that can be reassuring. The vast majority of the hackers we’re all so afraid of are actually doing little more than running a programme which does the heavy lifting for them.Protecting yourself against them is easy enough:• keep your computer up to date• try not to fall prey to phishing attempts• and don’t run programmes from untrusted sourcesWhen it comes to drive-by hacks like the one I pulled off, you don’t have to be perfectly secure; just more secure than the poor sap who does fall prey. “I don’t have to outrun the bear. I only have to outrun you.”•Majority of Android financial apps have been hacked, research finds
Facebook is &apos;dead and buried&apos; to older teenagers, anextensive European studyhas found, as the key age group moves on to Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp and Snapchat.Researching the Facebook use of 16-18 year olds in eight EU countries, theGlobal Social Media Impact Studyfound that as parents and older users saturate Facebook, its younger users are shifting to alternative platforms.&quot;Facebook is not just on the slide - it is basically dead and buried,&quot;wrote Daniel Miller, lead anthropologist on the research team, who is professor of material culture of University College London.&quot;Mostly they feel embarrassed to even be associated with it. Where once parents worried about their children joining Facebook, the children now say it is their family that insists they stay there to post about their lives.&quot;Teens do not care that alternative services are less functional and sophisticated, and they are also unconcerned about how information about them is being used commercially or as part of surveillance practice by the security services, the research found.&quot;What appears to be the most seminal moment in a young person’s decision to leave Facebook was surely that dreaded day your mum sends you a friend request,&quot; wrote Miller.&quot;It is nothing new that young people care about style and status in relation to their peers, and Facebook is simply not cool anymore.&quot;In part of the study&apos;s research with Italian Facebook users, 40% of users had never changed their privacy settings and 80% said they &quot;were not concerned or did not care&quot; if their personal data was available and accessed, either by an organisation or an individual.Information that people choose to publish on Facebook has generally been through a psychological filtering process, researchers found - unlike conversations, photos and video shared through more private tools such as Skype, or on mobile apps.&quot;Most individuals try to present themselves online the way they think society is expecting them to,&quot; wrotecontributing anthropologist Razvan Nicolescuon Thursday.&quot;It seems that social media works not towards change – of society, notions of individuality and connectedness, and so on – but rather as a conservative force that tends to strengthen the conventional social relations and to reify society as Italians enjoy and recognise it.&quot;The normativity of the online presence seems to be just one expression of this process.&quot;•Facebook&apos;s new video in News feed could be a mobile data headache
In our series of everything that 2013 will be remembered for, we reach Moocs, the nest Nexus devices to date and one Edward Snowden.MoocsArguably the most significant industry to be disrupted yet, many of the first world&apos;s most prestigious educational institutions are being prised open in the form of Moocs, or massively open online courses. Anyone can join in, provided they have an internet connection.•Educators must assure that online courses meet the same academic standardsMotorola Moto GOne of the best budget smartphones ever made, the Motorola Moto G costs £135, proving that affordable phones can still be fast, feel premium and easy to use.•Review: Lives up to game-changing hype at bargain priceMovesThis app showed that activity tracking isn&apos;t just for fitness obsessives. Founded by Habbo Hotel creator Sampo Karjalainen, Moves took off quickly this year with the ambition to become the mainstream activity tracker of choice.•&apos;Moves isn&apos;t about paying $200 for a device and remembering to charge, carry and sync it&apos;Nest ProtectTony Fadell, founder and chief executive of Nest LabsPhotograph: Official LeWeb Photos/flickrHow many other sectors are going to be disrupted by innovative technology? Tony Fadell, formerly known as &apos;the father of the iPod&apos; for his work at Apple, decided that smoke alarms could and should be much better, and so launched the Nest Protect. The £110 alarm is intelligent enough to distinguish burnt toast from a real domestic threat, speaks rather than bleeps and will also switch on its nightlight if it detects you walking underneath in the dark.•The days of flicking tea towels at overzealous smoke alarms are numberedNetflixNetflix arguably broke through the barrier of being that company you might have heard of to being the name behind some of the best TV of 2013.•Dramas escaped the box this year, thanks to NetflixNexus 5The best Android smartphone available at the moment, the Google Nexus 5 is fast, slick and a well put together 5in smartphone – Android the way Google intended it to be. Its £300 or less price belays its premium experience.•Review: the best Android smartphone goingNexus 7A Google-controlled, Asus-built tablet, the Nexus 7 was arguably the best received Google tablet yet. A premium experience with a beautifully crisp high-definition screen, fast processor and the latest Android operating system, it cost less than £200.•Review: Slick and usable, price may be the biggest selling point for the Nexus 7Nick D&apos;AloisioThe Wimbledon teenager sold his fledgling news app to Yahoo for an estimated £18m. He bought a new computer, some new trainers and put the rest in a trust fund - while Yahoo got a trophy talent acquisition and yet another piece of good news.•&apos;Marissa Mayer wants to reinvent the company for mobile - I can&apos;t wait to work on that&apos;Nintendo failing2013 was a bad year for the once great Japanese games firm. September saw the death of the hugely influential former presidentHiroshi Yamauchi, but it was the launch of its cheaper 2DS console that worried fans. &quot;Why release a 3DS without 3D?&quot; asked one diehard fan.•Is the 2DS an admission of failure?NSA filesEdward Snowden presents Channel 4's alternative Christmas message, 2013 Photograph: HO/EPAIt was the story of the year - if not the decade, redefining the relationship between the consumer and citizen with big business and government. It was June when the Guardian published the first in a series of stories based on information leaked by former US government contractor Edward Snowden, who copied 58,000 documents detailing the scale of global surveillance by the US and UK security services.After revealing extensive monitoring and of mobile and web data, data interception, surveillance of foreign heads of state including German chancellor Angela Merkel and triggering a debate between Silicon Valley&apos;s top executives and President Obama, Snowden capped the year by delivering Channel 4&apos;s alternative Christmas message.&quot;A child born today will have no conception of privacy at all,&quot; he said. &quot;They&apos;ll never know what it means to have a private moment to themselves an unrecorded, unanalysed thought. And that&apos;s a problem because privacy matters; privacy is what allows us to determine who we are and who we want to be.&quot;All I wanted was for the public to be able to have a say in how they are governed.&quot;•The NSA and surveillance - made simpleOculus RiftVisitors use Oculus Rift virtual reality headsets at the IFA Electronics Trade Fair in Berlin. Photograph: REX/Zhang fanThe augmented reality gaming mask which was partly funded through Kickstarter showed a 1080p version at E3 this year. The consumer version should become available in late 2014.•Playwright Lucy Prebble on why Oculus Rift rocked her gaming worldOK GoogleExpanding on the always-listening voice search ignited by Google Glass, “OK Google” brought the same voice command to the desktop, laptop and smartphone, unifying what will become a central way of accessing Google across desktop, mobile and wearables.•Android 4.4 Kitkat adds always-listening searchOld Economy SteveThe favourite meme ofdisgruntled generation Y, who vented their rage at the baby boomers who ruined the economy for them.•Whatever George Osbourne says, graduates are being forced to take low-skilled rolesOperation SteubenvilleAfter a 16-year old girl was repeatedly raped by two high school football players in Ohio, several hackers helped bring attention to the scandal, gathering evidence the attackers had broadcast on social media channels that the police had failed to track down.•Is the more grievous sin revealing the flaws of the authorities?Papers, PleaseDarker and more subversive than the attention-grabbing Grand Theft Auto V, Lucas Pope&apos;s Papers, Please is an essay in exploring the politics and bureaucracy of immigration through the character of a border control officer.•Genuine transgression occurs at the fringes of artParrot AR DroneThe 2.0 incarnation of Parrot&apos;s app-controlled added auto-stabilisation, tricks and boosted the capabilities of the Wi-Fi-controlled drone to make it one of the best toys around. Controlled by smartphone or tablet, it’s easy to use, fun to fly and can spy on your neighbours from 15m up with ease.•Drones and chilli powder help save Kenya&apos;s elephantsNext instalment on Monday
Well that's Christmas over for another year. Did Santa bring you everything you desired?
Snapchat users’ phone numbers may be exposed to hackers due to an unresolved security vulnerability, according to a new report released by a group of Australian hackers.Snapchat is a social media program that allows users to send pictures to each other thatdisappearwithin 10 seconds. Users can create profiles with detailed personal information and add friends that can view the photos a user shares.But Gibson Security, a group of anonymous hackers from Australia, has published a new report with detailed coding that they say shows how a vulnerability can be exploited to reveal phone numbers of users, as well as their privacy settings.“Snapchat has a feature where it will grab all the numbers from your address book, upload them to their server [which is pretty bad by itself] and suggests you friends,” a spokesman for Gibson Security told Guardian Australia.“We discovered that if you were to go through and scan single phone number through this find friends function you could essentially obtain the phone number of a Snapchat user.”The group says they approached Snapchatalmost four months agoto flag the vulnerability, but never received a response, so they decided to release the full details of their findings on Christmas Day.“As our final goodbye to Snapchat [we&apos;re moving onto other projects now], we decided to release everything we have.” The guide published on Christmas Day, if accurate, outlines exactly how the loophole can be exploited by potential hackers.The Gibson Security spokesman said Snapchat should disable the find friend function and “quickly limit the damage as much as possible”.“To the best of my knowledge, Snapchat still hasn’t patched the find friends exploit,” he said.Snapchat was released in September 2011 and quickly rose to prominence as a new social media tool. But some reports have emerged about weaknesses in the encryption of the services.Other reports have indicated that Snapchat’s mayonly be hiddenrather than deleted entirely, which led to the US based Electronic Privacy Information Centrefiling a complaintagainst the company with the Federal Trade Commission.Comment has been sought from Snapchat but they have not yet responded.
Google have celebrated the birthday of the astronomer, astrologer and mathematician Johannes Kepler with a Google doodle.The doodle features a planet orbiting the sun. Kepler's major contribution to science was the discovery that the earth and other planets travel around the sun in an elliptical orbit.Kepler was born in the German city of Weil der Stadt in what is now Baden-Württemberg in 1571, to a mercenary father and a mother who was a healer and herbalist and was at one point tried for withchcraft.He had an early fascination with astronomy, observing the Great Comet of 1577 and the lunar eclipse of 1580. After seminary, he studied philosophy at the University of Tübingen. He was a great mathematician and a skilled astrologer, providing fellow students with regular horoscopes.His research into astronomy was also inspired by religious fervour: he believed that he was close to discovering God's geometrical plan for the universe.In 1604, while studying the orbit of Mars, he realised that an elliptical orbit fit this data. He concluded that all planets move in ellipses, which is Kepler's first law of planetary motion. His findings were printed in Astronomia Nova, which was published in 1609.
We tied our reporting team to their chairs and wouldn&apos;t let them leave for Christmas until they&apos;d come up with this A-Z of the highs and lows of 2013. We&apos;ve reached K...Kara SwisherThe class act of the technology news space, AllThingsD is finally severing ties with its parent company News Corp after reportedly signing a deal with NBC Universal to set up a new news and conference title.•All Things D split confirmedListiclesBuzzfeed is one of the sites that has embraced the listicle as a way to convey information to the 'news snacking' consumer. Photograph: BuzzfeedAs Buzzfeed launched its unique brand of net pop lists, news-based lists and numerically ordered lists in the UK, the bullet point and the number ten reached saturation point. Where do listicles go in 2014?•35 reasons I hate listsLuluThe app you never knew you always wanted: bedpost-notching for the digital age, Lule lets female users rate the personality and performance of past boyfriends.•Men get shagged and taggedLumia 1020Packing a 41-megapixel camera into a Windows Phone, the Nokia Lumia 1020 is almost more camera than smartphone, rivalling some cameras with interchangeable lenses for picture quality.•Great camera, but where are the apps?Mac ProApple’s radical redesign of its traditional tower computer showed workstations didn’t have to be huge, ugly boxes. The Mac Pro used innovative computer design to dissipate heat vertically through a central core, but somehow ended up looking like a wastepaper bin.•Here&apos;s how expensive a full spec Mac pro can beMailboxAn App launch done right. Mailbox debuted with nothing more than a video and a waiting list, but the pitch was so compelling that thousands instantly signed up. An email app built around the concept of &quot;Inbox Zero&quot;, it needs to store a copy of users emails on its own servers to work, which forced it to stagger the roll-out – but that scarcity only made it more desirable to join. After just one month, the app was bought by Dropbox for $100m.•12 apps to de-Apple your phone and make it work smarterMarc RaibertRaibert is the co-founder of Boston Dynamics, the eighth robotics company acquired by Google this year, and by far the most famous.The MIT professor at MIT spun the company out in 1992 following his previous venture Leg Lab, a research group focused on legged robots. Boston Dynamics gained fame in 2008 after a video of its Big Dog robot went viral.•Why does Google want to buy robots?Marco ArmentThe founder of Instapaper and The Magazine struck gold this year when another project he co-founded, the light blogging site Tumblr, was bought by Yahoo for $1.1bn.•Tumblr creator&apos;s Magazine app celebrates first year – with print editionMarissa MayerThe Yahoo chief appears has pulled out all the stops in her battle to return Yahoo to its former glory - and the strategy appears to be working. A string of high profile acquisitions has put Yahoo back on the map, even if it does appear to be heady into the foggy territory of a media-centric tech company.•Why Marissa Mayer has the skills to turn Yahoo aroundMark CernyThe architect of Sony&apos;s newly released Playstation 4, Cerny has come to epitomise the power of developers and designers in the industry over the engineers and hardware executives.•How developers helped build the console of the futureMartha Lane FoxMartha Lane Fox. Photograph: Phil FiskThe lastminute.com founder describes herself as &apos;a novice baroness&apos; but has made a big impact on Whitehall, pushing a rethink of the government&apos;s - and the country&apos;s - digital literacy with her &apos;Digital by Default&apos; report. As the Government Digital Service she facilitated completed its first major phase, Lane Fox announced her resignation as Digital Champion, and is bound to be making more waves in 2014.•&apos;We&apos;re here because Martha told us to be&apos; - the power of Martha Lane FoxMeditationCalifornia has always happily housed the tech industry alongside new agers, but a more practical interest in balancing screen life with well being has triggered a new interest in meditation and mindfulness practice, from apps and regular sessions in the big tech companies to a dedicated conference, Wisdom 2.0.•Life in the fast lane has made us lose touch with our sensesMessaging appsIt&apos;s the norm for anyone under 18 to live and breathe their social life on messaging apps like WhatsApp and Line. Who need social media when you can have text messaging with stickers?•Whatsapp said to have rebuffed $1bn bid from GoogleMinecraftMinecraft: bringing community and creativity to over 33 million gamers wordwideIt took one Minecrafter two years to lovingly recreate Apple&apos;s headquarters, which goes to show the dedication and longevity of the game. And this year it topped Apple&apos;s best-selling chart for 2013, selling more than any other paid-for game this year.•Minecraft&apos;s appeal for kids is as a place where they can work through their impulses, parent freeMobile-firstAs smartphones become more prevalent, websites are increasingly launching mobile-first strategies, which means that websites are designed with mobile users in mind. This is a fresh break from the past, when websites would create separate websites for mobiles and desktops; see theGuardian&apos;s alpha mobile site.•Bobby Womack&apos;s &apos;mobile-first&apos; interactive music videoNext instalment tomorrow...
Recently I watched the film Almost Famous with my two teenage children, Ariella, 15, and Noah, 13. Cameron Crowe&apos;s semi-autobiographical film includes one of the best scenes depicting the sheer joy of listening to vinyl when the young aspiring music journalist has his mind set free by his older sister, who leaves him her LP collection under his bed when she leaves home.I have seen the film before, but never with my children, and love that particular scene; watching it again not only brought back my own memories of playing records - but a bunch of questions from my son in particular, a &quot;digital native&quot; who simply could not grasp the whole vinyl experience.The following scene when the young protagonist plays the first track off The Who’s Tommy and we see a close-up shot of the needle hitting the vinyl with a crackle before the music starts triggered the first and most pertinent question: “How do you know what track is playing?”You have to refer to the back of the album cover and look at the track listings for a number, then making sure you have the correct side of the record on the turntable, count the wide grooves on the vinyl to bring the needle down on the song you desire, I replied.Pink Floyd's The Dark Side of the Moon Photograph: AlamyOn the dark side of the moonMy teenage children looked at me as if I had grown up on the dark side of the moon, never mind using that kind of rigmarole to play Pink Floyd’s classic concept album with its iconic gatefold sleeve.“Well, how do you pause a track?” asked my son. By lifting up the needle by its arm and locking it, which was followed by the quite reasonable query: but how does it know where it left off to resume playing the the track if the record is spinning around?”As a member of the MP3 generation, and an iPod owner, this is not surprising as he is used to a fast-scrolling wheel on a device with a backlit LCD display, an iTunes interface, 8GB of space with playlist support, making it very fast and easy to go through a list of up to 7,000 songs.Trying to explain to my son that the thin grooves embedded on the vinyl played recorded music from the vibrations picked up by a stylus that delivers a sonic message through an amp and speakers must sound as alien to him as automobiles with starting handles were to my generation.It just does, I replied. The truth was I didn’t exactly know myself, but of course part of the fun and enjoyment of playing records is that magical moment when the arm drops onto the vinyl with a crackle.The first single I bought was Hot Chocolate’s You Sexy Thing when it was in the charts way back in 1975. I was 12 years old. The first LP I owned was T Rex’s Electric Warrior, acquired around the same time because I liked the cover.That same year I got my first record player for Christmas, a mono Fidelity model with a red lid and a big spindle so you could stack up to seven 45s – the equivalent these days of a playlist.Records were a thing of my past, like Advocaat snowballs at Christmas, Oxford bags (flared-trousers) and the NME - or so I thought.Time to bring out the vinylAfter 25 years of listening to CDs and MP3s it was time to bring out the vinyl again. Not only so my children could experience how recorded music should be played, but also for me. I was approaching my 50th birthday and as a present to myself I decided it was time to invest in a turntable.After an investment of roughly £100 on an amp and speakers and a free turntable advertised by a friend on Facebook, I was set.I still owned all my LPs; they were stored safely, or so I thought, at my parent’s house but after a recent visit I was horrified to discover that all my Who albums (most of their catalogue, including a very rare copy of the My Generation album on the Brunswick label) and some Led Zeppelin LPs were missing – and still haven’t been located.As a teenage working class boy from the north, music proved to be my salvation and listening to The Who in particular with my two friends Al and Olly in our bedrooms inspired us to form our own band.Then came punk and coloured vinyl and bands such as The Jam, Sex Pistols, The Ruts showed us the way.Our Who-influenced punk band never really got going and, rather bizarrely, I ended up playing drums in a jazz band in Austria when I was 19 and started listening to cats such as Miles Davis, Art Blakey, Weather Report, Frank Zappa and Sun Ra.VINYL RECORD ON A TURNTABLE RECORD PLAYER DETAIL OF ARM LP LONG PLAY DECK MUSIC STYLUS Photograph: Andrew Drysdale/Rex FeaturesI still have my jazz and blues vinyl, and reconnecting with John Coltrane’s A Love Supreme in its original gatefold sleeve on the Impulse label was the nearest I’ll come to a religious experience.Moved to tearsPlaying the record after almost 25 years I was almost moved to tears as my living room was filled with music of such warmth, fullness and richness you simply don’t hear on digital. I felt I was in the studio with the band as they put the tracks down.Even turning over the album to side two was like a spiritual act. I felt an intimacy; that Coltrane had recorded this piece of music solely for my listening pleasure – I could touch it, feel it and smell it. And I could read the sleeve notes including Coltrane’s A Love Supreme poem and his note to the “Dear Listener” acknowledging his faith in God and how his masterpiece recording was conceived.I had played A Love Supreme a thousand times before on CD and MP3 but I never felt that emotional connection before: why would I when these days all it takes is to press play on a digital device?The download generation that my children belong to with their touch-screen devices and never ending playlists are losing out on the sheer joy of holding a record, book, magazine or newspaper in their hands and engaging with its content the way I did.And this makes me sad, even though through my work as a tech journalist I am very much apart of this mobile revolution.Listening to the Who’s Tommy again with my son stirred up similar emotions. It was another important album to me when I was growing up and Noah had been listening to it on iTunes after we watched Almost Famous.Priceless father-son momentsWatching him play the record, and being mesmerised and intrigued by analogue technology, gatefold sleeves and surfaces that you have to wipe with a static cloth, and blow dust from a needle before you even listen to the music, is one of those father-son-moments that become priceless.Now he understands the importance of music in its purest form, he has his own tastes of course and the bands he listens to are releasing their music on vinyl. A recent report from international music industry body theIFPIsays that 12m vinyl records were sold last year in the UK, four times as many as in 2006.On weekends we go &quot;crate digging&quot; at car boots, charity shops and independent record stores, unearthing recent gems such as Roxy Music’s For Your Pleasure, Steely Dan, Joe Jackson, the Clash and the first Dire Straits album, which I remember owning on cassette.Music set my mind free and was the reason why I ultimately became a journalist. For my son, his journey is just beginning but I know that vinyl is now part of his musical path and when that stylus hits the record he feels the same way as I do now: supreme.As Henry Rollins succinctly sums it up: “Sitting in a room, alone, listening to a CD is to be lonely. Sitting in a room alone with an LP crackling away … is enjoying the sublime state of solitude.&quot;Tony Myers is editor and founder ofsmartmoviemaking.com
Parents of children lucky enough to receive new tablets and smartphones to play with this Christmas have been warned to watch out for hidden costs on games and downloads that have landed some families with shock bills of hundreds of pounds.With a range of low-cost tablets coming on to the market in time for Christmas, and research suggesting that parents would spend a combined £3bn on gadgets for their children this year, the regulator PhonepayPlus said it was vital for them to understand the cost of accessing digital content. It deals with complaints about firms which charge services to phone bills, including online quizzes and susbcription services, and said parents were contacting it about charges involving children which averaged £147 – more than the cost of some of the latest tablets on the market.The regulator urged parents to talk to their children about the costs involved in using mobile devices and tablets, and issued tips for consumers to help them avoid nasty surprises. These include looking at the small print when downloading apps and ensuring you know how to unsubscribe from any paid-for service.Patrick Guthrie, director of strategy at PhonepayPlus, said: "Children and teenagers unwrapping their new phone or their first tablet are excited about the new experiences and knowledge they can open up."But young people can be unaware of the costs of accessing some digital content on smartphones and tablets, leaving parents to foot the bill. This advice will help parents have a conversation with their children about their new devices."Another potential problem area for parents is in-app purchases on downloaded games. These allow gamers to add to their experience by buying extra levels and accessories, but earlierthis year the Office of Fair Trading accused developers of unfairly pressuring childreninto purchasing them. It analysed 38 games aimed at children and found that some included "potentially unfair and aggressive commercial practices" and that "children's inexperience, vulnerability and credulity" were being exploited. Some of these operate via text, but most are bought through accounts with app-stores such as iTunes or Google Play.Games which are clearly aimed at young players, using characters such as My Little Pony and Smurfs have some extras which cost £70 a time, and some parents have reported receiving bills of thousands of pounds. Guy Anker, managing editor of the website MoneySavingExpert.com, said parents should make sure they protect smartphones and tablets so that children did not inadvertently buy costly extras.He also called for new rules to protect children and their parents. "It's a disgrace when games such as My Little Pony and others charge £70 a pop for children to buy 'gems'. These 'free' games take advantage of children's confusion between virtual and real money, and some parents' technical illiteracy," he said."We need rules that stop bait pricing on games predominantly marketed or targeted at children: wealth warnings both at the start of games and inside app stores to indicate it is an in-app purchase game, and caps put on how much can be spent on such purchases within an hour, which can only be removed by the cardholder."Justine Roberts, CEO of the parenting website Mumsnet, agreed. "Lax controls on in-app advertising can mean that it's easy for children to run up huge bills in a few eager clicks," she said. "It's a big concern on Mumsnet and, if parents aren't careful, could lead to big bills post-Christmas. The best advice is to keep a keen eye on your child's device settings – switch to Flight mode to disable Wi-Fi and 3G connectivity and keep your password for purchases private."The OFT has been consulting on a range of principles for games developers to adhere to, which should be introduced early in 2014.How to avoid big bills:• Restrict in-app purchases with a password/Pin.• Protect your passwords. Children are smart – they can remember passwords and Pins. Change passwords regularly and make sure they're always hidden.• Always supervise your child. Ensure you know what he or she is downloading and any extra costs they may be incurring.• Use parental controls on your device. Ask your mobile network provider about the financial and parental controls available on your device. On pay-as-you-go plans, for example, you can block certain services.• Unlink your credit/debit card from your account. When using iTunes, you can purchase vouchers for your account instead of having a credit/debit card linked to it, so you can't automatically purchase a service.• Ask your mobile provider to cut the bill.• Look for the price of apps and services – it might be in the small print.• Don't ignore your phone bill or phone credit – check how much your bill costs.• Find out how you can leave a service .Source: Moneysavingexpert.com and Phonepay Plus
What will 2013 be remembered for? We&apos;ve reached H in our alphabetised review of the year...HailoHailing a taxi has never been quite so easy. The Hailo smartphone app promises to flag down a cab straight to your location with a touch of a virtual button and lets you instantly pay for your ride too. Now available across New York city and other key US locations, the company won a key lawsuit in 2013, defeating a case put by traditional rivals that would have restricted its potential to grow.•Hailo&apos;s future of self-driving cabs &apos;will still rely on humans&apos;Hate PlusExpanding on the &apos;sexnology&apos; game Analogue, this revelatory game explores sexual desires, the female expression of fantasies and is a sterling piece of original, imaginative and thought-provoking storytelling. Designer Christine Love has been described as &apos;gaming&apos;s Margaret Atwood&apos;.•Hate Plus reviewHealthcareObama&apos;s flagship affordable healthcare programme was let down by its online registration tool, which couldn&apos;t handle demand and was plagued with bugs.•Healthcare.gov fault displayed hacking suggestions in search boxHelpoutsGoogle has made arguably the biggest strategic shift in its history by refocusing on social, which means bending over backwards to raise the profile of its social service Hangouts. Designed to promote the social platform, Helpouts lets users pay for live one-to-one web chats with experts in specific fields such as computing, health, fitness and fashion.•The internet is already the world&apos;s greatest educator, and Google has found a ruthless a way to monetise itHudlHigh street giant Tesco surprised investors by announcing a budget tablet computer powered by Google&apos;s Android software. The Hudl turned out to be such a success that stocks soon ran dry - and competitors including Aldi and Argos tried, but failed, to compete.•Tesco to unveil second-generation Hudl in 2014HyperloopThe conceptual plans for passenger seating aboard Musk's Hyperloop, a solar-powered, elevated, 800mph tubular transportation system. Photograph: Elon Musk/handout/EPAA concept for a revolutionary form of transport linking Los Angeles to San Francisco in under 30 minutes, the Hyperloop would propel train-like pods at up to 800mph inside an elevated metal tube. The $10bn concept announced by Elon Musk captured the imagination of engineers, although it will take a lot more than an idea to make a reality.•&apos;Concorde meets a railgun meets an air hockey table&apos;IFTTTTo the uninitiated, IFTTT is a random series of letters but to believers, this ingenious service will help knit one service to another. If you can think of anything that you need connected - your photostream to your Dropbox, an auto email when it looks like rain, or auto-save all your tweets in a much more searchable spreadsheet. And this year, IFTTT - If This Then That - found the mainstream with its mobile app.•&apos;Using your foot to hold a door open, standing a coffee cup on papers to stop them blowing across your desk - simple modifications of your environment that everyone does 100 times a day&apos;Instagram DirectInstagram released its newest feature following the introduction of video in June. Instagram Direct allows users to send private images to individuals and/or groups of people, and sees the company assert itself in the face of stiff competition from private messaging apps such as WhatsApp and Snapchat.•Instagram mulling groups featureInternet of thingsThe internet of things is the idea that everyday objects – such as a coffee machine – can be connected to the internet. Many still consider the “internet of things” to be a buzzword that’s been blown out of proportion, but the introduction of the iBeacon and Belkin’s WeMo range – that people could use to send a message telling your coffee machine to switch on when you wake up – could start playing a bigger role in our daily lives.•Progress doesn&apos;t seem to match the &apos;internet of things&apos; predictions of the past 25 yearsiOS7Apple's iOS7 for iPhone, iPad and iPod TouchApple’s seventh iteration to their operating system finally saw a major aesthetic redesign - touched by the hand of chief designer Jony Ive. After five generations of phones with software that looked the same, a number of users found that it wasn’t quite as intuitive as Apple’s previous products. Despite the bumpy landing iOS7 had reached more than 70% of Apple device users by December.•Why iOS7 is making some users sickiPad AirAnother major release form Apple this year, the updated iPad Air was lighter, slimmer and much faster.•iPad Air review - raising the bar for its rivalsiPhone 5sAnd the third major launch was an updated iPhone - thinner, lighter, faster and with TouchID fingerprint security. And available in gold.•iPhone 5S reviewJames BridleWriter and artist James Bridle applied some much needed intensity and skill to the debate aboutebooks and their impacton the industry, but also continued to question and investigate the UK&apos;s forced rendition programme and the politics of drones.•Planespotting: watching the deportation flightsJawbonePart of the trend for wearables, the Jawbone monitors all physical activity including sleep, marking how mainstream data tracking has become.•Jawbone could affect healthcare for all of usJordan HatchThe talented teenage programmer became known on the hackathon circuit and was picked up by the Government Digital Service, which has managed to build up recruit some of the country&apos;s most talented developers.•How geeks opened up governmentKanoA kit computer for the rest of us, the Kano project turned a Raspberry Pi into Lego-like computer, and provided a whole host of simple, fun ways to teaching kids to code.•The computer you can build in 107 secondsOur fourth instalment of the Tech 128 tomorrow
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over along with your turkey and mince pies, as picked by the Technology teamIs 4K BS? &gt;&gt; Tim BrayI hear that Sony &amp; friends are going to start telling us that our HDTVs aren't good enough and we all need to up­grade to 4K (which is twice the di­men­sions and 4 times the pix­els of 1080p). NBC news says the ex­perts are un­con­vinced, and quotes one of them: retina sci­en­tist, pho­tog­ra­pher, and blog­ger Bryan Jones. I thought I'd do the num­bers and yeah, I think it's prob­a­bly BS.Includes code for you to work out that you don't need 4K on your TV either.Phablets to outdo small tablets in 2014: technalysis's O'Donnell &gt;&gt; ForbesIn the US, people routinely mock extra-big smartphones that approach tablet-computer dimensions. Maybe it's time to stop snickering. Demand for these odd-sized devices is growing so fast in Asia, Europe and Brazil that "phablets" worldwide in 2014 should outsell traditional smaller tablets, predicts Bob O'Donnell, the founder ofTechnalysis Research."I thought phablets were ridiculous at first," O'Donnell concedes. "How could you hold one to your ear to make a call? But over time, they grow on you." For 2014, he predicts that 175 million phablets will be sold worldwide, versus a more modest 165 million sales of smaller tablets (screens measuring 8 inches or less on the diagonal.)As only 16% of users' time on smartphones is spent talking, having a big screen is useful. But O'Donnell seems to be anticipating a larger Apple design "in spring or autumn". Stick to the latter.Toshiba ships DVD media with laptop without DVD drive &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson:One day you will be able to buy a Windows device and have a smooth and delightful experience getting started.To be fair, something like a Surface tablet can give offer a reasonable experience if you are lucky.Not so a Toshiba Portege Z930 ultrabook – at least, not if you buy one with Windows 7 pre-installed, and want to run Windows 8, as a contact of mine has just done.Why would you not buy one with Windows 8 pre-installed instead? With hindsight, that is what I would recommend; but since it says on the box, "This system is pre-installed with Windows 7 Pro software and also comes with a license and media for Windows 8 Pro software," he did not think it much mattered.The problem: The Z930 has no optical drive, but Windows 8 is supplied in the form of two recovery DVDs.Amazingly, things then get worse.An open letter to the chiefs of EMC and RSA &gt;&gt; F-Secure WeblogMikko Hypponen:On December 20th, Reuters broke a story alleging that your company accepted a random number generator from the National Security Agency, and set it as the default option in one of the your products, in exchange of $10m. Your company has issued a statement on the topic, but you have not denied this particular claim. Eventually, NSA's random number generator was found to be flawed on purpose, in effect creating a back door. You had kept on using the generator for years despite widespread speculation that NSA had backdoored it.As my reaction to this, I'm cancelling my talk at the RSA Conference USA 2014 in San Francisco in February 2014.Things are starting to happen.Why Huobi purportedly has higher volume than BTCChina and OKCoin &gt;&gt; Great Wall of NumbersTim Swanson:For those unfamiliar with Huobi, it is now the largest Bitcoin exchange in China doing roughly 40,000-80,000 in volume a day (versus 4,000 at OKCoin) – though these numbers could be suspect (see the last section below).  Earlier today I spoke with my friend who is building an exchange in Shanghai who explained the volume discrepancy.The way the current exchanges in China are nearly all set up is that all of the trading is actually conducted using the CEO's personal bank account.  That is to say, none of the exchanges (at first) utilized a corporate account.  At some point this past year the big exchanges managed to switch to corporate accounts in some form or fashion.  So on top of the 3rd party payment provider ban issues last week, the CEOs at the big exchanges (probably) expect some kind of crackdown on personal accounts so they are trying to go completely legitimate and avoid the risks associated with personal liability.Quite scary for the CEOs and those doing business through them.Inside knowledge likely in Target breach, experts say &gt;&gt; Network WorldPlot thickens:the scant details released by the retailer Thursday left some experts believing the criminals had to have some inside knowledge of the company's point-of-sale system in order to compromise it so effectively.Either people inside the organization were involved or, "at the very least, (the thieves) had sophisticated knowledge and a clear understanding of the cardholder data flows, in order to pinpoint where to steal this very specific data and then exfiltrate it," Mark Bower, director of information protection solutions at Voltage Security, said.A world managed by apps is closed for those without a smartphone &gt;&gt; Tech Socio TechFJ van Wingerde sees a new sort of digital divide:The people who are economically disadvantaged enough that acquiring a new or replacing a broken smart handheld is just fricking hard, will find themselves burdened always having only secondary access to the world: always having to type 20 digit numbers though hostile phone menu trees to finish topping up, having to go to a specific location to find the right form and find it is out of stock this week and wasting a trip, carry little top-up cards and keys they may lose, not being able to remotely check on their homes or work, not reaping the benefits of a world going digital.Thieves hit Berlin Apple Shop after crashing in with stolen car &gt;&gt; BloombergThieves crashed a stolen car through an Apple shop window in Berlin early this morning, escaping with laptops, iPads and iPhones in two other vehicles, police said. It was the seventh break-in of its kind in the city this year."These are not amateurs," Berlin police department spokesman Thomas Neuendorf said by telephone. "We suspect that we're dealing with a gang."A stolen Opel Corsa was used to smash the Apple store window and the thieves escaped in two Audis, Neuendorf said. On 9 December, thieves drove into Berlin's Alexa shopping mall and took about €100,000 ($137,000) of electronics.Tribune to acquire Sony audio recognition unit Gracenote for $170m &gt;&gt; TechCrunchGlobal consumer electronics conglomerate Sony is getting a tiny bit leaner with the sale of Gracenote, a business unit that provides audio recognition and metadata solutions to a number of device manufacturers and media companies. Tribune will spend $170m to buy out Gracenote in a deal that is expected to close in the first quarter of 2014, and will combine it with Tribune Media Services (TMS).The sale comes five years after Sony acquired Gracenote in a deal worth $260m…Sony has been making cuts in its media business, and has come under pressure from investor Daniel Loeb to spin off the entertainment unit. Getting rid of Gracenote, which provides technology not just to Sony, but to a number of its competitors in the consumer electronics world, therefore makes a bit of sense.The only way it makes sense is if it's losing money.Happy Christmas to everyone. Boot Up will be back next week.
If you've unwrapped a brand new tablet and are looking for the best apps to start with, try these. All are available for both iPad and Android tablets.EntertainmentBBC iPlayerWatch TV shows from the Beeb, or download them offline.SpotifyStream a big catalogue of music, create and share playlists, and get personal radio stations.KindleAmazon's reading app synchronises your e-books across all devices.FeedlyOne of the most accessible news-reader apps to keep track of stories on your favourite sites.NetflixLike Spotify but for TV shows and films, with a single monthly subscription to watch what you like.GamesMinecraft - Pocket EditionLike digital Lego, this creative crafting game has been a hit with kids and adults alike.The RoomA beautiful puzzle game that sees you exploring 3D objects in a room and solving riddles.Clash of ClansDeep and fulfilling strategy game that sees you building and defending a village while raiding other players.Real Racing 3Console-quality racing game with the ability to race your Facebook friends even if they're offline.Angry Birds Star Wars IIAngry Birds has been a big app craze, and its latest Star Wars title will delight fans of either brand.KidsToca Hair Salon 2Playful digital toy that turns kids into hairdressers.Endless AlphabetSpelling made fun with the help of a band of mischievous monsters, and plenty of humour.BBC CBeebies PlaytimeFun mini-games featuring characters from TV shows including Tree Fu Tom, Octonauts and Something Special.The Snowman and the Snowdog GameChannel 4's classic gets an 'endless runner' across the snowy UK landscape.Mr Shingu's Paper ZooOrigami-themed game where kids fold together a menagerie of digital animals, then keep them happy.Social/toolsFacebookSlick tablet-friendly version.TwitterTablet users have become a sparky back-channel to TV shows and sports events.FlipboardTurn your social networks and news sites into a flippable digital magazine.WunderlistPractical app that helps you manage your to-do lists from your tablet.QuipUseful tool for word processing, designed for collaboration with work colleagues at its heart.
It may come to be remembered as the year that tablet computers found the mainstream, but 2013 has seen a new wave of affordable, high street  touchscreen devices that have sold in their droves this Christmas. With some tablets on sale for as little as £30 and retailers including Tesco and Argos selling their own branded devices, 2013 may also be remembered as the year that Apple no longer dominated the country's tablet sales."2013 was definitely the year of the tablet," said Francisco Jeronimo, research director for the analysts IDC. In the first three quarters of the year, 7.6m tablets were shipped to the UK, a year-on-year growth of 192% for the same period in 2012, according to IDC's data. Of those 7.6m tablets shipped, the average sale price was $407 making around $3bn (£2.2bn) in sales.Some 38% of those sale were Apple's iPad, which set the standard for tablet computers when it launched in 2010. This year saw two new models from the California-based company, including the thinner, lighter iPad Air for £400, and a revamped iPad Mini, with high-resolution screen and faster processor, for £320.But for the first time since it launched, Apple's iPad wasn't top dog in UK sales. Tablets powered by Google's Android software won 56% of the market in the first three quarters of 2013, fuelled by popular, cheaper tablets with lower specifications. Google's Nexus 7 kickstarted the trend towards more affordable tablets, revised this year costing less than £200 and offering an experience comparable to the smaller of the two iPads."The very low end tablet market saw very strong sales this year, which is something we're expecting to continue into next year and beyond – especially for Christmas," said Jeronimo. In September, the high street grocer Tesco made a surprise announcement by launching its Hudl tablet for £119, acknowledging the exploding tablet market and the popularity of Android devices. Tesco's 7 inch Android tablet significantly undercut the competition including the iPad, Nexus 7 and even Amazon's Kindle Fire tablet range. It was an instant hit and went on to sell 300,000 in its first two months, as Tesco struggled to keep stock on store shelves.Noting that its customers bought 1m tablets in 2012 alone, Argos followed suit in October with the poorly received Bush MyTablet for £100, and  Aldi started selling its Lifetab for £80 which sold out in its first 24 hours. Neither performed as well as the Hudl, which did everything that most people would want to do on a tablet most of the time without much fuss.Last week, the Indian government launched an even more aggressive assault on the tablet market with the Datawind UbiSlate, at just £30 in the UK as part of an educational initiative."Tablets under £100 have excellent gifting potential this Christmas," said Jeronimo. "Parents looking to give gifts to children and teenagers are unlikely to spend £400-500 on a tablet, so tablets sub-£100 are less of an investment and more of an attractive disposable gift that doesn't matter so much if it gets broken."Of course, the number of sales of tablets do not tell the whole story. With around 2.9m iPads shipped in the first three quarters of 2013 Apple claimed the premium end of the market, with each unit sold commanding a much higher average sale price than that of the higher volume low-end market.The software and media ecosystem is arguably one of the most important contributors to Apple's bottom end too, which iPad users fuel. "sers who buy an iPad also spend much more money on apps and media within the Apple App Store and iTunes," explained Jeronimo.For Google and its Play Store, however, the expansion of budget tablets is not such an important driver of revenue, because as Jeronimo explains, "users buying low-cost tablets generally aren't relevant to the app and content ecosystem, instead being used to browse the internet or play free games."That brings us to Christmas when consumer electronics retailers make theof their profit for the year. Last year saw half the total tablet sales made in the last quarter, and this Christmas will have followed suit.Research firm CCS Insight predicts Christmas will be "absolutely huge," seeing tablet sales in the four quarter equalling the previous three quarters combined, along with a massive potential for buyer remorse according to CCS Insight's Ben Wood: "As is the reality with most consumer electronics purchases, you get what you pay for and we worry that there will be lots of people unwrapping cheap tablets at Christmas which could well end up as unwanted gifts on eBay come January."Next Christmas, another wave of cheaper and even faster tablet computers is likely to be in the shops, said Jeronimo, and the devices will become even more commonplace. "In the short term the downward trend on price will definitely continue, and increasing tablet penetration will be fuelled by adoption in education and business as well as by consumers."Tablets have begun to replace traditional PCs, domestically and for some businesses. Tablet offerings will become more compelling as advances in technology makes them faster, lighter and improves battery life. Current portable technology is held back by batteries that are heavy and bulky, but store relatively little power.Several technologies promise to extend battery life for days rather than hours. Lithium-air batteries, for example, "use oxygen in the air as a reagent, rather than carry the necessary chemicals inside the battery," explained Professor Peter Bruce of the University of St Andrews. That technique dramatically increases the amount of electricity the battery can store. Another technique combining sulphur with lithium stores even more power, but currently can't be made safe enough to put in your pocket.Other research points to how we might interact differently with our glass slabs. Researchers at the University of Bristol recently showed that the feeling of real objects could be simulated in mid-air using nothing but sound. These 'ultrahaptics' use ultrasound to manipulate air molecules in a layer above the screen, providing the sensation of touching a real object through the skin of a user.This tactile feedback means that users could feel like they are turning a volume knob, grabbing a steering wheel in a racing game or perhaps bashing the keys of an imaginary typewriter.Eventually, the fixed glass touchscreens of today may cease to exist. Flexible displays are on the horizon, with LG and Samsung producing OLED screens that can be bent and flexed. While the electronics powering the displays may not be bendable in the near future, foldable screens could become a reality in the next 10 years. That could mean that your compact smartphone folds out to be a bigger screen for watching a video on the train home.Google's Glass headset points to some wearable technologies that would be screenless and voice-controlled, giving the results of searches, transcribing emails and travel directions through audio. Glass itself has a minimal screen, overlaying information according to where we are and what we need to do, whether directions or search results, but this augmented view of the world, projecting contextual information, offers a more immersive way of interacting with the digital world, your movements perhaps tracked by a Microsoft Kinect-like camera tracking your gestures and instructions.In 10 years, this augmentation could combine with ultrahaptics to simulate almost any digital interface in mid-air — and make screens, keyboards, phones and tablets a thing of the past.How to avoid parental in-app purchases bill shockIf you're a parent sharing a tablet with your children, it's vital that you understand how to restrict in-app purchases on the device to avoid "bill shock" at the end of the month if they've bought without your permission.On Apple's iPad, you can find the restrictions within the Settings app: tap on General, then Restrictions. You'll find switches here to turn off the ability to make in-app purchases entirely, or to require an iTunes password to be entered every time. Needless to say, don't share your iTunes password with your children.On recent Android tablets, you can create a Restricted Profile for your children within the Users menu in its Settings app. Creating a restricted profile lets you turn individual apps on or off for that user.Also, use the Google Play store app and access its Settings by pressing your device's Menu button. Here, you can set up a pin number that will be required whenever buying in-app purchases. Again, make sure you don't share the number with your children.Stuart Dredge
If you&apos;re using Facebook on your mobile device - as 874 million users do every month - then watch out that its new video element doesn&apos;t push you over your data allowance.The new element in Facebook&apos;s News Feed will show video ads and videos posted by your friends in the content that you&apos;re shown.But those posted by your friends might take up some of your data allowance if you watch them when not connected to Wi-Fi.The ads won&apos;t be downloaded on mobile - &quot;for now&quot;, says Facebook; they&apos;ll be downloaded while you&apos;re on Wi-Fi. (It&apos;s not clear how long &quot;for now&quot; will last.)But other videos that people have posted to your News Feed will download wherever you are unless you block them in your settings.&quot;You can allow some of these videos to play automatically over Wi-Fi only&quot;, the company says in its note about the video element. Again, it&apos;s unclear how many &quot;some&quot; is in this context. But if you don&apos;t want to get a surprise when your next phone bill comes in, it might be a good idea to disable video downloads over mobile data.Facebookbegan introducing users&apos; video into News Feeds in September, but didn&apos;t offer any details about whether its download would happen over Wi-Fi or mobile.On 17 December, though, it said that it wasoffering marketers &quot;a new way to tell stories in News Feed&quot;- in other words, introduce video ads. In the blogpost about that, it said that&quot;On mobile devices, all videos that begin playing as they appear on the screen will have been downloaded in advance when the device was connected to WiFi — meaning this content will not consume data plans, even if you’re not connected to WiFi at the time of playback&quot;.But the wording of the warning to users seems to imply that that won&apos;t always be the case.What if you don&apos;t use the app, but view Facebook on the web? That&apos;s unclear too - though you might need to check settings on your phone there too.We&apos;ll try to clarify the details with Facebook over quite what &quot;for now&quot; means about video ads and what &quot;some&quot; refers to in allowing videos to play on Wi-Fi.Below are the pictures (courtesy ofJames Whatley) showing how to turn off mobile data use on iOS and Android.How to turn off Facebook mobile data use on iOS and Android. (Courtesy James Whatley). Photograph: /James Whatley/with permission
There was a great comment on the50 Best Android Gamesarticle earlier this week, in response to carping about smartphones and tablets still not being proper games devices. “I have a Windows laptop, an Xbox One, an iPad and an Android phone. I like playing games on all of these, because I&apos;m a gamer, not a snob,” wrote @cypherspace. Yes.One exciting thing about mobile gaming in 2013 was the diverse fare on offer, whether you were a veteran gamer or a newcomer surging through Candy Crush Saga levels on the train home from work. There was something for everyone: even snobs, if they’d given it a chance.Below is a very subjective roundup of 50 of the best iOS games from 2013, and while there is plenty of crossover with the Android feature, there are a fair few exclusives too. One important note: the two biggest iOS hits of 2013 – Candy Crush and Minecraft – aren’t included because they came out in 2012 and 2011 respectively.Cross at your favourite game being omitted? Make a case for it in the comments section, so people happening on this article in the days and weeks ahead can hear about it. Here’s the initial 50 to start that debate.Nimble Quest.ACTIONAngry Birds Star Wars IIThis was the second Angry Birds game to be set in the Star Wars universe, with characters turned into birds and pigs, and 120 levels to fling them through. This time round, you could play as both sides, and there&apos;s a range of Telepods toys that interact with the game too, Skylanders-style.iPhone / iPadBadlandJustifiably recognised by Apple in its Best of 2013 awards, Badland is the perfect game to get stuck into over Christmas: a platform-adventure set in an eerie forest, with beautiful visuals, slick physics and plenty of exploration. There was real imagination at work here, and iOS gamers responded.iPhone / iPadCall of Duty Strike TeamActivision&apos;s latest Call of Duty game was made for mobile devices from the ground up. Some elements were familiar – ie all the shooting – but new twists included the ability to swap between first-person action and a more tactical third-person view to plot your squad&apos;s tactics.iPhone / iPadClumsy NinjaClumsy Ninja was first shown off at Apple&apos;s iPhone 5 launch in 2012, but took a while to reach the App Store. It was worth the wait though: it sees you taking ownership of a ninja and training him up with a series of activities: a virtual pet game, almost, but with startlingly-good character animation. Utterly charming.iPhone / iPadDespicable Me: Minion RushThis was publisher Gameloft&apos;s official game for the Despicable Me movies, putting you in the shoes of a scampering minion for this Temple Rush-style endless runner. Leaping, sliding and dodging obstacles while earning or buying costumes and power-ups proved hugely popular among children and adults alike.iPhone / iPadFish Out of Water!This game from Halfbrick Studios – the developer behind Fruit Ninja and Jetpack Joyride – was an addictive treat this year. You skim colourful fish across the ocean, get rated by crabs, and unlock gems to build power-ups. Which may sound strange, but it plays marvellously.iPhone / iPadGrand Theft Auto: San AndreasJust in time for Christmas came this iOS version of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, originally released in 2004 for consoles. It&apos;s nostalgia, yes, but the game still packs a mighty punch with its sandbox gameplay. It plays well with Bluetooth controllers too.iPhone / iPadImpossible RoadYes, modern smartphones and tablets can deliver graphical bells and whistles by the ton. But it’s often the minimalist visuals that pack the greatest punch. Impossible Road was another example: a stylish ball-rolling racer that encourages you to bend the rules.iPhone / iPadInfinity Blade IIIiOS’ epic trilogy reached its conclusion this year, with more eye-popping scenery, more characters (two) and many more enormous monsters to stick a sword through. There was also the usual levelling up, and “massively social&quot; clashmob challenges to co-operate with players around the world.iPhone / iPadLimbo GamePlatformer Limbo was one of the creepiest, most atmospheric games currently available on any platform this year, let alone mobile. With stylish monochrome graphics and frequently fiendish puzzles, it&apos;s a rewarding and original adventure.iPhone / iPadNimble QuestHaving made its name with Tiny Tower and Pocket Planes, developer Nimblebit turned to the action genre, blending Snake gameplay with RPG-style characters and upgrades. You swiped your party of heroes to guide them through levels of increasing difficulty. It&apos;s genuinely addictive.iPhone / iPadRayman Fiesta RunRayman often gets underrated in the history of great game characters, but his mobile games have been top-notch in recent times. This was the latest one: a colourful platformer with more than 75 levels to scoot through, and bags of charm.iPhone / iPadRepubliqueOut in time for Christmas, Republique justified its pre-launch hype: a stealth-action adventure with startling graphics, properly challenging puzzles, and a storyline that draws you in. Calling it the Metal Gear Solid of iOS sounds like hyperbole, but the comparison wasn’t ridiculous.iPhone / iPadRidiculous FishingRidiculous Fishing IS ridiculous: you lower your bait down as far as possible while avoiding a variety of creatures, then haul it back up again catching as many as possible along the way, hurl them into the air, and blast them to bits with a shotgun. Bad in real life, but fun virtually.iPhone / iPadSid Meier&apos;s Ace Patrol: Pacific SkiesThis second dogfighting game from industry veteran Sid Meier saw you patrolling the Pacific, re-enacting famous World War II battles. The basic action across 180 missions was really fun, but there&apos;s some extra strategy in upgrading your pilots with new skills as you go. Multiplayer was the icing on the cake.iPhone / iPadStar Wars: Knights of the Old RepublicBioWare&apos;s game was originally released in 2003 and still one of the best Star Wars games ever. It&apos;s an RPG where you get to learn to use the Force, wander through a succession of famous Star Wars scenes, and can even turn to the dark side. Engrossing and epic in scope.iPhone / iPadTemple Run 2Temple Run was one of the biggest &quot;endless runner&quot; games on mobile devices, and the sequel did a good job of bumping up the graphics and adding more depth to the gameplay. At its core, you&apos;re still swiping to jump, slide and turn your way through paths to escape an angry giant monkey.iPhone / iPadTiny GamesTiny Games is brilliant: an app that asks you where you are and how many people you&apos;re with before suggesting micro-games to play in the real world, using the objects at hand. There are hundreds to discover, and it&apos;s an ideal way to avoid anti-social mobile use when out with friends.iPhone / iPadThe Wolf Among UsJust ahead of releasing its Walking Dead sequel (see below) developer Telltale Games surprised us with this: based on the Fables graphic novels, you play Bigby, the Big Bad Wolf of fairytale legend reinvented as a sheriff. Even a little way in, A well-crafted take on an already-characterful series.iPhone / iPadThe DrowningThe Drowning tried to rethink the way first-person shooter controls work on a touchscreen. In a nutshell, you tap on the screen to walk to a specific point, swipe to look around, and tap two fingers to shoot – the bullets fire in the middle of them. It works well: a breath of fresh air for the genre.iPhone / iPadWalking Dead: The Game - Season 2Developer Telltale Games&apos; first Walking Dead game was a justified hit, packed with atmosphere (and zombies). This follow-up was thus hotly anticipated, and turned out to be well worth the wait: atmospheric action and one of the relatively rare iOS games this year with wake-up-at-night scariness.iPhone / iPadTiny ThiefTiny Thief was a release from Rovio Stars, the new publishing business that&apos;s part of Angry Birds-maker Rovio. Inspired by classic point&apos;n&apos;click adventure games, it sees the titular hero exploring six quests, with some delightful puzzles and surprises in store.iPhone / iPadThe Room Two.PUZZLEBlip BlupBlip Blup was a hypnotically-addictive puzzle game from UK studio ustwo, which sees you tapping to fill a screen-full of tiles with colour. The complication being walls and obstacles that get in the way of your colour-pulse&apos;s path. More than 120 levels to work through provided plenty of challenge.iPhone / iPadCut the Rope 2There have been a succession of Cut the Rope games in the last few years, but this was the first proper sequel: 120 levels of rope-slashing puzzle action, as you try to guide sweets into cute monster Om Nom&apos;s mouth. This time round, there were also new gameplay elements – &quot;nommies” – to take things forward.iPhone / iPadDoctor Who: LegacyThe latest Doctor Who game was instantly familiar to anyone who&apos;s played Puzzle &amp; Dragons – one of the few mobile games to be making as much money as Candy Crush Saga. It sees you swapping colourful orbs around to attack monsters while building a team of the Doctor and his companions.iPhone / iPadDots: A Game About ConnectingDots was the most addictive iOS game this year, thriving on the simplicity of connecting same-coloured dots on a grid in 60-second rounds. Twitter and Facebook are plumbed in to compare your scores to friends, and there is also an untimed mode for practice.iPhone / iPadJuice CubesEssentially Candy Crush Saga with square-shaped fruit rather than sweets, but it&apos;s very well done. Published by Rovio, it features hundreds of levels of fruit-matching puzzling, with combos, Facebook integration and in-app purchases used to buy power-ups when it gets too tough.iPhone / iPadPapa Sangre IIThe first Papa Sangre was a real treat: an eerie audio-only adventure game voiced by the (then not-so-well-known) actor Benedict Cumberbatch. For the sequel, developer Somethin&apos; Else roped in Sean Bean for narration duties, and the gameplay was as creepy as ever as you explored a world conjured up by your own imagination.iPhone / iPadThe Room TwoThe original The Room was a huge hit on iPad, selling more than 1m copies by the start of this year – hugely impressive for a paid game given current App Store trends. This follow-up is well worth tearing a few follicles out over: physics-based puzzles in a wonderfully-realised 3D environment.iPadAngry Birds Go!RACING / SPORTAsphalt 8: AirborneGameloft’s street racing games were popular on mobile phones long before the App Store even existed. The eighth incarnation offered more cars – 47 in total – nine locations to race them in, and a new emphasis on ramps, rolls and stunts (hence the &quot;Airborne&quot; aspect) and online multiplayer races for up to eight players at once.iPhone / iPadAngry Birds Go!The latest Angry Birds game was controversial for its enthusiastic adoption of pretty much every free-to-play gaming mechanic going, but underneath that is a genuinely impressive karting game with smooth handling, well-crafted tracks and familiarly-fun characters.iPhone / iPadFIFA 14Even FIFA went free-to-play this year with in-app purchases to unlock all the single-player modes, and for packs of players in the Ultimate Team mode. Otherwise, it was business as usual: slick action, thousands of licensed players, and inventive touchscreen controls.iPhone / iPadFlick Kick Football LegendsThe original Flick Kick Football was fantastic, but returned this year as a freemium game with a retro look, and an emphasis on team-building as well as goal scoring. The gameplay was richer too: besides pinging shots you also have to master tackling, intercepting and passing.iPhone / iPadFluid Football VersusAnother polished football game, with more of a focus on multiplayer matches as well as a single-player mode. As in its predecessor, it sees you trying to score goals by drawing lines for your players&apos; runs, then (hopefully) flicking the ball into the net. A real tactical challenge.iPhone / iPadFootball Manager Handheld 2014The latest mobile version of the world&apos;s best football management franchise adds more depth, a redesigned user interface, the ability to create your own club (yes, with you as the star striker if you&apos;re in that frame of mind), and the ability to manage in more than one country. Engrossing.iPhone / iPadReal Racing 3Another game whose switch to freemium was controversial, but after some tweaks to its timers, Real Racing 3 really impressed. Dozens of cars, hundreds of events and genuinely console-quality graphics, plus clever asynchronous multiplayer races to compete against offline friends.iPhone / iPadRymdkapsel.STRATEGYAdventure TownSupersolid had a big free-to-play hit with Super Penguins, with Adventure Town the follow-up. Familiar elements – build a town, harvest crops, compare with friends etc – have some neat twists and lots of gameplay polish. A cut above the FarmVille-style herd.iPhone / iPadBand StarsA game about forming your own band, training them up and aiming for the charts, mastering different genres and lyrical subject matter along the way. It&apos;s got similar addictive qualities to the games of Japanese developer Kairosoft – Game Dev Story being the obvious comparison.iPhone / iPadBlackbarThe most thought-provoking iOS game of 2013 by some distance, Blackbar takes censorship as its main theme: a collection of text-based puzzles with the titular black redaction bars providing the challenge. Its storyline and themes stayed with me for weeks after playing it.iPhone / iPadDevice 6Year Walk and this game made Simogo one of the most talented and intriguing iOS developers in 2013. Device 6 is part book and part game: an inventive example of interactive narrative deservedly singled out by a number of critics in their end-of-year best games charts across all platforms, not just mobile.iPhone / iPadFrozen SynapseIf you like a real challenge with your mobile games, then Frozen Synapse was a fiver well spent this year. It&apos;s a turn-based strategy game originally released for computers, as you guide your squad through a succession of levels. 55 missions to play by yourself plus five multiplayer modes.iPadGalaxy on Fire - AlliancesAs epic space adventures go, the Galaxy on Fire series is in the same space sector as Wing Commander and Elite. Tough company, but it doesn’t shrink in the comparison. This new game was set in the Galaxy on Fire universe, but focused more on colonising planets and interacting with other human players.iPhone / iPadPlants vs Zombies 2Another game switching to freemium, but Plants vs Zombies 2 just about survived the transition: a strategic defence game where you fend off zombie hordes by placing plants. It was also an example of a game that got more features over time through updates, keeping fans playing.iPhone / iPadQuizUpQuizUp aimed to be &quot;the largest real-time trivia game ever&quot; with 150,000 questions in a host of categories, and global high-score tables to show exactly how your general knowledge skills compare to the rest of the world. Its strong community angle helped it spread rapidly after its release.iPhoneRymdkapselAn addictive, accessible game that offers a sci-fi twist on the real-time strategy genre. The emphasis is on building a space-base through Tetris-like block-placement, while fending off waves of enemies. It was simple in all the best ways, and well worth the purchase price.iPhone / iPadSamurai SiegeAnother big free-to-play success story on iOS (and Android) this year was Samurai Siege, as you built a thriving village and constructed an army capable of fending off other players. The samurai and ninja characters put a neat spin on the real-time social strategy genre, too.iPhone / iPadStar Wars: Tiny Death StarThis game was based on the equally-marvellous Tiny Tower, where you had to build a tower level-by-level, populating it with &quot;bitizens&quot; to work, play and rest. In this officially-licensed Star Wars version, the tower is a Death Star, and the bitizens are characters from the films. Very moreish.iPhone / iPadWarhammer QuestThe first official iOS game based on Games Workshop&apos;s famous Warhammer world and roleplaying games. This brought classic tabletop Warhammer to iOS devices, as you take a party of heroes into sundry dungeons for battling, looting and levelling up. Thoughtful use of downloadable content provided depth too.iPhone / iPadXCOM: Enemy UnknownAnother classic hardcore game, this: a conversion of the much-loved PC and console game: a strategy epic where you build a base, research new technology and send your troops out into battle. It launched with a premium (for iOS) price, but it was notable that nobody seemed to be complaining about its value for money.iPhone / iPadYear WalkOne of the standout iOS games in recent memory. Based on Swedish mythology, it&apos;s a first-person adventure set in a wintry landscape, in which you have to wander in search of a glimpse of your future. There are puzzles, characterful graphics and a creepily atmospheric soundtrack.iPhone / iPad•The 50 best apps of 2013
Alan Turing has been pardoned. If you don&apos;t know his story, it&apos;s worth reading up on him. A World War Two codebreaker, he was given experimental chemical castration as &quot;treatment&quot; for his homosexuality, after a conviction for &quot;gross indecency&quot; in 1952. Two years later he was dead, of cyanide poisoning, officially recorded as suicide.Turing did some amazing things, and was treated abominably. His story acts as one in the history of treatment of gay people and in the history of computing. Both issues which, for different reasons, we should probably appreciate more.This posthumous royal pardon, 59 years after his death, has received whatthe Guardian reportdryly dubbed &quot;mixed reviews.&quot; There are the usual celebrations of his life, but also Peter Tatchell pointing out the other &quot;50,000-plus men who were also convicted of consenting, victimless homosexual relationships during the 20th century&quot; but just didn&apos;t happen to be a geeky little war hero. There isan excellent post by legal blogger David Allen Greenfrom last summer outlining the historical and legal context, and pointing out how it could be extended. As well as its reach, there is also the question of the very idea of pardon, which doesn&apos;t quite seem to cut it, as if the overall policy was basically ok. As writerMusa Okwonga put it, &quot;the state should ask for a pardon for its own perversity.&quot;I&apos;ve heard it suggested this pardon is a response toUganda(really?), or an attempt at a heart-warming Christmas Eve story of recognition of the underdog to distract us all from theembarrassment of food banks(cynical). But even if it really is just about Turing and the timing is accidental, it stinks. Why a pardon, and why not everyone?That Turing&apos;s work helped win the war, and that it has had such a large social and economic impact beyond that, makes his treatment by the state especially embarrassing. But his life and his homosexuality are no more meaningful just because he was a genius we (perhaps despite ourselves) managed to benefit from. To use his work in computer science as a basis for this pardon seems to trivialise both the huge contribution of that work and, perhaps more importantly, the history of gay rights.We don&apos;t celebrate Turing enough probably in part because he was gay, and also probably because he was a computer scientist and we don&apos;t value that history enough either. But it was also, I&apos;m sure, because he wasn&apos;t someone to court a public profile and he did do a fair bit of his key work in secret. If you want to rectify this, read up on him (or listen tothis audio of a great lecture from Jon Agar), and share what you&apos;ve learnt with your friends and family. Don&apos;t fall for this pardon story.Put him on a banknote. Better, put him in the school curriculum; as an icon in the history of science, but also in terms of a history of gay rights.Section 28and its ilk have kept such debate out of classrooms long enough. But pardon him? Please. Beg pardon yourself.
I am the founder of the educational technology startup ReferenceME, and am off, with my colleagues, to the US to raise an investment round. The decision has left me feeling slightly sad.ReferenceME relaunched an app that improved a version I built at university. The idea is to scan the barcode of a book or journal to generate an academic reference or bibliography entry in seconds. Since we launched in October 2013 it has been downloaded over 30,000 times, grown organically at 5% a week and has an average ratings of five stars in the AppStore.In January 2014 we will launch our mobile and web platform to over 60% of all undergraduate students in the UK after signing a partnership with the largest educational tech company in the world. And for the last three months we have been raising our first investment round so that we can develop the product and expand the research data goldmine we are sitting on.Yet no one in the UK will invest for one simple reason: that we haven’t made a penny.Getting pre-revenue investment has always been tricky, but in the last two to three years we have witnessed a data and tech revolution that in years to come will be compared to the industrial revolution. It means that products are now available to a large number of people who individually return a tiny sum, but that at scale a business can create a small fortune.Despite being pre-revenue we have a number of strong business models that makes us still an interesting and potentially good investment, but this comes with a significant risk. This word ‘risk&apos; is what is stopping the UK from producing an Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook or Twitter. You may have heard of these multibillion pound companies, but they started with nothing more than an idea and investment. Today these companies are either still figuring out how to make money; Instagram and Snapchat are only just starting to make revenue.By all accounts, early stage investors in the US look more at the product and vision, and consider any potential revenue streams second. For them a product with serious &apos;eyeball&apos; potential outweighs revenue risks. In other words, they’ll figure it out. In the London private investor and venture capital space, revenue is the first consideration, followed by a cursory ‘oh and what is the product?’.This is what is letting down the future of entrepreneurs and innovators in the UK.The private investor network is great in the UK for a seed round (which we bootstrapped and begged our way through) but is rather unfairly reliant on who you or your parents know, and ideally how strong your Oxbridge College’s Alumni Network is.Culturally too, Brits would much rather put their money in a London flat than in a company which is in a completely foreign space. The mantra is ‘invest in what you know&apos;.This means many young tech companies are having to go through UK incubators which take 8-10% of a company for £15,000 - which is criminal. If you are a fresh-out-of-uni entrepreneur, I know that £15,000 seems like a lot of money, but after you hire a team, rent desk space and set up your company, you will be at £0 almost immediately. Go to the US and you would get $150,000 straight up.Without these risky investments into young tech, data or social companies, we are never going to have a big public offering or the kind of pay out which spawns a PayPal Mafia - the group of multi millionaires and billionaires who reinvested their PayPal fortunes into early stage startups such as Facebook, Twitter, DropBox, YouTube and Linkedin.Of course there are some great exceptions in the UK such as King, Mind Candy and Wonga, but we need more. The business side to technology has changed, yet London’s VCs and investors have not. There needs to be more money accessible to everyone, from businesses in a box and incubators that offer real money, to reward and equity deals. There are simply too many great young companies going bust. It isn’t the Governments job because this is not meant to be easy, but it does need to be more achievable.So what is a UK tech entrepreneur to do? The obvious answer is to go to the US, where there is more money, more opportunity and a much bigger market, and that’s the route we are taking, along with a number of our contemporaries.We leave in January, planning to meet investors who will have flown across the US to meet us, and our initial round is looking promising. Despite that, I am a proud Brit who loves drizzle, queuing, British pop culture and Masterchef. This country invented most of the technology we work with, and I don&apos;t want to Americanise our small business, but unless investors change the way they look at our tech industry I feel I&apos;m going to have to try.•Government Digital Service: the best startup in Europe we can&apos;t invest inTom Hatton is the founder ofReferenceME
Mapping out the highs and lows of the technology world in the past 12 months, we reach the dark web...Dark webFor such a sinister name, the actual definition of the &quot;dark web&quot; is surprisingly innocuous: it refers to any part of the web which isn&apos;t indexed by search engines like Google. As such, it includes everything from password-protected forums and pages with no inward-bound links to more deliberately obfuscated content like that accessed through anonymising software such as Tor and I2P.In April the dark web hit headlines due to a security researcher who collated 500m connected devices, like servers, webcams, printers and routers, which were online but not properly secured. But it wasn&apos;t until October that the term hit the mainstream. In the same month David Cameron announced an intention to enlist GCHQ and the NSA to fight paedophiles operating on the dark web, and the dark web marketplace Silk Road was shut down.•How I bought drugs from the dark netDeath of Google ReaderThe demise of Google Reader, which lead journalists and hardcore news enthusiasts kicking and screaming into the night, showed that any free service could be disappeared once Google deemed it outside its core mission.•Google&apos;s attempt to push Google Reader users to Google+ is a mistakeDogeSo Wallpaper, So DogePhotograph: dilettantiquity/flickrDoge is the best meme of 2013. A Shiba Inu stares out with Buddha like calm and other-worldly contentedness and speaks, in multicoloured comic sans and a stilted, broken grammar.WowSuch memeMany wordsDogecoinThe bitcoin clone themed around the Doge meme has shot up in value since it was published as a joke in early December. It is currently worth $3.5m in its own right. 2013, take a bow.Elon MuskElon Musk photographed at Space X HQ, California. Photograph: Jamie-James Medina/*NB Pictures for the ObserverArguably the greatest innovator of his generation, the serial entrepreneur Elon Musk is always one step ahead of the rest.As a 10 year old, Elon Musk developed a computer game which he sold for $500. When he was studying at the University of Pennsylvania, he paid for his tuition by organising house parties which included club-inspired art installations. And as an undergraduate, Musk even wrote a business plan for an electronic book-scanning service remarkably similar to Google’s Book Service – except that he wrote it ten years before Google announced it and more than three years before the company existed.2013 has proved to be a particularly memorable year for Elon Musk. The American business magnate, investor and PayPal founder advanced his plans for space exploration while his electric car company, Tesla Motors, became profitable and accelerated rollout of a network of supercharger stations in the US.But it was Musk&apos;s most outlandish technology proposition to date, the Hyperloop project proposed in August, that won him the most headlines. A $6bn (£4bn) proposal for a form of transportation linking LA and San Francisco, Hyperloop would provide subsonic air travel where pods travel in a partial vacuum within a 350 mile-long tube allowing commuters to travel between the American cities in just 30 minutes - faster than even a commercial aeroplane journey.With a group of Tesla and SpaceX engineers, Musk released an alpha-level design that went at least part of the way to working out how it would operate. The independent Ansys Corporation ran simulations using the design, and although there were modifications required, indicated that the challenges facing Hyperloop were capable of being overcome. Musk has expressed his intent to develop a prototype Hyperloop. Judging by his work with SpaceX and Tesla Motors, if anyone can make it work - Musk can.•Elon Musk buys James Bond&apos;s Lotus Espirit submarine carEncryptionIn the wake of revelations about surveillance, encrypted email, messaging and document sharing was suddenly thrust into the mainstream, with Google, Twitter and Microsoft all increasing security of their consumer products and renewed determination among developers to keep private secure services, such as Silent Circle, private and impossible to crack.•New Darkmail encryption aims to keep government spies outEphemeralityFromSnapchatto the music-streaming digital natives and even a whole generation renting rather than buying, 2013 has cemented the rise of ephemeral content and transient technology.•Ten things you need to know about SnapchatFacebook IPO anniversaryFacebook&apos;s 2012 IPO was chaotic, with software buckling under demand, allegations that large investors were warned of problems and - as recently as this month - a judge declaring thatthe company should be suedover risk warnings. The share price dropped from $38 at launch to $17 - but 18 months on and the price has tipped $57.•Mark Zuckerberg to sell $2.3bn worth of sharesFingerprint technologyFingerprint security had been attempted before but it wasn&apos;t until the launch of TouchID on Apple&apos;s iPhone 5S that the technology hit the high street.•TouchID could lead to identity theft, say researchersFurby BoomDanish FurbyPhotograph: Douglas Muth/flickrIt was themust-have Christmas gift15 years ago. And still is.•NSA undermined its own security by allowing Furbys at workGDSInitiated by Martha Lane Fox&apos;s &apos;Digital by Default&apos; strategy, the rest of Whitehall started to sit up and take notice of Government Digital Service and its clarity, design thinking and a far cheaper alternative to expensive IT tenders.•How geeks opened up governmentGone HomeThis uncompetitive, inconclusive game offered a delightful alternative to conventional, decision-heavy gaming.•A mysterious journey where action plays second fiddle to emotionGoogle GlassGoogle&apos;s smart glasses became the centre of discussion about the future of wearables, the best form factor and how to balance the benefits of immersion with a community&apos;s right to privacy.•Google Glass inventor says future generations will find it ridiculous that humans drove carsGoogle Maps (Stand alone)Google keeps ramping up the features of its own mapping apps in an intense battle with Apple, which had to reassert itself after failing monstrously with its own maps app. Google is still winning hands down.•An end to the agony of Apple&apos;s own maps appGTA vArguably the game event of the year,Grand Theft Auto Vgenerated almost as much coverage speculating about its violent content than it did genuine reviews.•A dazzling, monstrous parody of modern lifeH from StepsIn one of the worst Twitter debacles of the year, lazy Tweeters incorrectly blasted Ian &apos;H&apos; Watkins for Steps after a namesake was on trial, and later found guilty, in a horrific child abuse case. Worse, several media outlets used pictures of H on their stories.•Lawyers contacted Google after wrong picture was used on child abuse storyNext instalment tomorrow
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamKim Dotcom ratted out rival file-sharing sites, court documents claim &gt;&gt; Wired.comThree months before federal authorities shuttered Megaupload and indicted its top seven executives, the file-sharing site's founder, Kim Dotcom, urged PayPal not to do business with rival sites because of their "criminal activity," according to a 200-page document Virginia federal prosecutors unveiled today.If true, the revelation, one of countless the authorities noted in theirfiling (PDF), adds a touch of irony to a long-stalled criminal prosecution of what US authorities have said is "among the largest criminal copyright cases ever brought by the United States."Xiaomi's global MIUI users exceed 30m &gt;&gt; Marbridge ConsultingBeijing-based Android handset developer Xiaomi announced today that global users of the company's Android-based MIUI operating system have exceeded 30 mln. Combined monthly revenue from Xiaomi's MIUI app store, mobile theme store, and other related stores has passed RMB 30 mln.Hong Feng, co-founder and VP of Xiaomi, has stated that MIUI users grew from 20 mln to 30 mln in just the past five months. According to Hong, MIUI currently supports 23 languages and is compatible with nearly 200 handset models. The MIUI ecosystem includes a handset theme store, app store, game center, browser, Duokan Reader, online video, music, and Xiaomi hardware store.In a few months, Xiaomi will probably have more users than BlackBerry.August 2010: Gartner says Android to become No.2 worldwide mobile operating system in 2010 and challenge Symbian for No.1 position by 2014 &gt;&gt; GartnerVia the Internet Archive:Gartner predicts that by 2014, open-source platforms will continue to dominate more than 60% of the market for smartphones. Single-source platforms, such as Apple's iOS and Research In Motion's OS, will increase in unit terms, but their growth rate will be below market average and not enough to sustain share increase. Windows Phone will be relegated to sixth place behind MeeGo in Gartner's worldwide OS ranking by 2014.The interesting part is not that Gartner got it wrong (predictions are hard; Symbian was still riding high at the time, though just months from being dumped by Nokia's to-be-hired chief executive), but why it got it wrong. Were handset makers' and carriers' plans - so hard to perceive? And in that case, what else might be brewing?Firefox's on fire with 500M users and 50M Android downloads for 2013 &gt;&gt; VentureBeatFirefox OS for mobiles slightly less of a hit. But it's early days.Streetview Landing Page Prototype &gt;&gt; Google CodeAlso known as "where in the world does Google have Street View coverage?" Impressive - though not without oddities: why does Martinique have SV but Barbados, Jamaica and Trinidad don't?China touch panel makers to see strong shipments to smartphone, tablet, notebook segments in 2014 &gt;&gt; Digitimes ResearchChina-based makers will ship 575.315m touch panels for smartphones, 164.506m units for tablets and 10.362m units for notebooks in 2014, increasing on year by 34.4%, 39.6% and 304.0% respectively, according to Digitimes Research.Film-based models will account for 70.4% of China makers' smartphone touch panel shipments and 44.4% of the tablet touch segment, while the corresponding proportions for glass-based models will be 21.0% and 54.6%. Resistive touch will have 8.6% and 1% of the shipments to the smartphone and tablet sregments respecitvely, Digitimes Research indicated.From which we conclude that (1) touch-based notebooks aren't expected to take off much, even if they are quadrupling shipments (2) there are still some tablets with resistive screens.Why the PC will not die &gt;&gt; Newsweek, May 1999Note the date: this was May 31 1999. Here's Bill Gates:But what really sets the PC apart is the incredible empowerment and flexibility it offers in a single, economical package. Sitting at your PC, you can do your taxes, surf the Web, write letters, e-mail friends, play games, plan a business, buy a car, do your homework... in fact, do whatever you want.The PC has given the average American the kind of computing power that 10 years ago was found only in large corporations. Yet people now take this for granted -- and want more. They want to do many of the things they can do on their PC regardless of where they are or what device they are using -- whether it's a palm-size computer, a Web-enabled cell phone, an Auto PC or a smart television like WebTV. A combination of sophisticated software, powerful microprocessors, wireless technology and high-bandwidth connectivity is starting to make that a reality.For most people at home and at work, the PC will remain the primary computing tool; you'll still want a big screen and a keyboard to balance your investment portfolio, write a letter to Aunt Agnes, view complex Web pages, and you'll need plenty of local processing power for graphics, games and so on. But the PC will also work in tandem with other cool devices.You could replace "PC" with "tablet" or "smartphone" in the first two paragraphs; and arguably for parts of the third. Gates was right, as ever, but much too early. And it hasn't been Microsoft which has implemented so many of these "cool devices".HTC says German injunction will not impact One series sales &gt;&gt; Focus TaiwanHTC, in response to the German court's ruling, said eight of its nine Android mobile phones were found to have infringed upon Nokia's patent, with the HTC One and its variants - the One mini and One Max - being found not to have infringed on the patent claimed by Nokia."This means that HTC will continue to supply our customers with our entire line of flagship devices. We will still be seeking to revoke Nokia's EP'071 patent in our pending nullity action in Germany, as we believe it to be invalid," the Taoyuan-based company said in an emailed reply to China News Agency.The "entire line of flagship devices" being the HTC One, HTC One Max and HTC One mini.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
