IndexOverall: hardware great, software terribleThis isn't a tickbox reviewAn example of great hardware....but confusing iconsText messaging: could be easierBrowsing and emailA word on Wi-FiGenerally: frustratingToo many optionsDuplicated functionsOvi StoreConclusionFurther reading and reviews (updated)Overall: hardware great, software terribleHardware engineers of Nokia, for your work on the Nokia N8 smartphone, I salute you! You have incorporated a terrific camera, excellent battery life, sensitive GPS location analyser, great phone signal detector and a fabulous screen into your new product. If you can afford to take a well-earned rest, please do. What you have done is marvellous.Software engineers of Nokia, for your work on the Nokia N8 smartphone, Idespiseyou. You have taken a fabulous piece of hardware and turned it into an infuriating piece of never-quite-works-how-you-want-it rubbish. That sound you hear, of running feet in the corridor? It's the hardware engineers come to exact revenge for the mess you've made of their sterling work.You may think that I'm being tough. And indeed I am. But the N8's fantastic hardware is so good that it deserves something far, far better than its software team have been able to deliver.Tickboxes? NoI used the N8 as my main phone for two weeks, with my own SIM. What I'm going to examine are the rocks of usability on which smartphones founder. I could give you a tickboxing review, saying that the processor runs at 500GHz, has 5000GB of RAM, a 50-megapixel camera, weighs 0.5g and has a battery that lasts for 50 days even while playing Flash video at 50fps. You'll find plenty of other reviews that offer apparently factual, but ultimately useless, information like that.But if you find yourself swearing at the thing every time you try to do something with it, none of that will matter; you'd do better with something heavier and notionally slower but which doesn't interrupt your mental flow.For example...As an instance of the hardware/software divide, the GPS system is terrific. I tested it in Shetland (we go that extra mile for testing), and it was able to get a location with a live location feed (courtesy ofOvi Maps, formerly Navteq, which Nokia purchased in 2008) in about a minute. The HTC H7 Windows Phone, which claims to have GPS using Microsoft's Bing Maps, never worked out where we were. Score 1 for the hardware, GPS software and Ovi Maps.But finding my way around the maze of the GPS interface was a nightmare, with 12 icons in the associated screen - in which the 12th icon is "More", taking you further down a rabbit hole. When I'm trying to do something with a map, do I really have more than 12 things in mind? Probably not. You have two things in mind: show me where I am, or show me somewhere else. Possibly, show me how to get to that other place from where I am.All other functions - advertise my position, give me walking directions, give me driving directions (each of the latter gets its own icon, even though they're just variations of one function, navigation) - are subsidiary.Anyway, I managed to get it to navigate me to a specific place. But then I needed to tell someone the postcode I had just entered. Where had I put it in? I couldn't remember. Search? No. Map? No. My Position? No. This turned into an infuriating process where I found myself going in and accidentally out of the application, jumping between the various icons and trying to find the one where I'd put the postcode and how to bring it up. (It turned out to be in Directions -&gt; History. Not that I could copy it from there once I'd found it either.) It might have been only five minutes, but felt like aeons, and by the end I was properly hating the Nokia QA team who'd never said "Can we make this simpler to use?"That is my criticism of Nokia's smartphone software as demonstrated by the N8. Far too much has been leftin; far too much has to be learnt by the user afresh in each different application for the experience to be pleasant. I often felt as though I were in a maze, or on a landscape that stretched into the darkness in all directions.Confusing iconsNokia N8 front screen: your journey into apps has just begun. Do you want to go down, or sideways?Yes, you can choose which icons you have all over the front screen; but those icons are often confusing. The maps icon is a compass - which I took to mean that itwasthe compass at first. (True, it's a mistake you only make once. But why not a map?)Nokia N8: is that an email icon on the default front page?The text/video messaging icon is an envelope - more commonly used everywhere else to indicate email (which of course the N8 can do). As if in shamefaced recognition of this fact, the email icon isalsoan envelope - but with an eye-straining "@" added to its base. (Since you're wondering, the iPhone uses a "speech bubble" icon for messaging, and a completely distinct envelope icon for email. No chance of confusing the two.)The N8: so this is an email icon?Just to add an extra touch of uncertainty, the Notes icon (below and to the left of the Email one) is in just the same yellow. Is there a risk that you'll hit it by accident while trying to find the Mail (or Messaging) icon, especially if you've reorganised them? Yes, there is.Text messagingN8: texting in portrait mode. It's as though QWERTY hadn't been invented... except...If you're writing a text message, in the portrait orientation you get a numeric (phone-like) virtual keyboard, which by the way has the most frustrating predictive text system I've ever seen: it doesn't show you alternatives, which flummoxed me pretty thoroughly.N8 texting in landscape mode: QWERTY rediscoveredBut in landscape, you get a QWERTY virtual keyboard.Why, Nokia,why?Why should I have to rotate the phone to be able to type in QWERTY? At some point, you have to bite the bullet and declare that you're selling a smartphone, and that it's for QWERTY typing. And even there, design faults persist: the green "All done!" key is too close to the "1*" key that takes you to the numeric input keyboard, leaving to much cursing when you hit the wrong one. And you don't get the option of a numeric keypad when you hold the phone in portrait for web browsing.Clearly then it's not that youcan'tdo a QWERTY virtual keyboard in portrait. It's that you'reafraidto.That's poor user interface design.Browsing and emailBrowser text on the N8 (photo from theN8 Fail blog)What Apple famously got so correct with the iPhone was the MobileSafari browser: it made mobile browsing like reading a real web page. Nokia hasn't yet caught up. It uses stumpy-looking text (I can't think of a better word) and the text zooming is a bit hit-and-miss. Flash works - but on YouTube it's impossible to see what the point of it working is, as the videos are all so squashed. You need really good eyesight to get anything out of it.Browsing a secure website is an exercise in annoyance, because every time you enter or leave any https: area you get a BIG DIALOG (see the N8 Fail Blog) telling you so, which youhaveto click before you can proceed. Clue, Nokia: a padlock icon or coloured background in the browser bar works fine. BIG DIALOGS only vex. (Apparently you can turn it off. That sure isn't obvious in the user guide - or the BIG DIALOG.)Typing addresses in the browser bar feels fiddly because the screen is so narrow in portrait mode (and too low in landscape mode). This problem spills over into emails, where the layout is unlovely but functional; at least it auto-senses setup for Google Mail.Wi-Fi networksThe N8 is terrific at detecting the presence of Wi-Fi networks. Unfortunately it's rubbish at actually joining them. At work, it would not join our WPA2 Enterprise network (which requires a name and password): "Default EAP settings saved. Advanced settings can be edited in security settings of access point," it would announce. And then it would try to join it, and fail. Not surprising, as it never asked for my name or password, and offered nowhere to enter them. By contrast, my iPod Touch and the HTC Windows Phone 7 HD7 navigated this problem with ease.Even if you do get an IP address from a Wi-Fi network, you can't just start browsing: the N8 will ask you with a list choice if you want to "Connect" "Start browsing" or "Cancel". Eh? These are more nonsensical roadblocks to using the device. Is there ever a situation where you wouldnotwant to join a Wi-Fi network that you've chosen from a list? And while there might -just- be situations where you don't trust a Wi-Fi network, in those situations wouldn't you be distrustful enough to have simply turned your Wi-Fi off?GeneralFrustrations like that one abound. Using the N8 with my own SIM led to my first interesting experience, when it imported the contacts from my SIM, put there from a Symbian-based Sony Ericsson phone. All the names appeared truncated and replicated, creating duplicate yet only half-complete entries such as "Aleks Kroto/1" for Aleks Krotoski. I didn't find this helpful.Although I became more familiar with it, I never got past the point where I didn't find myself frustrated with something in its interface, even while I marvelled at the hardware quality (the video playback, for example, is exemplary; good work, hardware engineers).The life of its battery (non-replaceable - oh, Nokia fans who snickered at the iPhone's built-in one, how will you explain this?), for example, is terrific: easily two days from a full charge, beating any comparable smartphone. It reports a good phone signal in places where other phones shrug their shoulders (though, of course, we know that "signal strength" is largely an optical illusion). The camera takes marvellous pictures which by my judgement reflect true life colours far better than the HTC HD7 that I was also trying in parallel.What Nokia's engineers need to learn, though, is that less is more in software. The iPhone's success (and before you respond, Nokia fans, consider this: the N8 is incontrovertibly a response to the iPhone, else we would have seen it in 2006; and it's trying to ape much of what the iPhone does, so clearly Nokia think it's worth pursuing) doesn't come from Apple throwing everything at the user; quite the reverse. It limits what you can do in terms of tweaking and tooling, precisely so you don't have to think too much about what options there might be in any given situation.Too many optionsI'vepreviously pointedto what I see as a key failing in the interface design: there are multiple "front" screens (which are meant to be a sort of shop window onto things that you find important), and then another layer beneath that which is a list of what Nokia sees as your important applications.Nokia's N8 Applications folder: some of these are folders too, so that's three stages deepAnd then inthatnext folder, there's a folder called "Applications", within which live other apps, some of them having their own folders. This is madness.By the time you've clicked on that, you're three layers deep into the system. You can get back to the top (say, to make a call) by a short press on the Home button - or by pressing a software button that brings up a list of five items, including "Exit" (to the top menu).Duplicated functionsIs it clever to give you two ways to get back to the top? No, for three reasons.• First, it gives you the option (in the list) of choosing the wrong item, which will annoy you because you'll get a behaviour you didn't want;• Second, it duplicates something that can be achieved by the Home button;• Third, it doesn't teach you to use the Home button (which you would use instead once you realise what it can do, because it's faster, which makes the menu content surplus).That list/button duplication pervades the phone: if you hold the Home button down for a couple of seconds, it brings up the "active applications" menu.Oryou can get it from the list, accessible via a software button.Nokia's N8 suffers from duplication: hardware jobs done by software, and vice-versaAnswer me this: would you ever want to access "Active applications" via the list if you knew you could get it via the button? No. In which case, what is it doing in the software-acessible list? That's wasted screen space.So - exit and open apps are both available from the Home button. That's two items out of a five-item list which can be removed.The other items in that list are "list view" (rather than icon view), "organise" (make the icons movable around the screen - except that you can't reorder them in the list when in list view, only move them into a folder) and "User guide" - which is pervasive, again, across the phone.I'm not sure that it says good things about the N8 that it thinks you'll always want rapid access to its user guide.Ovi StoreNokia has an app store! Yes, let joy be unconfined. Not that the software to access the app store actually comes on the device (at least not the ones I tried). Instead you have to go to the "store" to download an installer which will then download the app that lets you access the Ovi Store proper. There you can enjoy vistas of tumbleweed. Twitter app? That'll be $10 for the Gravity app. Facebook app? Um... we'll get back to you. Be thankful therefore that Angry Birds, iPlayer and The X Factor apps all come preinstalled. Unless you don't like Angry Birds or The X Factor.ConclusionsThe N8 has:• a fantastic camera (both for still and video)• a beautiful screen for video playback• excellent GPS and mapping support• terrific battery life• an execrable user interface riddled with inconsistencies, duplication and poor layout and/or decisions.On that basis, I can't recommend the N8 to anyone but hardened Nokia fans or people who really want a fantastic camera that can also make phone calls. Certainly, anyone who's used an iPhone will find its interface enraging.It really is a pity: this is such marvellous hardware - let down by the failure to identify how good software should behave. Yes, I'm sure that fans will say you get used to it.But the bar is higher than "getting used to it". Phones can be returned. The next iteration needs to be very much better - or Apple and Android (not to mention Windows Phone 7 and RIM) will continue to eat Nokia's lunch.Other readingTheN8 Fail blog: gripes and complaints by a user who would like to like their N8, except the software keeps getting in the way.ZDNet early review of the N8:"let me state that the N8 is clearly the best Nokia Nseries device ever made and is the Nseries device that Nokia and Symbian users both deserve and will appreciate. I honestly doubt that many iPhone or Android owners will be switching to the N8 because the Symbian^3 OS is not familiar to them and is not as intuitive as either of these new flashier operating systems." Says it all, really. (Though not how "flashier" is used to make "intuitive" sound unimportant, when actually it's themostimportant element.)Engadget review: broadly similar, praising the hardware and finding the software less than optimal.TechRadar: a 13-pager for that super-hit-me-with-page-views-baby feel. They love the hardware and video playback."We disliked: Everything that we didn't like about this phone can be traced back to the user interface and Nokia's stubborn approach to updating its ageing platform and user interaction. Basically, the Nokia N8 feels like a phone the old version of S60 with a spot of spit-and-shine and some new features on top – more home screens, added widgets and multi-touch do not suddenly make it a decent smartphone. The menu systems are still too convoluted in our opinion, as is moving things around for personalisation."Daily Telegraph(quoted from Techbyte):"Plus, it's a Nokia, and has a hugely familiar operating system that's intuitive and simple, so there's only the gentlest new-interface learning curve. In fact, the system has been greatly improved from earlier touchscreen versions so it's less erratic and more accessible."4/5 stars. (Hardly what you'd call an in-depth review.)CNET US: yes, you know it's got fabulous hardware. Bad points: "It's expensive. User interface is much improved, but still trails the competition in ease of use. The N8 can be sluggish. You only get a QWERTY keyboard in landscape mode, and there's no user-replaceable battery." 4/5 stars.CNET UK:"We don't like to point fingers, but we blame Symbian for the N8's problems. This is the first phone with the latest version of the operating system, Symbian 3, and, although there are improvements, it's just not good enough.Same conclusions - great hardware, insufferable software.Mobileburn: "best cameraphone ever". Indeed. But also"The phone has its downsides, though, like a weak browser that Nokia has promised it will replace in a future firmware update. While the camera on the N8 feels very, very fast, other aspects of the phone sometimes seem to drag a bit, and I found the touchscreen to be less accurate than what the competition offers... I don't think current users of competing smartphone platforms will find it very welcoming."GSMArena: super-long (9 pages to get that page-view-generating hit). Conclusions include:"We've given up looking for the ultimate smartphone, haven't we? The Nokia N8 most certainly isn't in contention there. And Symbian ^3 is not the best touchscreen experience you can get – although what's fair is fair – it's an improvement over S60 5th. And the Ovi store isn't the best app market, but the guys behind it try really hard."Oh-kay.(Thanks@patricianfor the list of extra reviews from TechRadar onwards; the extracts from them are my own.)
Few games can boast as impressive a pedigree as Vanquish – it's the first effort to be directed by the industry legend Shinji Mikami (who originated Resident Evil and was heavily involved in Devil May Cry and Viewtiful Joe) since he co-founded the developer Platinum Games in 2008. Platinum Games has already carved a reputation for pumping out the sort of mayhem and barminess we crave from Japanese games, with the likes of MadWorld and Bayonetta – Vanquish, happily, continues that noble tradition.Like Gears of War, it's a third-person shooter that lets you slip into a first-person view when you take cover. But it augments that with all manner of bells and whistles and has a very different look – clean and futuristic, rather than murky and grim. You play Sam Gideon, a former American footballer transformed into a super-soldier thanks to an experimental battlesuit, who is thrust into a leading role in a war precipitated when a totalitarian Russia wipes San Francisco off the map (although things may not be quite as they initially seem). Vanquish is set sufficiently far into the future for the US to have built a space colony in Earth's orbit, where most of the action takes place.Because of his suit, Gideon has some fantastic moves. There's a spark-generating knee-slide that zips him out of harm's way, along with a slow-motion mode that triggers when he takes heavy hits, or which you can initiate by evading when in first-person mode. Both of which cause his suit to overheat after a while, so they must be used judiciously. He can carry three weapons and two types of grenades – the weaponry, much of which is from the realms of sci-fi, is notably excellent, especially given that you can upgrade it as you progress. Gideon is also an inveterate smoker, forever taking a time out for a puff in cut-scenes after particularly full-on sequences – and when behind cover, he can light a fag, then chuck it away, in order to draw enemy fire away from him.In time-honoured Japanese fashion, one of the first things that Vanquish does is to pitch you into a fearsomely intense boss-battle against a colossal mech, and it never subsequently dips below full-on. Throughout proceedings, you're assaulted by waves of enemies from all directions, many of them large and extremely heavily armed; boss-battles occur at regular intervals. The overall effect is so busy that it can be disorientating until you get to grips with the full range of Sam Gideon's abilities, at which point your capacity to take down vast swaths of enemies in a deeply stylish manner becomes deeply satisfying. And it's all on you – although you play most of the game in the company of AI-controlled US troops, they don't contribute much.Vanquish isn't perfect: those troops are led by Lt Col Robert Burns, a cyborg, who is one of the most annoying characters in the history of videogames – his utterances make even the meatheads from Army of Two resemble Oscar Wilde. Perhaps that was deliberate – he eventually gets a very unexpected come-uppance. The game also has no multiplayer side, although the single-player campaign is long and meaty and there are Horde-like challenges. Collectible hidden statues and points awarded at the end of each mission provide plenty of replay value, too.Vanquish isn't going to change the face of gaming, but it's impressive to behold, satisfying to play (as long as you're reasonably hardcore) and shot through with humour (look out, for example, for the robots dancing to a ghetto-blaster which transforms into a mobile gun). It's the best thing Shinji Mikami has done for quite a while.
I've spent the last few days trying to put my finger on what it is exactly that makes the Fallout series so singularly captivating.Is it the dark humour? The unparalleled sense of freedom? The decisions and consequences that give the your actions such a sense of significance?Perhaps its greatest strength is the fact that everybody can play it differently. Rigidly follow the main storyline – or wander off and ignore it entirely. Try and be as moral as possible – or kill and rob the first merchant you come across. It's a tailor-made gaming experience where everything can be done at your own pace and in your own way – no wonder it resonates with so many people.Fallout: New Vegas, the latest addition to the franchise, exemplifies all these great qualities in the series' best outing to date.The action this time takes place on the US west coast – the setting for the first two Fallout games –  a decision which has granted Obsidian much greater scope for variety in landscaping and colour than the washed-out Washington DC of Fallout 3.Being further away from the game's titular nuclear fallout, there's blue skies, singing birds and more signs of civilisation – a marked tonal shift from the unremittingly bleak scenery seen previously.Aside from the familiar burnt-out cities and trailer parks, the centrepiece of this new setting is the New Vegas strip – a wonderfully distorted and dark version of its real-life counterpart. Vomiting drunks, voluptuous prostitutes and a selection of fully playable casinos (better max out your Luck rating first) make it every bit as vivid and memorable as the decaying US capital of the last game.In terms of the story, there's next to no foreshadowing this time around – players are expected to be familiar with the Fallout universe – and the main narrative follows your attempts to unravel the events leading up to your near-death, which prefigures the game.I've been asked a few times whether it's 'better' than Fallout 3's central plot and to be honest it's hard to say. It's a looser strand to follow, meaning side-questing fits in much more easily, though the blank nature of your character means it's hard to care too much about what happened to you – especially when there's so much fun to be found elsewhere.While we're dwelling on the negatives, critics will point out that New Vegas is far from being Fallout 4 – and it's true, the majority of tweaks and new features are unlikely to greatly affect what is a near-identical gameplay experience. But it's hard to care too much when there was so little wrong with its predecessor.Familiar problems, such as regular crashes – I've had to switch my Xbox off using the power button roughly once every two hours so far – and a lack of signposting for irrevocably game-altering decisions can be frustrating, though perhaps understandable given the huge scope of the game. Getting into the habit of regular saving is more important than ever.These however are small niggles in a overwhelmingly impressive - and simply huge - gaming experience. The map, though similar-sized to Fallout 3's, seems more jam-packed than ever – New Vegas is less a sandbox game than whole beach to play around in.That "just one more mission" feeling that lead to entire evenings and weekends lost exploring the last wasteland is more apparent than ever. The simple thrill of finding an abandoned shack in the middle of nowhere packed with exciting new gear is hard to match.Levelling up now caps at 30 (up from 20 in the last outing) – meaning there's much more incentive to delve deeper and deeper. There's dozens of new perks to unlock, and the return of some familiar enemies and weapons from earlier in the series will do even more to delight hardcore fans.Graphics and voice-acting are noticeably improved, and the new tribe-by-tribe reputation system adds another layer of depth to the myriad choices you'll have to make throughout the game. This essentially means you can't be liked by rival groups at the same time – tough for those wanting to unlock all the companions, missions and dialogue in one playthrough, but more reason than ever to start again once you finish the game.Along with this new feature there's now tweaked companion controls, weapon modding, card games, craftable ammo and herbal remedies for your to tinker with, though it's the left-trigger iron sights which I feel may be the most significant addition.Combat is no longer a case of simply hoping you have enough AP to finish off your assailants and running backwards if you need to recharge – VATS can be now pretty much ignored if it's not to your liking. This allows for a more visceral FPS experience for those that want it – and the option of a mix between the two styles for everyone else.The question of whether New Vegas could convince those that so far haven't been keen on the series is a difficult one. The focus is very much still on immersion and exploration, and despite some concessions for action nuts, those looking for shallow shoot-em-up thrills and spills are still best catered for elsewhere.For the rest of us, Fallout: New Vegas is simply every bit as good as you'd expect. Writing this review has been difficult simply because I've been itching to strap on my Pipboy, get back to the wasteland and do a bit more exploring – there's nothing quite like it. I think you'll feel the same.Reviewed on Xbox 360
If you've been playing games since the ZX Spectrum era you'll remember there was once an essential piece of gaming kit that didn't need to be plugged into the back of your machine. It was a pad of blank paper. In the early days of interactive entertainment, making your own maps was a vital tool for progression. With the classic text-based adventures – from Will Crowther's Colossal Cave, through the Zork series and Scott Adams' cryptic quests – it was the only way players could visualise the experience amid the onslaught of verb-noun inputs and endless compass references.Later, with the dawn of the graphical action adventure, the homemade map remained an important navigational device. Fans of Ultimate's classic isometric quests, Knight Lore, Alien 8 and Sabre Wulf, would pride themselves on their elaborate cartographic creations (at least in my school), while attempting to accurately chart Mike Singleton's epic Lords of Midnight, with its 4000 unique locations, was the eighties equivalent of Waldseemüller's Universalis Cosmographia. Keen gamer/mappers would compare techniques and send their works into the tips sections at magazines like ZZap 64 and Crash. Some favoured naturalistic approximations of the game environments, creating miniaturised ordinance survey maps. Others, like myself, used graph paper and went for a more diagrammatic approach, inspired by the topographic purity of Harry Beck's tube map.But in the late-eighties, game design changed. The big home consoles from Nintendo and Sega brought an endless stream of slick arcade conversions – no one needed to map Altered Beast or R-Type. And while early Japanese RPG titles like Final Fantasy and Legend of Zelda initially required some mapping skills thanks to their burgeoning use of open world 'overmap' environments, later iterations brought in a variety of navigational aids. Breath of Fire II, for example, introduced world maps that opened up new sections as the player gained fresh abilities, effectively allowing the micro-management of exploration and lessening the chances of getting lost (a theme that would later expand into the whole hub world concept, championed by Super Mario 64). Then there were teleportation zones, and the ability to set waypoints across a map screen – somewhere along the line, travel became an inconvenience rather than the point of the game.Elsewhere, CD-Rom technology allowed the birth of the cinematic adventure, complete with FMV and CGI story sequences. This heavily story-based form of design required a linear structure, with choke points and bottle necks to host key plot changes. That's pretty much where we are with big action adventure titles like Tomb Raider, Uncharted, Batman: Arkham Asylum and Call of Duty. The whole concept of exploration has changed; we no longer need to explore to progress, we explore to find power-ups and hidden extras, and in this overtly stage-managed form of freedom, cartography isn't really necessary. The pictorial map has been replaced by the didactic walkthrough.Even so-called 'open world' titles are map-free experiences. There will usually be a mini-map or radar display in the corner as well as an HUD that paints your required destination with big arrows and a distance read-out. In games like Doom and Resident Evil, which require endless revisitation of old map sections, exploration becomes a sort of neurotic dance, an insect triangulation, in which the route maps are burned on the memory like rhythm-action button presses.Do we really, truly explore game worlds anymore? Can we? I think in some ways, this goes deeper than mere changes in game design. It's interesting that GPS technology has evolved into a mass mainstream phenomenon at the same time as games; both are now about ridding us of the need to understand and read our environments. There have been a few titles that have attempted to engage us in map-making again – the DS RPG Etrian Odyssey requires you to draw your own map on the touch screen, while Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass lets your customise and add notes to the pre-designed map display. But these are rare novelties.I miss game maps. There was something fundamentally immersive about creating your own interpretation of the virtual environment, of relying on your own systems and diagrams to get you through. I could be wrong of course, there may be dozens of titles I've missed that positively invite cartographic interaction – if so let us know in the comments section. I suspect not. We are, as a race, moving toward a guided, systematic form of orientation in which anything worth seeing has already been geo-tagged, reviewed and Google mapped. Getting lost in a game, or in a city, is now a completely unnecessary annoyance. It was once a means of discovering amazing things.
The discussion about net neutrality - which has mostly focused on the US market so far - seems simplified into two camps. On one side, large corporate media and the internet service providers. On the other, the public sector and the web purists.(If you're still in the dark about exactly what net neutrality is, it's actually very simple.Read this explainer.)Erik Huggers, BBC director of future media and technology,threw his weightbehind the open web argument today, criticising ISPs who haverestricted accessto the iPlayer at certain times of day (even with a meaty connection, iPlayer is often glitchy at early evening peak times) and calling for more transparency about current traffic-shaping practices among ISPs.Photo byYoshikazu.Aon Flickr.Some rights reservedHe summarises key points made by the BBCin its submissionto thecommission on net neutralitybeing conducted by Ofcom and the European Commission, a submission which tries to persuade the commission that its three goals are universal access, quality of service and the long-term support of innovative, competitive business models."The founding principle of the internet is that everyone – from individuals to global companies – has equal access. Since the beginning, the internet has been 'neutral', and everyone has been treated the same,' says Huggers. "But the emergence of fast and slow lanes allows broadband providers to effectively pick and choose what you see first and fastest.He reels oftheyworkforyou,Audioboo,Mumsnet,Skype,FacebookandYouTubeas examples of the diverse, valuable and essential parts of our lives. "This innovative and dynamic ecosystem, that enables huge public value, could be put at risk if network operators are allowed to use traffic management to become gatekeepers to the internet."He says that in practice, it is hard for consumers to switch providers if they don't like its traffic-shaping service because it is a complicated, expensive and confusing process. "Even if switching were made easier, much more work is needed to deliver real transparency about the traffic management practices used by different broadband providers.""At this stage we don't need new legislation, since effective new EU rules have already been passed. But we do need the determination of regulators to now fully implement these rules, to prevent the emergence of practices which undermine the open internet which we so often take for granted."It is no surprise that the BBC would support the principle of net neutrality, which suits the nature of public service by protecting equality of access and that publication is open to everyone online, from large corporate to individuals, so they can all use and share the same networks at the same speeds.ISPs promote the development ofnew, smarter networksin an attractive and compelling way, but there is still traffic shaping at the heart of these plans. In the UK, ISPs have used iPlayer (along with controversial downgrading of P2P traffic) as convenient and very easy targets to illustrate their case, but the reality of a tiered internet would go far beyond the state of the internet we see today. It seems inevitable that a far more complex, 'thinking' internet will develop - but that in turn means if will become much harder and ever more necessary to protect and preserve the free internet.
I've spent some time recently playing and reviewing Just Dance 2 on the Wii. It's fun enough and will appeal to the millions who bought the original. But I couldn't help thinking that it was just the warm-up - literally - for the real thing. Yes, I'm talking about Dance Central on Kinect. The game is one of 19 Kinect-enabled titles that will launch in November (Kinect launches on Nov 10th in the UK for around £129 - plus the cost of a 360...). So dancing aside what other Kinect games can you expect to be playing in November?As you would expect, given that Kinect is Microsoft's attempt to reposition the Xbox away from the traditional gaming market, the emphasis is very much on family accessibility. Halo fans should look away now..."Kinect Adventures"is included with every Kinect sensor. The actions see you jump, dodge and kick your way through some pretty enough environments. I tried this and was pleasantly surprised, especially by the multiplayer. Not sure what the long-term potential is mind."Kinectimals"(10th November). A virtual pet game that I think my five year old daughter will probably love. Not Gears of War then."Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 1 The Videogame"(19th November) - will the Kinect enabled parts actually make a difference to the game? Will you want to be standing up all the time "casting spells"? We'll see."Game Party: In Motion"(26th November). Not seen this one but you can expect plenty more titles like this for Kinect."Dance Central"(MTV Games/Harmonix)  (10th November) - this is the one that will really sell Kinect and the Xbox to a whole new audience."Your Shape: Fitness Evolved"(10th November)  - Workouts, calorie counters and the rest."The Biggest Loser Ultimate Workout"(10th November) - more fitness stuff. Not in any way exciting."EA SPORTS Active 2"(19th November) - This and the Ubi one look like the best of the Kinect fitness titles."Zumba Fitness"(26th November) - More fitness. Detecting a trend here? This one has "latin themes"."Get Fit With Mel B"(26th November) - Enough already."DanceEvolution"(10th November)  - Not as good as Dance Central."Dance Paradise"(10th November) - Probably not as good as Dance Central either."Kinect Sports"(10th November) - Another launch day title. I've played this and again was pleasantly surprised. The hurdles in particular are a proper workout. More strenuous than Wii Sports then."MotionSports"(10th November) - Not played or seen. Ubisoft normally gets motion control though so hopes are relatively high."Sports Island Freedom"(26th November) - Remind you of a Nintendo title?Thrills, Spills and All-Out Action"Kinect Joy Ride"(10th November) - I played this and was disappointed by the imprecise controls. This was one of the only Kinect games I've played where a physical controller would have made more sense."Fighters Uncaged"(10th November) - Looks promising."SONIC FREE RIDERS"(10th November) - Again, will be keen to try this one."CROSSBOARD 7"(10th November) - Potentially a dark horse Kinect title..Anyway, what do you think? Launch titles tempting you to jump in? Or are you leaving Kinect well alone?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox...
Unusually, Steve Jobs attended Apple's earnings call on Monday night - something he rarely does; the last time he did so we in Q3 2008, when he also came to crow about Apple passing RIM for phone sales.On Monday night he was back again, with a long discussion about how• Google is wrong to characterise Android as "open"• 7" tablets are not going to succeed because their screens are too small• Apple may make a "strategic acquisition" with its $50bn cash pile but won't be handing it back to shareholders• Tablet computing is a "tiger by the tail", with the iPad already outselling Macintosh computers, which could change computing• Why Apple is not going to build a 7" iPad.Transcriptcourtesy of Seeking Alphaorlisten to it here."As most of you know, I don't usually participate in Apple's earnings calls since you are all in such capable hands with Peter and Tim. But I just couldn't help dropping by for our first $20 billion quarter. I would like to chat about a few things and then stay for the rest of the Q&amp;A if that's alright."First, let me discuss iPhone. We sold 14.1 million iPhones in the quarter which represents a 91% unit growth over the year-ago quarter and was well ahead of IDC's latest published estimate of 64$ growth for the global smartphone market in the September quarter. And it handily beat RIM's 12.1 million Blackberry's sold in their most recent quarter ending in August. We've now passed RIM, and I don't seem them catching up with us in the foreseeable future. They must move beyond their area of strength and comfort into the unfamiliar territory of trying to become a software platform company."I think it's going to be a challenge for them to create a competitive platform and to convince developers to create apps for yet a third software platform after iOS and Android. With 300,000 apps on Apple's App Store, RIM has a high mountain ahead of them to climb."Well, what about Google? Last week, Eric Schmidt reiterated that they are activating 200,000 Android devices per day. And have around 90,000 apps in their App Store. For comparison, Apple has activated around 275,000 iOS devices per day on average for the past 30 days with a peak of almost 300,000 iOS devices per day on a few of those days. And Apple has 300,000 apps on its App Store."Unfortunately, there is no solid data on how many Android phones are shipped each quarter. We hope that manufacturers will soon start reporting the number of Android handsets they ship each quarter. But today that just isn't the case. Gartner reported that around 10 million Android phones were shipped in the June quarter and we await to see if iPhone or Android was the winner in this most recent quarter."Google loves to characterize Android as open, and iOS and iPhone as closed. We find this a bit disingenuous and clouding the real difference between our two approaches. The first thing most of us think about when we hear the work open is Windows which is available on a variety of devices. Unlike Windows, however, where most pc's have the same user interface and run the same app, Android is very fragmented. Many Android OEMs, including the two largest, HTC and Motorola install proprietary user interfaces to differentiate themselves from the commodity Android experience. The users will have to figure it all out. Compare this with iPhone, where every handset works the same."Twitter client, Twitter Deck[actually Tweetdeck], recently launched their app for Android. They reported that they had to contend with more than 100 different versions of Android software on 244 different handsets. The multiple hardware and software iterations present developers with a daunting challenge. Many Android apps work only on selected Android handsets running selected Android versions. And this is for handsets that have been shipped less than 12 months ago. Compare this with iPhone, where there are two versions of the software, the current and the most recent predecessor to test against."In addition to Google's own app marketplace, Amazon, Horizon and Vodafone have all announced that they are creating their own app stores for Android. So there will be at least four app stores on Android, which customers must search among to find the app they want and developers will need to work with to distribute their apps and get paid. This is going to be a mess for both users and developers. Contrast this with Apple's integrated App Store, which offers users the easiest-to-use largest app store in the world, preloaded on every iPhone. Apple's App Store has over three times as many apps as Google's marketplace and offers developers' one-stop shopping to get their apps to market easily and to get paid swiftly."Even if Google were right, and the real issue is closed versus open, it is worthwhile to remember that open systems don't always win. Take Microsoft's PlaysForSure music strategy, which use the PC model, which Android uses as well, of separating the software components from the hardware components. Even Microsoft finally abandoned this open strategy in favor of copying Apple's integrated approach with their Zoom Player, unfortunately leaving their OEMs empty-handed in the process. Google flirted with this integrated approach with their Nexus One phone."In reality, we think the open versus closed argument is just a smokescreen to try and hide the real issue, which is, what's best for the customer, fragmented versus integrated. We think Android is very, very fragmented and becoming more fragmented by the day. And as you know, Apple's provides with the integrated model so that the user isn't forced to be the systems integrator."We see tremendous value in having Apple rather than our users' be the systems integrator. We think this is a huge strength of our approach compared to Google's. When selling to users who want their devices to just work, we believe Integrated will triumph Fragmented every time. And we also think our developers can be more innovative if they can target a singular platform rather than a hundred variants. They can put their time into innovative new features rather than testing on hundreds of different handsets."So we are very committed to the integrated approach, no matter how many times Google tries to characterize it as closed. And we are confident that it will triumph over Google's fragmented approach, no matter how many times Google tries to characterize it as open."Second, I'd like to comment on the avalanche of Tablets poised to enter the market in the coming months. First, it appears to be just a handful of credible entrants, not exactly an avalanche. Second, almost all of them use seven-inch screens as compared to iPad's near 10-inch screen. Let's start there. One naturally thinks that a seven-inch screen would offer 70% of the benefits of a 10-inch screen. Unfortunately, this is far from the truth. The screen measurements are diagonal, so that a seven-inch screen is only 45% as large as iPad's 10-inch screen. You heard me right; just 45% as large"If you take an iPad and hold it upright in portrait view and draw an imaginary horizontal line halfway down the screen, the screens on the seven-inch tablets are a bit smaller than the bottom half of the iPad display. This size isn't sufficient to create great tablet apps in our opinion."Well, one could increase the resolution of the display to make up for some of the difference. It is meaningless, unless your tablet also includes sandpaper, so that the user can sand down their fingers to around one quarter of the present size. Apple's done extensive user-testing on touch interfaces over many years, and we really understand this stuff. There are clear limits of how close you can physically place elements on a touch screen before users cannot reliably tap, flick or pinch them. This is one of the key reasons we think the 10-inch screen size is the minimum size required to create great tablet apps."Third, every tablet user is also a smartphone user. No tablet can compete with the mobility of a smartphone, its ease of fitting into your pocket or purse, its unobtrusiveness when used in a crowd. Given that all tablet users will already have a smartphone in their pockets, giving up precious display area to fit a tablet in our pockets is clearly the wrong tradeoff. The seven-inch tablets are tweeners, too big to compete with a smartphone and too small to compete with an iPad."Fourth, almost all of these new tablets use Android software, but even Google is telling the tablet manufacturers not to use their current release, Froyo, for tablets, and to wait for a special tablet release next year. What does it mean when your software suppliers says not to use their software in your tablet? And what does it mean when you ignore them and use it anyway?"Fifth, iPad now has over 35,000 apps on the App Store. This new crop of tablets will have near zero."And sixth and last, our potential competitors are having a tough time coming close to iPad's pricing, even with their far smaller, far less expensive screens. The iPad incorporates everything we have learnt about building high value products from iPhones, iPods and Macs. We create our own A4 chip, our own software, our own battery chemistry, our own enclosure, our own everything. And this results in an incredible product at a great price. The proof of this will be in the pricing of our competitor's products which will likely offer less for more."These are among the reasons we think the current crop of seven-inch tablets are going to be DOA, Dead on Arrival. Their manufacturers will learn the painful lesson that their tablets are too small and increase the size next year, thereby abandoning both customers and developers who jumped on the seven-inch bandwagon with an orphan product. Sounds like lots of fun ahead."So thank you, and let me turn it back to Peter for the Q&amp;A session."Later, in the Q+A, he is asked about Flash ("we love Flash memory" he deadpans) and then about tablet's effect:Q:Can you help us understand how you think about the business a year or two years down the road in terms of size of your overall business, impact on enterprise, education, anything you can give to help us on that front?Steve Jobs"Well, the iPad is clearly going to affect notebook computers. And I think the iPad proves, it's not a question of if, it's a question of when. And I think a lot of development and progress that will occur over the next few years. But we're already seeing tremendous interest in iPad from education, and much to my surprise, from business."We haven't pushed it real hard in business, and it's being grabbed out of our hands. And I talk to people everyday in all kinds of businesses that are using iPads, all the way from Boards of Directors that are shipping iPads around instead of board books, down to nurses and doctors in hospitals and other large and small businesses."So the more time that passes, the more I am convinced that we've got a tiger by the tail here. And this is a new model of computing which we've already got tens of millions of people trained on with the iPhone. And that lends itself to lots of different aspects of life both personal, educational and business."So, I see it as very general purpose, and I see it as really big. And the timing, one could argue about the timing endlessly, but I don't think one could argue that it's going to happen anymore."Q on tablets:Some of those players may try different things and strategies like Tattering and Flash, multi-tasking, less content and app restrictions and subsidized pricing. And just wondered if you think that, that may create itself a more fragmented market and how you see that rolling out with regard to Apple?Steve Jobs:: "I have a hard time envisioning what those strategies you mentioned are. I mean, in terms of pricing, so far, the little we've seen, the tablets with far less functionality are having a hard time matching us in price. Flash hasn't presented any problem at all. As you know, most of the video on the web is now available in HTML 5. And having the iTunes media store and over 35,000 apps on the App Store for iPad dwarfs anything else. And we think we have a very good product here that's going to be hard to match, and we're not done. We're working on a lot of things for the future."So I don't know exactly what these strategies are. And we've priced iPad pretty aggressively. So we're out to win this one."Are smartphones a zero-sum game?Jobs:"Well, as you know the largest market of phones today around the world are not smartphones. And so over the next several years, many of those non-smartphones are going to convert to smartphones. And the pie is going to continue to grow, and I think there will be room for some number of companies to be successful. But eventually, as most of those phones do convert to smartphones, it will turn into a zero sum game or at least a lot closer to that."But I think right now it's a battle for developers and a battle for the mindshare of developers and a battle for the mindshare of customers. And right now iPhone and Android are winning that battle."On tablet sizes:"First of all, Nokia makes $50 handsets, and we don't know how to make a great smartphone for $50. We're not smart enough to figure that one out yet, but believe me I'll let you know, when we do. So our goal is to make a really breakthrough great product. Make the best product in every industry that we compete in And to drive the cost down, while constantly making the products better at the same time. That's what we did with iPod."We updated our products many times every year, with better functionality often times at the same price, and sometimes at a lower price. And it was the relentless improvement, and in some cases a lower price that was able to be our competition. And yield the market share that it did. And as you know, we have a very low market share in the phone market in the single digits, in terms of all the handsets. And we have a very high market share now in Tablets, because we're the first mover."But we don't think about it that way. The reason we wouldn't make a seven inch Tablet isn't because we don't want to hit a price point, it's because we don't think you can make a great tablet with a seven inch screen. We think it's too small to express the software that people want to put on these things. And we think as a software driven company, we think about the software strategies first."And we know that software developers they're not going to deal real well with all these different size products, when they have to redo their software, every time a screen size changes. And they're not going to deal well with products where they can't put enough elements on the screen to build the kind of apps they want to build."So when we make decisions on seven inch tablets, it's not about cost, it's about the value of the product when you factor in the software. You see what I'm getting at? So we're all about making the best products at aggressive prices. And that's what we will do and that's what we've done with the iPod, and that's what we will do with the iPad as well."But won't rivals come in and take share?"You're looking at it wrong. You're looking at it as a hardware person in a fragmented world. You're looking at it as a hardware manufacturer that doesn't really know much about software, who doesn't think about an integrated product, but assumes the software will somehow take care of itself. And you're sitting around saying, "Well, how can we make this cheaper? Well, we can put on a smaller screen on it and a slower processor, and less memory." And you assume that the software will somehow just come alive on this product that you're dreaming of, but it won't. Because these app developers have taken advantage of the products that came before with faster processors, with larger screens, with more capabilities that they can take advantage of to make better apps for customers."And it's a hard one because it throws you right back into the beginning of that chicken and egg problem again to change all the assumptions on those developers. Most of them will not follow you, most of them will say, "I'm sorry, but I'm not going to go back and write a watered down version of my app just because you've got this phone that you can sell for $50 less and you're begging me to write software for it.""What about the cash pile?"Of course that's been suggested to us. We strongly believe that one or more very strategic opportunities may come along that we're in a unique position to take advantage of because of our strong cash position. And I think we've demonstrated a really strong track record of being very disciplined with the use of our cash. We don't let it burn a hole in our pocket, we don't allow it to motivate us to do stupid acquisitions."And so I think that we'd like to continue to keep our powder dry because we do feel that there are one or more strategic opportunities in the future. That's the biggest reason. And there are other reasons as well that we could go into. But that's the biggest one."Finally: Why do you think you have an advantage on the price point for iPad versus the pc manufacturers?Steve Jobs"Well, I think part of it is because engineer so much of it ourselves. The A4 chip inside it is an Apple creation; everything, again, as I mentioned from the battery chemistry to the enclosures. And we've learned a lot. We've learned a lot from the miniaturization we've done on iPods and iPhones. And we're a very high volume consumer electronics manufacturer."So I think we've learned a lot. We've developed a lot of our own components where other have to buy them on the market with middlemen, getting their cut of things. I think we're a systems architect and know how to build systems in a very efficient way. So I think this is a product we've been training for, for the last decade."
Ray Ozzie, Microsoft's "chief software architect" since 2006, who had been expected to emulate Bill Gates in his importance to the company, is retiring, chief executive Steve Ballmer announced on Monday night.His departure seems to indicate that an ongoing power struggle within Microsoft about its future - and whether itshould shift over to a model based on cloud-based services, or retain its longstanding reliance on its twin monopolies of the Windows desktop and Office suite - has been won by the pragmatists who want the company to stay with its existing business model.It is another in a string of high-level exits from the company this year.Stephen Elop, the Business Division President left last monthto become CEO of Nokia, whileEntertainment and Devices unit president Robbie Bach and Zune inventor J Allard announced plans to leave in spring.Ozzie's departure consolidates Ballmer's control at the top of the company.In anemail to staff, Ballmer said that"As a company, we've accomplished much in the past five years as we look at the cloud and services. Windows Live now serves as a natural web-based services complement to both Windows and Office. SharePoint and Exchange have now decidedly embraced the cloud. And by conceiving, incubating and shepherding Windows Azure, Ray helped ensure we have a tremendously rich platform foundation that will enable app-level innovation across the company and by customers for years to come."However it is notable that Ballmer declined earlier this month to answer a question asked by the Guardian when he gave a lecture in London about how he thought Microsoft would adapt to the generally lower-income model that cloud services imply compared to Windows.Within Microsoft, Ozzie, 54, had pushed continually for a shift towards "cloud" thinking, emphasising its future importance. He and Gates wrote twocrucial memosin late 2005 on how that shift would affect the company, saying it would be as important as the shift to a graphical user interface (GUI) had been in the 1990s.The announcement has surprised many - especially because Ozzieannounced in a blog postthat "I'm back" only last week, in which he included documents from Windows 1.0 that he had discovered.Ozzie, the inventor of Lotus Notes, came to Microsoft when it acquired his Groove Networks company in 2005 at the urging of Bill Gates, who is thought to have seen a kindred spirit in him. The title of "chief software architect" was first bestowed on Gates when he stepped aside from full-time running of the company. But there will be no replacement in the role. "We have a strong planning process, strong technical leaders in each business group and strong innovation heading to the market," Ballmer asserts in his email.Ozzie is not leaving to go to a job, though having stepped down from his specific title he will "be focussing his efforts in the broader area of entertainment where Microsoft has many ongoing investments," Ballmer said. It's unclear what that signals: Ozzie has not been noticeable in the design of any of Microsoft's Entertainment and Devices outputs, which include the Xbox and Zune products.
Toll bridge sign in Romania. Photo byAustin Donisanon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPatent Troll Forces Online Music Sellers, Buyers to Pay a Toll &gt;&gt; The Legal Pulse"Sharing Sound's patent, and the litigation arising from it, are a sad commentary on the quality of federal patent examination.  As one commentator noted, online selling of digital goods was well underway before the Patent Office issued the Sharing Sound patent."A radical pessimist's guide to the next 10 years &gt;&gt; The Globe and MailAh. Douglas Coupland, with these 45 predictions and guides to how to live, you make us feel... uneasy.Tablet war is about to begin in Korea &gt;&gt; CNET Asia Blogs"Two local giant carriers KT and SKT will introduce their latest flagship tablets, the Apple iPad and Samsung Galaxy Tab, in Korea by mid-October. KT is known as a partner of Apple with distributorship for the iPhone 3GS and 4. SKT is focusing on Samsung's Galaxy series to match up with KT's Apple."It'll be interesting to see how sales and prices compare.What's Wrong with "HTML5″ &gt;&gt; Katz Got Your Tongue?Yehuda Katz, a member of the Ruby on Rails core team, says: "The thing is, the core problem isn't that the name is too fuzzy. It's what the name implies. HTML5 sounds like a technology which goes through a beta period and is finally complete. Instead, what the tech press calls "HTML5″ is really a continual process of improving the web browsers that people use. And honestly, that's how I'd like to see the tech press cover us. Not as group of people working towards a singular milestone that will change the web as we know it, but as a group that has gotten our groove back."Stuxnet &gt;&gt; Schneier on SecurityBruce Schneier offers his alternative theories about what the worm was looking to do, which include: "A message. It's hard to speculate any further, because we don't know who the message is for, or its context. Presumably the intended recipient would know. Maybe it's a "look what we can do" message. Or an "if you don't listen to us, we'll do worse next time" message. Again, it's a very expensive message, but maybe one of the pieces of the message is "we have so many resources that we can burn four or five man-years of effort and four zero-day vulnerabilities just for the fun of it." If that message were for me, I'd be impressed."Testing Videos on Cellphones -- With Flash &gt;&gt; David Pogue"I didn't conduct battery tests, but Adobe notes with pride that Flash for Mobile is one of the most popular downloads from the Android Market, and it's highly rated. Adobe's engineers estimate that you can get 3 to 3.5 hours of video-watching time before your phone is dead (assuming, of course, that you do nothing else)."Over all, it's much better to have Flash than not to have it. O.K., it may accelerate battery drain, and mouse/keyboard games are clumsy, and it doesn't work on absolutely all sites. Even so, shouldn't it be available for us to use now and then when we need it?"Couldn't you have tested the battery life too, David?The Facebook Money Machine &gt;&gt; Monday Note'This year, Facebook will make about $1.5bn in advertising revenue. On average, this is about three dollars per registered user, a figure that is significantly higher for the 50% of the social network's population that logs in at least once a day.'Can the iPhone Thrive in Apple's Closed Ecosystem? &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comUsually when a headline ends in a questionmark, the answer is "No", but this one is cleverly twirled round so that the correct answer is actually yes. As the article acknowledges if you persevere to the end: smartphones are not, and can't be, commoditised in the same way as PCs.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Apple declared itself "thrilled" as its quarterly profits leapt by 70% to $4.31bn and its revenues by 66% to $20.34bn as it sold 14.1m iPhones, up 91%, and 4.19m iPads.Its shares moved down in after-hours trading, losing nearly 6% to fall below $300 in profit-taking. Apple's revenues were more than 10% above earnings forecasts, and its profits 5% ahead.The company sold 3.89m Macintosh computers, beating its record set in the previous quarter. The only dull spot was the continuing fall in iPod sales, down to 9.05m, though the company said that it was maintaining its share of that market.After the results were announced, Steve Jobs, its chief executive, made a rare appearance on the earnings call with analysts, saying: "I couldn't help dropping by for our first $20bn quarter." Those revenues easily put Apple past its biggest rival, Microsoft, which has not recorded a $20bn quarter, though its next quarterly figures are due presently.Jobs hinted Apple's $50bn cash pile could be used for a sizeable acquisition: "We strongly believe one or more very strategic opportunities may come along that we're uniquely positioned to take advantage of. We don't let it burn a hole in our pocket or motivate us to do stupid things. We do feel there are one or more strategic opportunities in the future."Jobs then laid into Apple's principal rivals in the US smartphone market, Research in Motion and Google's Android, and suggested that tablet computers will change computing in the future."We've now passed RIM [which sold 12.1m phones in the comparable quarter], and I don't see them catching up with us. It's going to be a challenge for them to become a competitive platform and to persuade developers to develop for a third platform after iOS and Android."He also forecast that would-be rivals to Apple's iPad tablet computer would struggle to make a mark because many were offering screens only 7" diagonally – "which is only 45% of the area of the iPad," Jobs said. "We think these 7" tablets will be DOA – dead on arrival. They'll learn the painful lesson that they're too small and have to expand them next year."He pointed out that Apple is already selling more iPads than Macintosh machines, and suggested that the tablet market is "a new model of computing … I think we've got a tiger by the tail here".Asked whether rival tablets so far announced – which will run Google's Android 2.2 software, and have 7" screens – posed a threat, Jobs was scornful. "You might think a 7" screen would have 70% of the size of a 10" screen, but that measure is diagonal. In fact it's only 45% of the area of an iPad screen. If you take an iPad and draw an imaginary horizontal line halfway along, that's the size of a 7" tablet display."He added: "The only way they're going to sell is if they come with sandpaper, because you're going to have to sand peoples' fingers down so they can work it. You can't run the software you need on a screen that small."He added that the reason PC manufacturers had not been able to challenge the iPad was that they did not specialise as it did. "We've done everything from the iPad's A4 [processor] to the battery chemistry. We've learnt a lot from the miniaturisation on iPods and iPhones. We're a very large volume consumer electronics manufacturer. We're systems architects, we know how to make products in an interesting way. This is a product we've been preparing for for the past decade."The company said the growth in iPhone sales was ahead of that for the general smartphone market, put at 64% by IDC.Sales will probably accelerate when Apple begins selling its iPhone on the Verizon network from January.The company said it could have sold even more iPhones if it had been able to meet supply, with 3.3m left in its supply channels.
Top ten video games, week ending 15 October 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Medal Of Honor(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (43)12 (1)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (39)Wii (5)PSP (4)33 (–)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)14 (10)Wii Party(3+)Wii (100)25 (2)Pro Evolution Soccer 2011(3+)PS3 (65)Xbox 360 (33)PC (2)26 (4)F1 2010(3+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (48)PC (0)47 (3)Dead Rising 2(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (40)48 (5)Halo: Reach(16+)Xbox 360 (101)59 (–)Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2 (12+)PS3 (54)Xbox 360 (46)110 (6)Castlevania: Lords Of Shadow(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)2Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track &copy;2010UKIELtd
With more than 4m copies sold so far, the original Just Dance was the gaming sales surprise of last year.  Forget Mario and co, most Wii owners just couldn't get enough of waggling their Wiimote controllers in time to Kylie, Gorillaz and Chic. With the game still flying high in the charts, the sequel has a lot to live up to.Those hoping for a radical reinvention will be disappointed Just Dance 2. The other 99.9% of the target audience will be more than happy with it. For a start it doesn't really tinker with the simple yet successful formula of the original game. So, as before, you simply need to match the onscreen movements of the dancer with your Wiimote.  How much you get into it depends primarily on your age or alcohol consumption.This time round there seems to be more variety to your moves, but the real selling point for fans will be the new tracks. From Vampire Weekend to Wham and Blondie to Pussycat Dolls, there is a surprisingly eclectic mix of stuff to "dance" to.The biggest addition to the action is duets, with players now able to pull moves in time with each other. Even if choreography is not your strong point then the dance-off element does get surprisingly competitive. Mini-games too add some variety.With Dance Central one of the standout games for Kinect, it's clear the dance genre has legs. Just Dance 2 may be limited compared to the full-body capture of something like Dance Central but in many ways that works in its favour. No real skills are involved – at least early on – and the game leads you gently into the action. Like all party games the action is a chore to play on your own but get a group involved and you can see why Just Dance 2 will be another big hit.
Copyright-infringement tracking is big business. Fresh from a precedent-setting Irish court case,DtecNettoday starts life inside the multinational brand protection agencyMarkMonitorafter a big money buyout.One of the world's most assiduous infringement-tracking companies, DtecNet can count among its existing customers some of the biggest names in the music industry. Founded six years ago, the Denmark-based company is increasing its revenue around 80% year on year, according to MarkMonitor's chief executive, Irfan Salim."Piracy of digital content on the internet is a severe and growing problem," Salim told the Guardian. "[The acquisition of] DtecNet adds to the places we can look at in terms of copyright protection. Its customers are mostly studios and industry organisations like theMPA[Music Publishers Association] and equivalent organisations, andIFPI[International Federation for the Phonographic Industry]. Eventually we will work with anyone investigating content electronically."DtecNet currently operates mostly in the US, Salim said, with the rest of its custom in Europe. He confirmed that the copyright-tracking company would be part of MarkMonitor's planned expansion into Asia.DtecNet's new owner is bullish about the firm's prospects, despite the fact that those associated with identifying and pursuing alleged copyright infringers are public enemy No 1 for a number of powerful online forums,with many websites taken offline in the past month by disgruntled online activists."We are aware [about the online attacks] and there are people who believe people shouldn't be paid for what they create – but we believe they should," Salim says. "A healthy debate always spills over into almost criminal behaviour. It's a constant problem, the same happens all the time."I don't think a complete stoppage of piracy will ever happen, but if you look at the costs it will be substantial if [penalising infringements] can make even a 10% impact."I'm not going to claim that we can save the planet but we can make a big dent for the bad guys to stop doing bad things."DtecNet evidence judged 'accurate' by Irish high courtDtecNetrecently foundmore than 15,000 instances of copyright infringement a month on the network of Ireland's third-largest broadband provider, UPC. The evidence, examined during court proceedings, estimated that peak downloads were likely to reach around 47,000 a month, while a "substantial portion" of UPC's 150,000 customers were illegally sharing music.The Irish high court rejected the attempt of Warner Music, Universal Music Group, Sony BMG and EMI to try to force UPC to adopt a "three strikes" rule for notifying and penalising suspected illegal filesharers, judging that the internet service provider acted as a "mere conduit" for the traffic on its network. U2's manager, Paul McGuinness, this weekend called that defence "bullshit".DtecNet works by scouring peer-to-peer filesharing networks in order to obtain a download. It then collects the IP address of others sharing the file and records the time the file is shared. After counting how many copyrighted files are being shared by the IP address, DtecNet identifies the relevant internet service provider.This evidence then forms the basis of a court order brought by rights holders that usually dictates that the ISP hands over personal details such as the address and telephone number of the customer associated with the incriminated IP address. From there, solicitors –such as ACS:Law– who are acting on behalf of the rights holders pursue the alleged infringers with letters demanding payment of a fine, usually between £200 and £600 depending on the nature of the content.Last week, Justice Peter Charletonjudgedthis evidence to be sufficiently incriminating when ruling at the Irish high court – a principle not yet established in the UK and contested by some industry bodies.He said: "I am satisfied from the evidence that the process is highly accurate. The activity log further transcribes the activity whereby the evidence is secured in a reliable format. There was nothing in the evidence to suggest to me that this process was subject to any degree of substantial error."He did, however, go on to qualify this by saying that an individual IP address could not identify a named person all of the time. "There are two potential methods of evading the DtecNet process," he said."The first is by the use of proxy IP addresses. A sophisticated computer technician could hack into another person's computer, and then request files using peer-to-peer technology [...] A second way would involve using another computer as a proxy server. There are some free sites, as I understand the evidence, offering this service. There are, in addition, ways of paying for the hire of another computer so that this process can be engaged in."
I was away all last week which meant not only did I miss the Games Media Awards but game time was limited. I did though put some hours into Phantasy Star Portable 2 on my PSPGo. Not sure what to think so far. Is the nostalgia for the Dreamcast original enough to overcome the graphics - pretty but full of popup - and time needed to really get anywhere. Seeing that I have put 10 hours in already I'm guessing there is more here than nostalgia. Anyway, what about you - how was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Many applications on Facebook can pass on information that personally identifies users and friends to advertisers and "internet tracking agencies",the Wall Street Journal reports, saying it can affect people even with the strictest privacy settings enabled.A Facebook spokesman told the news organisation on Sunday night that the social media site is moving to "dramatically limit" the leaking of users' personal information, as it breaks the site's own rules.The report says that many apps grab a user's ID number, which is unique, and can then pass them on to internet advertising companies. It says that all of the 10 most popular apps did so, including Zynga's FarmVille, Texas HoldEm Poker and FrontierVille. Three of the top 10, including FarmVille, also transmitted personal information about the user's friends to external companies.The data transmitted – the "Facebook ID" – is unique to each user, and can be used to look up your name even if your profile is set at its strictest setting. It also reveals any data that has been set to be visible to "everyone" on the site – which in fact means visible across the web.For Facebook, it is the latest in a long line of privacy concerns, but one which the site may also be concerned about – because if internet advertising companies can extract value from Facebook about user IDs, it might make them less likely to buy advertising on the site. In that way, the leaching of Facebook IDs, and of people's "social graphs" – who they are linked to – will be of great concern to Facebook, which derives its value from being able to act as the go-between for highly targeted advertising served to its users.The WSJ said that the apps were sending Facebook IDs to at least 25 advertising and data firms, which build profiles of people by tracking them online.The row over what data can safely be made available – and to what extent advertisers and tracking companies could and should be able to identify people from their browsing – is longstanding. In the 1990s the activities of the advertising company DoubleClick caused concern when it was realised that it could target people because it provided "cookies" on each site that they visited, and target ads at them. DoubleClick is now owned by Google.More recently it has been Facebook, with its 500 million users, which has come repeatedly into the privacy spotlight.The WSJ says "one data-gathering firm, RapLeaf Inc, had linked Facebook user ID information obtained from apps to its own database of internet users, which it sells. RapLeaf also transmitted the Facebook IDs it obtained to a dozen other firms, the Journal found."Rapleaf told the paper: "We didn't do it on purpose".Collecting user and friends' IDs would let companies build up individual profiles of people who it could cross-match against other data collected from censuses and public information to create detailed profiles of people. While advertisers argue that that means better-targeted information, it concerns many people who are unsure what data is held about them personally by such companies.Earlier this month the Guardian showed thatmany people's phone details are retained on Facebook without their knowledge following uploads from their mobile phones or external email systems– anda BBC investigation found that even people who were not signed up to the site would be identifiable to it, based on details supplied by their friends, as soon as they provided an email address.
As Apple prepares to announce its fourth-quarter results tonight, analysts are forecasting that it will have sold another 5m iPads, and around 12m more of the iPhone 4 it released in June.If the numbers are good, then it is quite possible that the share price will jump further above the $300 (£190) mark that it broke last week – and the company could become the most valuable in the world, measured by market capitalisation, surpassing Exxon, and capping its remarkable rebirth under the aegis of founder Steve Jobs.Though at the end of last week, the gulf in valuations seemed large – Exxon's $331bn, against Apple's $274bn – the gap has been closing for more than a year. Even if tonight's results are not enough to propel Apple to the top spot, many on Wall Street think it is just a matter of time. Its profits will get another boost in January when Apple will begin selling iPhones through the largest network, Verizon, as well as AT&amp;T, its partner since 2007.Apple is forecast to show revenues of around $19bn for the quarter and $5bn of profit – with the iPhone and iPad, products you could not buy four years ago, generating about $10bn of sales.It is a dramatic reversal from May 1997, when Jobs – who had recently rejoined the company after been fired in 1985 – was manoeuvring to take over again as chief executive. The share price put a total value on the company of just $2bn, "reflecting Apple's loss of market share in an increasingly Windows-dominated world",as analysts put it.Jobs told a team of software coders at the time: "You've got to start with the customer experience and work back to the technology – not the other way around."He drove out the dead wood, his new recruit from PC-maker Compaq, Tim Cook (now the chief operating officer) streamlined its supply chain, and the company did as Jobs suggested, focusing relentlessly on its customers.He also set targets – such as surpassing Dell. Asked in October 1997 what he would do in Jobs's position, Michael Dell retorted: "What would I do? I'd shut it down and give the money back to the shareholders." Jobs chastised Dell privately – and then celebrated with an email to staff when in January 2006, with a value of $72.1bn, it did finally pass Dell . In May this year,Apple achieved a huge milestone, passing Microsoftin market capitalisation, at £222bn against £219bn.Apple's computer business has steadily improved, coming third behind HP and Dell in the personal computer market in the US in the three months to September, according to research firm Gartner, although it still has a relatively small share of the global market.But it has been the newer products that have driven growth. Apple took ownership of the MP3 market with the iPod, where the integration of hardware and the iTunes software proved to be a success and baffled those who had expected Microsoft to at some stage overwhelm it with an "iPod killer" – based on software from one company, hardware from a second, and music from a third.Then in January 2007 Jobs unveiled the iPhone, and Apple began to eat into the smartphone market – previously the sole preserve of Nokia, Research In Motion (with its BlackBerry) and Microsoft, with Windows Mobile. Sales took off again, and Jobs's comparatively modest target of 10m phones sold by the end of 2008 was easily surpassed, with 13m sold by September of that year.The latest hit is the iPad. Launched in April, analysts think it could sell 25m in 2011. Gartner has made dramatic forecasts for the growth of the tablet computer market, which it said would triple in size next year to 54.8m units. The technology research firm is predicting that the market will grow to 103.4m in 2012 and 154.2m units in 2013. And despite intensifying competition, Gartner reckons the iPad will keep its lead until then.Apple's longtime rival Microsoft (presently still valued at £219bn) became the largest company in the world by market capitalisation, for two years in the late 1990s during the PC boom. At the time, Microsoft did not pay dividends, though it does now. Apple still does not pay dividends but if it does reach the top, it might have to find some other way to make its stock look more attractive than simply the chance that it will keep rising in value.However being the top-valued stock brings other rewards: billions of dollars invested in index-tracking funds will switch from Exxon to Apple if the Cupertino-based company does hit the top – and the switch could push down Exxon's value further, accelerated by hedge funds and technical traders who make bets based on the rebalancing of major indexes, and would be ready to short the oil company's shares.Apple will come under increasing pressure to do something with its enormous cash pile of roughly $50bn, which was a necessary buffer when times were lean, but now looks like wasted opportunity. "Apple needs to do something with all of that capital," said Toan Tran, an analyst at Morningstar. "I could understand wanting to have something in reserve, but $50bn is such a ridiculous number that they should seriously consider returning some of it to shareholders in the form of share buybacks."If Apple does surpass Exxon, it would mark a changing of the guard in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500, where the top spot has been shared by companies including General Electric, General Motors, AT&amp;T (before it was broken up in a monopoly investigation), and – 20 years ago – by IBM, which was also hit by antitrust investigations.With suggestions that the world is approaching 'peak oil' as supplies begin to dwindle and increasing concern over the role that fossil fuels play in climate change, Exxon looks set to be replaced by perhaps the most potent symbol of the digital age.
Also not coming to Europe from Japan: the bullet train. Photo bygwaaron Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEnding the Myth of Asian Mobile Usage Patterns Coming to US | Internet2Go - An Opus Research Advisory Service"For several years I went to mobile marketing or technology conferences to hear speakers say something like the following: "X is happening in Asia or Europe, so it's only a matter of time before it happens in the US." Perhaps we can stop saying that now." Insightful article which points out what other things we should stop saying about the mobile market (nothing innovative comes out of North America, the Japanese will pick up on texting, among others).Video calls: Cool at last? &gt;&gt; dot.RoryThe BBC's tech correspondent on video calling: "To use Face Time you have to find someone else who has an iPhone 4 and who is, like you, on a wi-fi network when you call. It is such a limiting set of circumstances that even when I tried to make a Face Time call to a couple of Apple executives thus week I failed to get through."But what if you could integrate Skype's iPhone app with Face Time and use it to make video calls over 3G - surely that would be a winner? The people from the internet telephony business smiled ruefully when I asked this question and refused to be drawn."Charting data with one disproportionally large value &gt;&gt; Data DrivenWhich approach do you prefer?How much does it cost to develop an iPhone application? &gt;&gt; Stack OverflowThe developer of Twitterrific writes: "With such a short schedule, we worked some pretty long hours. Let's be conservative and say it's 10 hours per day for 6 days a week. That 60 hours for 9 weeks gives us 540 hours. With two developers, that's pretty close to 1,100 hours. Our rate for clients is $150 per hour giving $165,000 just for new code. Remember also that we were reusing a bunch existing code: I'm going to lowball the value of that code at $35,000 giving a total development cost of $200,000."But that's with the cost it would charge to clients. Which perhaps indicates how out of whack the amount charged to clients often is. Say, in government departments.Tech Support &gt;&gt; xkcdAs ever, read the alt text too.MeeGo calling - on N900 &gt;&gt; MeeGo"After many busy months of MeeGo development, we have finally come to a stage that justifies proud blogging around our MeeGo for N900 adaptation project. As you may already suspect, or have heard from IRC or discussion forums, we now have 3G audio call functionality with proper ofono signaling and pulse audio stack working on N900, including our brand new open source modem adaptation for N900!"This is Nokia's high-end strategy for attacking the iPhone and iPad. Possibly best watched from behind the sofa with your fingers over your eyes: the blogpost comes with so many caveats that it's almost impossible to believe that this is an OS that will be challenging Apple's iOS any time soon.Games Media Awards: The Victorious! « BeefJack &gt;&gt; The Gamer's Sauce"The Guardian won Best National Newspaper coverage...." Yay for us!REST in peace, SOAP &gt;&gt; Royal Pingdom"Looks like the tide of the web API protocol war (if there ever was one) has shifted firmly in REST's favor while SOAP has been forced back. Web developers have cast their votes, they want RESTful APIs." SOAP, of course, being the system developed for Microsoft (some time after REST). REST has dominated for the past couple of years.John Sculley On Steve Jobs, The Full Interview Transcript &gt;&gt; Cult of MacFascinating, because Sculley worked with the "original" Jobs - so that all the tics and tricks of the present one are laid bare.Palm Hires Nokia's Ari Jaaksi and Samsung's Victoria Coleman &gt;&gt; AllThingsDNow that's interesting. Palm: it lives!You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Will somebody please put Yahoo, the fading internet star, out of its misery? The Silicon Valley company, destined to labour in the shadows of Google and Facebook, recruited Goldman Sachs this week to defend itself against circling predators. Top name in the bidders' frame is AOL, another blast from the Web 1.0 past.As far as Yahoo shareholders are concerned, it's deja vu – and not in a good way. Microsoft tried to buy the company back in 2008 for $33 a share, making it worth $47.5bn. In a spectacular display of egotistical boardroom intransigence, Yahoo's co-founder Jerry Yang, who styled himself at the time as "chief Yahoo", dug his heels in, insisting the firm could prosper independently.Yahoo's shares have since dwindled to just over $16, valuing the business this week at $22bn.Yahoo is the online version of a branch of TGI Friday's. It has a long menu of offerings, all of which are passable, but none of which are going to trouble the Michelin Guide's inspectors. Its mish-mash extends from email to finance, news, instant messaging and mobile services, but Yahoo simply isn't at the vanguard of online innovation and, despite an advertising tie-up with Microsoft, it has failed to create an advertising platform to threaten Google's.Carol Bartz, the former software-company boss brought in to revitalise Yahoo at the beginning of 2009, has become more renowned for her fruity language than for her strategic brilliance. She has appealed for "some friggin' breathing room" and says she can't simply sprinkle "fairy dust" to revive the big Y. But patience is wearing thin – investors are eyeing a sale of Yahoo's valuable stake in Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba, thought to be worth some $7.5bn, to release funds.Bartz has shed non-core assets and struck a few tidy alliances – including a partnership with Nokia. Silicon Valley, though, is a brutal place and Yahoo looks increasingly tired as an independent player.
The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday October 24 2010The article below described a Nairobi-made light aircraft that has "a 40 litre engine and weighs 800kgs". Most light aircraft weigh about 460kgs. We meant a 4 litre engine, which weighs approximately 308kgs.Gabriel Nderitu is a 42-year-old IT specialist with no background in aviation engineering, but ever since he was a boy, he wanted to fly. Now he is close to finishing building his own twin-seater aircraft, a feat made all the more remarkable by the fact that he's done so in the backyard of his home in the outskirts of Nairobi, Kenya.So far, the project has taken 16 months of his time and cost him 450,000 Kenyan shillings (£3,500) from his savings. The plane has a 74in propeller and a 40-litre Toyota engine and weighs 800kg. The strutted wing and ailerons are skinned with aluminium sheets. To help with the welding and the assembly, Nderitu hired five mechanics.How did he know what to do? Nderitu spent six months researching the subject online, downloading blueprints. Some parts he ordered from the US. "It's a boyhood dream," he told Kenyan TV. "I just want to get it out, whether it works or not. If it gets out of my mind then I can do something else."Such ingenuity is far from atypical in Africa. As the blogAfriGadgetpoints out, Nderitu is not the first African to try building his own aircraft. Physics graduate Mubarak Muhammad Abdullahi, 24, from north Nigeria, recently builta working helicopter using scrap aluminium and parts from a Honda Civic, an old Toyota and a crashed Boeing 747. This inventor had no formal training in aviation, either, but his helicopter flew, if only ever seven feet off the ground.There have been reports, too, of three&nbsp;Somali men constructing a homemade&nbsp;chopper.The AfriGadget site is filled with examples of similarly inspired inventions: a customised bicycle with a dynamo that can charge a mobile phone, for example, or a contraption to extract biogas from cow dung. The idea is to showcase Africans "bending the little they have to their will, using creativity to overcome life's challenges". The site's founder, Erik Hersman, grew up in Kenya and Sudan and also co-foundedUshahidi, a crowdsourcing tool that allowed Kenyans to track the violence that followed the 2008 elections and which has since been used in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Gaza.As for Gabriel Nderitu, there is no guarantee that his aircraft will be allowed to fly, or that it is even capable of full flight. But that little matters. "If a guy says 'I want to build an aircraft' it seems like he's from the moon, or from somewhere," he told the Kenyan media. "And if it happens, if it at least lifts off, even if it is three feet, it shows that you have gone somewhere."
In the normal course of events, aSiemens Simatic Programmable Logic Controller(PLC) would not be of interest to anyone other than a hardcore industrial process engineer. It's a small, dedicated computer used to control the operations of specialised machinery in a wide range of manufacturing industries. Since June, however, the Siemens controllers have become a topic of intense interest to people like journalists and policymakers who, in normal circumstances, have difficulty controlling a microwave oven.How come? The reason is the Stuxnet worm, a piece of computer malware (as malicious software is called), that has caused a huge stir in the mainstream media because it's very sophisticated and significantly different from anything we've seen before in malicious software; it targets the Siemens PLC software; Iran's controversial nuclear weapons programme uses the Siemens device; and most of the reported Stuxnet infections appear to be in Iran.This has triggered an avalanche of conspiracy theories. These have two common themes: the worm is so complex that it must be the work of a government agency, and the two most likely culprits are the intelligence services of the two states most exercised about Iranian nukes – Israel and the US.Conspiracy theories are like gas: they expand to fill the space available. In alovely blog post, Bruce Schneier, BT's chief security technology officer, cites some hilarious embellishments on the theory that Mossad, the Israeli security service, is responsible for Stuxnet. "The word 'myrtus' appears in the worm: an artefact that the compiler left, possibly by accident. That's the myrtle plant. Of course, that doesn't mean that druids wrote Stuxnet. According to the story, it refers to Queen Esther, also known as Hadassah; she saved the Persian Jews from genocide in the 4th century BC. 'Hadassah' means 'myrtle' in Hebrew." QED (not).There's a strange asymmetry in our knowledge of Stuxnet. On the one hand, we now know a great deal about its detailed construction and operation. The anti-virus firm Symantec, for example, has publishedan exceedingly thorough analysiswhich makes riveting reading for software engineers.Ordinary humans are better served by Mr Schneier's admirable summary. According to him, this is what we know. Stuxnet is a worm that infects Windows computers. It spreads mainly via infected USB sticks. Once a USB stick infects a machine, it uses a variety of really clever tricks to infect other machines on the local network and to take control of them. It then looks for a Siemens PLC which has been programmed by an infected PC. If a PLC is found, Stuxnet infects that using a currently unknown vulnerability in the controller's software and changes its code in unknown ways.And that's about the extent of our knowledge. Everything else is pure speculation, some of it wild. There are rumours, for example, that Stuxnet may have caused the failure of India's INSAT-4B satellite in July. (Cue conspiracy theories about India's enemy, Pakistan.) And itmayhave infected controllers in Iran's Bushehr nuclear facility. (Cue conspiracy theories about Israel and the US.)My guess is that we will never know who's behind Stuxnet, but that needn't stop us drawing some sobering conclusions. The first is that it does indeed represent a significant innovation in malware; the fact that it targets a specific piece of technology – the Siemens controller – that plays a critical role in the industrial infrastructure of every advanced country is new and troubling.Second, the Symantec analysis reveals the sophistication of the worm's design. Schneier estimates that it would have taken eight to 10 really smart programmers six months to design, implement and test it under laboratory conditions. It's difficult to imagine the criminal hacking fraternity having the resources to do that. So it is likely that Stuxnet was the work of a&nbsp;state agency.Finally, the difficulty of identifying who's behind a Stuxnet attack reveals a central dilemma of cyberwarfare. If someone launches a nuclear strike against your critical infrastructure, then at least it's easy to know where to aim your retaliatory missiles. But who do you attack when your electricity grid is brought down by a computer worm? Answers please, suitably encrypted on a USB stick, toIain Lobban, director, GCHQ, Cheltenham.
What's your favourite piece of technology and how has it improved your life?In terms of the technology I use the most, it's probably a tie between my Blackberry and my MacBook Pro laptop. That's how I communicate&nbsp;with the rest of the world and how I handle all the business I have to handle.When did you last use your MacBook and what was it for?Five minutes ago – I had to send some emails and I wanted to catch up on the news.What additional features would you add if you could?I think they need to get a more reliable way of watching television on the laptop. Because I travel so much, if I want to watch my favourite sports team it might not be showing in that place, so I want a reliable way to watch whatever I want to watch on my laptop. When your internet connection isn't fast enough or when the mobile service doesn't work in certain places... once you start to rely on a certain amount of service and it doesn't work, then that's most frustrating.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?The most I ever spent on technology is building a studio – I built one at home in Los Angeles. I can't tell you how much exactly, but the whole process is very expensive. My new record with [the group] the Roots, though, we recorded that mostly in New York and in Philadelphia, in different studios – and we did it mostly live, to give it that soulful&nbsp;feel.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10&nbsp;years'&nbsp;time?I'm sure it will be, because if you look at what we had 10 years ago – my god, it was much bulkier and so much slower.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?There have been certain products that people have given me that don't work as they should. I've had headphones given to me by certain companies – and I'm not going to name any – that look good, but don't give good sound and break easily. I see a lot of wide variety in quality with headphones.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?The most important thing about technology is that it can seamlessly work its way into your routine and your life.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or&nbsp;a nerd?Somewhere in between. I'm not an early adopter, but I'm ahead of the general&nbsp;public.Mac or PC and why?I've been a Mac user for, I guess, eight years now; I don't have anything against PCs, but Macs just feel right for me. Everyone I work with uses a Mac and it really is simple and intuitive to use. I haven't used Windows for years.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Probably not. I guess I'm old fashioned. That would be more complicated than doing something yourself or having another human being doing it. I just don't have any faith in the technology right&nbsp;now.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd really like to be able to fly, so any kind of personal flying machine would be awesome. Or I'd just settle for teleporting. But flying would be great – I always dream about&nbsp;flying.
Earlier this year, Xbox Live Arcade titleHarmony of Despairproved that 2DCastlevaniastill has plenty to offer, but the series has never been successfully translated into 3D – until now.Lords of Shadowis far from perfect, but offers compelling evidence that Spanish development team MercurySteam can successfully modernise this stubbornly traditional franchise.It starts sluggishly, however. The opening levels pay too much respect to genre peers such asGod of War, while a third-stage trudge through a poisonous swamp could make less patient players switch off. Yet the game soon finds its feet, gradually increasing the complexity of the combat and the intricacy of the puzzles. By the second half, early quibbles all but evaporate in the face of thrilling boss encounters and fiendish riddles. It's a lengthy adventure, too, with plenty of challenges and higher difficulty levels to tackle once the 20-hour story is over. An impressive voice cast struggles gamely with weak dialogue, though the exceptional art design and Oscar Araujo's wonderful soundtrack help weave a compelling tale of a world descending into darkness. A sequel has already been announced, and if the fat is trimmed, Konami could well have a classic on its hands.
With this reboot for one of the most enduring first-person shooter franchises, EA has shifted the setting from the second world war to Afghanistan. So while it's difficult to describeMedal of Honoras brave, it's certainly audacious. The single-player mode comprises missions under the guise of various US military groups, focusing on special forces and army rangers, against the Taliban.The action is fast-paced and surprisingly grisly, whether through head shots as a sniper or in close combat. However, unlikeCall of Duty,MoHalso offers the ability to lean around corners, between gaps and over obstacles, which adds an element of stealth in flanking the opposition. Particularly effective in multiplayer, it makes the game feel more composed and strategic. In multiplayer mode, the ability to play as the Taliban has been renamed, after some controversy, as "Opposing Force" – a shift engendered by the understandable sensitivity around portraying ongoing conflicts. This is unquestionably an excellent title, yet there was something, well, more comfortable, about the "ping" from a spent Springfield rifle magazine or the "Achtung!" of German guards. Hopefully, the classic version isn't gone for good.
Had there been a straw poll of what would knockCall of Duty: Modern Warfare&nbsp;2off the number one spot in the sales charts last year, very few people would have suggested a dancing game for the Wii. But it happened. The originalJust Dancewas the surprise success of 2009 for Ubisoft, shifting more than three and a half million copies worldwide – though barely any of them, apparently, to joyless hardcore gamers, many of whom spectacularly missed the point by dismissing it as shallow and lacking unlockable content. The truth is,Just Dancewas brilliant fun, and so isJust Dance 2.The game's name provides all the instruction needed. Holding the Wii remote, mimic the actions of stylish, neon-coloured, accessory-clad silhouetted dancers on the screen. It's most fun with two to four players, obviously, but it's also got a workout option for dancing on your own (and it really is good exercise if you dance without inhibition). The music is admirably varied, encompassing girl-pleasers by Kesha and James Brown, as well as "Toxic", "Crazy in Love" and "The Shoop Shoop Song", and genuinely challenging dances to songs such as the Beastie Boys' "Body Movin'". There are 40 songs in all, each with completely different, specially choreographed moves, including some surprises such as "A-Punk" by Vampire Weekend.The mechanics are enduringly mysterious, but the game is definitely tracking movements more closely than at first it seems. Having performed a particular song two or three times, you'll start getting better scores without being entirely sure why. In the spirit of experimentation, an attempt to cheat by waving one arm around received universally rubbish ratings. Perhaps the Wiimote has an enthusiasm sensor as well as those accelerometers.The presentation is much more professional in this version, and yet still easy to understand with no unnecessary fluff on-screen. The stylised dancers are superb, too, and dressed in everything from monster masks to robot suits or legwarmers and bouncing Afro-wigs, depending on the song – even full Cossack dress for Boney M's "Ra Ra Rasputin".Despite the naysayers, whose dismissals are as facile as the worst pop culture snobbery,Just Dance 2simply isn't just cheap shovelware for your girlfriend or your little sister – although they'll love it just as much as anyone else – but a game for anyone who likes to dance, even if you also like commanding armies, racing cars or emptying ammo clips into aliens in your spare time.
You don't have to be car literate to understand the point Nissan is driving home with its advertising for its new two-seater, the 370Z. Beneath the banner line "Kaisers chiefed" – a layered reference to the Kaiser Chiefs and the fact that this masculine niche of the motoring market is dominated by German roadsters – the 0-60mph times of the Audi TTS, BMW Z4 and Porsche Boxster are listed. At the bottom of the list, picked out in orange, is the 370Z's time and, oh my goodness… the Nissan is the fastest at just 5.5 seconds. It means that if you and your Teutonic buddies were to race to reach 60 miles an hour – a distance of a couple of hundred yards – you'd have to sit for  a whole 10th of a second twiddling your thumbs waiting for the others.Car statistics are a testament to the essential gullibility of the car lover. We put so much store in them, yet we never challenge them. We are told  a vehicle's top speed is 155mph (in the 370Z's case) and we simply accept it. My car can do 155mph. Brilliant! But when was the last time you drove at 155mph – other than on a PlayStation?We also know a car's emissions (262g of CO2per km for the 370Z). How are you going to check that? Seal up your garage? Better not…  We have access to a car's fuel consumption (25.2mpg). Easy to check and always wrong. We seem to happily accept that the figure is ludicrously high and that we'll only ever achieve it if we drive off a cliff with a following wind.What about the 0-60 figure? That sounds like something that could  be checked quite easily. And so it  was that my teenage son, Rufus, and  I pulled into a lay-by on the A3 early one Sunday morning. As it was an experiment we should maybe have been wearing lab coats. Rufus held the stopwatch (the one on his mobile phone) and I waited for a gap in the traffic, gunning the engine. The idea was simple, I'd shout "go" the moment I stamped on the gas and as soon as the needle hit 60 I'd shout "stop".Despite the futuristic styling of the 370Z, the Nissan is a refreshingly no-nonsense sports car. There are  no turbochargers on its throaty  3.7-litre V6 engine. There is, of course, electronic traction control, but it can easily be switched off. It also has a folding cloth roof, which gives it a gloriously old-fashioned feel and means it has a decent-sized boot.  An insight into the target market of this car can be found inside the boot's lid. Not a safety instruction or spare tyre details, but a sticker revealing the best way to load a bag of golf clubs.The car handles well, it feels grounded and precise. The interior finishing, from the touch screen info-tainment console to the leather steering wheel, is upmarket and shows Nissan is keen to take on its German rivals not just in performance. Price wise it certainly comes out on top. The Nissan starts at £27,015, while the Audi TTS is a grand more, the Boxster is £33,998 and the BMW Z4 £35,740.And so to the road test… The first go has to be aborted as Rufus failed to press the stop button. On the second attempt we hit 5.9 seconds. But on  the third, I manage a dizzying 4.97 –  a new record for the 370Z, or maybe just dodgy timing from my 13-year-old assistant. Either way, this is a very fast car and, to misquote the Kaiser Chiefs, everyday I loved it more and more…
Atlas ObscuraIt's tempting to think that, thanks to the internet, the world is shrinking – but the truth is that it's getting bigger. Atlas Obscura focuses on the less-visited (or at least less-acknowledged) wonders of the world: those geological curiosities, strange museums and forgotten attractions that reside slightly off the tourist trail. With sections dedicated to each continent, you can plan your own adventure. Recent articles include a report on a controversial giant statue of a fist in Detroit (a tribute to heavyweight boxer Joe Louis), a guide to the world's saltiest places, an account of the deadliest hailstorms on the planet, and a visit to Puzzlewood in Gloucestershire, which is said to have inspired JRR Tolkien's Lord Of The Rings.Billy BullshitJay from The Inbetweeners.Many of us knew kids at school like Jay from the Inbetweeners, whose smirking headshot graces the first page of this wondrous site – kids who claimed to have lost their virginity at the age of 12 with their babysitter who was also a pop star. Some will even have endured the tales of plumbers touting imaginary minor pop careers, or nodded sagely at made-up stories of neighbours who had five thumbs on one hand, honest, swear on me Mum's life. This compendium of utter bollocks is a treasury of audacious fibbing, featuring the boss who claimed to be Emma Thompson's secret loveranda part-time ambulance driver, the Dad who once kicked a football so high it landed on a cloud, and the mate who reckons ninjas can go out in a rainstorm and not get wet cos they're "that fast".Blog roll: ToysOne Cam.One CamThe many disturbing – and highly unsuitable (for children) – things Toy Story figurines get up to in their spare time.Vinyl AbuseInterviews with vinyl toy artists, the launch of Bono The Robber Cat and the art of remixing Action Man.Star Wars 77-80 Collector BlogOne fan's passion for late 70s Star Wars merchandise. If it's made after 1980, forget it.Toy VoyagersThe globetrotting adventures of soft toys released into the wild.Underground GamersA secret organisation of board game addicts based in Worthing.Subbuteo Tribute WebsiteEndless archives of plastic men on chunky bases.What we learned on the web this weekVisual dialogue of your Facebook portrait.The visualdialogue of your Facebook portraitIn 1884St Paul's Cathedral was the third tallest building in the worldHow toteleport yourself across the worldThe growthof bogus Sigur Ros ad tunesThey lovewatching movies in moviesThe fourstages of "getting" TwitterThe artof the badly photoshopped movie posterThe finestKaty Perry impersonator on ChatrouletteThe 10most obnoxious teens with superpowersWhat happensto decaying US shopping malls
Explosionade, Xbox 360As well as hype-laden blockbusters and plucky, download-only titles, there's a third tier of software available on Xbox Live in the form of the indie marketplace. In it, you can buy games often created by one- or two-man bands rather than the mega studios that produce Call Of Duty. The output, however, is patchy to say the least, and filtering through the experimental nonsense to find something playable can be a chore. Explosionade, with its minuscule price point and simple concept, is worth a look. In a series of pintsized, 2D levels, you lay waste to aliens while collecting piles of gold and avoiding return fire, while using your force field both for defence and as a way of bouncing to otherwise inaccessible places. A friend can join in at any time and its chunky, messy looks complement its satisfying hour or so of action perfectly.MBG, 80 Microsoft points/64pFront Mission Evolved, PC, PlayStation 3 &amp; Xbox 360Front Mission Evolved.The Front Mission series deals with that favourite of videogame designers and Japanese people alike: giant walking robot tanks. This episode is a departure for a franchise that normally churns out tactical roleplaying games, straying into third-person action territory. That means you wander into each area and use machine guns, rockets and up-close melee attacks to pummel all comers into submission. Dead enemies and completed mission objectives yield cash, which you use to upgrade your tank. Even though its subject matter comprises hundreds of tonnes of war machine, the twitchy controls and flat-looking graphics undermine all sense of scale and destructive power, while the turgid dialogue and weak characters complete the mediocrity.Square Enix, £34.95-£44.95Cut The Rope, iPhone &amp; iPod TouchCut The Rope.Since Angry Birds sold nearly 7m copies, developers have been competing  with each other to create something with similar appeal. Cut The Rope is a particularly charming attempt to corner this casual, physics-friendly play style. In it you have to feed a cute green monster called Om Nom, who likes to eat sweets. Each piece of candy is suspended by a series of ropes from the ceiling and must eventually be dangled temptingly into the monster's mouth by cutting each line at the proper time. On its way there, there are three stars, each requiring slightly more daring and sleight of hand to capture before your monster can have his snack. With a small range of additional items to both help and hinder, ranging from whoopee cushions to divert your sweetie to bubbles which carry it up the screen, Cut The Rope is a pleasing and addictive way to kill small amounts of time.Chillingo, 59p
'Is that your Mini&nbsp;outside?""No, it's a Citroën DS3 1.6&nbsp;THP DSport.""Snazzy-looking Mini, are&nbsp;you testing it?""No, it's a…""Saw you in that Mini the other day.""Well, in fact it's a… Oh, it doesn't&nbsp;matter."In the end, after having suffered several variations on this riveting conversational theme, I gave up and decided that it made a certain sense to think of the DS3 as a Mini. After all, Citroën obviously had an eye, if not two, on the Mini's style, shape and, indeed, performance. Better to embrace the idea, go with the flow, and not get hung up on obscure technical details such as the name of&nbsp;the&nbsp;manufacturer.So how was this Mini that is really a Citroën? Well, the first thing to say is that it doesn't look that much like a Mini. It's got a more sloping nose, for a start, and more room at the rear, and it's generally less chunky. If you went so far as to park it next to a Mini Cooper, they'd no doubt look as different from each other as a Bentley from a Prius.And yet there is some essence of Mininess in the DS3, some inescapable core quality that goes beyond the mundane fact that it is a&nbsp;small three-door car. These days, of course, Minis are no longer quirky vehicles for sociology students to cram into, but instead serious style choices with a fair bit of BMW power and knowhow under the bonnet.The DS3 is an obvious attempt to crash the deluxe supermini market. Just look at the interior. I've rarely seen so many black lacquered surfaces outside certain upmarket Japanese restaurants. The details – the metal pedals and nifty gearstick – are all compact and sporty and designed with design in mind.But the DC3 has more going for it than superficial touches. It doesn't just speak of speed, it also goes out there and does it. Or at least it does if that's what you're after. And if you're driving the DSport 1.6i version, then the chances are you want more out of it than easy parking and a vivid colour scheme.And it doesn't disappoint. The acceleration is lively and feels even livelier – a 7.3 second/0-62mph time in a supermini provides a similar sensation to, say, a 6.3 second response in a saloon. The less car there is protecting you from the world you're hurtling towards, the keener your awareness of speed and, come to that, mortality.Perhaps if you were designing the Mini from scratch, it would look more like the DS3 than any of the current Minis. But the point is it's not from scratch. The Mini does exist. As a result, the DS3 is a fine car whose only obvious deficiency is novelty. But then, sometimes a copy is better than the original.Citroen DS3 1.6 THP DSportPrice£15,690Top speed133mphAcceleration0-62mph 7.3 secondsAverage consumption42.2mpgCO2 emissions155g/kmEco rating6/10Bound forMisunderstandingIn a wordMinimalist
If you're an Android handset owner and worried that you're not wasting enough time catapulting birds at egg-stealing pigs, your luck is in. A full 150-level version of Angry Birds, the massively successful physics puzzler which has already dominated the lives of millions of iPhone, Palm and Nokia handset owners, is coming to Google phones.The game is available for free, initially via the independent multi-format app market,GetJar, one of a growing number of rivals to the official Android Market – a situation that Google CEO Eric Schmidtrecently claimedto be a positive one for the platform. An Android Market release will follow, and both will be supported by ads, although an ad-free paid-for version is also set to be released later. You'll need a second generation Android device, with Android platform 1.6 or later. and support for OpenGL ES 2.0. Interest has been so great that the website of the game's developerRovio, has buckled under the pressure and gone down.Meanwhile, Rovio's iPhone publisher,Chillingo, has had a good week. Downloads of its latest iOS puzzler,Cut the Rope, have reached one million within ten days of launch. We recently recommended the title in our list ofthe ten best new iPad games.
Do you remember last week? No? Let us refresh your memory with five days worth of Chatterbox, condensed into one post. You'll find everything here – as long as by 'everything' you mean Minecraft, the arrival of Pro Evo 2011 and why Wales in October might not have been the best choice of Ryder Cup venue. Controversial stuff as always.This week's editor is RustyJames – he's so concise he's not listed the daily contributors. So well done anonymous chroniclers!MondayThe week starts off with the usual tales of woe and joy from the weekend. Simian lets the blog know about his ill health: "basically my liver is not reacting well to the drugs I'm taking; I'm approaching a point from the blood test results where my liver is close to shutting down. Their advice, no more alcohol."I'm not sure what's worse, the condition or the advice. The Chatterbox was on hand to offer sympathy and abuse in equal measure.The spectre of the Ryder Cup loomed large all day. Resident SpecOps agent HereComesTreble was concerned over the choice of venue:"Say what you like about the high standard of the golf, but the rain ruined it. Singles on a Monday? I guess that's what you get for holding a major international event in Wales. I hate to say I told you so, but I did. Repeatedly. Maybe next time the European Tour will take the time to read my letters fully, rather than just getting the police involved at the drop of a hat. I was never actually planning to go through with most of the threats, I was just trying to get my point across, that Wales wasn't up to this. Well who's laughing now?"Whereas Shadowmind summed up the competition thus: "Golf is horrible to play and boring to watch."There was also a lot of chat about the Eurogamer expo. The Chatterbox sent along a representative contingent – Chubster, RustyJames, OneDave, manboet, dylillama and SuperSmashIn all attended and sampled delights including Dead Space 2, Killzone 3, Gran Turismo 5, Assassins Creed: Brotherhood, Motorstorm 3D, Kinect ("wobbly") and Crysis 2 ("buggy as hell").SerenVickity was unimpressed overall: "Sooooooo disappointed in this. It was so disorganised. Too many children taking up games for too long. I could feel a clothesline coming on.... on a windmill.... probably both." She was so unhappy she ended up buying a PS3. CunningStunt was also underwhelmed "Very disappointing. No booth babes or cosplayers for a start. May as well just download the demos on offer at home."A last word from 'box Methuselah; HenryPootle: "A sedan chair really is the only way to travel if it's too wet to stretch your legs with a good walk. I've heard talk that speeds above 30mph can give passengers nosebleeds and possibly cause fainting or a fit of the vapours."TuesdayThe weekend now distant memory; the week: a blank reality. Named after a proto-Germanic god of war, this Tuesday had little to offer. People talked about war: Modern Warfare 2, a challenging and fun approximation of war.The Chatterbox doors were nudged open by the usual quotations from books, songs and films: of mysterious significance.Minecraftcame up in conversation, more than once. By mid-morning RobLindsay had unleashed this blast: "No gaming for me last night, went over to my parents for some dinner, came back home to give my desk a tidy". It is definitely good to talk.Grumbles about major retailer Argos reached critical mass. What goes on out back? Who knows ... Onedaveofmany explained: "David Lynch faithfully recreated this in Mulholland Drive with the scene behind the diner. The little people run everything."WednesdayThe Oxford English Dictionary probably defines Wednesday as, 'The fourth day of the week; third day of the working week', and for me, there's something quite moving about that. Too often, we get so caught up in our work that we lose sight of what is really important – and that is not working. That's where the blog comes in.Wednesday saw the five Ds of Chatterbox' (Demon's Souls, Drink, Deals, Despair, and Demon's Souls)[Is Demon's Souls really worth counting twice? - - RustyJames]getting their usual airing. The day got off to a touching start with SuperSmashin's tender tale of unrequited lust, of a Tiger Woods look-a-like, all set amidst the anonymity of the overcrowded London transport system.For that fleeting second that their eyes met, they were the only two people on earth, it's like they were sharing the same heart.Love was certainly in the air. Blind, unconditional, dangerous love. PES 2011 was about to hit, and with fevered anticipation for release day (Friday) reaching boiling point, Goody's announcement of the new online blog community was as timely as it was informative. As is normally the case, it was met with the kind of bewilderment you come to expect from a group that consistently struggles to comprehend even the most basic of instructions.Gaming talk centred mostly on Bad Company 2 and Minecraft, which was causing a real stir amongst bloggers. Word was trickling through that to play this game was a real 'experience', BLC07 recalling a moment of profound self-awareness, when the full extent of his Welshness hit home – "I'm sat playing a computer game. What am I doing in this game? Mining coal. I'm Welsh, I live in South Wales, and I'm mining f**king coal in a computer game."Wednesday wound down gently with the sort of thoughtful discussion the chatterbox excels at, tackling the big issues of the day. Bloggers jumped at the chance to finally put those expensive arts degrees to some use, with Timthemonkey welcoming William Hague's recent call for strengthened economic ties with France – "We'll be smelling of brie &amp; wearing berets within a fortnight." Well I can only speak for myself, but I've got my cheese, I've got my beret (never went out of fashion), I'm ready to plough.ThursdayThe new Saturday? Only tomorrow morning's whimpering will reveal.Early doors chat was about the previous night's Battlefield exploits with reports of a clan so serious they changed their X-Box gamer tags to include their clan name. Bit odd, obviously. Happily the brave boys and girls of NaN gave as good as they got.Next up was The Return Of The Apprentice. Sadly not the latest Star Wars game, but the much loved/reviled reality show in which a gaggle of braying, chasm-gobbed berks tussle to become Lord Sugar's new tea maker.  ImperfectRex summed things up: "Just stop it. If you people keep watching this sh**e, they will keep making it and Alan Sugar will keep pretending he's a successful businessman".There was yet more cheerleading for Minecraft, but as it was more impenetrable to outsiders than diceblog we'll move swiftly on. The increasing salivating over the impending release of Fallout: New Vegas led to debate over which is best, Oblivion or Fallout? In spite of its greyness Fallout seems to shade it for most bloggers by dint of a properly working levelling system and shotguns being better than spells.I'm told by my sources that there's some football game out tomorrow?  Certain bloggers had it arrive early, but the next few weeks will be full of talk of little else so suffice it to say that initial impressions seemed promising and as the day wore on excitement levels rose and rose.Elquesodiablo, lover of all things RPG and a serious contender for Geekiest Blogger, posed this question: "What JRPG tropes do people love or hate? What makes a JRPG quintessentially a JRPG?"JRPGs and lists?  This was bread and butter to the blog.  PicPicPic was straight in with a pretty definitive inventory:"A quintessential JRPG should contain the following:A spiky haired protagonist with emotional issuesA cutesy sidekick, may or may not be human.A plotline that incorporates something vaguely 'spiritual' and an evil antagonist who wishes to destroy the world and everything in it (including themselves) by some extraordinary meansA band of travellers, introduced one at a time, to aid our hero in his/her quest to save the worldOutlandish weaponsPointless NPCs and poorly-translated dialogueA world mapRandom battlesLots and lots of ellipses..."The day drew to a close with some terrible revelations about which was the worst Thundercat. No-one covered themselves in glory, but timthemonkey sticking up for Snarf because he was funny was probably the low point.  Friday could only get better...FridayThe last gasp of the week: a wheezing, puffing man, groping for the finish line.The day began with, primarily, talk about PES: the latest iteration of the popular footballing series. Change had come. The order of the boot had been applied. The consensus? Good, but different.A stream of PES chat burbled on throughout the day. Goody84 cajoled and boasted, Sheep2 complained about the strips, Herecomestreble said he just didn't like it.Elquesodiablo explained how CobraOB might persuade his other half that role-playing board games weren't that geeky. The secret? "Arkham Horror", "Game of Thrones" and "Ravenloft". Yes. These games would definitely change her mind.Posters had been digging deep into Minecraft: Lava, glass and towers of doom? Wrestling names came up, along with that age old question "do gentlemen prefer blondes?" As if in response CunningStunt swaggered in; posting things like 'aye aye' and abbreviating words in a relentlessly hearty manner.There were lots of in-jokes.Quotes of the week"Face Training. I used to be very self conscious about my face. People would stop me all the time and call my face names, or throw rocks at my face. I never once considered training my face, I just didn't have the time. So when I heard about this, I was really excited. Now I can train my face on a train, in a café, wherever I go! I'm really starting to see the results in my face, and other people do too! Now instead of throwing rocks at my face, people stop and ask me: 'What's your secret? You beautiful creature.'I have added confidence to go out and meet new people. Face Training helped me meet my fiancée, Tracy! I even managed to get that promotion at work that I always wanted! Instead of laughing at the size of my face when I get changed in the locker room, my water-polo team now respect me, and my face! I've never been happier, Face Training really turned my life around....although, I think it's a wee bit expensive"GrizzlyDeer auditions for the next Nintendo TV ad."I'm not too proud to root around a bin to make a saving."BarryEans gets a jump on the proposed spending cuts."When I was a kid, we used to play this game were we'd sneak up behind girls, squirt lighter fluid all over their hair, and quickly set it alight. Hilarious scenes as they were engulfed by flames. These days, the PC brigade would be all over that, I'm sure. Sometimes I fear we're not allowing our children to be children anymore."Herecomestreble reminiscing from his cell in Broadmoor.
Sorry, but it would be remiss of us not to mention this... At the extremely packed Games Media Awards ceremony last night, The Guardian won in the 'Games Coverage by a National Newspaper' category for the fourth year in a row. The annual industry event, which took place at London's Bloomsbury Ballroom, also saw Retro Gamer taking the gong for Best Magazine and much-loved, but now sadly departed publication PC Zone honored as this years Games Media Legend.Gamesblog was also nominated in the 'Games Blog' category but lost out to specialist PC site, Rock, Paper, Shotgun. Let's not dwell on that.Four years in a row!The full round-up is below.Games Media Legend - PC ZoneGames Magazine - Retro GamerGames Website - EurogamerGames Blog - Rock, Paper, ShotgunSpecialist Writer, Print - Jon BlythSpecialist Writer, Online - Tim Ingham, CVGRegional Games Columnist - Dave Cook, The ScotsmanGames Coverage by a National Newspaper - The GuardianGames Coverage by a Mainstream Magazine - ShortlistGames Broadcast or Podcast - The Blyth ReportRising Star - Martin Robinson, IGN
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
SimCity hell, or possibly Seoul. Photo byPhotography by M.E.on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSpam Volumes Drop After Spamit Shakeup &gt;&gt; M86 Security Labs BlogIt may be that the spammers behind Spamit (never heard of it? But you've probably received spam from it) are shutting down. Or perhaps they're just regrouping.How SimCity Teaches Us The Pinnacle Of Urban Planning Is A Totalitarian Death State &gt;&gt; The ConsumeristIf it never occurred to you that SimCity is the most dramatically right-wing imagining of a city... why didn't it?Tegra-powered Advent Vega tablet sports HDMI, "up to" 16 hours of battery life &gt;&gt; ZDNetAnd now the small print: "The real treat with this one is the longevity as a user can squeeze a maximum of approximately 16 hours of battery life out of a single charge when playing audio only. That means the screen has to be dimmed." Fantastic - the 10" iPod has landed. (With screen: 6.5hrs claimed.) Yours for £249 from Monday 18 October. Android 2.2, Wi-Fi, 3G, 1.3MP webcam, 4GB microSD.Dead platforms running &gt;&gt; Gartner blogAnalyst Nick Jones: "There are too many mobile operating systems and too many handset manufacturers, in the long term this is unsustainable so some must vanish. History and economics both point to consolidation"Nokia N8's bill of materials costs similar to iPhone 4 &gt;&gt; EETimes"Despite dramatic differences in the designs, the NB carrier a bill of materials (BOM) cost nearly identical to iPhone 4, according to the teardown analysis. The N8's BOM cost is $187.47, according to the teardown analysis, just 4 cents less than an iSuppli teardown found to be the BOM of the 16-Gbyte version of the iPhone 4 in June."Andrew Rassweiler, principal analyst and teardown services manager at iSuppli, the N8's BOM is proof that Nokia is going after the touch-screen smartphone segment dominated by Apple. "Although the two phones differ markedly in key areas, including the camera and the core silicon, both are designed to hit similar production cost budgets," Rassweiler said."The N8 uses slightly more expensive memory than the NAND Flash used in the iPhone. This will be interesting to watch.GMPolice (gmp24_7) on Twitter &gt;&gt; TwitterIf you don't laugh at this then you may be eligible to join the police.London Homicide Reported Direct from The Old Bailey - Map &gt;&gt; MurdermapIncludes poisonings. Dr Cripper rubs shoulders with a triple shooting and double murder from July 2010. Phew.Nokia N8 bill of materials same as iPhone &gt;&gt; Mobile EntHow many users have JavaScript disabled? &gt;&gt; YDN BlogYahoo Developers found: "After crunching the numbers, we found a consistent rate of JavaScript-disabled requests hovering around 1% of the actual visitor traffic, with the highest rate being roughly 2 percent in the United States and the lowest being roughly 0.25 percent in Brazil. All of the other countries tested showed numbers very close to 1.3 percent."Google Chrome (v8) Download &gt;&gt;&gt; Betanews fileforumNow with support for GPU acceleration. (Thanks@briantistfor the pointer.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Google exceeded Wall Street expectations last night by reporting net income up 32% in the third quarter.The numbers cheered investors who spent the day spooked by the tumbling value of the dollar, and concerned that Google's recent spending on acquisitions and hiring 1,500 staff would undermine its earnings.Instead, the firm said its strong figures relied on businesses spending more on advertising for online consumers. But the willingness of businesses to advertise does not necessarily suggest US consumers are ready to spend again after two years de-leveraging record household debt levels.Google said net income to 30 September rose to $2.17 billion, or $6.72 cents a share, from a year earlier. The company said revenue climbed 23% to $7.29bn. Wall Street had been expecting $6.67 a share and net revenue of $5.2bn. Shares jumped nearly 10% to $592 in after-hours trading."Our core business grew very well, and our newer businesses, particularly display and mobile, continued to show significant momentum," Eric Schmidt, Google's chief executive, said in a statement. "We remain committed to aggressive investment in our people and our products as we pursue an innovation agenda."Google has been offering glimpses of its expanding investment agenda: a $5bn investment in a sub-sea wind farm transmission lines off the eastern US coast, driver-less electric cars, and has more than quadrupled spending on data centres and technology compared with a year earlier.Chief finance officer Patrick Pichette defended Google's aggressive hiring programme, telling investors that Google is in "a war for talent" that is "quite out of sync with what's happening in the rest of the economy."Even with growth of 23% over the past year, Google is not growing as fast as it once did. Investment analysts wanted to hear of the company's plans in search-linked advertising, market penetration of its Android mobile phone platform, and advertising development in its YouTube and Google TV division. Last night, Google refused to say if YouTube, with 2bn "monetised" views, is profitable.The company said paid clicks on ads on Google sites and other sites that run Google ads grew 16% over the same quarter a year ago. Yet analysts cautioned against viewing Google's numbers as an optimistic signal for the US economy. Online advertising is growing – up from 12% to 15% of total spending since 2008 – despite the uncertain economic recovery."We're going to see continued growth regardless of how the economy is doing," said Richard Fetyko, an analyst at Merriman Curhan Ford &amp; Co.Google's market share in its core search business is up to 66.1%, while Yahoo has fallen to 16.7% from 17.4%, and Microsoft's Bing remains essentially static at 11.2%.The firm implicitly acknowledged that "social search" – search linked to personal preferences or the preferences of the searchers' social group – is a key goal. Facebook and Bing announced an alliance pointed in this direction; last night, Schmidt said the firm was planning to add "additional social-ranking clues".
If past trends are any guide, then some time in the next few months, Apple will become the largest company in the world by market capitalisation - passing the mighty Exxon corporation, which ispresently valued at $331.2bn, compared to Apple's $274.2bn. (Microsoft, since you ask, isvalued at $219.3bn.)Remember that market capitalisation isn't about profit; it's about the share price multiplied by the number of outstanding shares (which is how one reaches a valuation for Facebook, or any small company when venture capitalists buy a chunk; or for any publicly-listed company). It can be described as the market's guess at thenet present valueof the total future profits of the company.In the case of Exxon, it's been a tough couple of years; its share price has drifted down. Meanwhile Apple, with the iPod, iPhone and most recently iPad, has been going from strength to strength. (Apple has even passed PetroChina,formerly the world's biggest by market cap, presently worth about $262bn.)Exxon and Apple: relative share prices over the past 10 years. Source: Wolframalpha.comHow will we know when it's happened? Well, Apple has 913.6m shares outstanding (issued); Exxon, 5.092bn. A quick bit of maths shows that when Apple's share price reaches or exceeds 5.573 times that of Exxon, its valuation is also greater.Exxon and Apple, relative share price forecast: if the difference grows to 10% of the present value, Apple is worth more than Exxon. Source: wolframalpha.comAt present, it's sitting just below the 5.0 mark - so the differential needs to grow by another 10%, though WolframAlpha suggests that that could happen by January, based on current trends. (The picture shows a "random walk" forecast based on the share prices' previous movements.)Exxon has of course come a long way down from its peak - in 2009 it touched about $500bn in market cap. But for Apple, it's been an enormously long way back from 13 years ago, when it wasvalued at just $2bnin May 1997, "reflecting Apple's loss of market share in an increasingly Windows-dominated world."How things change. Though of course for Apple if it does take on the mantle of the world's most valuable company, there's only one way to go subsequently.And meanwhile we might wonder: if Exxon is falling, where is the new energy company - based on wind, solar, nuclear or something else - to replace it? When there's a suitably big company that doesn't rely on extracting fossil fuels for its revenue, we'll know we're in a new energy paradigm.But for now, keep watch on that Apple/Exxon ratio. No doubt there will be some glasses raised in Cupertino if it hits 5.5. And with Appledue to announce quarterly results on Monday evening- during which it will announce how many more million iPads and iPhone 4s have been sold - it might be worth watching that ratio when the US markets open on Tuesday lunchtime.
Skype has launched the latest version of its internet telephony tool today, with new features including the anticipated Facebook integration and video conference calling for up to 10 people.Skype 5 is designed to emphasise many of Skype's less-known features such as file-sharing, screen-sharing and SMS, which are now linked to on a new "Skype Home" tab.The client also ads features familiar to Facebook users, including status updates that Skype has called "mood messages", and a news feed of status updates from friends using Skype. But once the user agrees to sync their Facebook account, more functionality is added including the ability to call any friend who has listed their phone number on Facebook and made it visible to friends, and users can also copy their Skype status update to Facebook."We're bringing the social elements of Facebook together with the deeper communication aspects of Skype in a single place," said Mike Bartlett, Skype's director of product development, who said that although the client will remain free to consumers the video conference call feature will eventually become a paid-for feature."This has been in development for quite a long time. We haven't put a timeframe on [how long video conference calling will be free] because we want to push out to the user base and make sure that quality is good enough to charge for. Once we feel it is up to standard – and that might be quite quickly as we are quite confident – that will be rolled out as a subscription service."Video calls can now be extended to include up to 10 people with either a dynamic view, where the person speaking is automatically shown in a larger screen, or manually resizeable screens. Callers can also use other applications concurrently.The new version is for Windows desktops with a Mac desktop client due in a few months. Other improvements include search, where friends of friends will automatically be pushed to the top of results. There are also improvements to call quality and the ability to keep a call open even during connection glitches.A business version of Skype 5 is available with options that allow the administrator to restrict features such as video calls or file-sharing, and without Facebook integration.Skype, which is gearing up for an initial public offering, has become increasingly profitable. It has about 560 million registered users, 124 million monthly users as of June 2010 and 8.1 million paying users. The desktop client is still seen as the "bread and butter" of its business, a spokesperson said, though would not break out the share of traffic between its apps, desktop clients and other devices.Bartlett said that Skype is seeing "unilateral growth" and denied that any market is seeing saturation. "There's not really anyone who competes on the same level. There's are cheaper calling, but they don't have free calling bolted on, and we have breadth of availability across Windows, Mac, iPhone, Android, on TVs and on video phones. It's difficult to see any particular competitor in such a fragmented space."Skype has linked up with Samsung and LG to include an application in internet-enabled TVs, and announced a deal with US operator Verizon to put the phone tool on smartphone models.Skype is keen to emphasise these partnerships with mobile operators who have traditionally seen Skype as a threat. "Operators have woken up to the fact that we create minutes rather than steal their minutes," said Bartlett. "They are starting to work with us rather than seeing us as a competitive threat – users are upgrading to latest headsets and data plans."Bartlett also said Skype was benefiting from the wider growth in consumer video through front-facing cameras on mobiles and laptops to video cameras. A report published yesterday by the Pew Research Centre found 19% of US consumers have tried video calling and 4% use video calls on any given day."Since we launched video in 2006 all we've ever seen is growth. We're approaching nearly half our calls – that's 40% – being video. People are becoming much more comfortable with video ... it's going to be pervasive in three or four years."We'll look back and think of audio calls with a little snigger."
Facebook has turned to Microsoft's Bing to power its search - a decision presented by Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, as partly driven by the idea that Microsoft is "the underdog here" [in search].Pause for a moment and consider the fact that that's two sectors where Microsoft is considered the underdog: first with smartphones, and next with search. Certainly it is, but it's not how anyone would have expected to be thinking of the company ten years ago.And everyone seems to have foreborne to mention the$240m share stake that Microsoft took in Facebookafter some extremely determined negotiating by Steve Ballmer back in October 2007. (Give him credit, that was an excellent call.)Bing gets the chance to offer "Liked by your Facebook friends" links in search results (if you're signed into it, obviously): Danny Sullivan of Search Engine Land explains it, andgives his thoughts:The concept sounds great. Here are sites relevant to my search that my friends, people that I presumably trust, are effectively recommending to me. What's not to like?For one, it's hard to get the Liked Results to appear. Maybe it's that I have no friends who have tagged content that's related to my searches. Maybe Bing sets a really high relevancy bar for when they show it. But after running more than 40 searches, fewer than 10 gave me things that my friends liked.In a webcast, Zuckerberg said: "The thing that makes Microsoft a great partner for us is that they really are the underdog here, and because of that, they're in a structural position where they're incentivized to just go all-out and innovate... And when you're an incumbent in an area, no matter how smart you are, there's just always this tension between trying to innovate and push new things, and trying to preserve what you have. And we've never felt that with Microsoft."Uh-huh. Basically, this is continuing the tension that exists - that must exist - between Facebook and Google: Google wants to get its hands on everyone's information, while Facebook very much wants to do the same topersonalinformation (it's got no interest in dusty academe, unless someone LIKES it), and keep out those - such as Google - who want to map its social graph.Net navigator … Google’s vice-president of search product and user experience Marissa Mayer. Photograph: Graham TurnerMeanwhile over at Google, Marissa Mayer, one of the longest-standing employees, has been promoted (it says) from vice-president of search products toa new role, focussed on location and local services.Does Google think search is done then? Or just moving Mayer sideways (or even downwards)? Well, it certainly seems to think that the recipe for serving up standard results can be left to the teams who tweak it a few times a day; but the real future action is in figuring out where the new things are. And with search, locality is going to be increasingly important, especially with GPS-enabled internet-connected devices (you may know them as smartphones) becoming more and more prevalent.Louis Gray, managing director of new media at Paladin Advisors Group,comments:For savvy press release readers, one does not see any negativity in Marissa's news, and to bring up words of demotion or competitive pressures are ridiculous. At the same time, she joined the company's operating committee, which is essentially as high as you can go without being on the board of directors. Meanwhile, Marissa has enough money to walk away if she ever wanted, and just about any company under the sun would be delighted to have her. So think again when you see nonsense about this being a push down the stairs in Mountain View. This is a strategic move, one that shows they aren't going to be sitting on their laurels at a time when others are making headlines.So, it's the Google local thing against that underdog Microsoft, with scrappy Facebook holding its coat. Stay watching this one.
If digital photos are placed online, is there a way to watermark them? Is it worthwhile trying to protect pictures these days?Andrew WhitehouseThe bad news is that, ultimately, it's impossible to protect any images you put online: people can use screen-grabbers. Whether or not it's worth making an effort depends on whether your photos have any commercial value, how exclusive they are, and how strongly you feel about people re-using them. This will vary between photographers and between pictures. The good news is that it's easy to put visible watermarks on photos, which will discourage people from stealing them. Watermarking will also help you to get some promotional value from photos, and make it easier to remedy any abuses.Similarly, it's impossible to stop someone from stealing your car. However, things like alarms and steering-wheel locks will encourage the thief to move on to somebody else's car. If you fit a GPS tracking system, you will have a better chance of getting your stolen car back.You can reduce the risk of people stealing pictures by not uploading high-quality originals. For example, don't upload a 12 megapixel image (4,000 x 3,000 pixels): use an image processing program to resize this to create an 800 x 600 pixel (0.5MP) version. This is big enough to view on screen, but not really good enough to print, or to publish in a magazine or book. If someone saved the image and printed it at 200ppi (pixels per inch), it would only measure 4 by 3 inches.If you want to discourage people from using your 800 x 600 pixel image on other web sites, you can add a visible watermark. This could include a copyright sign © and your name, a company name or a website address. In general, the bigger and more central you make the watermark, the less likely people are to re-use the photo. If your watermark is close to the edge, some people will crop it off. If it's small, some people will try to retouch it out. However, a copyright notice discourages pleas of ignorance (the thief "didn't know" it was copyright) and the need to crop or retouch your picture will encourage them to use somebody else's picture instead. If they use your picture including the copyright notice, you can try sending them an invoice or a take-down notice. Either way, at least you'll get some credit for your work.You can watermark pictures using most picture-editing programs, depending on how sophisticated you want it to be. Creative Pro has a guide to doing it with Adobe PhotoShop (PDF). Alternatively, there are several websites that will add watermarks to photos you upload. Examples includePicMarkr,WaterMark.ws, andWatermarktool. You could also download a program to do the job, such asVisual Watermark,Watermark Studio,uMarkorWatermark Software: there are lots. You could start by tryingVXEI picture uploader: it can resize, watermark and upload photos in batches, and it's free.Digital watermarking is different in that the watermark is normally invisible. The copyright information is embedded in the image or movie file using a method that is (usually) intended to make it impossible to remove. Digital watermarking can be used in conjunction with services that track the use of images across the web, such asLicenseStream,PicScoutandImageRights.  Digital watermarking probably won't stop people from keeping photos for their own enjoyment, but the aim is to charge for them when they are used for commercial purposes.Another idea that might become more important in the future is digital fingerprinting. It's easy to find examples of plagiarised articles because seach engines like Google work by searching text. Pictures are very hard to search, so search engines rely mostly on tags and surrounding text. However, a computer can analyse a photograph's features and use an algorithm to create a "fingerprint" for it. All you have to do is apply the same algorithm to millons of images and see which ones have the same fingerprint: these will be identical or highly similar images. (This is basicallyhow the Shazam system identifies music tracks.)One advantage of digital fingerprinting is that it works with any images anywhere: they don't have to be watermarked first.Digital fingerprinting also enables reverse image search: in other words, you can upload one of your photos to the search engine for analysis, and it will check to see if it has any other images with the same fingerprint. You can try this yourself with theTinEyeandGazoPareverse image search engines. One day, you may be able to get an email alert whenever someone posts one of your photos on their site.But it's not clear how many people will bother. There are already tens of millions of pictures freely available on the web, many of them undercreative commonslicences that allow some re-use. Soon there will be hundreds of millions. With so many free pictures to choose from, there should be less incentive for people to steal yours.
Never one to bite his tongue (sorry), the public face of Kiss, its bassist Gene Simmons, has become the latest target of assiduous online attackers, Anonymous.Two of Simmons' official websites,SimmonsRecords.comandGeneSimmons.com, have been hit by the group of activists as an apparent reprisal for insisting that musicians should be far more aggressive in the pursuit of illicit filesharers. The Anonymous group, linked umbilically to influential online forum4Chan, have forced several websites linked to copyright-protection bodies offline in recent weeks.The offending comments were made by Simmons on a panel about building a successful entertainment brand. He said on Tuesday: "Make sure your brand is protected. Make sure there are no incursions. Be litigious. Sue everybody. Take their homes, their cars. Don't let anybody cross that line."The music industry was asleep at the wheel, and didn't have the balls to sue every fresh-faced, freckle-faced college kid who downloaded material. And so now we're left with hundreds of thousands of people without jobs. There's no industry."Ouch. You can almost hear Anonymous wheeling around their (illegal) DDoS missiles. And, sure enough, little more than 24 hours later Simmons' online brand has been knocked off the internet.Anonymous attack Gene Simmons(Though we have to point out that Simmons has perhaps forgotten about the efforts made by Metallica, for example, whichnamed 300,000 users of Napster back in 2000 and got them kicked off the system. Dr Dre did the same. Asleep at the wheel? Hardly. It's just the flipside of the benefit that being big brought - where the record companies could output something to lots of people at once. When they had to chase individuals, their problem became much bigger.)AsSlyckrightly points out, the loose-tongued rocker is the latest target of a group which counts the Motion Picture Association of America, Recording Industry Association of America, Copyright Alliance, Ministry of Sound, solicitors' firms DG Legal, ACS:Law and Gallant Macmillan among recent victims. The latter, interestingly, appears to have been too strong to knock offline.There is, of course, an oft-overlooked voice in the music industry thatRich Huxley pointed out.Huxley, as is most likely with other artists paving new forms of distribution, says: "There has never been a better time to be an enterprising musician," adding: "I am part of the music industries and I want representation."His point: "There's no way to stop sharing and we shouldn't be striving to do so. That it takes place on the internet just means that in some ways it's track-able and identifiable."It's useless and impossible to enforce anti-sharing laws as it's always been the case that humankind finds another way. If sharing music online becomes illegal then people will revert to DVD/hard-drive sharing or find untraceable ways of continuing to to share. Maybe we'll swap CDs with our friends again? Maybe we'll borrow from libraries. To blame the internet is to blame the medium. To quote Steve Lawson 'It's like blaming Microsoft Excel for tax fraud'."
Yahoo is being targeted by private equity companies, two years after an audacious – but unsuccessful – bid from Microsoft.Internet and media companies including AOL and Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation are understood to have been approached to find out whether they would look to buy Yahoo, presently valued at $20.56bn (£12.83bn) and employing 13,600 people. Shares in the company rose 9.5% on the rumours, which suggest that some of the approaches have been led by Silver Lake Partners, a quoted private equity company.Any bid would require Yahoo to unload its 40% stake in Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba group as well as its 34.5% stake in Yahoo Japan, one source told the Reuters news agency.The talks reportedly began earlier this month but have intensified in recent days, though no formal approach has been made to Yahoo.Though it is a huge web property, with 2.9bn daily page views and around 380m daily visitors, Yahoo is a distant second in the search engine stakes in the US to Google, it has been struggling to find both revenue growth and identity since the Microsoft bid in January 2008, which fizzled out amidst recriminations by the board.Jerry Yang, a co-founder who was then chief executive, was forced out and replaced by Carol Bartz, a Silicon Valley veteran, who has brought renewed focus but little sense of identity to the company.Its shares are far off their five-year high of more than $40 and there has been an exodus of senior managers in recent months.The Blackstone private equity group had also been pitched the idea but was not currently working on a Yahoo deal, a separate source told Reuters. News Corp, AOL, and Yahoo declined to comment.Once dominant in search, Yahoo has been overshadowed by Google's growth and its market value is now little more than a tenth of its rival.Analysts value Alibaba at between $15bn and $25bn, meaning Yahoo's 40% stake is worth up to $10bn. Disposing of those assets – which some of Yahoo's investors favour – would help drastically reduce Yahoo's market value to about $10bn, making a buyout deal more feasible.Analysts said disposing of Yahoo's Asian assets might be a problem."An Alibaba share sale is not easy to achieve. It is not a small deal and obviously it would be hard to calculate the valuation to the benefit of all parties," Wallace Cheung, an analyst with Credit Suisse in Hong Kong told Reuters.AOL could benefit from the deal: it is keen on gaining scale and snagging content to rekindle growth. A report in the Wall Street Journal cited sources that said private equity firms were exploring the possibility of teaming up with AOL on a joint bid, which could give AOL the content and online eyeballs it needs to become a news and entertainment powerhouse.One scenario could involve AOL combining its operations with Yahoo in a reverse merger – again after Yahoo sells its stake in Alibaba.Bloomberg reported that Yahoo is working with Goldman Sachs to help defend possible takeover approaches, citing three sources.Whatever form it takes, any deal would likely be a far cry from the $47.5bn, or $33 a share, offer that Microsoft made for Yahoo in 2008 and which was rebuffed by Yahoo's co-founder and then-CEO Jerry Yang, analysts and investors said.That bid was rejected by Yahoo on the basis that it undervalued the company's long-term prospects – but the analysis that suggested that was later found to have been flawed. Nevertheless, Yang and the board of Yahoo relied on it to try to force Microsoft to bid up its offer, a move that Steve Ballmer, the Microsoft chief executive, eventually rejected.Ironfire Capital's Eric Jackson, who was involved in an activist campaign directed at Yahoo during the time of the Microsoft acquisition talks, said that even a $20 a share offer for Yahoo – which would represent a nearly 40% premium over Tuesday's closing price – might encounter resistance from some of Yahoo's major shareholders."There would be some large shareholders in Yahoo that wouldn't like that, they wouldn't view that as an attractive exit for them," said Jackson, who no longer owns Yahoo shares.
In what will surely prove to be the least surprising piece of gaming news this week, Sony has announced that Gran Turismo 5 has been delayed again. The much-anticipated latest addition to the long-running simulation series was due to be launched on November 2 in the US with Japanese and UK debuts following the day after. However, the project has already been held back several times, with a previous Japanese launch date pencilled in for March 2010.In a curtblogposton the Official PlayStation site, SCEA producer Taku Imasaki states:We sincerely apologize to GT fans for the delay, however, creator Kazunori Yamauchi and the team at Polyphony Digital  want to make certain they are creating the perfect racing experience, and we are confident that this ambitious game will exceed expectations when it launches.Imasaki promises that the release will be, "this holiday season", although fans will no doubt now be bracing themselves for further disappointment.GT5 was originally announced at the E3 games event back in 2006 and had already been in development for two years before that. Last year, in aninterview with AutoWeek, the game's creator Kazunori Yamauchi claimed that the game had cost $60m to develop; that figure will have certainly risen in the following 12 months.So any takers on March 2011?
Netbook sales are slowing as people consider buying tablet computers – particularly Apple's iPad – instead, according to data released separately by research companies Gartner and IDC with their analysis of third-quarter computer sales worldwide.Overall, sales of PCs grew slower than had been expected.Gartner said88.3m were sold in the third quarter, up 7.6% compared with the same period a year ago when 82m were sold, but below its earlier forecast of 12.7% growth (which would have meant 92.5m sold).IDC, which uses a different method to measure sales, said there were 89.7m sold, up 11% (80.8m) but nearly 3% below its expectations (which would have seen 92m sold).The data exclude the millions of sales of Apple's iPad, which Gartner and IDC do not classify as a "PC" for the purposes of their data.Horace Dedlu, who runs the Asymcoconsultancy, estimatesthat if the iPad were included in the figures, it would add 4m to the PC sales figures – neatly closing the gap between Gartner's sales forecasts and the observed outcome.Excluding the iPad, PC sales growth in the US was just 3.8% year on year, much slower than second-quarter growth, which was 11.7% – and a long way short of IDC's expectations of 11% growth.IDC said that the slower sales were due to the influence of Apple's iPad on consumers' intentions on buying PCs, and that it had had a notable negative effect in the US on the netbook market.Gartner said that sales of "consumer mobile" PCs – netbooks and laptops – were the weakest in years in the US. "The third quarter historically is a strong consumer quarter, led by back-to-school sales," said Mikako Kitagawa, principal analyst at Gartner. "Consumer mobile PC demand, driven by low-priced notebooks, including mini-notebooks, slowed after very strong growth the past two years."She added: "Media tablet hype around devices such as the iPad has also affected consumer notebook growth by delaying some PC purchases, especially in the US consumer market. Media tablets don't replace primary PCs, but they affect PC purchases in many ways. At this stage, hype around media tablets has led consumers and the channels to take a 'wait and see' approach to buying a new device."Gartner said HP remained in the top slot for worldwide sales, with 15.4m, followed by Acer (11.5m), Dell (10.8m) and Lenovo (9.1m).In Europe, Gartner said there were 27.3m PC sales, up 7.3% from the same period in 2009 (25.4m). "The western Europe PC market slowed as professional buyers and consumers held back on PC purchases," the company noted.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Cracked iPhone 3GS screen. Photo byPatrick Hoeslyon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamClarification over iPhone 4 screen breakage data &gt;&gt; ZDNetMath is hard, so most companies putting out surveys don't bother to clarify what they're actually measuring. Apparently a US company carried out a "survey" which found more breakage of iPhone 4 "screens" compared to iPhone 3GS glass. But omitted to mention that when it said "screens' it didn't mean just those on the front.Nokia loses its India plot, market share tanks 20% &gt;&gt; The Economic Times"Nokia still accounts for more than one-third of all phones that are sold in India, but analysts say it's stranded in the middle of the market. The IDC figures showed that South Korea's Samsung managed to increase its market share to 8.2% and retain the No. 2 position, while Chinese brand G'Five took the third position with a 7% market share, dislodging LG. The research firm said overall mobile handset shipments in India rose to 38.6 million units in the second quarter, up 60% year-on-year ."So - sales up, but market share down. Decide for yourself if that's good or not.Pill Gang Used Microsoft's Network in Attack on KrebsOnSecurity.com &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityIt involves Microsoft, pharm pushers, a dodgy Turkish internet registrar, and hacked Linux servers. It's complicated.Not on Facebook? Facebook still knows you &gt;&gt; BBC dot.Rory"I set about creating a Facebook profile for a friend who is a university lecturer. My friend - let's call her Belinda - had never used Facebook but gave me her permission to put her on the network."I entered her university e-mail address, chose a password, put in a date of birth, and then was quickly taken to a page suggesting a couple of dozen possible friends."I rang Belinda and read out the names to her. Three were colleagues, others were present or former students, and some she didn't recognise but assumed they too had been associated with her university. Now at this stage she had received, but not opened, the e-mail from Facebook asking her to authenticate her e-mail address."So two things are immediately clear - Facebook knows at least something about you the minute you hand over your e-mail address, and it's possible for someone who knows that address to extract some of that information."Don't sit around waiting for HMTL5 - it's here &gt;&gt; Mo McRoberts"From HTML5 for Web Designers, Chapter 1 ("A Brief History of Markup"): ...There won't be a single point in time at which we can declare that the [HTML5 spec] is ready to use. Instead, we can start using parts of the specification as web browsers support these features. Remember, HTML5 isn't a completely new language created from scratch."GCHQ chief talks of cyber attacks &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blogYes, he did.MyTfL: what we have learned &gt;&gt; Placr NewsWhy did the "official" TfL app appear on the iTunes App Store.. then vanish? "The key guess must be that all data that developers would like to access to make new apps is already polished and ready inside TfL. When we are told that it is not available for release then we must take this with a giant pinch of salt. Another guess must be that this is the equivalent of the 'bureaucrats strike back': the thinking presumably being that one way to stymie these pesky developers is to shoot their fox. With all the data in a pile, lots of public money and a few iPhone developers it must be easy to render independent attempts to create value from the datasets unnecessary and futile."Finally, I would also guess that MDV were given this opportunity because they are the ones with most to lose from an open market in apps leveraging open transport data and so they were keen to take on the challenge."My new standard of cool &gt;&gt; Scott Simpson on TwitterThe tweet from 17 June that inspired (so they say) the marketing team at Windows Phone 7 for their new ads.Microsoft announces Windows Phone 7 sync software for Macs due this year &gt;&gt; Engadget"As for Hell, there haven't been any reports of recent temperature changes, but we'll keep you posted as we get more information."Referral Information Loss &gt;&gt; Tim Bray's ongoingPuzzled by why he couldn't see the referrer data for many of the clicks arriving at his blog, he investigates: "I've now tested a couple of hypotheses, and I'm pretty sure the answer is: Twitter clients. At least, I've verified that for two different Twitter clients, one on Mac and one on Android, when they wake up a browser to follow a link, there's no referer."This could be because the URL shorteners are getting in the way. It could be because the API you use to send the default browser after a URL doesn't have a slot for "referer". I could investigate, but I bet someone who's reading this knows."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Of all the imaginary problems around gaming – no, playing games won't make you more stupid or less empathetic – there's one genuine issue that goes underdiscussed: racism in online multiplayer games.A 2003 piece of games journalism, titledBow, Nigger, describes a racist battle the author – playing a character called Always Black – experienced. And things haven't improved. "Online gaming is completely full of racist comments about black and Hispanic people. You'll find it in any online gaming with chat," Yoz Grahame, programmer and technologist, told me. "But then, nice people don't tend to be very loud, so the idiots seem louder by comparison."Games producer Kim Plowright has also witnessed ethnic tensions in World of Warcraft: "A Serbian guy was standing in the middle of [game city] Orgrimmar venting about how Serbs are the Balkan master race." And actuary Matt Phillips told me he'd even encountered racism in online poker.It's possible to protect yourself, says social media consultant Laura E Hall: "With games such as World of Warcraft, you can be in a guild with good people, or choose servers and [chat] channels with the same." But it's disturbing that we've taken the same old hatreds into our new fantasy worlds.Games don't cause racism. But the real-time chat makes nasty comments hard to moderate, and easy to spread. Bullies, as my mum always told me, are cowards. Sadly, the same anonymity that enables dissidents in police states to blog or a gay teenager in the midwest to find friends also gives cowards the cover to vent their ugly views in public.
Apple has sent out a press invite to an event on Wednesday 20 October at its Town Hall building at the Cupertino campus, with an invitation showing a lion (a lion? All its OS versions have hadtigerbig cat-themed names, orpossibly German tank-themed names) apparently peeking out from behind a silver Apple logo, with the words "Back to the Mac."That has of course set off the rumours that this will be a preview of the next version of Mac OSX - you know, the operating system that used to be Apple's biggest seller, beforePixoand then "iOS" became its biggest sellers by miles.Update:..and other sources suggest that that is indeed what there will be: "a sneak preview of the next major version of Mac OSX".Many had expected that Steve Jobs would show off Mac OS X 10.7 at the Worldwide Developers' Conference in June, but that event was entirely iOS-focussed.Mac OSX 10.6 ("Snow Leopard") was shown off on 8 June 2009, and released on 29 August 2009 (wereviewedit: our independent reviewer liked it).That said, this seems far too soon for any sort of promise of 10.7. Looking at theperiod between releases, there's an average of about 18 months between releases for the more recent versions, and Apple has got enough on its hands with its iOS work (it doesn't believe in big teams working on separate operating systems; it keeps it small, but that focusses effort where it's most required).Update:that suggests that the soonest you would see 10.7 is some time next spring, as there hasn't been any time for developers to get in-depth hands-on.. and more importantly to begin rewriting their apps so they'll work with its little niggles. More likely would be autumn 2011.Intriguingly, a job ad from earlier this yearsuggested that Apple has a "truly revolutionary" feature in the works:An ideal candidate will have a degree in Computer Science (or equivalent), five years of professional experience developing C / C++ / Objective-C libraries or frameworks for use on end user systems, experience with developing for Internet technologies and services, and a passion for doing "really hard" things that have never been done before.An exceptional candidate will also have up close and personal experience with the HTTP protocol as well as other protocols layered atop it, have participated in or lead the architecture of large web scale systems, have shipped multiple "platforms" for use by millions of users.Hmm.. C++ and HTTP? And the stuff that goes on top? Your offers please for what the "revolutionary" feature is going to be, and whether Apple will show it off. (They're bound to get asked about it next week.)Possiblythe more likely explanationwhat will also happen is some new hardware - especially going by theMacrumors Buyers' guide, which points which products look likely to get an upgrade, based on how long in the tooth they are, both the MacBook Pro (top-end laptop) and MacBook Air (thin and light, low-powered) laptop are looking ready for updates. (The low-end MacBook was updated in May, so probably won't get an unicorn horn sprinkled over it.) The Xserve server could also be in line for a refresh. Oh, and the iPod Classic is looking peaky. But that's probably just how it is.
Google has defended the rollout of its Street View mapping service in Germany, where it is the subject of a nationwide debate about online privacy, ahead of a Friday deadline for people wanting to opt out of being pictured on the site.Lena Wagner, a spokeswoman for Google in Germany, said that although the company takes privacy "very seriously", many of the fears about Street View are based on "misinformation".Google's announcement that it would launch its Street View product in 20 cities across Germany prompted calls for stricter data protection regulation and high-level meetings between the company and government officials.Google in turn made concessions to its planned rollout, allowing members of the public to opt out of being photographed on the service by 15 October.The Czech Republic last month banned Google from expanding its panoramic mapping service, saying the product "disproportionately invades citizens' privacy".In aninterview with German broadcaster Deutsche Wellepublished on Wednesday, Wagner said: "No two countries are ever the same and we work with the authorities in every country to address concerns they may have about Street View. All images in our Street View product abide by the local laws and cultural norms of the country they are taken in and Street View only features imagery taken on public property."Wagner said Google would publish the number of people who have chosen to opt out of the service when it has the information, but said the company has no plans to make the opt-out concession available in other countries."This imagery is no different from what any person can readily capture or see walking down the street themselves," she said. "Imagery of this kind is available in a wide variety of formats for cities all around the world and on various sites on the web."[...] Many fears are based on misinformation, such as [the belief that] Street View imagery is [in] real-time – in fact it is anywhere between a few months to up to two years old at the time a given area is introduced. We take privacy protections very seriously and that's why we have developed state-of-the-art operational and technological controls for Street View, including the automatic blurring of faces and licence plates."Google has confirmed it will delete data such as addresses and names of people opting out of Street View in Germany within a period agreed upon by the country's data protection authority.Markus Beckedahl, editor of the influential Germany-based technology websiteNetzpolitik, separatelytold Deutsche Wellethat the nationwide debate over Google Street View and privacy marked a watershed moment in German history."I don't think Google Street View is a debate about nothing," Beckedahl commented. "But it sounds a bit crazy because Google Street View isn't the biggest privacy problem that we have in Germany. It's the first privacy debate where a lot of people can feel something about it."[...] Google Street View [is] something where my parents have an opinion about it, and maybe your parents do, too. This is a new level in that debate."The UK's information commissioner has ruled that the Google Street View service does not encroach on the privacy of citizens. Writing in response to a complaint by campaign group Privacy International in April 2009, the information commissioner said: "If consent [to upload images of private citizens] were required by law, then the producers of, say, Match of the Day, would have to gain the consent of all people attending televised football matches who might be caught on camera."
If US military communications really do consist entirely of macho banter interspersed with arcane technical jargon, Medal of Honor is certainly the most authentic shooter ever developed. A couple of missions in to the fraught single-player campaign and your brain will be awash with red phosphorous, danger close warnings and talk of swarming 'bad guys'. What you won't gain, however, is any new understanding of what American troops are actually doing out there in the graveyard of empires.As we've been led to believe over months of pre-release briefings, the game presents the armed forces with a form of unquestioning respect that borders on religious adulation. But the actions of these Tier 1 operatives, army rangers and SEALs exist in a complete contextual vacuum. We don't know why we're hiking through the unforgiving peaks and gritty troughs of the Shahikot Valley, we're just there, taking out mortar positions and villages like machines of death. AsTom Bramwell writesin his excellent review for Eurogamer:Whereas films like The Hurt Locker evade accusations of insensitivity through their dispassionate and meticulous observations of the conflicts they portray, Medal of Honor ostensibly dodges the issue by not really being about anything except what's happening on-screen.In the cut-scenes, there is some sort of conflict going on between a commander passing out politically motivated orders from back in the States and an officer in-country, trying to save the lives of his comrades. It's clumsy, cliché-ridden stuff, that does the solidly portrayed action no favours at all.And make no mistake, this is a rugged, bloody and at times brilliant shooter, in which you find yourself continually penned down in crumbling buildings facing off against dozens of charging insurgents. With the dust swirling, the camera shaking, the body parts exploding into red mist, this is gaming re-imagined as documentary footage. It is Generation Kill rendered into savage interactive life. And when the engine chugs – as it does when you're strafing crowded enemy positions with 50 cal fire – it's like a live satellite feed breaking up. That doesn't make it any less noticeable or frustrating, but it does conveniently segue into the simulacrum of reality and Boy's Own fiction that developer Danger Close is peddling.Several reviewers, though, point out the jarring tonal inconsistencies. There's an amazing moment early on when you and three comrades are surrounded by enemy soldiers with just the low walls of a deserted hut for cover. Gradually, the masculine chit-chat gives way to desperation and then acceptance – Andrew Hayward at 1up calls it, "one of the most exciting and terrifying moments I can recall from any recent shooter". But there are also moments in which your lusty band of inglorious bastards swot away rapidly spawning idiot troopers like flies. As IGN'sArthur Gies writes, "Medal of Honor is so heavily dependent on canned war moments and setpieces that it starts to feel like the Theme Park tour of the war in Afghanistan, rather than a respectful trip through a day in the life of a soldier."There are also lots of complaints about the malfunctioning scripted sequences. Often you'll charge ahead of colleagues, only to hear them instructing you on the objectives you've just carried out. Other times you'll be stalled for many minutes as you try to locate the spot you need to be in to trigger the next sequence. "Major events are heavily signposted," addsMartin Gaston on Videogamer, "And too many instances place you behind invisible walls (or in front of a door that only your AI sidekick can open) until you've dispatched the current screen of baddies."Elsewhere, it's generally agreed that the audio is superb, perfectly capturing everything from the echoing clatter of the AK-47 to the pin-point thud of a high calibre sniper rifle. The crackly voice comms between soldiers is so naturalistic, you're almost there – if only you could understand half of what they were talking about.Multiplayer gets a mixed reception. General consensus seems to be that it's robust, but lacks variety, with only three soldier classes and four modes. Like other publications,Edge draws comparisonswith DICE's Battlefield series: "It feels more varied in its scenarios than recent Battlefield games, its various modes moving adeptly between claustrophobic deathmatches, open battlegrounds and epic tugs-of-war. But without Battlefield's wealth of vehicles, devastating toys and destructible scenery, MOH lacks some of that game's moment- to-moment dynamism."Judging by thedefensive commentscoming out of EA yesterday, the company feels that the current Metacritic rating of 74 is rather harsh. I'm inclined to concur (given the proclivity of many sites to use 70 as average), and I've most closely agreed with the writers who have given the game 75% or more. For all its flaws, Medal of Honor reaches some exhilarating heights, and Danger Close is Kubrick-like in its quest for perfect composition, mood and audio detail. This is a game that's fundamentally worth playing. Is it better than Modern Warfare 2? As good? Worse? The two experiences are aiming at very different targets. Clearly, MoH lacks the absurdist drama of Infinity Ward's globe-trotting fantasy, but at least its slight tale of valiant soldiers makes some sort of sense, even if it stops way short of making any sort of point.Medal of Honor is released this Friday on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360. The Guardian's own review ishere.
