Streaming music services like Spotify have several big challenges in 2013, includingconvincing musicians of their merits, andplotting a path towards profitability. Better music discovery is a third problem in search of solutions.Alive to suggestions that its service is little more than a "search box", Spotify has announced its latest new feature designed to point its users towards music they may like. It's called Browse.Initially available in the company's iOS and Android apps, Browse is a page suggesting Spotify playlists grouped by context and mood. The former includes situations such as commuting, parties and early-morning blues, while the latter runs the gamut from romance to "songs for you, not your parents".Most of the playlists have been chosen by Spotify's editorial team from the 1bn+ created by its 24m active users, although the in-house staff are also creating their own themed selections to sit within the new Browse page.The launch follows Spotify's acquisition earlier in 2013 ofmusic-discovery startup Tunigo, whose website and app had a similar focus on themed playlists."They have a whole bunch of music experts, and they comb through the vast array of playlists and pick out the ones that are resonating with users, and if they see a gap, they also create their own," Spotify's vice president of product development Charlie Hellman tells The Guardian."We think this use case is particularly useful on mobile, where you're more likely to need a playlist to get you through whatever situation you're in. But we view ourselves as a cloud service, so all the features we roll out will ultimately feature on all the platforms we play in."Browse will sit alongside two other forms of music recommendations on Spotify: its social features that enable people to see what friends are playing and send/receive individual tracks and playlists; and the recently-launched Discover page, which uses algorithms to suggest artists, songs and playlists to users based on their habits.This is part of a wider move by streaming music services around music discovery, at a time when most have similarly-sized catalogues of music and standard subscription prices of £4.99-a-month for web-only access and £9.99 for web-plus-mobile access.Earlier in the year, music and technology executive Jimmy Iovinecriticised the discovery features of existing streaming serviceswhen announcing plans for his company – headphones maker Beats – to enter the market."Right now, these things are all utilities: 'Give me your credit card, here's 12m songs, and good luck'. We don't think that's gonna stick," said Iovine in January.Beats Music is expected to launch later this year, with its CEO Ian Rogers setting out its ambitions: "The next phase of internet distribution is all about curation by trusted sources… I think it's what consumers want and need," he said. " They're not just going to get a search box."However, the facts of the matter are that all those "utilities" have been aware of the need for better discovery features for some time now: Spotify, Deezer, Rdio and others have been working hard on new features to make their catalogues less overwhelming for new users.All this comes at a time of intense speculation about the future for streaming music, including wildly-diverging forecasts from industry analysts.This month already, ABI Research has claimed that29m people will be paying for "on-demand" streaming music servicesby the end of 2013, and that this will rise to 191m by the end of 2018.However, Parks Associates claims thatonly 15m people will be paying for streaming music subscriptions by 2017– this, despite the fact that music industry body the IFPI's own figures already show20m streaming subscribers globallyat the end of 2012.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 3 August 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition(7+)Xbox 360 (100)62 (3)The Last of Us(18+)PS3 (100)83 (4)Animal Crossing: New Leaf(3+)3DS (100)84 (6)Fifa 13 (3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (29)VITA (9)3DS (5)455 (–)The Smurfs 2 (3+)DS (31)Xbox 360 (28)Wii (26)PS3 (14)16 (7)Far Cry 3 (18+)PS3 (46)Xbox 360 (49)PC (4)367 (10)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (17)Wii (16)3DS (12)568 (16)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II (18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (43)PC (1)Wii U (1)379 (9)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)PC (4)2210 (11)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)4011 (5)Mario And Luigi: Dream Team Bros.(3+)3DS (100)412 (15)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (25)Wii (17)DS (9)2613 (14)Max Payne 3(18+)PS3 (54)Xbox 360 (46)PC (0)1914 (12)Grand Theft Auto IV(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (34)5815 (2)Pikmin 3 (7+)Wii U (100)216 (20)Need For Speed Most Wanted (7+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (42)VITA (13)PC (1)3617 (19)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (68)PS3 (24)PC (8)4718 (17)Grand Theft Auto Episodes - Liberty City (18+)Xbox 360 (74)PS3 (25)PC (0)2119 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary (18+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (32)PC (20)920 (–)The Sims 3: Island Paradise (12+)PC (100)5UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Jesse Schell: Xbox, PlayStation and the Innovator's Dilemma | GamesIndustry InternationalThe veteran games designer explains why Microsoft should have stuck to its guns with Xbox One and not caved to consumer pressure:"That's how it always goes. This is the lesson of the innovator's dilemma. Why is it that big companies fail when the technology changes? It happens in every industry, so what's the pattern? What are they all doing wrong? Everyone says, 'Oh, it's because they're stupid. Big companies are stupid.' They can't be stupid. How did they get that big and stay that big if they're stupid? Microsoft isn't stupid."There's one mistake that they all make, and that mistake is listening to their customers."I'm not sure that Microsoft has given in though – just modified its approach. I fully expect its 'Steam for consoles' concept will be realised, just in small careful steps.EverQuest Next preview: A true next gen MMO | Eurogamer.netJohn Bedford takes a first look at EverQuest Next, a follow-up to the seminal MMO, which uses voxels to create fully destructible environments:At the personal level of combat, spellcasts and melee manoeuvres - dished out so repetitively as part of the MMO combat canon - have a tangible effect on this particular world. In a demo set in a dark forest ruins, blade flurries tear apart the crumbling walls, while spells shatter the floor and send enemies tumbling into the depths below. It's in those depths that you'll find another of EverQuest Next's bolder design approaches - underground levels layered one beneath the other, where procedurally generated ruins, questing opportunities and riches lie waiting to be explored and recovered.id Software 'Pushing Boundaries,' Focusing Only on Doom 4 | IGNTim Willits, id Software's studio director, on why the studio stalled development on the fourth Doom title:"It wasn't one thing," Willits tells IGN. "It wasn't like the art was bad, or the programming was bad. Every game has a soul. Every game has a spirit. When you played Rage, you got the spirit. And [Doom] did not have the spirit, it did not have the soul, it didn't have a personality. It had a bit of schizophrenia, a little bit of an identity crisis. It didn't have the passion and soul of what an id game is. Everyone knows the feeling of Doom, but it's very hard to articulate."Reality Check - What Does the Oculus Rift Do To Your Brain? | GameSpot.comAn interesting video on the science of virtual reality:It's worth checking out the rest of Cam Robinson's'What If Machine'videos on YouTube.New Fox sitcom about game devs slammed for casual sexism and racism | Games industry news | MCVA new Fox sitcom called Dads is due to air for the first time next month but is already being criticised by critics.The Daily Mail reports that the show, produced by Seth MacFarlane and starring Seth Green and Giovanni Ribisi as a pair of video game developers, has evoked the wrath of critics invited to early screenings "for being crass, sexist and racially insensitive" and "relying on poop jokes and sexy Asian schoolgirl jokes for cheap laughs".Other comments include the accusation that it is "mostly nasty about women of colour" and that it's "casually racist and horrifically unfunny".Crass and sexist? This can't be Seth MacFarlane!You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
News that British children's TV showKnightmare was to be revivedfor a one-off episode on YouTube caused a stir last month. Now the show is available to watch as part of the video service'sGeek Week.The episode has been produced by the original show's creator Tim Child; stars comedian Isy Suttie and actor Jessie Cave; and sees four modern-day YouTubers taking on the roles of the contestants.Dan Howell, Phil Lester, Emma Blackery and Stuart Ashen have 3.8m subscribers between them for their YouTube channels, which should help the new episode of Knightmare reach a wider (not to mention younger) audience than thirtysomething fans nostalgic for the original."There is a massive cult following for Knightmare that are going to be absolutely amazed to see this especially because it's made by all the same original people that produced it," said Howell."I think all of the younger fans that watch YouTube are going to have a great time watching us be in it. So I think it's going to appeal to everyone."The new episode can be watched below:Geek Week is YouTube's second themed-content strand following its recent Comedy Week, designed to celebrate the popularity of channels focusing on science fiction, comics, gaming, science and "geek culture" on YouTube.The event is global, but YouTube and its British partner ChannelFlip have ensured a strong British presence, from the Knightmare remake and week-long hosting duties from Red Dwarf's Kryten to a music video paying tribute to Doctor Who by YouTuber supergroup Chameleon Circuit.The band consists of Alex Day, Charlie McDonnell, Liam Dryden, Ed Blann and Michael Aranda, who between them have 3.3m YouTube subscribers. The video for their song Teenage Rebel was partly filmed on the Doctor Who set for the TARDIS."In the anniversary year we really wanted to celebrate the creativity of our fans, when YouTube came to us with Alex's suggestion we jumped at it," said BBC Worldwide's brand manager for Doctor Who, Matt Nicholls. "The video is great and we're really pleased to have been able to have made this happen."
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTwitter. A Digital Experience &gt;&gt; BehanceUX/UI specialist Fred Nerby tries to redesign Twitter so that it will"create a deeper engagement and visual experience through content and communication between users, artists, magazines and motion pictures… and all other distributors world wide."Because everyone's desire is to be a passive consumer of "distributors'" content, right?False Lenovo security report only strengthens world's top PC maker &gt;&gt; CIO.comEarlier this week, theAustralian Financial Reviewreported that Australia and other Western countries were blocking Lenovo hardware from secure locations because investigations have discovered some kind of malicious vulnerabilities. Only one problem: TheAustralian Department of Defense says the report is false. This forced those who picked up the story to publish adisclaimer.Something should have occurred to folks writing the story. Why, in the midst of a huge NSA dust-up on spying and during a time when folks were mostly focused on mobile devices, would there be an investigation on PCs from China? You'd think every investigator would be looking at American-sourced gear and services instead.To be precise, the Australian DoD denial includes the words "There is no Department of Defence ban on the Lenovo Company or their computer products; either for classified or unclassified systems."Frosted glass effects — why I switched to Android after all these years &gt;&gt; Andreas GöldiGöldi is CTO of Pixability:A few minutes after installing the IOS 7 beta I just knew I needed to switch to Android.I have found myself using more and more Google apps on my iPhone over the past 18 months or so. Google Maps replaced (surprise) Apple Maps, Gmail replaced Apple Mail, Chrome replaced Safari. I did voice search through Google's search app, not Siri. And so on. Why? Because Google's services are not only much more powerful but also very neatly integrated. The amazing Google Now is the best example for that.In fact, I was already using a Google phone running iOS underneath, and there's simply nothing in iOS 7 that makes me think I might switch back to Apple's stock apps.There's just frustration that iOS 7 has barely caught up with Android's current state.Alternatively...App updates for iOS 7 &gt;&gt; furbo.orgCraig Hockenbery:While cranking along on the update, a couple of thoughts occurred to me: how many other developers were doing the same thing and were they going to commit fully to iOS 7? The depth and breadth of the changes in iOS 7 makes it difficult to support older versions of the OS.SoI just asked. I also included a simple question that any developer who was actively working on an update would be able to answer as a sort ofCAPTCHA.After a little over 24 hours, I had my answers:An overwhelming number of developers are updating apps for iOS 7. Of 575 valid responses, 545 developers indicated that they were working on an update for iOS 7. That's an adoption rate of 95%!Of those developers who were working on an update, I then calculated how many were going to require iOS 7 (and drop support for iOS 6):Just over half of developers (284 of 545) were leaving the past behind. Initially I was surprised that this number was so high, but then I remembered how much time and effort I was putting into my own work :-)Trends in Pricing and Duration &gt;&gt; The Kickstarter BlogSeptember 2010:A couple of weeks ago we linked to Craig Mod's gorgeous and thorough breakdown of his Kickstarter project Art Space Tokyo. In the post Craig sampled other popular projects on Kickstarter, and explained how their choices and outcomes affected the way he constructed his project. Craig also offers some advice on optimal pricing and project length to future project creators. We were intrigued and impressed by Craig's research and conclusions, and we've now compiled data from our entire database to see how it holds up. Let's dig in.Fascinating analysis of how to structure a Kickstarter (or crowdfunding) project so that it hits its target. Would be great to see this updated.Samsung blames ad agency for trying to bribe developers &gt;&gt; The VergeSamsung has admitted that developers wereoffered money to mention its developer competitionon the popular developer community Stack Overflow. In a statement issued to The Verge, the company condemns the actions, noting that they were "clearly against Samsung Electronics corporate policy." The company claims it wasn't aware of the situation, and as soon as it found out that a PR firm was offering cash for content, it cancelled the plans. "We remain committed to engaging in transparent and honest communications with consumers."The followup to last Friday's revelation by Delyan Kratunov. This seems to happen awfully often with Samsung. Another time, its Taiwan branch paid students to diss HTC on some forums. And the sum involved - $500 for four questions per developer - suggests a very big marketing budget.Fixation on margins: the Surface RT debacle edition &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionFormer Microsoft general manager Hal Berenson:The other day a friend of mine made two astute comments.  The first was that the only real problem with the Surface RT was that it lacked applications.  The second was that if Microsoft had given away the millions of unsold Surface RT systems implied by the $900m write-down then the application problem would have been solved.  So why didn't Microsoft do exactly that?  That is, sell several million Surface RT systems at bargain basement prices to seed the market?In other words, why not do what Google does with its Nexus products? Because Microsoft couldn't bear to copy Google; it wanted to copy Apple. Insightful post.No Moto X for the UK, other 'cool and exciting' devices in the portfolio planned for Europe &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintRik Henderson:"It doesn't mean that Europe is not a key priority for Motorola," we were told by a UK spokesperson. "Essentially, the Moto X is the first device in a new product portfolio, basically a new family of devices."Because it is the first one, the Moto X has had a real buzz around it, but the US launch is not about the US being Motorola's priority at all, there are devices coming to Europe. We can't share what they are as of yet, but they are from the same family. They are cool and they are exciting and there is a lot in Europe coming up."What does "the US launch is not about the US being Motorola's priority at all" mean?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday. How was your weekend?
The historian Mary Beard has become the latest woman to receive a tweeted bomb threat, sent on the eve of a boycott by many users of Twitter in protest at the site's slow response to dealing with violent and obscene threats.Although many users stayed off the site, the hashtags#Twittersilenceand#connectwithrespectwere trending.Caroline Criado-Perez, whose savaging by trolls prompted outrage after she launched the successful campaign to keep a woman on bank notes, chose not to join the boycott. She tweeted: "It is not how I choose to react. I choose 2 remain on twitter. I choose 2 #shoutback. And I choose not 2 stop even 4 a day #twittersilence."The Labour MP Stella Creasy, who has received rape threats,tweeted: "Take a day off twitter, spend the day tweeting kitten pics – point is you can decide your actions not the trolls."On Saturday, after a week of escalating protests over Twitter's response to the threats, Tony Wang, Twitter's UK general manager, and Del Harvey, director of trust and safety,posted a promise of action on the Twitter UK blog, including instant report buttons for abuse to be gradually introduced on different platforms. Wang posted aseries of tweetspromising action.For many women it was too little too late.On Saturday night, the classicist and television presenter Mary Beard, the object of previous vicious personal abuse, received a bomb threat – similar in tone to those received by the Guardian columnist Hadley Freeman and others on Wednesday – which she reported to the police. She told the BBC: "To be honest, I didn't actually intellectually feel I was in danger but I thought I was being harassed and I thought I was being harassed in a particularly unpleasant way." She then joined the boycott.Guardian columnistSuzanne Moore explained why she was joining the boycott: "In cyberspace, as in the real world, they will not prevail. Join us or don't. The boycott has already worked. Because Twitter, the company, is nervy and watching its back. Hello? That's how it feels when strangers abuse you en masse."Predictably others disagreed, some forcefully. Theauthor and playwright Bonnie Greer posted: "#twittersilence is well-meaning, but most folks in this world have no voice. Talk for them. Talk the trolls out. Talk for ourselves. #nosilence." Thearchaeologist and television presenter Tony Pollard wrote: "#twittersilence? No way! NEVER give bullies dead air – it gives their fist more velocity. Talk &amp; keep talking. That's empowerment. Rave on!"The journalist Liz Jarvistook a similar line: "The best way to stand up to bullies is to speak out. Which is why I'm not doing the #twittersilence. Let your voice be HEARD. #shoutback."However, many women, includingcomedian Sarah Millican, posted just before midnight on Saturday that they were joining the silence. "As I'm observing the #TwitterSilence, I'll say thanks in advance to those who came to my show tmrw night. You were ace/alright."The columnist Caitlin Moran tweeted: "To people saying they don't want to do the #twittersilence – that's fine. All may do as they please. I'm just&nbsp;… trying a thing" and onTwitlonger she amplified: "August the 4th is International Friendship Day, and, personally, I wanted to do something symbolic on that day, in the spirit of international friendship."In the last few weeks, I've seen women on Twitter being run to exhaustion by the volume of anonymous rape and violence tweets they've received – so many that even just blocking them is a full time job. I've seen my friends' Twitter bomb-threats ON THE NEWS. I've seen the messages escalate even AFTER someone's been arrested. AFTER."And, obviously, it's not just women. In the wake of this, we're now talking about the problem of online abuse towards people for their religion, race, sexuality and physicality. Essentially the problems of the most nightmare playground ever have been given a jet pack and a megaphone through the power of social networking."Some, clearly, welcomed the prospect of a peaceful Sunday without the need for constant updates. The author and columnistOwen Jones wrote: "I'm on #trolliday tomorrow to stand with women facing abuse and threats. (Also it'll help force me to write my ruddy book.)"To tweet or not to tweet …Columnist Caitlin Moran: "To people saying they don't want to do the #twittersilence – that's fine. All may do as they please. I'm just … trying a thing."Author and playwright Bonnie Greer: "#twittersilence is well-meaning, but most folks in this world have no voice. Talk for them. Talk the trolls out. Talk for ourselves. #nosilence"Labour MP Stella Creasy: "Take a day off twitter, spend the day tweeting kitten pics – point is you can decide your actions not the trolls."Novelist and former MP Louise Mensch: "Maybe we need a 'sense of proportion' day on Twitter. Instead of #Twittersilence."Comedian Sarah Millican: "As I'm observing the #TwitterSilence for 24 hours, I'll say thanks in advance to those who came to my show tmrw night. You were ace/alright."Historian Mary Beard: "I am not replying today (yikes?). But sexist abuse is one thing, threats of violent decapitation quite another."Presenter and former editor Piers Morgan: "I find that correcting trolls' spelling is a very effective revenge tactic. But you have to know how to spell to execute it. #twittersilence".• This article was amended on 6 August 2013. An earlier version used an inaccurate quote from a different article which has since been updated.
On the surface,RuneScapedoesn't appear to offer much more than a hundred other fantasy-themed RPGs. Beyond its pleasant visuals and orchestral music (newly recorded forRuneScape 3), there's nothing to shout about narratively, with a generic "monsters invading" set-up. Nor does the questing system, with its familiar list of kill/craft/collect objectives, even attempt to break the mould. WhereRuneScapeshines is simple accessibility, allowing players to continue their adventure through web browsers. The brevity of solo missions helps, forgiving some of the repetition, and a robust, friendly player community makes exploring the world a joy. It's easy to see why devoted users invest so much in it. However, forRuneScapeneophytes such as myself, a lot of it will feel  stilted. Mouse-clicking to move anywhere is slow, and combat feels restrained and boring.Ultimately, the return fromRuneScapereflects the effort players put in. A casual half-hour is a satisfying distraction, while hardcore commitment will reveal hidden depths beyond clicking enemies to death. If its charms fail to grab you though, you'll be wondering what the fuss was about.
Pricefrom £17,190MPGup to 74.3Top speed136mphEach year, driving on and around theTour de Francethrows up new challenges for man and machine, beyond the imagination of factory testers. This year's ultimate car challenge came onDutch Corner on the Alpe d'Huez, when a van was brought to a standstill by drunk fans&nbsp;dressed as carrots who "surfed" on the roof, while others rocked the vehicle to provide the "waves".Team Sky's car supplierJaguaralso found that the Tour throws up unlikely surprises. Theirs was an issue that could have proved costly. All teams carry massive coolboxes in the boot to keep their cyclists' drinking bottles cool. But when the valve at the bottom of Team Sky's box failed, the boot was flooded. This fused the battery, which disabled the car. The upshot was that on the Tour's toughest climb,Chris Froomedidn't get&nbsp;fed and ended up with hypoglycaemia.This year's test for the newSkoda Octavia, which I drove, was rather more mundane. The day after the race ended the key went missing. Eventually I found it in the mountain of washing that always has to be done on returning home after three weeks on the road. But I can conclusively reveal that Skoda's electronic fob can survive total immersion among sweaty journalistic undies – a full cycle after watching Froome cycle.I first drove an Octavia on the Tour back in 2004, when Skoda began sponsoring the race. Then, I&nbsp;wrote, both Skoda and the Tour faced a challenge updating their respective pasts, the Tour trying to escape doping, Skoda looking to get away from those old jokes. Ten Tours later and Skoda wisecracks are a&nbsp;thing of the past; sadly for Froome, who faced continual questions over doping, the Tour has struggled to move on as&nbsp;rapidly in that area.Race leader: the lean, clean lines of the new Skoda Octavia estate. Photograph: ObserverI also mentioned in 2004 that the Skoda was the "equivalent of Lance Armstrong" in its leanness and economy. This doesn't seem like the compliment it did back then, although it has to be said the 2013 Octavia remains a lean machine. Rather than dwell on miles per gallon, I prefer to look at it this way: a single tank of diesel took me from Burgundy to Bracknell. The latter may not be your first-choice destination but it's far enough to feel you haven't been cheated.This year's model has a more sophisticated feel. The automatic gearbox does some complex stuff that means, for economy reasons, it coasts out of gear on downgrades. This might get a bit terrifying descending the hairpins of Alpe d'Huez were it not for a clever device that means a&nbsp;dab on the footbrake tells the engine to get itself into gear and help with the braking.The boot net to hold bottles of free wine has gone since 2004, sad to say, but it has been replaced by a secret underfloor compartment to fill up with gifts. Très James Bond. The rear cargo space is big enough for a&nbsp;racing bike, with the wheels out. One expects nothing less from the Tour's official car supplier.There are some slightly fussy touches: the dashboard alert that tells you a&nbsp;passenger in the back seat has taken off their belt is a tad Big Brother, while the reminder to take your mobile phone with you is pure Aunty Mabel. After all, it's not like a Tour de France journalist to lose anything, is it? The key, lest we forget, is completely washproof.
When the Japanese astronaut Koichi Wakata arrives at the International Space Station in November, a companion will be waiting for him whose eyes will light up in recognition – literally.Kirobo,the world's first talking humanoid space robot, has already taken off – in the nattiest red Wellingtons since Paddington Bear – and should arrive at the space station by 9 August to await Wakata's arrival. It knows he is coming: it has been programmed to recognise his face, and greet him warmly in Japanese.Its name comes from the Japanese words for hope and robot, and its task is momentous for a kilo of superbly engineered plastic and a bundle of plug leads: nothing less than to supply emotional warmth and companionship.Kirobo was fired into space from the Tanegashima space centre in southern Japan, zipped into a specially designed travelling case, along with 3.5 tons of more conventional supplies and equipment.Although Kirobo stands just 34cm tall, weighs slightly less than a kilo, and is modelled on a beloved Japanese cartoon figure, Astro Boy, it would be quite wrong, indeed grossly offensive, to describe it as a toy. It will also relay messages and commands from the control centre to Wakata, and keep records of all their conversations.Its developer, Tomotaka Takahashi, said: "Kirobo will remember Mr Wakata's face so it can recognise him when they reunite up in space. I wish for this robot to function as a mediator between a person and machine, or a person and the internet, and sometimes even between people."It has been extensively tested over the last year, including in zero gravity conditions, and has an Earth-bound twin called Mirata which can monitor any problems in space. When the two robots were introduced to the media last month, Mirata said: "It's one small step for me, a giant leap for robots."Generally robots in space have had a bad press, from  the sarky C-3PO in the Star Wars series, to Marvin the Paranoid Android in the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, his systems almost fused with depression at having to apply his "brain the size of a planet" to interacting with pathetic human beings.HAL 9000, (Heuristically programmed Algorithmic), the computer in  2001: A Space Odyssey, Stanley Kubrick's film of the Arthur C Clarke novel, could do face recognition like Kirobo, but not necessarily face liking: it decided to kill its astronauts when they planned to disconnect it.The robot dog in Doctor Who, K-9, although resembling a bread bin on casters, was closer in temperament to Kirobo,  and allegedly at one point was in danger of being consigned to the crusher lest viewers find him more appealing than the Time Lord.Before blast off, Kirobo told a press conference it had a dream of a society where humans and robots could get along together. Fuminori Kataoka, project manager from Toyota, which backed the project to make Kirobo, said they believed back on planet earth children and the elderly might benefit from such robots, endearing little machines which would really listen - and respond with entranced attention.
Do you think that, as a society, the United States has become a basket case? Well, join the club. I'm not just thinking of the country's dysfunctional Congress, pathological infatuation with firearms, addiction to litigation, crazy healthcare arrangements, engorged prison system, chronic inequality, 50-year-oldmilitary-industrial complexand out-of-control security services. There is also its strange irrationality about the use and abuse of computers.Two events last week provided case studies of this. The first was Bradley Manning's conviction. Although acquitted of the most serious charge of "aiding the enemy",he was convictedof six counts of violating the 1917 Espionage Act and on two counts of violating theComputer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA). In theory, he could face 136 years in jail for downloading secret government files and giving them toWikiLeaks.Just to put that in perspective, cast your mind back to 16 March 1968, when a platoon of US soldiers led by Second Lieutenant William Calley entered the hamlet of My Lai in what was then South Vietnam. They rounded up between 70 and 80 villagers and then shot them dead. In all, between 347 and 504 My Lai civilianswere murdered that day by US troops.Eventually, there was a court martial, just like the one organised for Manning. Despite claiming that he was following orders from his commanding officer, Calley was convicted on 29 March 1971 of premeditated murder for ordering the shootings and was given a life sentence. Two days later, President Nixon ordered that he should be released, pending an appeal against his sentence, which was later reduced. Calley eventually served three and a half years under house arrest at an army base.So: three and a half years house-arrest for ordering and participating in the premeditated murder of scores of unarmed civilians. And potentially 136 years for downloading stuff – including compelling video evidence of a war crime by US forces – and giving it to WikiLeaks. Makes you think, doesn't it?Where do computers come into this? Simply that the two convictions under the CFAA provide 20 extra prison years over and above what the Espionage Act stipulates.As the Electronic Frontier Foundation puts it: "In the government's mind, the Espionage Act can be used to punish a leaker of information, and if that person merely used a computer to get that information, they are guilty of an additional felony. So someone who emails documents to a journalist they got off a government computer will face 10 more years per charge than a government official who photocopied documents he got off a shelf and physically mailed them to the same journalist."Last week also saw the publication ofMIT's reportinto its role in the arrest and prosecution of Aaron Swartz, the young hacker who committed suicide last January afteran aggressive prosecutionby US government lawyers. His alleged crime? To devise an ingenious way of downloading thousands of academic articles from theJSTOR archiveusing a laptop concealed in a cupboard at MIT and hooked up to the university's network.Nobody knows why Swartz did what he did. Given that he was an open-access activist, it's possible that he disapproved of JSTOR's paywall and wanted to make the fruits of academic research available to all. After he was arrested, he returned all of the downloaded copies to JSTOR, paid their legal expenses and JSTOR indicated that they would not be taking further legal action.All this cut no ice with the prosecuting attorney, who saw her duty as "protecting the use of computers and the internet by enforcing the law as fairly and responsibly as possible". To that end, Swartz was arraigned on 13&nbsp;felony counts – two of"wire fraud", and11of violations of the same CFAA that was used to top up Bradley Manning's jail time.The MIT inquiry was led byProfessor Hal Abelson, one of MIT's most distinguished computer scientists, and is long (182 pages), thorough and dispassionate. Given that the Swartz case never got to trial, it is the most detailed account we are ever likely to get of the events leading up to his suicide.It contains lots of lessons for MIT (and indeed any other university) and one for the rest of us: that the CFAA is a pernicious and flawed statute in urgent need of reform. Hard cases make bad law. But bad law also makes for hard cases. Just ask the Manning and Swartz families.
This comprehensive collection charts developer thatgamecompany's progress from rudimentary titlesDuke War,GravediggersandNostril Shotto the critically acclaimedFlow,FlowerandJourney. The latter stand out not just for their polished visuals and game-play mechanics but the relaxing, sometimes emotional, interactions they create.Flowergrants players motion-control of the breeze as they travel with a multiplying flock of petals from countryside to city vistas.Journeyappears more conventional with twin-stick controls, but soon innovates with its sparse multiplayer interactions that invite a surprising degree of collaboration and communication. Although lasting just a few hours,Journeyquickly grows into an epic saga while retaining its world cinema rather than blockbuster roots.Flow,FlowerandJourneywere previously only available to download, while the addition of the earlier games, on-disc bonus documentaries, trailers and developer diaries expand the interest for both fans and newcomers. An opportunity not to be missed by those who've not already played them on the PS3.
Long-time gamer favouritePrince of Persiahas experienced a variety of guises – classic Atari ST platformer, swish, modern, third-person action adventure and an awful Jake Gyllenhaal movie. The series arrives on mobile withPrince of Persia: The Shadow and the Flame(Ubisoft, iOS, £1.99) falling somewhere between the more recent iterations and that taxing 80s Atari debut.Essentially a 2D platformer with fancier graphics, the Prince retains the vulnerability to pointy things from days of old, but now boasts some of the nifty tricks fromSands of Timethat allow for instant retries, rather than having to restart levels from the start. There's some fun to be had here, but the unresponsive touch controls hamper the action and it really only comes into its own when opting for the virtual joystick option.With another eye on the past, it does not seem long ago that the jet-ski action ofWave Raceon N64 wowed gamers – and nowRiptide GP2(Vector Unit, Android, £1.99) brings joyous water-based racing to your pocket. The ocean looks sumptuous on large screens such as the Samsung Galaxy Note II, and battling against the waves and your opponents makes for a refreshing challenge.The feeling of being squeezed to pay for upgrades to boost competitiveness is frustrating, but currency can be earned in-game, so for players willing to devote some time to trailing behind the packRiptideoffers real wet rewards in the end.
In 2006, serial entrepreneur and investor Martín Varsavsky – inspired by a conviction that he could cloak the world in free Wi-Fi by encouraging people to share their home connections – foundedFonin Madrid. The company is now the largest Wi-Fi network in the world, with almost 12m hot spots in more than 100 countries."My general thinking at the time was that we live in a world in which benefits are only accrued through economic growth and the endless consumption of resources, and that there have to be other ways that are of more benefit to people," he says. "Why should everyone have their own car when most of the time they are not using them? Think of a marina full of boats. How frequently do those boats go out?"Today, it has been argued that the sharing economy – which is perhaps best defined as a way of sweating underutilised assets, by building communities around them and turning consumers into providers – has the potential to reboot businesses across most economic categories. Indeed,Forbesmagazine recently estimated that total revenues for the sector could top $3.5bn this year, with growth exceeding 25%. However, when setting up Fon, Varsavsky became convinced that people needed a nudge or financial incentive before they'd happily share their assets."In the case of Wi-Fi we came up with the concept that if you share a little Wi-Fi at home, you can roam the world for free," he says. "That's a small loss and a huge gain. And now [years later] we see that in all those situations where you have a small loss and a big gain, the sharing economy makes sense."Yet while it makes sense, at least intellectually, it's when you start to examine the legalities around the ownership of assets that the sharing economy starts to run into trouble, argues the 53-year-old, who was born in Buenos Aires. It turns out ownership is not as clear cut as many of us might expect. "You think something is yours to share until somebody says, 'Hey! It's not really yours at all,'" says Varsavsky, citing the terms and conditions around "owning" Wi-Fi and the copyright of books and music as examples.The fast-growing peer-to-peer (P2P) holiday lodgings market is another case in point. There are claims that its success is gnawing away at the incumbent hotel sector's profit margins and even starting to have an impact on property prices. The hotel industry has begun to fight back, primarily, it seems, through behind the scenes lobbying of regulators and politicians.On 20 May, New York officials ruled that a man who rented out part of his NYC apartment for three days onAirbnb– the sharing economy's most high-profile success story to date – should pay$2,400for violating the city's illegal hotel law. Airbnb says it is committed to fighting the ruling. The P2P holiday rentals marketplace is hitting roadblocks in Europe, too: the authorities in Amsterdam and Berlin, for example, are reportedly considering laws that will make it tougher for companies such as Airbnb and its European rivalsHouseTrip,Wimduand9flatsto operate.Martín Varsavsky, CEO and founder of FON. Photograph: Sean Gallup/Getty Images"The sharing economy can create winners and losers, and property owners are winners and hotel owners are losers [in this case]," says Varsavsky. "Sometimes those who gain are atomised and gain little individually, while those who hurt, hurt a lot, and then organise very well. Those are the forces against sharing." The response of sharing economy companies encountering obstacles of this sort should be to rally the forces that stand to gain while making the case, wherever possible, that the forces of disruption can be good for "traditional" businesses too, he says."In the case of hotel stays versus apartment stays, there have been studies done that have shown there's a market that hotels don't address very well. And that is the market of families with children, for whom hotel stays can be very expensive. So Airbnb fills a niche of families who travel and their presence is actually accretive to the city. For example, the city of Paris studied this and concluded that Airbnb was a good thing, because it's bringing even more people to Paris overall, and the economy was doing better, while hotels were not really getting hurt."Similarly, when Varsavsky launched Fon, it ran into determined opposition from telecoms businesses, which said that the company's vision of shared Wi-Fi was against their terms of service. "What we showed with Fon was that you would only share with those who share back," he says. "We actually created a new incentive for people to sign up for DSL or broadband connections, which was to sign up at home, to roam the world. This became so true that T-Mobile, Deutsche Telekom and BT all became shareholders in Fon."Sharing economy companies who fail to convince the established players that they add value are likely to become unstuck, adds Varavsky. "With [P2P file-sharing services] Napster and Kazaa, when people started sharing songs in a way where there was no value for the record labels or copyright holders, they fought them like crazy and closed them down. The sharing of music had to come up with a concept more like Spotify, which makes use of the same P2P technology that Kazaa used to use, but it left money aside to pay the record labels – so the model became legal and now it's a success."When asked where he thinks the sharing economy will go next, Varsavsky picks an unexpected area: fertility. "For a long time fertility has been helped by people who have been sharing their sperm or eggs, in order to make reproduction possible for others. But it's been done in a very restrictive way so far. I think, as the average age of people having children goes up, fertility is an area which will see a great deal of change, because of the ability to obtain embryos, eggs, sperm, surrogacy – all of those are examples of people doing something for someone else. People don't think of fertility as part of the sharing economy, but I do. Life must come from life."Another area set to boom, he predicts, is the sharing of expensive equipment for gardening, DIY and even farming. "These are all things that are bought, used extremely little and are likely to be shared. Social platforms will play a big role in this and open up all these categories, because people can just say, 'I need this' and there's an instant audience. All these [sharing economy] sites have log-ins with Facebook, Twitter and Google+, which removes the friction, enabling us to make more rational use of our assets [like these]. That's one of the reasons why the sharing economy is here to stay."WorkLeah Busque and Kobe, the dog that inspired her to found TaskRabbit. Photograph: TaskRabbitLeah Busque is the founder and CEO ofTaskRabbit.com, an online and mobile peer-to-peer marketplace for neighbourhood errands and small jobsOne blustery Boston night in February 2008, Leah Busque and her husband were about to go out for dinner when they realised they'd run out of dog food and didn't have time to get any. Later that night the conversation turned to a business idea: an online marketplace where people could outsource little jobs (such as running to the corner shop) by connecting with others nearby.Fast-forward four months and Busque had quit her job as a software engineer at IBM to launch TaskRabbit. Although leaving a well-paid job amid mounting economic turbulence worried her, the very nature of her plan – to create a marketplace for freelancers (known as TaskRabbits) – just as people were being laid off in droves, simultaneously vindicated it. "I had doctors, lawyers and pharmacists coming to me to be TaskRabbits so they could float themselves between jobs," she recalls.Later this year ("early in Q4" is as precise as Busque will get), TaskRabbit opens in London – the first outpost beyond the US in a planned global rollout. With headquarters in San Francisco, the company has received funding totalling $37.7m to date, and now has over 13,000 background-checked TaskRabbits in 14 US cities. But progress hasn't been plain sailing. Last month Busque, 33, confirmed the company had laid off an unspecified number of staff. "We needed to reorganise the team to support further investment in some key areas around mobile, geographic expansion and the business customer," she says.The last area – TaskRabbit for Business – has proven to be a sweet spot; small businesses seeking vetted, temporary staff, particularly in events, office administration and customer service now account for 30% of monthly revenues. It's an innovation Busque claims could eventually displace big recruitment agencies. "[We] are a much lighter-weight model that's easier for a small business to utilise and much cheaper. We only take a 20% cut of every transaction, whereas a lot of the staffing industry can take far more." For tax purposes Task Rabbits are considered independent contractors responsible for their own tax returns, but how a fee, say for assembling Ikea furniture (one of the site's popular tasks), relates to minimum wage legislation is so far untested.Busque's vision is to revolutionise the way we work. "By providing people with the tools and resources to set their own schedules, be their own bosses and say how much they want to get paid is incredibly empowering. It has huge implications for the global labour force."TransportationNicolas Brusson, co-founder of BlaBlaCar.com Photograph: Blablacar.comNicolas Brusson is co-founder of BlaBlaCar.comIfAirbnbis the American-born poster child of the new trust economy thenBlaBlaCaris fast becoming Europe's riposte. Founded in 2004 and now in 10 countries (including the UK, where it launched 2011), the Paris-based ride-sharing service, which handles 600,000 passengers a month, is on track to pipEurostar's 900,000 by the end of the year. With 3&nbsp;million Europeans registered as members, the company is that rarest of breeds – a tech startup that solves a genuine problem."What we do is connect cities by creating a new transport network based on empty seats in cars," says co-founderNicolas Brusson. Drivers post on the website that they have, for example, three empty seats for their journey from London to Manchester on Friday evening. They set a fee of £15-£20. Passengers get in touch, and pay in the car or via the BlaBlaCar site. "The reason it's taking off right now is the macroeconomic factors around us. Petrol prices going up, the cost of owning a car has gone up dramatically all over Europe – especially in the UK, when you include petrol, insurance, depreciation, MOT, tax and so on – at a time when disposable income hasn't."On the driver side, we have an equation where the problem isn't buying a car any more, it's owning one – and that's helping us to convince drivers to share their ride. On the other side, you see the same dynamic. Train prices, especially, have gone up dramatically in past five to 10 years. If you want to book a train from London to Manchester for Friday evening, you're going to pay £50-£70 one way, when BlaBlaCar is going to cost you £15. So we offer a last-minute, flexible, super-low-cost transport network."BlaBlaCar, which received $10m in aventure round led by Accel Partnersin January 2012, is free at first, allowing users to discover the service, be introduced to one another online and pay in person, thereby building up a level of familiarity and trust, says Brusson. "Then, as soon as we have enough people in the service, we introduce an online booking service, where essentially the passenger will pay online and we manage not only the interaction but also the transaction. The company holds on to the money, until the driver and passenger ride together and rate each other. Once we have the feedback that it worked, we transfer the money to the driver and take a commission fee." For tax and insurance reasons, drivers aren't allowed to make a profit on the journey, merely to cover costs.Through feedback  (BlaBlaCar has, for example, accumulated 2.3m ratings between members), social media  and online data trails, including member profiles, mobile numbers, credit card and bank details, a layer of transparency is created. "We have a complete track of who&nbsp;travelled where with whom and when," says Brusson. "In terms of trust and safety, which is always a debate in sharing economy, that's very powerful."
Twitter has issued new rules to help it clamp down on abusive behaviour, while its British chief apologised to women targeted for online attacks, as it battled to deflect widespread criticism that it was not doing enough to target trolls.The company said on Saturday that it hadupdated its regulations to make it clear that abuse would not be tolerated, and put extra staff in place to deal with potential problems. The move came as police revealed they were investigating allegations by eight people that they had been abused on the microblogging site.Scotland Yard said its e-crime unit is looking into the claims, three of which involve incidents outside London.Twitter found itself in the spotlight after three female journalists said they had been thesubject of bomb threatson the site and an MP and a feminist campaigner received threats of rape.The bomb threat tweet was sent toGuardiancolumnist Hadley Freeman,IndependentcolumnistGrace Dentand Europe editor ofTimemagazine Catherine Mayer. The message was also sent to a number of other women, including Sara Lang, a social media manager at US campaign group AARP.In separate incidents, Labour MP Stella Creasy and campaigner Caroline Criado-Perez, who successfully fought for a woman's face to appear on £10 banknotes, weretargeted with rape threats.The threats sparked anonline petition calling for Twitterto add a "report abuse" button to tweets, which has attracted more than 124,000 signatures.In a messageposted on its blog on Saturday, Twitter's senior director for trust and safety, Del Harvey, and UK general manager Tony Wang said it had updated its rules in light of feedback from customers."It comes down to this: people deserve to feel safe on Twitter," they said.The company has updated its rules, clarifying that it will not tolerate abusive behaviour, they said, adding that an "in-tweet" report button will be added so people can report abusive behaviour directly from a tweet. "We want people to feel safe on Twitter, and we want the Twitter rules to send a clear message to anyone who thought that such behaviour was, or could ever be, acceptable," he wrote.Wang issued a tweet in which he said: "I personally apologise to the women who have experienced abuse on Twitter and for what they have gone through."He added: "The abuse they've received is simply not acceptable. It's not acceptable in the real world, and it's not acceptable on Twitter."Twitter said additional staff were being added to the teams that handle abuse reports and the company is working with the UK Safer Internet Centre, which promotes the safe and responsible use of technology.Criado-Perez, 29, queried why it had taken Twitter a week to respond to the concerns. She said the site did not make it easy to report abuse. "The current process is lengthy, complicated and impossible to use if you're under sustained attack like I have been," she said. "Right now, all the emphasis is on the victim, often under intense pressure, to report rather than for Twitter to track down the perpetrator and stop them."Meanwhile, Scotland Yard confirmed it was investigating several incidents."Detectives from the specialist organised and economic crime command have taken responsibility for the investigations into a number of allegations recently made to the MPS relating to allegations of malicious communication made on the social networking site Twitter," the Met confirmed in a statement. "The Police Central e-Crime Unit (PCeU), who hold the police national cyber crime remit, is now investigating allegations made by eight people that they have been subject to harassment, malicious communication or bomb threats."Women's groups said they feared networks of misogynists were operating on Twitter in a similar way to online paedophile rings.Paladin National Stalking Advocacy Servicesaid it was liaising with senior police officers to target Twitter users responsible for disseminating rape threats, death threats andbomb threats."Some are already known by those who monitor trolls," said Laura Richards, its co-director. "They operate like a network of paedophiles in some senses and they are doing so much damage they should be looked at as separate and networked entities."Richards advocates a hi-tech unit modelled along the lines of theChild Exploitation and Online Protectioncentre, whose officers infiltrate online networks.It has also emerged that the police are looking at drafting national guidance for officers in order to help them act on online threats.Andy Trotter, head of the Association of Chief Police Officers communications advisory group, said that he was talking to the recently formed professional standards body, the College of Policing, to ensure some form of official guidance was shared with officers to help them evaluate threats on social media.Police have been criticised for failing to crack down on threats posted on social media, although two arrests have been made following the recent barrage of threats against women.Trotter said: "We do not want to police the internet – that is not our role – but we will police credible threats and harassment against individuals."
The Obama administration has ordered that a proposed ban on the sale and import of certain Apple products be scrapped. The order represents government intervention in a bitter patent row between the iPhone maker and rival Samsung.In a letter to the US International Trade Commission (ITC), US trade representative Michael Froman said he had decided to disapprovethe body's earlier ruling – which would have banned older iPads and iPhones due to patent infringement. As such, Apple would be free to continue to sell the items.The letter stated that the decision was made after "extensive consultations" and was based on Froman's "review of the various policy considerations … as they relate to the effect on competitive conditions in the US economy and the effect on US consumers".The move overturns a June decision by the ITC which found in favour of Samsung in an increasingly bitter spat between the two tech firms over patent rights. The trade body concluded that certain Apple products – including older iPhone and iPad models made to run on AT&amp;T and T-Mobile USA networks – had infringed a Samsung patent relating to the ability of devices to transmit services simultaneously through 3G wireless technology. Apple complained that the trade ban imposed by the ITC was inappropriate.Despite finding against the ban, the Obama administration signalled that Samsung could seek other redress. Froman wrote: "My decision to disapprove this determination does not mean that the patent owner in this case is not entitled to a remedy. On the contrary, the patent owner may continue to pursue its rights through the courts."The two smartphone makers have lodged a series of legal complaints regarding alleged patent infringements in recent years. Last year, Apple was awarded more than $1bn in damages after Samsung was ruled to have copied critical features of its mobile products.
Twitter has issued new rules to try to clamp down on abusive behaviour in the wake of rape and bomb threats made against female journalists, an MP and a feminist campaigner.Ina message posted on the Twitter UK blog on Saturday, the senior director for trust and safety, Del Harvey, and UK general manager, Tony Wang, said the microblogging site hadupdated its rulesto make it clear that abuse would not be tolerated.Extra staff had been put in place to handle reports of abuse and from next month an in-tweet "report abuse" button, already available on some mobile devices, would be rolled out on the main Twitter website and apps."We want people to feel safe on Twitter, and we want the Twitter rules to send a clear message to anyone who thought that such behaviour was, or could ever be, acceptable," they wrote.The announcement came after police revealed they were investigating allegations by eight people of abuse or threatening behaviour on the site. Scotland Yard said its e-crime unit was looking into the claims, three of which involved incidents outside London.Twitter found itself in the spotlight after three female journalists, including the Guardian columnist Hadley Freeman, said they had been the subject of bomb threats on the site, while the Labour MP Stella Creasy and the campaigner Caroline Criado-Perez received threats of rape.The threats provoked a backlash online, and a petition calling for Twitter to add a "report abuse" button to tweets attracted more than 120,000 signatures.Twitter said it was working with the UK Safer Internet Centre, which promotes the safe and responsible use of technology.The bomb threat tweet was sent to Freeman, the Europe editor of Time magazine, Catherine Mayer, and the Independent columnist Grace Dent, whotook a screen grab of the tweet and posted it for her Twitter followers to see. The message was also sent to a number of other women.In separate incidents, Creasy and Criado-Perez, who successfully fought for a woman's face to appear on £10 banknotes, werethreatened on Twitter with rape. Two arrests have already been made in relation to those threats.In a statement, the Metropolitan police said an investigation into eight allegations had been launched into all the claims."Detectives from the specialist organised and economic crime command have taken responsibility for the investigations into a number of allegations recently made to the MPS relating to allegations of malicious communication made on the social networking site Twitter."The police central e-crime unit (PCeU), who hold the police national cybercrime remit, is now investigating allegations made by eight people that they have been subject to harassment, malicious communication or bomb threats."Whilst outside PCeU's cyber operational remit, the MPS has taken the decision to centralise the individual investigations, including three that are outside London, to make the most effective use of resources avoid duplication."The anonymous Twitter accounts from which the bomb threats originated were suspended.Steve White, of the Police Federation, said on Saturday that the problem was "unpoliceable" and more needed to be done by social media organisations.He told BBC Breakfast: "The organisations that run these social media platforms probably need to take a long hard look, they need to take some responsibility. It's much like when you go into a shop – there are prevention measures within shops, whether it be security guards or things locked away that you can't get to, which is going to prevent crime – and I think social media sites need to think long and hard about being able to prevent it from happening in the first place."
Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales, one of David Cameron's most high-profile technology advisers, has rubbishedplans to introduce porn filtersthrough the UK's internet service providers, dismissing the proposals as "ridiculous" and saying money would be better spent on policing internet crime.Wales, who advises the government on open access to information online, toldChannel 4 Newson Friday the planned software would fail."When Cameron uses the example of paedophiles who are addicted to internet porn – all that these plans would do is require them to opt in," he said. "It's an absolutely ridiculous idea that won't work."The prime minister announced last week that by the end of 2014 every new contract with a UK internet service provider will ask customers to opt in to receive adult content.He said ISPs "will have rewired their technology" to keep children safe but gave little detail, leading critics to say the proposal is unimplementable and pointing out that the filters would only be activated for wholly new contracts.The agreement is with the UK's biggest ISPs, BT, Virgin, Sky and TalkTalk, who account for 90% of the UK's internet users.Wales said that existing legislation around criminal activity online, including abuse and credit card fraud, is adequate, but that police need more resources.Referring to the revelations around mass surveillance of citizens by theNational Security Agencyin the US through consumer internet firms, Wales said "billions had been wasted shopping on ordinary people's data in a fruitless search for terrorists"."We should be devoting a significant proportion of that to dealing with the real criminal issues online, stealing credit card numbers, hacking into sites … that is going to take an investment in real, solid police work."Wales also announced that Wikipedia is to introduce encryption to the site so that users are protected once they sign in, following asimilar announcement by Facebookon Thursday."We trust our bank data to the same kind of encryption," he said. "There will always be questions about whether the NSA has secretly managed to decrypt everything but we think that's highly unlikely. It's non-trivial to do it well, so we have to do it right."Wales criticised Twitter, which he said has needed faster systems for complaints to protect users from abuse, but also said that illegally abusive behaviour was an edge case that shouldn't deter mainstream internet users.
Personal computer tycoon Michael Dell is nearing victory in his battle to take private the company he founded three decades ago, after increasing his cash offer by at least $350m (£229m).The sweetener, offered by Dell and his co-bidder, the private equity firm Silver Lake Partners, has won a keyconcessionfrom the independent special committee set up to consider the $24bn buyout on behalf of the company's other shareholders.The concession, involving a change to the company's voting rules, could be enough to swing the outcome in Dell's favour.The extra money will pay for an increase in the purchase price of 10 cents to $13.75 per share, and a special dividend of 13 cents a share. It will also guarantee that the third quarter dividend of 8 cents is paid, a guarantee worth a further $120m dollars, bringing the total increase in Dell's offer to $470m.  Had the deal closed before late October – as now seems unlikely – shareholders could have missed out on the third quarter dividend."The Committee is pleased to have negotiated this transaction, which provides as much as $470m of increased value, including the next quarterly dividend that will now be paid regardless of when the transaction closes," said Alex Mandl, chairman of the special committee."We believe modifying the voting standard is in the best interests of Dell shareholders, both because it has enabled us to secure substantial additional value and because it provides a level playing field for the decision facing shareholders."An end is now in sight for the six-month tug of war over one of America's largest PC makers. It is a struggle that has involved a shareholder rebellion led by corporate raider Carl Icahn, and a counter-bid from the Blackstone private equity group.Without a best selling smartphone or tablet, Dell is missing out on the portable computing boom dominated by Apple and Samsung. Its founder wants to move the company away from making laptop and desktop computers, which are being replaced less often by consumers, to focus on serving corporate clients.Dell's 5 February agreement to de-list the business, which he still runs as chairman and chief executive, from New York's Nasdaq stock exchange has faced intense opposition. Icahn argued that the price is too low, and that investors should receive an upfront payment that shared more of the upside from a turnaround.In the latest twist, Icahn sued on Thursday to stop a voting rule change, but it was agreed by the special committee and announced to stockholders on Friday. As a result, only shares actually voted count, altering an earlier clause that counted abstentions as "no" votes. A lower than expected turnout delayed previous votes because of the risk that the number of abstentions would see Dell defeated.As with the previous deal, Michael Dell, who has a 15.7% stake in the company, will be excluded from the vote and his shares not counted in the tally.Herespondedto the deal on Twitter, writing: "We are pleased to have won another battle in the Dell war but the war itself is far from over. More to follow."The latest vote date, which had been set for Friday morning, has been delayed again. Shareholders will be asked to decide the manufacturer's fate on 13 August.There has also been a reduction in the breakup fee that is payable should the deal fall through, from $450m to $180m.To pay for the sweetener, Dell and Silver Lake are raiding the firm's cash savings, using funds that could have been invested in restructuring the business and paying down the debt raised to fund the buyout.
Barnaby Jack, the hackers' hacker, was once again the toast of theBlack Hat conventionin Las Vegas.He won an award. He drew packed crowds. His face adorned buttons and posters. His name was on everyone's lips.Except this time Jack was dead, the honours were posthumous and the gatherings were memorials. There were eulogies and questions: how did he die? What will happen to his work?This week's convention of information security experts, which wrapped on Thursday, was a melancholic sequel to the 2010 gathering which Jack electrified with a demonstration of hacking ATM machines.As a "white hat" hacker, Jack used his skills to find and help plug security flaws before malicious "black hats" could exploit them.The 35-year-old New Zealander was due to show how cyber criminals could remotely attack people with pacemakers and other implanted medical devices, but on July 25was found deadat his home in San Francisco.An extrovert famed for humour, generosity and partying, now a ghost in the machine, remembered with speeches, tears, toasts. There was a wake, speeches and a Pwnielifetime achievement award.There were rumours but no confirmation about how he died. The medical examiner's office has said itcould be monthsbefore the cause of death is released.Jennifer Steffens, his boss at security firmIOActive, declined to discuss the topic in an interview with the Guardian. "That's not something we want to get into." The chief executive said the company, whose headquarters are in Seattle, would build on Jack's work. "He was a one of a kind talent but we will be continuing his research and make sure the message goes out the way he wanted."As the director of embedded security research Jack worked with a team, so there was no question of losing encrypted research, said Steffens. "He was part of the IOActive family. Nothing has been lost." What has been lost is a larger than life personality with a penchant for Jägermeister shots after a long day's hacking. "He had a very infectious laugh. He lit up a room."Jack was always on the "good side" of the industry and used his talents to help, said Steffens. "My dad had a pacemaker, and Barnaby would come over for hours and ask him a hundred questions."Friends said intellectual curiosity drove Jack to see if a villain could remotely hijack technology to steal, in the case of ATMs, or even kill, in the case of insulin pumps and pacemakers. He showed that a scene in which a terrorist kills a character in the TV series Homeland was not necessarily outlandish. "He had a flair for doing this that almost no one in our industry has," said Chris Wysopol, a longtime friend and chief technical officer of Veracode. "Barnaby liked the excitement, the thrill of the hunt."Banks and medical equipment manufacturers shuddered when he probed their technology. "They always groaned. When someone outside your company does this it's scary," said Wysopol. Over time, hesitation and fear gave way to respect, and the companies worked with Jack. His findings prompted government regulators to request greater security safeguards.Many outsiders remained suspicious of hackers, even the white hats, said Wysopol. "The general public doesn't get what we do. There's a lot of misunderstanding, as if someone who points out a fire hazard is an arsonist. We're not the guy who is making the flaw. We're the guy pointing out the flaw."In an industry of geeks, academics, executives and spooks not generally noted for showmanship, Jack stood out. Had police pulled over his van as he drove to Las Vegas for the 2010 convention they probably would have arrested him: in the back he had two ATM machines and a pile of fake dollar bills.He showed an audience how a cyber thief could steal identification numbers and ransack an ATM. When the machine spat out dollars – he called this "jackpotting" – the audience gasped and cheered. To dramatise his finding that a hacker could remotely manipulate insulin pumps to dispense potentially lethal doseshe used a mannequin torso, red liquid and a handheld antenna."He inspired others. People wanted to be like Barnaby," said Wysopol. "A lot of us are introverted or don't want to talk about what we're working on. That wasn't Barnaby." Wysopol's wife, Deb Kavaler, hasset up a fundfor the family in New Zealand.Jack's conviviality – "he never turned down a pint" – carried over into his work, said Ryan Permeh, a friend who worked with him at McAfee and other security software companies. "He was a pioneer and he was always willing to share his research, essentially giving his knowledge to people." Knowledge that was hard-earned. "He would spend three days with a piece of hardware, burn it up and then have to replace it. Hardware hacking is a contact sport."Permeh's company, Cylance, made the buttons featuring Jack's image and a single word: "Legend".
The ambitious Ubuntu Edge crowdfunding scheme, which aims to raise $32m to build a new range of powerful smartphones which can double as desktop computers, will miss its target if pledges continue in their current pattern, say two researchers.Jason Waddell and Willem Ligtenberg of statistical consulting companyOpen Analyticspredict that it will raise between $18m and $22m - and so will fail to be funded.The Guardian asked Canonical, the company behind the scheme, whether the business or its multimillionaire founder Mark Shuttleworth would step in to cover any funding gap. It responded: "If we don't reach our target there won't be an Ubuntu Edge. We greatly appreciate every bit of support we receive during the 30 days. The funding target takes into account the large cost of manufacturing a high-end smartphone."Having launched on Monday 22 July with a 30-day schedule, the project hit $3.45m in funding within 24 hours as people scrambled to get the phones, which will run both Android and a desktop Ubuntu, and would be delivered in May 2014. In the first 24 hours, 5,044 pledges were made for phones at the introductory price of $600.But in recent days the pace of pledges has slowed dramatically as the price of the available phones has risen to a minimum of $780 - so that the total has risen by less than a million dollars in the past five days. As this article was prepared the total stood at less than $8m, requiring another $24m with 20 of the 30 days left.See also:•Go ahead and order an Ubuntu Edge - but you'll wish you'd bought a tablet•Ubuntu Edge crowdfunding campaign hits $5.7m and adds lower pricesProject backings over time for successful projects on Kickstarter: the Ubuntu Edge lasts 30 days (orange line). Source: KickstarterNow, using data from Kickstarter about the typical progress of projects which meet their funding, Waddell and Ligtenberg have analysed the progress of the project - and concluded that at current rates it will attract between $18m and $22m in funding by the time its 30-day time limit is reached at 8am BST on 22 August."Even when incorporating Kickstarter's trend of an end-of-campaign bump, the Edge is projected to fall well short of its goal," they say.Writing on the Open Analytics blog, they note that every crowdfunding project passes through a "dead zone" after the hype around its initial launch, and then speeds up as it approaches the closing bell.Using data from a Kickstarter blog post showing thepatterns of projects which have succeeded there, they analysed the patterns of pledges on the Ubuntu Edge. Although it ishosted on the IndieGoGo site, the pattern of funding should be the same.Pledges (blue dots) against time for successful crowdfunding projects. Source: Open Analytics"Compared to the average Kickstarter, we can see that the Ubuntu Edge rose more sharply in the beginning and flatlined harder when entering the 'Dead Zone'," Waddell and Ligtenberg write. "This is further evidence that would-be backers are turned-off by Canonical's incremental pricing structure. As the price of securing a phone has ticked from $600 to the present value of $775, backing has slowed to a snail's pace."Ubuntu Edge funding progress to 1 August: • black line shows actual pledges
• red line is required progress
• the blue line the forecast, hitting $22mThe Guardian's own figures show that pledges for phones have dropped dramatically since Saturday from over 500 per day in its first week to an average of 244 per day. Canonical, the company behind Ubuntu which is behind the scheme, has introduced new levels including a $50 pledge which secures a T-shirt - but those are not compensating for the number of phones that have so far not been taken. One key tier, the $80,000 "Enterprise" purchase which allocates 100 of the phones for enterprise use, as well as "30 days of online support to held CIOs and IT managers integrate Ubuntu for Android into the workplace", has seen no backers so far out of a possible 50. If that category were fully pledged, it would raise $4m alone.Waddell and Ligtenberg say that they estimate that the project will end up securing $22m in funding - which would make it the largest-ever crowdfunding scheme, but still fall short of its aim. Under the project's rules, that would mean that any pledges will be refunded.
How much do you like courgettes? According toone Facebook page devoted to them, hundreds of people find them delightful enough to click the "like" button – even with dozens of other pages about courgettes to choose from.There's just one problem: the liking was fake, done by a team of low-paid workers in Dhaka, Bangladesh, whose boss demanded just $15 per thousand "likes" at his "click farm". Workers punching the keys might be on a three-shift system, and be paid as little as $120 a year.The ease with which a humble vegetable could win approval calls into question the basis on which many modern companies measure success online – through Facebook likes, YouTube video views and Twitter followers.Channel 4's Dispatches programme will on Monday reveal the extent to which click farms risk eroding user confidence in what had looked like an objective measure of social online approval.A Facebook page devoted to courgettes with hundreds of 'likes' Photograph: FacebookThe disclosures could hurt Facebook as it tries to persuade firms away from advertising on Google and to use its own targeted advertising, and to chase likes as a measure of approval.That particular Facebook page on courgettes was set up by the programme makers to demonstrate how click farms can give web properties spurious popularity."There's a real desire amongst many companies to boost their profile on social media, and find other customers as well as a result," said Graham Cluley, an independent security consultant.The importance of likes is considerable with consumers: 31% will check ratings and reviews, including likes and Twitter followers, before they choose to buy something, research suggests. That means click farms could play a significant role in potentially misleading consumers.'Russell', the manager of the click farm identified by DispatchesDispatches found one boss in Bangladesh who boasted of being "king of Facebook" for his ability to create accounts and then use them to create hundreds or thousands of fake likes.Click farms have become a growing challenge for companies which rely on social media measurements – meant to indicate approval by real users – to estimate the popularity of their products.For the workers, though, it is miserable work, sitting at screens in dingy rooms facing a blank wall, with windows covered by bars, and sometimes working through the night. For that, they could have to generate 1,000 likes or follow 1,000 people on Twitter to earn a single US dollar.Sam DeSilva, a lawyer specialising in IT and outsourcing law at Manches LLP in Oxford, says of the fake clicks: "Potentially, a number of laws are being breached – the consumer protection and unfair trading regulations. Effectively it's misleading the individual consumers."Dispatches discovered an online casino which had sublicensed the Monopoly brand from its owner, the games company Hasbro, and to which fake likes had been added on its Facebook page.When contacted, Hasbro contacted Facebook and the page was taken down. In a statement, Hasbro said it was "appalled to hear of what had occurred" and was unaware of the page.Dhaka-registered Shareyt.com, meanwhile, claims to act as a middleman to connect companies seeking to boost their profile on Facebook, Twitter, Google +1, LinkedIn and YouTube."We made it as simple as mouse-clicking," the front page of the site says, claiming that it is "a crowd-sourcing platform to help you improve social media presence and search engine ranking FREE".It adds: "Whenever and wherever you need massive workforce to complete petty tasks, call for Shareyt and get it done like magic! You can't imagine the potentials [sic] until you explore!" It claims to have generated 1.4m Facebook likes and to have 83,000 registered users.The implication is that the site "crowdsources" clicks – that lots of people around the world mutually help each other to promote each others' work.But Sharaf al-Nomani, Shareyt's owner, told Dispatches in an undercover meeting that "around 30% or 40% of the clicks will come from Bangladesh" – which implies about 25,000 people in Dhaka using computers laboriously and repetitively for hours on end to boost the visibility of specific products to order.Some companies have used shareyt.com in the course of standard marketing.Sir Billi, a British cartoon film voiced by Sir Sean Connery,has more than 65,000 Facebook likes– more than some Hollywood films.Although it has so far only been released in South Korea, Facebook data suggests the city of Dhaka is the source of the third-largest number of likes. (The Egyptian capital, Cairo, is presently the source of the highest number.)Tessa Hartmann of Billi Productions, which made the film, said they had been promoting it since 2006, and paid £271.40 to advertise it on shareyt.com in August 2012 for six months as a "very small" part of their marketing campaign. At the time, she says, it already had 40,000 Facebook likes. Her company stopped using the site in February.A link also appeared on shareyt.com to Coca-Cola's 2010 Super Bowl advertisement "Hard Times", showing the Simpsons' Mr Burns learning to get by on less (but with Coke).The video's presence on the site is likely to have helped its nearly 6m views. Coke said in a statement that it "did not approve of fake fans"; the video was made private soon afterwards.Shareyt.com has now seen Facebook and Twitter prevent links to the site being posted on their networks. Twitter bans "fake followers" or the buying of followers.Faked internet use has been a bugbear of the burgeoning advertising industry ever since the web went commercial in the mid-1990s and the first banner ad was rolled out in 1996.The rise of advertising networks and "pay-per-click" advertising – where an advertiser pays the network when someone clicks on an advert, whether or not it leads to a sale – also saw a rise in faked clicks which benefited unscrupulous networks.And it is still a problem. In February, Microsoft and Symantecshut down a "botnet" of up to 1.8m PCsthat were being used to create an average of 3m clicks per day, raking in $1m per year since 2009.But click farms exploit a different sort of computing power altogether: the rise of cheap labour paired with low-cost connectivity to the internet."Russell", the manager of the click farm identified by Dispatches, said some of the methods he used were legitimate; he blamed those who commissioned the work if it was seen as immoral.In a statement, Facebook responded: "A like that doesn't come from someone truly interested in connecting with the brand benefits no one. If you run a Facebook page and someone offers you a boost in your fan count in return for money, our advice is to walk away – not least because it is against our rules and there is a good chance those likes will be deleted by our automatic systems."We investigate and monitor "like-vendors" and if we find that they are selling fake likes, or generating conversations from fake profiles, we will quickly block them from our platform."Dispatches: Celebs, Brands and Fake Fans on Channel 4 at 8pm on Monday• This article was amended on 5 August 2013 to add a response from Facebook that was received after publication.
A senior Microsoft executive has revealed that the clock speed of the Xbox One graphics processing unit has been increased. Speaking onthe podcast of Xbox mouthpiece Larry 'Major Nelson' Hryb, corporate vice-president Marc Whitten claimed that the speed had been increased from 800 to 853mhz, ostensibly providing a 6% increase in graphics processing performance.Furthermore, Whitten has claimed that the graphics drivers provided to developers have been updated – meaning that studios should be able to better tune their code to the final architecture of the machine."Since E3, we've dropped in what we internally call our mono driver," he said. "It's our graphics driver that really is 100% optimised for the Xbox One hardware. You start with the base DirectX driver, and then you take out all parts that don't look like Xbox One and you add in everything that really optimises that experience. Almost all of our content partners have really picked it up now, and I think it's made a really nice improvement."It is, however, common for console manufacturers to regularly update development kits with new drivers, APIs and libraries before the release of a new machine.Meanwhile, Whitten also spoke briefly about the Xbox One's 'asynchronous matchmaking' system, which is designed to make it easier for gamers to set up multiplayer sessions that aren't full of potty-mouthed teenagers."We're now deeply integrating the live services," said Whitten. "Look at an example like 'smart match' – it's our ability to rethink how we do matching, to make sure you get into the matches that you want, and that game developers have the ability to really tailor those around your skill, and also other factors like the type of people you like to play with and the types of matches you like to play in."Essentially, players are able to keep a matchmaking window for a favourite title open, even when they're on the dashboard or playing something else. The app remembers the players' friends and preferred opponents, match settings, etc, and pushes a notification at them when there are enough participants available."When your friends are ready to play, you can drop back in," said Whitten. "That for us has been really key in how we've thought about building the system."Both Microsoft and Sony are holding press conferences at this month's Gamescom event in Cologne. It is likely that the company's will finalise the exact dates for their hardware launches, and new game announcements are also possible.Xbox One and drivers: a developer respondsGames programmer Byron Atkinson-Jones is the founder of indie developer Xiotex, and once worked at Microsoft's Lionhead Studios. He listened to Whitten's comments about the Xbox One graphics drivers. Here's what he had to say."What he's saying is that Microsoft has introduced an interface for XBox One developers to make using the hardware a lot easier – what we call an abstraction layer. This presents the hardware in a more human friendly way, making something that might otherwise be complex to control into something a little easier to harness. Most of the early work in games development is what we call boilerplate stuff – it's what we all have to do in order to get the consoles up and running ready for our games, and it all looks identical. He's saying that the driver is going to be the way to talk to the hardware without going down to the register level. The hardcore will want a lower-level access than that, but for the rest of us it's mostly going to be fine."My first reaction is that this is a strange thing to be talking about. It's going back to the days when we used to announce how many dot products the hardware could do per frame – do consumers care about that kind of thing?"Maybe it's okay from a dev point of view – it's all about ease of use. However, it also sounds like yet more, 'there's a layer of abstraction between the developer and the real machine' and in this sense it's seeming more and more like a PC rather than a dedicated games console."This is not necessarily bad. I for one jumped for joy when Sony announced the PS4 was more of a PC architecture. What worries me though is that given it's a driver based architecture, does that mean that Microsoft can turn on and off certain features depending on which developer level you are? I.e. are you an indie developer or an AAA developer?"
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which was published earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Ladybird: Read it Yourself (£1.99)This is the latest app from book publisher Penguin's Ladybird imprint, and it's a store-plus-reader for its range of Read it Yourself children's books. The app includes famous fairytales as well as stories from brands like Peppa Pig, Charlie and Lola and Moshi Monsters, with four reading levels, comprehension questions and reading guides for parents and teachers. Four stories are included, with the others available as £1.99 in-app purchases.iPadQuip (Free)Quip claims to be a "modern word processor" designed for collaboration across different devices. Aimed at workplaces as well as domestic use, it presents documents in "chat-like" update threads, showing which users are online and using Twitter-like @mentions to link to people and documents.iPhone / iPadLumosity (Free)Brain-training app Lumosity has been available on iPhone for some time, but this is a separate iPad-only version of the app. Based around "scientific workouts", its mini-games aim to have a noticeable effect on your memory, attention and other skills. The company behind it stresses its neuroscientific credentials, but just as importantly, the mini-games are fun rather than dry, making it a daily habit that never feels like a chore.iPadThe Drowning (Free)There's lots of interest in Mobage's latest game The Drowning for its attempt to rethink the way first-person shooter controls work on a touchscreen. In a nutshell, you tap on the screen to walk to a specific point, swipe to look around, and tap two fingers to shoot – the bullets fire in the middle of them. The controls work well, but the mixture of junk-scavenging and in-app purchases to upgrade your weapons may not be so familiar to Western mobile gamers. It's intriguing though: a breath of fresh air for the genre.iPhone / iPadBT Sport (Free)BT Sport went live this week in the UK to give BSkyB a run for its money in TV sports coverage. Its app is also available, promising live streams of the BT Sport 1, BT Sport 2 and ESPN channels (plus the odd exclusive), catch-up with previously-aired shows, video highlights and second-screen features for people watching live Premier League football matches.iPhone / iPadTransformers Construct-Bots (Free)In theory, this is for children. In practice, I suspect it'll be as appealing to parents of the right age to have grown up with Transformers. The app is all about constructing virtual robots-in-disguise then sending them into battle, earning virtual coins to spend on new parts and upgrades. These can also be unlocked by scanning codes in real Transformers toys.iPhone / iPadPhaidon Architecture Travel Guide (£2.49)Off on holiday abroad? This handy app will ensure you know about any famous buildings worth seeing near your destination. It catalogues more than 1,500 buildings in total, browsable by location, building type and the architect responsible. High-definition images are provided for each – hence the meaty 1.15GB file-size.iPhone / iPadZagat (Free)Now a Google subsidiary, restaurant, bar and public venue reviews guide Zagat has returned to the App Store as a free iPhone app, initially for nine cities in the US only, with more to follow. It aims to provide an accessible and fast way to find good places nearby, including menus and table reservations through a partnership with OpenTable.iPhoneRymdkapsel (£2.49)There is considerable buzz around Rymdkapsel this week, and with good reason: it's an addictive, accessible game that offers a twist on the real-time strategy genre. The emphasis is on building a space-base through Tetris-like block-placement, while fending off waves of enemies. It's simple in all the best ways, and well worth the purchase price.iPhone / iPadDropchord (£1.99)Dropchord is a music game by Double Fine Productions (ofKickstarter fame) that sees you manipulating an on-screen laser beam while dodging scratches and collecting notes. Neon-tastic visuals and a 10-track electronica soundtrack add to the fun.iPhone / iPadMidnight Feast (£2.49)Aimed at older children – cue "mild horror" warning on the App Store – this is an engrossing picture-book centred on a girl staying up late for a mysterious midnight feast. It's genuinely eerie in places, although there's an option for parents to turn off the scariest bits for younger kids. But the beautiful illustrations make it stand out from the digital-books crowd.iPadMy Muppets Show (Free)It's time to play the music... This new game from Disney turns the Muppets into a free-to-play resource management game, with a musical twist. It involves recruiting a house band from more than 20 Muppets, then keeping them happy and levelling up their skills to make beautiful music. In-app purchases of virtual diamonds fund the action.iPhone / iPadLearn with Homer (Free)That's Homer as in a friendly cartoon homing pigeon, rather than Homer Simpson (thankfully). This is a well-crafted reading comprehension programme from the US, blending stories, phonics exercises and a creative drawing-and-recording section to help 3-6 year-old children learning to read. A separate parents' website helps them track kids' progress, too.iPadMusaic (Free)Smartphones are overrun with music discovery apps in 2013, even if evidence suggests many of them aren't being discovered by many users. Musaic is the latest to throw its hat in the ring, and it does look polished. It's a way to see what friends and tastemakers are listening to, create playlists with other people, and listen to songs from Spotify, Rdio and SoundCloud.iPhoneDragons of Atlantis: Heirs of the Dragon (Free)Dragons are hot this year thanks to a combination of Game of Thrones on TV and Puzzle &amp; Dragons on mobile devices. This is the separate mobile version of Kabam's Dragons of Atlantis Facebook game – the two aren't connected – and sees players raising and customising dragons before sending them off to fight (or ally with) those of other players.iPhone / iPadOur Discovery Island: Phonic Tricksters (Free)It's a good week for new educational children's apps, with this one coming from Pearson. It's a phonics-learning game that uses the iPhone's camera, with kids catching the Trickster characters from the world around them, then answering phonics questions to stop them escaping. Inventive and fun.iPhoneDipdap (£1.99)Dipdap is a marvellous series of animated shorts that airs on CBeebies here in the UK, but now it's got an app. Like the show, it's based around scribbled drawings and the Dipdap character's reactions to them, with 16 missions to draw specific objects, and a free-draw mode for children to experiment with.iPhone / iPadEdinburgh Book Trails (£5.99)Heading to Edinburgh for its annual festival? This app may be just the thing for a spot of exploration. It's a collection of literary walks around the city, based on locations associated with writers who've lived and worked there. A location-based treasure hunt and augmented reality features are thrown in for fun, too.iPhoneThe First World War Story - BBC History Magazine (£4.99)Immediate Media's magazine-app aims to tell the story of the first world war with a mixture of articles, audio lectures, videos and images, covering the 1914-1918 war and its origins and aftermath.iPadDisconnect Kids (Free)There's been a lot of talk about ethical children's apps in recent months, much of it focusing on in-app purchases. But there are also debates going on about ads and tracking within kids' apps and websites. This, from startup Disconnect, aims to teach children and parents about online privacy, while also blocking "the 20 most prevalent trackers of mobile browsing and app activity".iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
People are afraid to merge on the freeways of online racing games. While first-person shooters like Battlefield have turned the deathmatch into a mainstream activity, many console gamers are still wary of driving online. The genius of Criterion's Need For Speed titles, with their compelling Autolog function, was that they provided that sense of group competition without the sorrow of being left in the dust by seven other drivers. Now Evolution Studios wants to take things one step further. It wants to make driving online as seamless and inclusive as loading up Call of Duty and slipping into a battlezone.The idea of DriveClub has been floating around at Evolution Studios for 10 years. While still making PlayStation 2 rally games in the early 2000s, the studio was toying with the idea of a game about driving the industry's best cars through the world's most astonishing locations – and sharing it all with friends.But even during the PlayStation 3 era, the team felt the technology and audience weren't there – the online gaming sector was dominated by shooters; hardcore experiences for committed players. That wasn't what DriveClub was going to be about. Then came the rise of social networking, and social gaming, and it became clear that a new era of hyper-connected play was approaching.DriveClub is a game about gangs. Participants can join or form driving squads of up to 12 players, before competing in a huge range of tournaments and competitions – some set by the game, some organised and promoted by the groups themselves. Winning events provides 'fame' – the familiar racing sim take on XP – and this allows your team to access better vehicles and races. You can only be in one club at a time, although you can elect to transfer your allegiances whenever you like – and once you've joined a club, you get a share in their winnings, and the benefits of their current level. Plus, talented players can be headhunted by rival teams via the game's built-in messaging system, so things are going to get pretty heated. The concept is simple: everything and everyone is connected."When we were asked a couple of years ago to come up with another new IP for a console launch, we knew straightaway which idea to go with," says studio game director, Matt Southern. "We thought, OK, we've had this concept simmering for a number of years, it felt like the time was right because networked gaming had matured. Within Sony, we were contributing to a conversation about the pillars of PS4, about how important it would be to make games accessible, social and connected. It all lined up."All for one, one for allDriveClub draws inspiration for its club-based structure from two quite different genres: the first-person shooter and the MMORPG. As in a Call of Duty team match, every member contributes toward the success of the unit while also improving their own stats – whatever the outcome of the bout."Before PS3 launched, the number one game every Christmas was a racing sim, usually Need For Speed, it almost became cliche," says Southern. "Then, over the console's life-cycle, the shooter took over. We did some research with the Sony guys in the US and we found that people moved from racers to shooters because, when they played together online, they didn't like it when only one person could win. Squad-based shooters really nailed that, especially the first Modern Warfare where you could really feel a sense of reward; you could level up and unlock abilities even if you were hopeless. As long as you were in a group of people where at least some of them were doing well, you made progress. We wanted to nail that with DriveClub, we wanted people to feel it was worth racing, even if they never crossed the winning line first."Every track in the game, then, has a range of side-objectives, separated into two strands. Overdrive tasks automatically reward you for whatever you do in game – donuts, drifts, high speeds – any skill-based activity gets you fame points. Then there are Face-Offs, dynamically generated challenges which test your cornering, drifting or average speed against one other racer on the track for a set amount of fame. So just as in, say, Black Ops II where you can be rewarded for beating a close rival, every race becomes a sort of macro-event housing dozens of duelling sub-plots.Community spiritWhat the game also clearly draws from is the massively multiplayer RPG. Like World of Warcraft, DriveClub is about joining a guild, battling through the whole game together, and levelling up as one: every race is a quest. But there are wider parallels too. "The big similarity is that this is going to be a service driven game," says game director, Col Rodgers. "Once it is out, we will be streaming a lot of content at gamers. There will be developer-driven event lists which are likely to be sponsored, but there will be lots more content like new game modes. What you buy on day one is a ticket to a community that grows around you."The way DriveClub integrates that sense of community – and the way it presents a dynamic live experience – hints at how all games may work in the next generation. Thanks to PS4's system-level compatibility with social networks, players will be able to tie in their Facebook profiles and compete under their real names, against all their Facebook pals. Immediately the social range is widened. But it goes deeper than that."What we've tried to do is look even more closely into the growth of the social network phenomenon," says Southern. "What is it about them that's so fascinating? We worked very closely with one of our partner groups in the London studio, the online technology group, and looked at the emerging trends in browser and social network games. One of the things we learned was how important analytics were going to be. It was possible for us to acquire data from business intelligence in Soho, but it could take a while. However, what we saw from social games was that you needed that data immediately – even if it's a day late, it's growing stale."So Evolution started talking to Sony about pulling out data from the game servers more quickly. The studio then used its Vita release Motorstorm RC to prototype some of its new ideas on social integration and analytics-based design. The studio studied all the live gameplay stats, working out the most popular circuits, the best cars, the bottlenecks in single-player progression. The team also looked at the social impact of players sending each other challenges – they found that people were forging new PlayStation Network friendships through the system. The idea had legs."On the face of it, it looks quite sinister," says Southern. "But it's actually really improving the experience – it is mutually beneficial. We could see what was most popular, we were experimenting with micro transactions, we were finding difficulty spikes and addressing them. It felt that the studio had moved forward; we'd found one of those important last steps for the DriveClub concept."So, like a social network, and the games that run on them, DriveClub will apparently adapt to community behaviours and iterate accordingly. Evolution plans to use the console's micro-patching service to tweak gameplay elements and send out mini-updates, which owners will then seamlessly download. "We can even update the handling," says game director, Paul Rustchynsky. "If there are any balancing issues – if anyone says 'this car is 0.1 second slower than it should be at 0-60mph' – we can make adjustments like that."Player behaviours may even affect how the game is downloaded, with the most popular tracks being prioritised so fans can jump in and play straight away, while the rest is still loading in. As studio group technical director Scott Kirkland explains, "If we recognise that a majority of people take a particular path through the game that we didn't anticipate, we could dynamically modify the default order that the digital version of the game gets pulled down in – and actually, that same technique could apply to how the data is pulled off the Blu-ray as well. We can continue to make the experience better for the player."Keeping connectedThe team was also researching the theory of social networks – the way we expand our circle of friends online. They studied Grouped, the acclaimed book by ex-Facebook researcher Paul Adams; he writes about how people tend to socialise in small independent groups, and that social networks are designed to bridge the gaps between them. In this way, the influence of weaker social links grows and the service becomes more compulsive."There are really simple ideas about how we're connected and how this influences us," says Southern. "It's simple stuff: you're connected to your friends and through them to your friends' friends … These people who you don't necessarily know have an amazing amount of influence over you. We're connected to people we don't know, so we thought, let's make a racing game that's about these people and those connections. It was revelatory to us – it's not the sort of research you find at a games company, it's traditionally market research, but we could see it was a way of building on the gameplay mechanics we'd ceded in Motorostorm RC. There was a massive increase in the PSN friends lists of people who owned our game; people were building networks while playing this game together. It was very academic, but it felt like a very useable approach to a different type of socially driven racing game."Consequently, DriveClub looks like a social network as soon as it loads up. There's no static menu screen at the front end – instead, players enter the game via the Discover page, which Rustchynsky refers to as "An overview of your life in DriveClub". It shows the latest tournaments and events info from the wider community, as well as feeds of what your friends are up to; beyond them, the links go out to mutual friends, forging links."The interface is part of the game experience," says design director, Simon Barlow. "You can spend a lot of time in there exploring the social feeds, and all the different challenges. We've adopted a web development approach to the front end – instead of hard-coding a UI as we would traditionally, we thought, OK, if we need to start interfacing with the DriveClub app and with external servers, this needs to be more flexible. So we've used a lot of embedded web technology in the interface itself: not only is it live, it's very easily moddable, it's easily updated, we can micro-patch it. That flexibility is key."DriveClub isn't a social game in the sense we have come to know it. The idea is, it's a game that invites you to join a community. And perhaps the most important part of this is that there is no plot, no over-arching narrative for everyone to contribute to. The story is you, your club and your progress. It will be fascinating to see how that works, and whether it points us to a new era beyond wonky matchmaking services and anonymous lobbies. Evolution believes it will."The fundamental idea was to make it into a form of social media for racers," says Rodgers. "Rather than having a strict fiction that we lead you through, what we want to do is give you a collection of tools so you can make your own game experience with your team, to set up your own challenges on certain tracks at certain times of day … That's what we were aiming for."Come back on Wednesday for a look at how DriveClub shows us the future of console visuals.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).BT Sport (Free)BT Sport went live this week in the UK to give BSkyB a run for its money in TV sports coverage. Its app is also available, promising live streams of the BT Sport 1, BT Sport 2 and ESPN channels (plus the odd exclusive), catch-up with previously-aired shows, video highlights and second-screen features for people watching live Premier League football matches.Homestyler (Free)Autodesk's Homestyler app is aimed at anyone thinking of redecorating their house. It gets you to take a photo of a room, then fiddle about with 3D models of furniture to see how they might look, trying out different colours and textures, while browsing the "design stream" to get ideas.My Muppets Show (Free)It's time to play the music... This new game from Disney turns the Muppets into a free-to-play resource management game, with a musical twist. It involves recruiting a house band from more than 20 Muppets, then keeping them happy and levelling up their skills to make beautiful music. In-app purchases of virtual diamonds fund the action.Breezie (£299)No, that price isn't a typo, but then Breezie isn't just an app. For your 300 quid you get a Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 Android tablet with Breezie pre-installed, plus a year's subscription to the service. And that service is? An attempt to make Android easier to use for "digitally isolated over 55s" without patronising them. And the device can then be remotely managed by family members or Breezie's own staff.Google AdSense (Free)Google's latest app is clearly only useful if you run a website running AdSense ads. If that's you, expect the ability to browse how much money you're making, analytics of top custom and URL channels, and get individual payment alerts. More features are planned for the coming months.Rymdkapsel (£3.29)There is considerable buzz around Rymdkapsel this week, and with good reason: it's an addictive, accessible game that offers a twist on the real-time strategy genre. The emphasis is on building a space-base through Tetris-like block-placement, while fending off waves of enemies. It's simple in all the best ways, and well worth the purchase price.Dropchord (£1.97)This may be the best week for new Android games in the platform's history, with a host of impressive new titles jostling for attention. Dropchord is a music game by Double Fine Productions (ofKickstarter fame) that sees you manipulating an on-screen laser beam while dodging scratches and collecting notes. Neon-tastic visuals and a 10-track electronica soundtrack add to the fun.Tunester (Free)If Rymdkapsel is minimalist and Dropchord is musical, here's something minimalist and musical. Tunester is a music-player app for Android that tries to strip out unnecessary feature-clutter in order to make finding and playing your music collection as fast as possible. Its developer is promising plenty more "surprises" in future updates, making this one to watch.Blood Sword THD (£0.57)One reason for the flurry of new games this week is the release of Nvidia's Shield handheld gaming device. Blood Sword THD is one of the key launch titles, although it'll run on any Android device with a Tegra 4 processor inside. Expect big swords, bigger monsters and plenty of spiffingly-presented combat.Office Mobile for Office 365 (Free)Microsoft's long-awaited Office Mobile app is – for now at least – only available in the US for Android smartphones. Tablet owners and the rest of the world will have to wait a little longer. It also requires an Office 365 subscription. If you fulfil the necessary requirements, you'll be able to view and edit Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents, including email attachments.Bamboo Loop (Free)Bamboo Loop is the work of Wacom, designed to work with its Bamboo range of stylus accessories – although it also promises to be "finger-friendly". It's a photo-sharing app with Instagram-style filters, and the twist that you can scribble on pics before sharing them on Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and Instagram itself, or sending them directly to a friend.Choplifter HD (£3.28)Helicopter-rescue game Choplifter's latest incarnation is also out in time for the Nvidia Shield's debut, as you fly through a series of 3D environments completing 30 missions of a military nature. Including shaking off zombies, which as far as I'm aware, isn't a part of real-world military helicopter training. Not yet, anyway.Tainted Keep (£3.28)More Tegra-powered gaming here – this time for Tegra 3 and Tegra 4 devices – with a high-quality dungeoncrawling game based around saving a village from a nefarious wizard named Morg. Spells, swords and monsters all over the shop.TouchFree Photo HomeSync (£1.62)One for tech-savvier Android users this: an app that automatically uploads photos and videos from your smartphone to your home server at the same time every night, when in range of your Wi-Fi network. It requires a PHP web-server on the network, with the developer promising support for Google's new Chromecast TV-dongle soon.Hero Forge (Free)Hero Forge has been around for a while in beta, but is now available to everyone on Google Play. Like a growing number of mobile games, it combines RPG-style features with match-puzzlingL in this case, 3D blocks that you put together in rounds, while also crafting weapons and armour.Word Bucket (Free)This is certainly ambitious: "Your language dictionary, notebook and word learning game all in one great app". It's an app for language-learning through vocabulary, covering Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese, Chinese, Arabic, Korean, Japanese, Russian and English. Mini-games provide the actual learning, and there are social features to link with friends too.Blastron (Free)Turn-based robo-combat game Blastron has proved popular on iOS, but now Android users can join in the fun. Published by social gaming firm Kabam, it sees you collecting weapons, upgrading your robot and competing against other players around the world in the platform-based action.Transit App (Free)Another one for Americans: this app covers 43 cities across the US, pulling in timetables for public transit of all kinds, and showing you on a map when the next departures are from the nearest station/stop.Chuck's Challenge 3D (Free)Another game "enriched" for Nvidia's Shield handheld, Chuck's Challenge comes from the same braincells that invented popular puzzler Chip's Challenge. That means 125 levels to find your way through, overcoming obstacles and solving puzzles as you go. The game also includes a level creator to make your own and share them with other players – or just browse and play what the community has been creating.Twine (Free)Finally, a local social networking app – the latest among many, admittedly. Twine wants to connect you with "people nearby that share similar interests with you... your mobile wingman that knows what topics both of you would enjoy talking about". Which rather relies on lots of people using it, while its aim for an "even ratio of guys to girls" seems ambitious. Even so, mobile flirting apps can get popular very quickly, so it's worth watching.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Blog | SQUARE ENIXUnsurprising news from SquareEnix CEO Phil Rogers:Square Enix is in production with a number of next generation projects, including Final Fantasy XV and Kingdom Hearts III, which were announced at this year's E3, and Thief coming in 2014. I am also excited to reveal that we are well into development on a next-generation Tomb Raider sequel – something you may have heard about recently!Aaaand, that's pretty much it for now. It'll be interesting to see how Crystal Dynamics exploits the new capabilities of the PS4 and Xbox One – but I doubt we'll find out anything more for a while.GTAV could sell 20 million units by March, says analyst | GameSpot.comGrand Theft Auto V has the potential to sell 18-20 million units by the end of Take-Two's fiscal year in March 2014, according to Sterne Agee analyst Arvind Bhatia.The game has the opportunity to perform "substantially better" than 2008's Grand Theft Auto IV because the console installed base is now an estimated three times larger, Bhatia said in a note to investors.GTA V vs Call of Duty Ghosts will be fascinating this winter.No More Cheats or Jerks - Reputation on Xbox One | Xbox Wirejust nowMicheal Dunn, program manager on Xbox Live, has written a blog post on Xbox Wire, all about how jerks and cheats won't prosper on Xbox One:So, how are we doing this? We are simplifying the mechanism for Xbox One – moving from a survey option to more direct feedback, including things like "block" or "mute player" actions into the feedback model. The new model will take all of the feedback from a player's online flow, put it in the system with a crazy algorithm we created and validated with an MSR PhD to make sure things are fair for everyone.Ultimately, your reputation score will determine which category you are assigned – "Green = Good Player," "Yellow = Needs Improvement" or "Red = Avoid Me." Looking at someone's gamer card you'll be able to quickly see their reputation. And, your reputation score is ultimately up to you. The more hours you play online without being a jerk, the better your reputation will be; similar to the more hours you drive without an accident, the better your driving record and insurance rates will be. Most players will have good reputations and be seen as a "Good Player." The algorithm is looking to identify players that are repeatedly disruptive on Xbox Live.Ubisoft to show off "new next-gen IP" at gamescom | VG247Detailing its gamescom line-up today, the publisher said that it will "share details on a new next-gen IP currently in development" during the event.Last month, Ubisoft said it would be skipping a conference this year to focus on its show floor presence, so we can probably expect a reveal during Microsoft or Sony's conference.Naturally this mysterious tease is designed to surprise us, but the canny money is on Child of Light, which is getting a trade reveal at GDC Europe just days before. It's a new project from Patrick Plourde, creative director on Far Cry 3 and lead designer of two Assassin's Creed games.Losses grow at PlayStation as PS4 R&amp;D ramps up | MCVSony's gaming division has seen operating losses grow from ¥3.5bn to ¥14.8bn ($149m) for the quarter ending June 2013.Sales were flat at ¥117.9bn "primarily due to a decrease in unit sales of the PS3, PSP and PS2" while gaming losses "increased significantly primarily due to an increase in research and development expenses related to the upcoming introduction of the PS4".I expect the next generation can't come quickly enough...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Google has unveiled an American-built "self-driving" smartphone, the first made from scratch by Motorola since it was acquired by the internet company last year.Using voice control as its standout feature, the Moto X is designed to be inpermanent listening mode, able to serve up directions, a weather forecast or dial a number in response to a spoken command.Using similar technology to the Google Glass spectacles which the company is preparing for commercial launch, the device can be operated hands free. By speaking the trigger words "OK Google now", users will be able to wake up the phone without touching its screen."Google is the first to commercialise the self-driving car," said Motorola chief executive Dennis Woodside, in a reference to the vehicles Google's laboratories have been developing. "This is the first self-driving phone."The Moto X is the most high profile attempt by Google's founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin to mesh software and hardware creation under one roof, emulating the business model that helped Apple become the world's most valuable company.While Apple introduced the world to voice commands through its Siri application, it has been criticised for its limited functionality and integration with other application in the phone, and must be activated by pushing the home button.Google is using the Moto X to push the limits of voice control, but it also responds to motion. Sensors linked to the phone's camera allow it to be launched by two twists of the wrist, and the shutter is triggered by touching any part of the screen.The company is embracing the "made in America" banner as a point of difference. In another deliberate contrast to Apple, whose reliance on Foxconn's assembly plants in China has left it open to accusations of allowing the iPhone to be produced by poorly treated workers, Google will assemble its handset at a newly opened and Motorola owned factory in Texas."Users have large screens, they have voice control – so at the end of the day what may attract users to replace their current smartphone is a completely new experience," said IDC analyst Francisco Jeronimo. "In my opinion, it's one of the biggest trends of the next year."Google is also counting on the appeal of customisation. When ordering their handset, new owners will be able to choose front and back case colours and order their names or a short message engraved into the body of the phone, via an online service called Moto Maker.With smartphone ownership approaching saturation point among high- to middle-income earners in the west, the Moto X is priced at the budget end of the market.Featuring a 4.7 inch screen and a 10 megapixel camera, it will cost from $199 (£132) on contract for a handset with 16GB of storage. However, Google has no plans yet to release the handset in Europe. It will go on sale in the United States, Canada and Latin America from late August or early September.• This article was amended on 2 August 2013. The original referred to 16MB rather than 16GB of storage and has been corrected.
The Home Office has found itself at the centre of a Twitter storm amid mounting criticism of its tactics to crack down on illegal immigration.Users of the service poured scorn on the government department'sofficial Twitter accountas it posted details of raids made against people suspected of working illegally in the UK.The account posted several updates on arrests, includingpixelated photos of suspects, made at locations including London, Durham, Manchester, Wales and Somerset.The Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker tweeted: "Hey @ukhomeoffice why not make your tweet-a-long-a-stormtroop gallery of brown folk thrown in vans even more dystopian by using cattleprods?"Comedian David Schneider tweeted: "I'm enjoying @ukhomeoffice's tweeting of the preliminary rounds of the UK Hunger Games."The tweets were tagged with the hashtag #immigrationoffenders. While most posts mentioned those targeted were suspects, one did not.A post stating that 139 people had been arrested on Thursday links to a government web page headlined "Immigration offenders arrested in Home Office operations",which twice describes those arrested as offenders before mentioning they are at this stage merely suspects.The immigration minister, Mark Harper, said: in a statement: "Today's operations highlight the routine work we are carrying out every day to stamp out illegal working. We are sending a clear message to employers who choose to use illegal labour – we will find you and you will pay a heavy penalty."But David Allen Green, legal correspondent for the New Statesman, tweeted: "For the @ukhomeoffice to say those arrested are already #immigrationoffenders is to prejudge their cases and possibly contempt."Mirror columnist Susie Boniface aka Fleet Street Fox tweeted: "If we all reported @ukhomeoffice as spam they can't deport us. DO IT.At least I don't think they could deport us. They'd probably try. Especially if we looked a bit tanned."The tweets follow the controversial anti-immigration advertising campaign targeting racially mixed areas of London.The campaign has used mobile billboards warning illegal immigrants to "go home or face arrest".The adverts are being challenged through the courts and have been reported to the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) by a Labour peer.Independent columnist Owen Jones criticised the Home Office tweets for continuing the government's hardcore rhetoric on immigration, criticising them as an attempt to win back voters from Ukip.He tweeted: "Whatever concerns you might have about immigration, check out the @ukhomeoffice account and tell me you're proud to British #divideandrule."Sick joke is @ukhomeoffice feed is trying to get media coverage. Blatant taxpayer-funded Tory attempt to exploit fears for electoral gain."Concerns have been raised about recent anti-immigration operations in London and Barry Gardiner, the Labour MP for Brent North, has written to the home secretary, Theresa May, following reports of spot checks.The Independent reported that he demanded an investigation into the checks which he said violated "fundamental freedoms"."We do not yet live in a society where the police or any other officers of the law are entitled to detain people without reasonable justification and demand their papers," Gardiner wrote. "The actions of your department would however appear to be hastening us in that direction."Writing in the Independent, Dave Garratt, the chief executive of charity Refugee Action, warned that the operations could "incite racial tensions"."Over the last few weeks we've seen some very visible signs of the government's 'hostile environment' crusade. There have been vans out on the streets with threatening slogans and, reportedly, non-white people being visibly stopped and searched," he wrote.A Home Office spokesman defended the tactics: "We make no apology for enforcing our immigration laws and our officers carry out hundreds of operations like this every year around London."The immigration bill, which will be introduced later this year, will carry proposals to tackle rogue businesses by increasing the amount they will be charged if they are found to be employing illegal workers.The shadow immigration minister, Chris Bryant, called on the home secretary to provide reassurance that people were not being stopped by immigration officials because of their ethnicity.He said: "Intelligence-led operations to remove illegal immigrants are to be welcomed. Racial profiling is not."
A burst of 15 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSecure browsing by default &gt;&gt; FacebookWe now use https by default for all Facebook users. This feature, which we first introduced as an option two years ago, means that your browser is told to communicate with Facebook using a secure connection, as indicated by the "https" rather than "http" in https://www.facebook.com. This uses Transport Layer Security (TLS), formerly known as Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), and makes the communication between your browser and Facebook servers more secure.One has to wonder whether the NSA knew about this ahead of time.New iPhone with biometric fingerprint sensor seemingly confirmed by iOS leak &gt;&gt; 9to5MacLooks like therumours are true: iOS 7 beta 4 has leaked a new folder called "BiometricKitUI." Based on the description, sent to us byHamza Sood,it seems pretty clear that Apple is preparing a new iPhone with a fingerprint sensor.The interface is described above, pointing to a user being able to swipe the sensor on the iPhone's home button.The link to "rumours are true" contains some which have already expired without happening. But a fingerprint sensor feels likely - remember that Apple bought Authentec, a fingerprint-recognition company.Five ways to fix Wii U sales &gt;&gt; GameInformer.comMatt Bertz:We've reached that point in the platform cycle where a Nintendo device is selling poorly and everyone is making hasty funeral arrangements for the Japanese behemoth. We went through similar prognostications with the DS and 3DS. Both platforms got off to a slow start. Each eventually righted the ship and raked in huge sales. Now it's the Wii U's chance to spit in the face of death. To get the consoleback on track, we have a few suggestions for Nintendo.It certainly needs some fixing.Google unveils 'self-driving' smartphone &gt;&gt; The GuardianWhile Apple introduced the world to voice commands through its Siri application, it has been criticised for its limited functionality and integration with other application in the phone, and must be activated by pushing the home button.Google is using the Moto X to push the limits of voice control, but it also responds to motion. Sensors linked to the phone's camera allow it to be launched by two twists of the wrist, and the shutter is triggered by touching any part of the screen.ICYMI.Motorola is trying to erase the sex jokes it made while marketing the Moto X &gt;&gt; Business InsiderMotorola's has been building up hype for the Moto X, its first smartphone since Google bought the company. And the marketing campaign has been pretty heavy with its use of sexual double entendres.For example, this afternoon Motorola tweeted out a photo of the phone with a customized back casing with the message, "Yep. We've got wood." (No explanation necessary.)… "Motorola replaced the penis joke on the Moto X page with a ... goldilocks reference?"…To advertise Moto X's touch-free voice control, Motorola wrote "Touch each other, not phones. Moto X responds to your voice, no touching necessary. (That's what she said.)"Put online, and then changed.The inside story of the Moto X: the reason Google bought Motorola &gt;&gt; Wired.comSteven Levy:The Moto X is the first in a series of hardware products that Google hopes will supercharge the mother company's software and services. A svelte slab with smooth curves at its edge, purpose-built to fit in the palm of your hand. It is designed for mass appeal, not just a slice of the population like Star Wars fans. It has its share of features that distinguish it from the pack, particularly in a period where some of the market leaders are reloading their innovation guns. These include persistent notifications, user-customizable design components, instant photo-capture, and hands-free authentication.But the defining feature of the Moto X is it's a virtual ear, always straining to hear its owner's voice say three magic words that will rouse it to action: "Okay, Google Now."Beg to differ with the headline: the initial reason Google bought Motorola was because Motorola had a truckload of patents which looked valuable. Here's theSEC document, which says:Google expressed its belief that an acquisition of Motorola Mobility or its patent portfolio was attractive because Motorola Mobility had approximately 24,000 patents and patent applications, worldwide, which included numerous patents relating to various industry standards, including 2G, 3G, 4G, H.264, MPEG-4, 802.11, open mobile alliance and near field communication, many of which are used in mobile devices. At a July 6, 2011 meeting that occurred during this initial period, Dr. Jha and Mr. Arora discussed the protection of the Android platform and, in the context of this discussion, Dr. Jha indicated to Mr. Arora that it could be problematic for Motorola Mobility to continue as a stand-alone entity if it sold a large portion of its patent portfolio.So Motorola was bought for the patents. But that's irrelevant to the Moto X.Samsung agency is buying off StackOverflow users &gt;&gt; Delyan KratunovAn email he received from a marketing agency because of his StackOverflow rank relating to Android wanted him to ask questions about Samsung's Smart App Challenge:The questions [you pose on SO] should be casual and organic. Like "Anyone know anything about SSAC? or..."Need some feedback on the app I am about to enter for the Samsung Smart App Challenge." You have a dialogue with people that reply. That is it! 4 questions spread out over a month (August 31st is the deadline to enter). Replies to others posts about the SSAC (you will get responses because we have other members doing the same thing you are doing). We are willing to pay $500 just for that. Not a lot of work...since you are involved in Stackoverflow ANYWAY.Quite likely breaks some laws, as well as StackOverflow's Terms of Service. Kratunov was unimpressed. Still, at least he wasn't offereda trip to a trade show.The Microsoft Surface effect: ASP hints at further inventory writedowns &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:The obvious observation here is that Surface devices have been a financial sinkhole for Microsoft. But aside from this, the figures may also help us gauge the relative performance of the Surface RT and the higher-end Surface Pro.He has some predictions for the next few months too.GPS jamming: out of sight &gt;&gt; The EconomistEvery day for up to ten minutes near the London Stock Exchange, someone blocks signals from the global positioning system (GPS) network of satellites. Navigation systems in cars stop working and timestamps on trades made in financial institutions can be affected. The incidents are not a cyber-attack by a foreign power, though. The most likely culprit, according to Charles Curry, whose firm Chronos Technology covertly monitors such events, is a delivery driver dodging his bosses' attempts to track him.GPS jamming has obvious military uses, of course.Now that it's in the broadband game, Google flip-flops on network neutrality &gt;&gt; Wired.comIn a dramatic about-face on a key internet issue yesterday, Google told the FCC that the network neutrality rules Google once championed don't give citizens the right to run servers on their home broadband connections, and that the Google Fiber network is perfectly within its rights to prohibit customers from attaching the legal devices of their choice to its network.At issue is Google Fiber's Terms of Service, which contains a broad prohibition against customers attaching "servers" to its ultrafast 1 Gbps network in Kansas City.Google wants to ban the use of servers because it plans to offer a business class offering in the future. A potential customer, Douglas McClendon, filed a complaint against the policy in 2012 with the FCC, which eventuallyordered Google to explain its reasoningby July 29.Why Google doesn't encrypt user data while stored &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogGoogle encrypts most user data while it is being transmitted between users and the company's servers. But many privacy advocates and some former Google executives say that to protect users, Google should continue to encrypt user data while it being stored. That data could be encrypted in a way that allows only the users — not government authorities or even Google — to make sense of it, they say.That would conflict with Google's business model and disrupt user features. At public events, Vint Cerf, a Google employee who was an early architect of the Internet, has said that encrypting information while it is stored would prevent Google from showing the right online advertisements to users.Apple fixing bug that allows fake charging stations to hack iPhones &gt;&gt; ReutersApple Inc's next software update for its iPhones and iPads will fix a security flaw that allows hackers to engage in spying and cyber crimes when the victim connects the device to a fake charging station, the company said on Wednesday.Apple's devices are vulnerable to attacks until the company releases its iOS 7 software update, which is slated for this fall.Three computer scientists, who alerted Apple to the problem earlier this year, demonstrated the security vulnerability at the Black Hat hacking convention in Las Vegas on Wednesday where some 7,000 security professionals are learning about the latest threats posed by computer hacking.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Midcore gamers are future of mobile, says PlayStation mobile exec &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAfter acknowledging that the term sometimes makes developers cringe, Thomson argued that mid-core is an inevitable "next step" for mobile gamers who may have enjoyed casual games in the past, but now want a little bit more. That means better stories, and possibly better graphics, while still catering to mobile devices' strengths like touchscreen controls and the ability to pick up and play a game anywhere, with a shallow learning curve.Got an account on a site like Github? Hackers may know your e-mail address &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaIf you have an account on Github, StackExchange, or any one of countless other sites, there's a good chance hackers can identify the e-mail address you used to register it. That's because Gravatar, a behind-the-scenes service that says it works with millions of sites, broadcasts the information using cryptography that in many cases is trivial to crack.People have been warning about the privacy risk posed by Gravatar, short for Globally recognized avatar, since at least 2009. That's when a blogger showed he was able tocrack the cryptographic hashesthat the service uses to uniquely identify its users. Gravatar, it turned out, derived the hashes with the user's e-mail address, and the blogger was able to translate about 10% of the more than 80,000 user IDs he harvested.Apple CEO met China Mobile head, discussed cooperation &gt;&gt; ReutersApple Inc CEO Tim Cook on Tuesday met with the head of China Mobile Ltd, the world's largest mobile carrier by subscribers and the only Chinese carrier that doesn't offer iPhones and iPads.The meeting with China Mobile Chairman Xi Guohua in Beijing was to discuss matters of cooperation, the Chinese firm told Reuters in an emailed statement. It gave no further details.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Streaming music serviceSpotify reported its financial results for 2012this week, and they're a useful way to take the pulse of a business model – the combination of ad-supported and subscription-based streaming music – that the music industry is looking to for a revival in its fortunes.Spotify's revenues rose 128% year on year to €434.7m (around £377.9m) in 2012, but its net losses increased from €45.4m in 2011 to €58.7m in 2012 as the company invested heavily in new countries and features for its service.The company has never made a profit, and its losses have increased every year, although it's also true to say that its losses as a percentage of its sales have been decreasing.In the technology world, a still-young and rapidly expanding business posting losses isn't unusual, and it's unlikely to spook many investors.That's a good thing, given that (as it admitted in its financial results filing) Spotify may need to raise more money in the short-to-medium term to fund more growth, and hopefully profitability.Yet Spotify has one foot in a creative industry – music – where a heated debate is raging about how well (or rather, how badly) streaming music pays off for musicians.See the recent decision of Thom Yorke and Nigel Godrich's band Atoms for Peace toremove their albums from streaming services, and criticise them for benefiting major labels and big acts far more than new artists. The fact that Spotify is losing money may increase the tension rather than defuse it.Its fiercer critics regularly accuse the company of being a lossmaking scheme geared entirely towards a lucrative acquisition or IPO that will enrich its shareholders – company executives, venture capital firms and major labels – while leaving artists out in the cold.There is history here.CBS bought online radio site Last.fm for $280min 2007: a deal that likely made major labels determined never to see a digital music service reach such a valuable exit without them having a stake again.More recently, streaming radio servicePandora went public in 2011 with a valuation of $2.6bn, yet has since been sucked into an angry war of words with representatives of music publishers, songwriters and artists over the royalties they earn from its streams.Critics point to Pandora's unprofitability – it reported net losses of $14m in 2008, $28.2m in 2009, $16.8m in 2010, $1.8m in 2011 and $16.1m in 2012 – while noting that executives including co-founder Tim Westergren have been making lots of money selling shares since the IPO.(Again, this is not unusual – and if anything, applauded – within the technology industry. But in the context of ill-tempered rows about how much artists and songwriters get paid, something of a hot potato.)Personal radio service Pandora has been criticised by artists and songwritersThe financial results of Spotify and Pandora pose two key questions about their business models: whether they're sustainable for music creators, and whether they're sustainable for the companies themselves.Spotify has been clear about the fact that it pays around 70% of its revenues to music rightsholders, who are then responsible for passing this money on to artists and songwriters according to the terms of their contracts which – this is the music industry, remember – vary considerably in transparency and fairness.There are lively and important debates going on around whether the shift from downloads to streaming is better for big labels and artists than new talent, and the extent to which streaming cannibalises piracy rather than CD and download sales.Even so, the more users Spotify and Pandora sign up (and more importantly, the more users they persuade to pay for their services), the more money they'll make, and the more they'll pay out to music rightsholders.Scandinavia offers some encouraging signs in this regard.SwedenandNorwayboth saw overall recorded-music revenues grow in 2012, and again in the first half of 2013 – a huge turnaround from more than a decade of declining sales and widespread piracy.But it's the second question – whether Spotify, Pandora and the rivals who don't have to declare their financials publicly (yet) can survive long enough to spark similar turnarounds in bigger music markets such as the UK and US – that deserves just as much attention.Opinions vary on how quickly the world will move from ownership of music – whether CDs and vinyl or downloads – to access to it through on-demand services like Spotify, Deezer and Rdio and personal radio services like Pandora, iTunes Radio and Nokia Music.It's likely to be slower than the early adopters think, but there's a consensus that it will happen. The pressure is building to ensure that streaming music's numbers add up for both artists and the digital services providing it.If not, then what? Deep-pocketed technology companies are lining up to provide streaming music in order to sell devices and/or ads: Apple, Google, Amazon, Samsung, Sony, Microsoft.Headphones-maker Beats (rumoured 2013 revenues: $1.4bn) is preparing to launch its Beats Music service too. Perhaps the economics of streaming music don't have to add up on their own, if they can be subsidised by other parts of the providers' businesses.But musicians yearning for Spotify and Pandora to go bust should be careful what they wish for: is a future for music as a big-tech loss-leader much more appealing?A future where Spotify, Pandora and their rivals are able to balance their books, continue to invest in new features AND find more ways to help talented musicians make a living – which will involve promoting tickets, merchandise, special-edition music and crowdfunding campaigns as well as paying out more money for streams – seems more positive.
I keep getting an error message, 502 Bad Gateway nginx/0.7.67, when I try to access the Freecycle site. I have rebooted my PC and used 'system restore' several times, but haven't been able to clear it. Do you know how to sort this out?VivThe 'Bad Gateway' error is coming from the server, and usually has nothing to do with your PC. It may just be that the site is overloaded. Often, simply refreshing or reloading the page (Ctrl-F5) will work, but sometimes the problem can persist for days. If so, you could log the time(s) and browser version and submit an error report to the webmaster, because 502 errors can be caused by bugs in the associated PHP programming. In this case, email the admin team at myfreecycleadmin@freecycle.org. If it's an intermittent fault, the simplest option is to wait for 10 minutes and then try again.There are a few things that you can do to try to get through to a site when you get a 502 Bad Gateway error. It's hard to know whether they actually work. It might be that doing them is simply introducing a delay and the site would have worked if you hadn't bothered. Either way, it's useful to have a few things to try when you can't get through to any website.Has it crashed?One of the first things I do when a site isn't responding is to paste its web address or URL (Uniform Resource Locator) into the box atDown for everyone or just me?This will check the site and tell you if it has crashed, in which case, nobody else can get through either. In some cases, you might still be able to get the information you need, either by using the version cached by a search engine such as Google (click the down-arrow next to the web address), or by using a copy of the site archived at theWayback Machine.This time, we know the Freecycle site is working, because it's running Nginx (pronounced Engine-X) version 0.7.67 software. This is a reverse proxy server program that (among other things) accepts incoming requests from web browsers and directs them to a number of different back-end computers – the file servers that store the data for the site. The problem is that Nginx is passing on your browser's request and not getting an acceptable answer in the time allowed.To quote the definition of 502 Bad Gateway fromWikipedia: "The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and received an invalid response from the upstream server." There are many other 5xx server error messages, all of which boil down to: "The server failed to fulfill an apparently valid request." They don't tell you much about the real source of the problem.The second thing to try is a different browser. There are plenty to choose from, and there's no reason why you can't run two at a time. At the moment, I'm running Mozilla Firefox 22 and Microsoft's Internet Explorer 10 on Windows 7. If a site doesn't work or looks broken in one browser, it only takes a second or two to paste the address into the other.Indirect approachesThe third thing to try is a web-based proxy server. This is an indirect way of reaching a website. Instead of going straight to freecycle.org, go to it via another site such asAnonymouse.orgorHide My Ass!This disguises your origins and eliminates some potential problems with your own internet service provider. (Anonymous proxies provide a simple way to reach sites that your ISP has blocked, or get a response from servers that will only answer requests from certain countries.)The fourth thing to try is to empty the cache of pages kept by each of your web browsers. Browsers like to store copies of web pages in temporary file folders as it is faster to load cached pages than fetch them again, assuming they haven't changed. This shouldn't be a problem after trying Ctrl-F5, but some people have claimed that it helps.Finally, there's the PC-industry panacea of rebooting the machine, which didn't work in your case. The equivalent web-industry panacea is rebooting the router (aka modem, or internet hub). To do this, unplug the mains lead from the back, wait 30 seconds, then plug it back in. This forces the router to establish a new broadband connection.One approach I've left out is to use a website's IP (internet protocol) address instead of its URL. The internet uses aDNS (domain name system)to convert between human-friendly web addresses and machine-friendly IP addresses, but you can always try going tohttp://88.198.219.196instead ofhttp://www.freecycle.org/. This gets round the problem of DNS errors – where your ISP tells you it can't find a website – but it's mainly used to circumvent DNS-based web censorship. There are dozens of simple converters, such asDNS2IP.The ultimate answer to dealing with a website that doesn't work properly is to go somewhere else. In Freecycle's case, there's an alternative service calledFreegle, which was set up in the UK in 2009 by a disgruntled group of former Freecycle moderators. It's a registered charity and run entirely by volunteers. Like Freecycle, it is based on Yahoo Groups.The Guardian's Green Living blog suggested other options in a 2009 post,Fed up with Freecycle? Try these top 10 alternatives.
If you thought government analysts interceptingyour phone's metadatawas bad, here is something potentially more frightening: cyber crooks hijacking your phone to eavesdrop, impersonate you and ransack your accounts.A German cryptographer says he has discovered encryption and software flaws in hundreds of millions of phones, leaving them vulnerable to attack.Karsten Nohlrevealed his findings fully and publicly for the first time at the Black Hat conference of hackers in Las Vegas on Wednesday, startling peers who had considered sim cards to be relatively safe technology.Nohl, 31, a respected hacker and specialist on phone security, said the vulnerability allowed outsiders to obtain a sim card's digital key, a 56-digit sequence that exposes the chip to manipulation."What this means is that your sim card can work against you. The hacker can redirect calls, rewrite numbers, listen in on calls." A criminal hacker, using an ordinary computer, could also commit payment fraud remotely controlling your phone.Nohl's team at Security Research Labs in Berlin experimented on more than 1,000 sim cards during a two-year investigation."The hacker starts by sending a text message to the sim card that the user doesn't even get to see, and the sim card in some cases responds with data that can be run through with cryptanalysis. The resulting cryptographic key allows the hacker to send well-signed Java software to the sim card. And then do all kinds of stuff."The technique went beyond sim cloning, a well-known practice based on breaking the authentication algorithms of old cards, he told the Guardian before his presentation. "This time we break underneath the authentication algorithm pretty much everything that was stored in the card."The bug was rooted in a four-decade-old coding method known as data encryption standard (DES), which is used in about half the world's 6bn mobile phones. Many now use an upgraded method known as Triple DES but those that used the old version were vulnerable, he said.Nohl has estimated that more than 500m GSM devices were affected. He notified the London-based GSM Association earlier this year to give manufacturers and operators time to start plugging the encryption hole before demonstrating his findings at Black Hat, an annual gathering of cyber security professionals.Some companies had responded "extremely fast" and begun patching the vulnerability, said Nohl. He believed even the slower ones would have sufficient headstart on criminals, who would need at least six months to exploit the knowledge he shared this week.The industry had an incentive to be proactive because the bug would let criminals siphon revenue directly, he said. Several manufacturers and operators confirmedto the New York TimesandForbesthat they were investigating Nohl's findings and were confident modern sim cards were secure.
Google's Android has been outstripping Apple's iOS for device sales for some time now, but the belief persists among developers that they're still much more likely to make money from iPhone and iPad apps.The obvious conclusion to draw froma new report released by analytics firm App Annieis that they're right. A more nuanced reading, however, would conclude that there are riches to be found on both platforms. Mainly if you're making games.The headline figures from the report: Android's Google Play store had 10% more app downloads than iOS' App Store in the second quarter of 2012, but the App Store generated 2.3x more revenues than Google Play.There's some mathematical fun to be had with these figures. Apple's store reached 40bn downloads on 7 January 2013, then 50bn on 16 May, so it was doing around 2.5bn downloads a month at that point.If that pace continued, it indicates 7.5bn App Store downloads in the second quarter, which if App Annie's estimates are correct, means around 8.25bn downloads for Google Play.(Bear in mind throughout this article that we're just comparing the App Store to Google Play. Android as a platform has numerous other app stores, from Amazon's Appstore to sundry Chinese portals, so the real size of the Android market is larger.)How about revenues? Apple chief executive Tim Cook told analysts on 12 February that his company had paid out $8bn to iOS developers, then announced at WWDC on 10 June that the figure had grown to $10bn.That's $500m of payouts a month, and thus around $715m when you add Apple's 30% cut back in. Which hints at App Store revenues of $2.1bn-ish for Q2, which by App Annie's estimates would mean Google Play revenues of around $913m for the quarter.Rough calculations based on the estimates of an analytics company, yes. But my first reaction is to focus less on Apple versus Google, and more on the $3bn-a-quarter apps market across iOS and Android.App Annie's charts showing downloads and revenue for Apple's App Store and Android's Google PlayBack to who's making all this money, though. App Annie reckons that games generated 75% of App Store revenues and 80% of Google Play revenues, despite only accounting for around 40% of downloads on each.That's dominant, although bear in mind that the second most popular category is social networking, where the big Western social networks like Facebook and Twitter are making their money from ads, not app store purchases.There is plenty more to chew over in the report. Watch India, Russia and Brazil in the top five countries by downloads on Google Play, for example, but also Japan and South Korea at the top of the revenues chart for Android's official store – both buoyed by huge spending on mobile games tied into messaging apps like Line and Kakao.So, is iOS better than Android, or vice versa? The boring, unheadline-worthy truth is that it depends what kind of apps you're making and where in the world you're trying to make money from them.Free-to-play games makers will be looking with fascination at what's happening on Android in Japan and South Korea, but the games making the vast majority of the loot there have been developed locally.Music's status as the third top-grossing category on the App Store will be making the music industry sit up and take notice – streaming service Rdio appears to be doing well from selling subscriptions through in-app purchases, in contrast to the strategies of rivals like Spotify and Deezer.But the report mostly reminds me of the challenge facing the third and fourth ecosystems in the apps world: Windows Phone and BlackBerry 10.If iOS' App Store and Android's Google Play are generating $3bn of app revenues a quarter – and remember, this doesn't include non-Google Android stores, advertising revenues or Netflix/Spotify-style subscriptions outside the app stores – the arguments for developers to devote resources to porting their apps beyond those two platforms need to be more convincing than ever.Waving a cheque-book to mitigate the risk is one strategy that's been tried, and there's merit to the argument for individual developers that being a big fish in a small-but-growing pond can pay off versus being a tiny fish in a massive ocean on iOS and Android.But still, that's quite some ocean they've got there, even if its rising tide is sinking many more boats than it's lifting.
The obvious question to ask new technology startups is what problem they're solving.Tilehas a clear answer to that: it wants to help people stop losing their keys, wallets, handbags and other possessions.It's far from the first company with that ambition. "There've been a lot of these devices on the market for many years," says Tile's co-founder and chief operating officer Mike Farley."People just weren't using them. But with so many attempts, you know there's a big market for it. And when Bluetooth Low Energy came out for the iPhone, it got us thinking that technology might have finally caught up to the problem."Tile's product is a combination of software and hardware. The latter are small, tile-shaped Bluetooth tags designed to stick onto devices, hang from keyrings or sit within a bag or purse.The software is an iOS app for people to manage up to 10 of the tiles, tracking their location if they're within Bluetooth range, and sending out an alert if they're further afield, to see if they're within range of anyone else running the Tile app.This distributed network is one of the key features for Tile: other people can't see the location of your tiles unless you explicitly allow them to, but if they have the app running in the background and your tile is nearby, you'll be able to see where it is."That's the game-changing technology: the fact that it's not just you, your device and your tiles," says Farley. "It's about the way it's attached to an account in the cloud, and everyone else is connected."Farley and his co-founder Nick Evans quit their previous jobs in November 2012 after producing the first prototypes for Tile, then launched a crowdfunding campaign through their own website in June 2013, hoping to raise $20,000 in pre-orders.One month later, 49,586 people had pre-ordered nearly $2.7m worth of the tiles, which start at $18.95 for one, rising to $170.55 for 12. Shipping is expected to start late this year or early in 2014.Farley says that Evans' previous experience working on smart-watchPebbleand keyless lockLockitron– the former crowdfunded on Kickstarter, and the latter through its own site – made crowdfunding a logical choice for Tile too."It was always on the roadmap right from the super-early prototypes," he says. "And we knew if we did a selfstarter, we would be in control: we could get all our ducks in a row, stick to our schedule and not have any more hiccups than we already know we'll probably have."Tile's business model is based on replacement hardware. The tiles are designed to last for a year, with customers sent a reminder when that date is approaching to order new ones, and sent an envelope to recycle the old ones.Farley says ease-of-use is one reason for this approach: no need to buy new coin cell batteries and manually replace the existing one, although I suspect a fair few people will be experimenting to see how easy this is nonetheless."We thought long and hard about it, and we were very convinced that one year is the right amount of time," says Farley, who says the recycling aspect is also an important part of the company's plans."Whenever I have old batteries sitting on a counter, I think 'I'm going to dispose of that properly', and they just start to build up," he says."That's another hassle, another problem that you're giving the users. In general, the best computer services from start to finish make your life easier. Maybe you have to pay a little bit more, but it's not giving you extra problems."The annual replacement cycle should go hand-in-hand with improvements to the actual tiles: Farley mentions a continual drive to get them slimmer, as well as bringing the price down."As Bluetooth Low Energy comes down in price and more hardware manufacturers develop more of these chips, they're going to get cheaper, and as more devices get built, a lot of the components around it get cheaper," he says."We want to keep the quality up, but get the cost down so we can hit more markets. We want this to be everywhere: not just in the United States and developed countries."Tile's iPhone app manages up to 10 tiles at a timeOne flaw in the distributed network of Tile users is the fact that its app is iOS-only. Once tiles stray out of their owner's Bluetooth range, the network is only as useful as the number of people in it. For now, hundreds of millions of Android devices are shut out of that network.Are Tile just Cupertino-blinkered Apple fanboys blind to the realities of smartphone market-share? Actually, the company says the lack of Android support is down to technical issues around Bluetooth Low Energy technology."At this time Android does not support Bluetooth 4.0. A few Android phone manufacturers have released BLE SDKs, however they are lacking in quality and stability," explains the Tile website, which adds that "solid Bluetooth 4.0 support on Android" will be the trigger to "start making plans" to port the Tile app to Android."We thought long and hard again, and did our research on Android, but it comes back to providing the best user experience," says Farley."We want to deliver on that strong, whatever platform we're on. We know that we can deliver it on iOS but Android is just… it's not really there. So we're going to concentrate on creating a rock-solid iOS app, and once the time is right we will go ahead and build an app for other platforms."Farley also praises Apple for some of the new features in its upcoming iOS 7 software to make Bluetooth Low Energy "more usable and richer from an app development standpoint", including the under-the-radar (to non-developers)iBeaconslocation feature.Another obvious question for Tile concerns privacy, including the 'can someone hack this to be able to track all the things I've attached tiles to?' question – unanswerable until the product ships – but also the possibility of people using tiles to track not their own belongings, but other people."It's one of those unfortunate realities of any technology, right? They can almost always be used for harm as well. But the exact same thing can be done with a normal phone," says Farley."You can throw a phone in someone's purse and try to keep track of them, or buy a GPS tracker. But we do have some ideas that we're brainstorming on how to potentially pinpoint these types of situations."Unsurprisingly, he can't say more for now. My last question is a more philosophical one, though, relating to an alternative method of not losing important personal objects: remembering where you put them down in the first place.Is there a concern about the way Tile delegates this task to our devices (and the cloud), removing responsibility for us to take care of our belongings? You could ask similar questions about Gmail, Evernote and other cloud services, of course.Farley fields the question with grace. "In a lot of ways it does make us a little bit less responsible, but then I think about how I remember things by writing them down rather than just remembering them. Writing lists puts my brain at rest, and I'm able to think about the important things," he says."And I consider Tile the same type of thing. You can only think about so many things at once, and remembering where your phone, your son's teddy bear, your Reebok sneaker is? That's not really productive for society. It's much easier to let a technology take care of that, freeing you up to think about the things that really matter."
For generations, parents and children have gathered around the television set to share a favourite programme at the end of the working day. But second sets in bedrooms, the lure of computer games and arguments over the remote control had left the main screen in danger of gathering dust.Now the living room is making an unlikely comeback.A study by the communications watchdog Ofcomhas found families are returning to the main television set, but they are bringing their tablets and smartphones with them."Our research shows that increasingly families are gathering in the living room to watch TV just as they were in the 1950s – but now delivered on bigger, wider and more sophisticated sets," says Ofcom research director James Thickett. "Unlike the 1950s family, however, they are also doing their own thing. They are tweeting about a TV show, surfing the net or watching different content altogether on a tablet."The findings are published this morning inOfcom's annual communications market report, a telephone directory-sized compendium exploring every aspect of our media consumption.Thickett will be live online here on Thursday from 2pm to answer your questions.Viewing has been steadily rising, and we now spend an average of four hours a day watching television, 15 minutes more than in 2004. At the same time, the number of homes with second sets is falling – 41% of households have only one TV, compared to 35% a decade ago.At the same time the average household now has three types of internet device, be they smartphones, laptops, games consoles, tablets or internet connected television sets. And we are using these gadgets in the living room.Over half (53%) of UK adults are now media multi-tasking while watching TV on a weekly basis, with some of them even watching other television shows on their smaller screens. Tablet owners are the most likely to multi-task, and tablet ownership has doubled in the past year to 24% of homes.Ofcom says screen use falls into two broad categories – media stacking and media meshing. Stackers will keep the television on while carrying out completely unrelated activities like ordering the weekly grocery shop or responding to emails. Meshers use social media to enhance their viewing, reading about a football match on a newspaper website while watching the action on screen, or discussing the latest episode of Game of Thrones while it is being broadcast rather than at work the next day.Why are there fewer second sets at home? Are you a media mesher or a media stacker? Is the habit of sharing the same room to view separate screens bringing families closer together or pushing them apart? Are tablets educational for toddlers, or are they too often used by busy parents to replace human interaction?Pleas post your questions on the above issues below – James Thickett will answer them in the comments from 2pm.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Xbox One is designed to be always-on for 10 years | Eurogamer.netMore insights into the next-gen hardware from Digital Foundry:Our information suggests the Xbox One design is based on an ambitious brief, essentially impossible to test in anything resembling real-life conditions, and so the company played it safe, putting unit reliability first. A highly placed source says that the console has been designed with a ten-year lifecycle in mind and that it is designed to be switched on for that entire period.What's more, during that time it needs to operate almost silently in order to earn its place in the living room. It's a unique hardware challenge, and so the company opted for a large design where heat dissipation comes first. Microsoft's engineers are also aware that the company's reputation for quality hardware is still in the balance after the Red Ring of Death Xbox 360 build quality fiasco, which cost the company over a billion dollars.Exactly How Bad is the Nintendo Situation? | IGNKeza MacDonald takes a look at those Nintendo financials:All of this ultimately leaves Nintendo in profit, ticking over and not in immediate danger, but faced with the increasingly real possibility of its first proper home-console flop - and with an operating loss of around $50m to try to correct. It certainly does not leave Nintendo on its knees. The Wii U in isolation, however, is a different story: the console is in huge trouble, and it's going to take something special in the next six months to turn the situation around.Batman: Arkham Origins - Invisible Predator Online | GameSpot.comHere's GameSpot on an intriguing new multiplayer mode in the next Batman game:Being developed by Splash Damage while WB Games Montreal works on the single-player game, Invisible Predator Online is an asymmetrical, three-vs.-three-vs.-two mode. The teams of three play as members of Bane's gang or members of the Joker's gang, who are jockeying for position and power in Gotham, battling over a piece of turf. (During the gameplay demo I participated in, the map was Blackgate Prison, a location which, of course, figures prominently in the upcoming 3DS and Vita game Batman: Arkham Origins Blackgate.) The goal for these two gangs is to defeat the other, whittling down their available respawns via kills or taking control of command points scattered around the map.But these gangs have bigger things to worry about than just each other. As Batman and Robin, two other players attempt to disrupt both gangs' efforts to assert dominance in Gotham.And here's the trailer:What do you think, Bat fans?John Riccitiello slams "opportunists" who just want to profit from games | GamesIndustry InternationalThe ex-EA chief talks to GIbiz about the state of the games industry. It's interesting stuff, especially his take on the next-gen consoles:"I think they'll be bigger than the last generation, actually. The last generation can be described as supercharged engines - they had super-powerful boxes. But the entirety of the online communication and being able to connect to your friends and all that stuff, a seamless, smooth, social experience, was just masking tape - barely put together. Remember that this was eight years ago. Most people were just moving on from their 28k modems. Now these are fully functioning, fully integrated online computers connected to the best screen in your house."Waiting Games: Slowing Down for Quell Memento, Color Zen, Stickets, and Zen Bound 2 - Hollywood Prospectus Blog - GrantlandA great article by Tevis Thompson celebrating the idea of games designed to be savoured rather than slammed through:Imagine a video game that doesn't aim to pass the time but instead to slow it down. One that doesn't encourage binging, but rather asks the player to inhabit time and feel its passing more intensely. There are already movements for slow food, slow travel, even slow parenting. Why not slow games? Games that aren't merely nonviolent or cerebral but that purposely take their time, that resist players and delay gratification, that reveal themselves only gradually and require more deliberate engagement. Games that emphasize texture, tone, and the very experience of time itself, both in and outside the game.Can definitely recommend all the titles Tevis mentions, especially Stickets...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe App Store problem is not price &gt;&gt; Elia InsiderThis is a vicious cycle. The lack of differentiation means the price drops, which means the money available to market an app drops, which means it is harder to differentiate.What could help? Trials would help. That would allow someone to download an app and see the difference first hand, not just trust a screenshot. Apple has been clear, though. They prefer freemium. Getting out of the App Store itself can help. Building enough value to charge a subscription could help.Productivity apps can't survive and bring the long-term value customers demand at $2.99 or $4.99. At the end of the day, though, the app stores, whether Apple, Google or the like, are not going to solve our problem [2]. The only thing that will is rethinking the products so we can get out of the app stores and differentiate.Loren Brichter (author of Tweetie, which became the official Twitter app) then responds in the comments with data showing thattrials can hurt sales of games. So whatisthe answer?Android app revenue to top iOS soon &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen:Google's strategy of flooding the world with nasty little budget phones is turning out to be a diabolically clever gambit. Consider this:Last October, iOS app revenue was 4x bigger than Google Play app revenue. But inQ2 2013, the iOS market generated only 2.3x more revenue than Google Play. The revenue gap is closing at an astonishing speed.Why? Because even though Google Play is obviously an inferior market for mobile apps in many ways, it is swamping the iOS market in sheer volume.In the second quarter this year, Google Play passed the iOS market in app download volume by 10%. This surge is powered by emerging markets from Brazil to China. Those cheap $100 Android phones that may not yield any hardware margin are acting as conduits to Android apps for hundreds of millions of consumers who cannot afford an iPhone.Yup.Update on GPU Optimizations in Galaxy S 4 &gt;&gt; AnandTech(ICYMI: Samsung admitted that it coded to give benchmark software an advantage denied (or not needed) by other apps.) Anand Lai and Brian Klug:Note that we're ultimately talking about an optimization that would increase GPU performance in certain benchmarks by around 10%. It doesn't sound like a whole lot, but in a very thermally limited scenario it's likely the best you can do.I stand by the right solution here being to either allow the end user to toggle this boost mode on/off (for all apps) or to remove the optimization entirely. I suspect the reason why Samsung wouldn't want to do the former is because you honestly don't want to run in a less thermally constrained mode for extended periods of time in a phone. Long term I'm guessing we'll either see the optimization removed or we'll see access to view current GPU clock obscured.…Since our post yesterday we've started finding others who exhibit the same CPU frequency behavior that we reported on the SGS4. This isn't really the big part of the discovery since the CPU frequencies offered are available to all apps (not just specific benchmarks). We'll be posting our findings there in the near future.Measure your phone's quality by benchmarks, and phone makers will adjust to do well on the benchmarks - but it'll be meaningless. How much time and team organisation effort did Samsung waste on this pointless coding?Microsoft is killing Surface with breakdancing, and it's going to hurt Xbox One &gt;&gt; The PA ReportBen Kuchera:Microsoft's inability to express what's great about its own hardware, while leading with its own weaknesses, is baffling. [Penny Arcard cartoonist] Mike [Krahulik] did more to sell me on the Surface in five minutes than the $1 billion marketing campaign for Windows 8 and the hardware. How did Microsoft sell us on Windows 8? By focusing on how you can touch images as a password.Goddamnit.The mandatory Kinect doesn't just make the Xbox One more expensive than its competitors, it also seems to be the work of advertisors and the marketing department more than a peripheral that gamers actually want or need.Nails the flaws in Microsoft's advertising and approach. That Surface RT advert may go down as one of the worst brand-building exercises ever. Did anyone know what the RT could do after watching it for the first time? (Thanks @Gaudie for the link.)Nexus 7 did not outsell iPad in Japan according to IDC &gt;&gt; SlashGearChris Burns:Earlier this year it was claimed by several news sources, then quoted again just this month by Google, that the Nexus 7 outsold the iPad in Japan in the fourth quarter of 2012…According to Bylines, BCN covers a total of 16% of tablet-carrying sales channels inside Japan. With a relatively major gap in stores covered in this study – especially considering the relatively unique nature in which Apple sells its tablets in Apple-exclusive stores – the simple assertion that the Nexus 7 outsold the iPad across Japan should never have been made.We've also had a chat with IDC Research Director for Tablets, Tom Mainelli, who contests BCN's numbers with a rather different view:"Yes, I was a bit puzzled by Google's claims. We count the Nexus 7 as part of ASUS's shipments, and looking at our Japan numbers for 4Q12 – which represent shipments into the channel–Apple shipped about 773K iPad units versus about 350K Nexus 7 units for ASUS." – Tom Mainelli, IDC Research Director, TabletsHTC's massive handset warning is an ill omen for BlackBerry &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:HTC's [profit and revenue] warning seems to imply that there is simply no room for expensive models from second-tier vendors. The iPhone and Galaxy S series are dominant in the high-end market, Samsung is moving aggressively into budget category, Google's Asian partners are exceptionally strong in the sub-$200 category. A flagship HTC phone priced high used to be a substantial hit just two years ago. Now it cannot even keep HTC profitable or prevent a double digit sales decline only three months after its debut.If BlackBerry's spring models are now facing the kind of flame-out HTC One is experiencing, the next winter is going to be exceptionally grim for the Canadian vendor.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Police are investigating bomb threats made on Twitter against several female journalists, including Guardian columnist Hadley Freeman.At 5.50pm on Wednesday Freeman received a tweet from an anonymous user, @98JU98U989, which claimed that a bomb had been placed outside her home and would be detonated at 10.47pm.She reported it to the Metropolitan police, who told her they were launching an investigation as the threat was an arrestable offence. The police also advised her not to stay at home overnight.Grace Dent, a columnist for the Independent and former Guardian writer, received the same message as Freeman, whichshe took a screen grab of. It states: "A BOMB HAS BEEN PLACED OUTSIDE YOUR HOME. IT WILL GO OFF AT EXACTLY 10.47PM ON A TIMER AND TRIGGER DESTROYING EVERYTHING."Although the user's account was suspended, several other women – including Catherine Mayer, Europe editor of Time magazine, Sara Lang, a social media manager at American non-profit AARP, and Anna Leszkiewicz, editor of Cherwell, Oxford University's independent student newspaper – subsequently received identical threats.The bomb threats come just days afterLabour MP Stella Creasy and Caroline Criado-Perez, a feminist campaigner, received threats of rape on Twitter.Police investigating allegations of harassment against the two women on the websitehave made two arrests: a 25-year-old man in north-east England and a 21-year-old in the Manchester area.Freeman said the police who interviewed her about the bomb threat asked whether she was friends with Criado-Perez.Freeman, whose latest columnHow to use the internet without being a total loseraddressed the issue of misogynistic online abuse, said: "I get loads of abuse on Twitter. That I should just 'go back to the kitchen', or someone saying they can't wait until women lose the vote."It's not all from men, some are clearly from women, such as "I'm only a feminist because I can't get a boyfriend, or I must be a lesbian because I'm a feminist. I have had some rape threats too. They're always misspelled."She said the abuse directed against her had become more angry, intense and misogynistic since the threats against Criado-Perez and Creasy."Because of the bomb threat this time I called the police. There was that guy arrested for threatening to blow up an airport. If it's illegal to threaten to bomb an airport, it's illegal to threaten to bomb me."Freeman said the police had also advised anyone who received a similar threat to report it.Twitter bosses are to be questioned by MPs about complaints that they have failed to do enough to protect women from users posting violent and abusive threats.Freeman said Twitter needs to take online abuse and threats more seriously and should introduce more robust ways to deal with them."Threatening to bomb and rape people is illegal. We need to apply the law in the same way online as we do in the real world. There should be a button to report abuse more easily. Twitter makes money – they can afford some moderators."Another woman targeted with the message, Katie Hartwill, parliamentary assistant to Tory MP Chloe Smith, said: "Twitter has a moral obligation to do all it can to protect its users from abuse and threats on its platform. But ultimately this is not simply trolling, death threats are a crime and should be recognised as such."Del Harvey, Twitter's director for trust and safety, admitted it was not the company's policy to automatically report threatening or abusive messages to police.The website does not hold information to reveal the location a message has been sent from and therefore cannot identify the correct local police force, Harvey said.She also revealed she had received messages threatening to rape her on "multiple platforms across multiple sites on the internet", but chose not to prosecute.Harvey told BBC Radio Five Live: "We don't have that much information about our users compared with other platforms."We don't always have that information about where the message came from."If somebody called you and said, 'I'm going to come over and beat you up', you don't expect the phone company to contact the police. You certainly expect them to work with police."The Metropolitan police confirmed they had received "allegations relating to bomb threats sent to a number of females on Twitter". No arrest has been made but inquiries continue.
For decades, families settled on the sofa to share the latest adventures of Daleks, Dallas oil barons or Del Boy, until additional bedroom tellies, computer games and the internet almost put an end to family rows over who held the remote control.Now, however, the traditional living room scene is making a comeback. A study by the communications watchdog Ofcom has found families are once again gathering around the main television set, but they are bringing their tablets and smartphones with them.Viewing has been steadily rising, and we now spend an average of four hours a day watching television, 18 minutes more than in 2004. At the same time, the number of homes with second sets is falling – 41% of households now have only one TV, compared with 35% a decade ago."The 1950s living room is making a comeback as a family entertainment hub," said Jane Rumble, head of media research at Ofcom. "We are watching on much better, much bigger, more sophisticated television sets than we have ever done, but we are coming into the living room clutching our connected devices."While the family may be coming together once more, comparisons with the past end there. With an array of smaller screens on hand – the average home has more than three types of internet device – not everyone sitting on the sofa will be sharing the same viewing experience.The coronation may have drawn the undivided attention of 20 million viewers in 1953, but those watching the Queen's jubilee celebrations 60 years later were as likely to be commenting online about the BBC's coverage as watching it. "Just a few years ago, we would be talking about last night's TV at work or at school," said Ofcom's research director, James Thickett. "Now, we're having those conversations live while watching TV, using social media, text and instant messaging."It is a behaviour for which researchers have coined the term "media meshing", and its impact was underlined during this year's Wimbledon men's tennis final. As Andy Murray pushed towards his nail-biting victory,  1.1&nbsp;million people worldwide sent an average of more than two tweets about the match.Media meshers use the internet to enhance their television experience, for example by reading a newspaper live blog about a football match while watching the action on the main screen. For a huge number of younger viewers, the portable screen offers a chance to do something unrelated, such as online shopping, social networking, and even listening to music or watching another television programme.Some 70% of 16- to 24-year-olds claim to indulge in what Ofcom calls "media stacking" at least once a week. For TV viewers, internet browsing is the most popular activity, but we are also calling friends on the phone or sending emails and texts. Surprisingly, 12% claim to have listened to the radio while the television was on, and 6% say they have watched another video simultaneously.Half of UK adults are now media multi-taskers. Women in particular have mastered the art of screen juggling, with 56% claiming to do it weekly.The temptation to consume more media is growing. In the past year alone, the number of households owning a tablet has doubled to nearly one in four, and tablet owners are even more likely to multi-task than those holding a smartphone.Tablets are replacing the television as the electronic babysitter, with parents using the toddler-friendly touch-screen devices to keep their youngsters occupied. Among parents, 41% say their children use the tablet daily. While playing games is the most popular activity for young users, the tablet is often used to supply alternative programmes to the ones preferred by older viewers on the main set.Ofcom's annual communications market report has highlighted the growing generational gap in media consumption. Younger adults watch television the least. Last year at peak times just under a third of young people tuned in, compared with two-thirds of over-65s.Radio habits are changing too, thanks to the availability of music in other formats. Music streaming websites such as Spotify, Deezer and Last.fm are pulling younger listeners away from traditional radio stations, as are music downloads and catch-up services such as iPlayer. Time spent listening to radio has fallen by 13% in five years among 15- to 24-year-olds.Our boundless appetite for digital media is also having an impact on household budgets. Despite contractions elsewhere in the economy, spending on communications has been increasing for two years and now accounts for 5.3% of total expenses. Smartphones in particular have pushed up the overall cost of communications, with the average household spending £114 a month last year.
O2 is to launch a 4G mobile phone network in three cities at the end of this month, in a move that will provide the first competitor to rival EE's service connecting smartphones to the internet at superfast speeds.The new network will initially be available to O2 customers only in London, Leeds and Bradford from 29 August, with plans for an additional 10 cities to be connected by the end of the year, the company said. 4G networks provide access to the internet up to five times faster than the current 3G networks.Ronan Dunne, chief executive of O2's owner Telefónica UK, said: "The full potential of 4G is as yet unexplored, but what we can be sure of is that it will allow for a whole new world of opportunity that people are now ready for. Over half of our customers say they use more data than two years ago and even more use Wi-Fi wherever they go, to always stay connected. Given this trend, there is no doubt that 4G will transform our lives, be it as consumers, in business or through public sector services."When EE, the company behind the Orange and T-Mobile brands, launched the UK's first 4G service last autumn it began by offering customers access to 4G in 11 British cities.O2 says that it will add Birmingham, Newcastle, Glasgow, Liverpool, Nottingham, Leicester, Coventry, Sheffield, Manchester and Edinburgh this year. It is yet to announce all of its 4G tariffs, although they will be more expensive than existing 3G prices and will start at £26 a month.Vodafone is expected to announce its 4G plans next week.
Google Glass is the highest profile product in a wave of new wearable technologies, promising to display everything from restaurant reviews to directions and allow automated video and photos wherever we go. But the internet-connected eyewear looks set to be banned on the UK's roads even before the product's 2014 launch, according to the Department of Transport.A spokesman for the department toldStuff, a gadget magazine, that the device could distract drivers while they are behind the wheel, defining Glass as a similar distraction to a mobile phone."We are aware of the impending rollout of Google Glass and are in discussion with the police to ensure that individuals do not use this technology while driving," said the spokesman."It is important that drivers give their full attention to the road when they are behind the wheel and do not behave in a way that stops them from observing what is happening on the road."He pointed to offences including driving without due attention and careless driving, which is due to become a fixed penalty offence in late 2013. Since a ban on using mobile phones while driving was introduced in 2003, more than one million drivers have been convicted – typically issued with a £60 fixed penalty notice and three points on their driver's licence.The statement by the Department for Transport indicates that Google Glass users would be subject to the same penalty under the 1988 Road Traffic Act. It reflects similar concerns in the US, where Glass has been launched to a small trial group of "explorers". Politicians in Delaware and West Virginia haveintroduced billsthat ban drivers wearing computing technologies while driving."We are thinking very carefully about how we design Glass because new technology always raises new issues," said Google in a statement. "Our Glass Explorer programme, currently only launched in the US, reaches people from all walks of life and will ensure that our users become active participants in shaping the future of this technology."Technology fans argue that Glass, which displays simple, monochrome information in the wearer's peripheral vision, is less distracting than satellite navigation tools that include a visual interface designed to be used while driving.Developers have already begun exploring applications for Glass, includingGlassTesla, which allows owners of the high-end electric cars to remotely control the car's air conditioning, mileage and battery information as well as directions.
The family and friends of Aaron Swartz remain critical of MIT's role in the internet activist's prosecution followingthe release of a university reportclaiming the school maintained a neutral position during court proceedings.The Massachusetts Institute of Technology on Tuesday released its first public response to Swartz's prosecution. Swartz, 26, was facing 13 felony charges for hacking into the university's computer network and downloading more than 4m academic articles from the JSTOR database when he killed himself in January. The charges carried up to $1m in fines and 35 years in jail.Since Swartz's death, his family and friends have criticized the school for not intervening in what they believe to be overly aggressive prosecution by the US government and the report failed to assuage these criticisms.Swartz's partner Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffmancalled the report a "whitewash"on her blog.She also disputed the report's claim that MIT took a neutral position because she said prosecutors were given total access to witnesses and evidence but Swartz's lawyers were not."We have an institution to contrast MIT with – JSTOR, who came out immediately and publicly against the prosecution," Stinebrickner-Kauffman said. "Aaron would be alive today if MIT had acted as JSTOR did. MIT had a moral imperative to do so."She also criticized the school for objecting to a Freedom of Information Act request for the secret service files on Swartz's case. The school took the unusual step of intervening in the request for government documentsafter a judge ordered the documents to be released in July."If MIT is at all serious about implementing any reforms to stop this kind of tragedy from happening again, it must stop objecting to the release of information about the case."Robert Swartz, Swartz's father and a consultant to the MIT lab, had asked MIT to aid efforts to have the charges dropped or to get a plea deal that would not have jail time during legal proceedings and is mentioned multiple times in the report."The report makes clear that MIT was not neutral,"Robert Swartz told Wired. "But they should not have been neutral. They should have advocated of Aaron's behalf, because the law under which he was charged was wrong."The report concedes that the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act under which Swartz was charged is "a poorly drafted and questionable criminal law"."They co-operated with prosecutors in endless ways, and they were fundamentally opaque to us," Robert Swartz said.Lawrence Lessig, a Harvard law professor and friend and mentor to Aaron Swartz, wrote on his blog that MITcannot claim neutrality:"Neutrality" is one of those empty words that somehow has achieved sacred and context-free acceptance – like "transparency" … But there are obviously plenty of contexts in which to be "neutral" is simply to be wrong. … For example, this context: the point the report makes in criticizing the prosecutors is that they were at a minimum negligent in not recognizing that under MIT's open access policies, Aaron's access was likely not "unauthorized.""MIT knew something here that at a minimum could have cut short a prosecution, and which, it turns out, could also have saved someone's life," Lessig said. "'Neutrality' does not justify failing to pick up the phone, and telling the prosecutor: 'Hey, in fact, his access was authorized.'"Quinn Norton, whodated Swartz for three years,said on Twitter: "I will never work with MIT, I will never attend events at MIT, I will never support MIT's work, and I hope dearly that my MIT friends leave."The MIT report was produced by computer science professor Hal Abelson, who was asked by school president L Rafael Reif to lead a review of the school's involvement in Swartz's prosecution. Abelson led a group that reviewed 10,000 documents and conducted interviews with 50 people to assess the school's involvement in the case."Only Swartz knows why he committed suicide," the report said. "However, for the final 24 months of his life, he was the subject of a vigorous investigation and prosecution by the US Department of Justice, with an indictment and then a superseding indictment that could have resulted in years in prison."
On Wednesday the Guardian's editor in chief Alan Rusbridger gave the reddit community anexclusive live webchat to answer questions about the NSA intelligence leak, the changing role of journalism and keeping sources safe in the internet age. Here are some key points we learned:1. Snowden wasn't going to stay anonymous -question from shalafi71:Alan Rusbridger:He was quite clear from the outset that he would identify himself - via the Guardian. I guess it was only a matter of time before he was outed by the NSA. But he didn't want to give them that pleasure.2. The way the files were released -question from squatly:AR:We've done our best since the start of all this to strike the right balance. There are many important issues that need airing - but we don't want to give away crucial operation methods or endanger the security of individuals, etc. With Prism we revealed five documents, then one more - about the same judgement editors at the Washington Post. I think the subsequent debate in the US and in Europe has been very impressive and well-informed.3. AR had no idea before Snowden the US was doing this - question fromKisharaAR:Like many people, I guess, I had suspicions. But no idea about the sheer scale and ambition of what's been revealed.4. On changing internet habits following the NSA revelations -question from bluecoffee:AR:I've become much more careful about everything digital. The more you read of these documents, the more you realised they're across pretty much everything.5. The implications for journalism -question from Rascally:AR:Mostly, it's all bad. I don't think most news organisations have remotely considered the threat to journalism potentially posed by the methods revealed in the Snowden documents. One basic question: how are we going to have secure communication with sources in future - by phone, by chat, by email, by anything except face to face contact? And, obviously, the use of the Espionage Act - a first world war panic measure passed in 1917 - to clamp down on whistleblowing is really dismaying. But the US still has the First Amendment. Wish we had one of those in the UK6. On Snowden's position now -question by shallahmallakumAR:I feel extremely sorry for him in his current limbo and hope that gets resolved very soon. very good piece by the British/Australian human rights lawyer Geoffrey Robertson here:http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/jul/23/snowden-asylum-america-international-law7. On Peter Capaldi, of Malcolm Tucker fame, playing AR in the up-and-coming film, The Fifth Estate - question fromhiyagameAR:Capaldi as Alan Rusbridger? About as much use as a marzipan dildo. Fuckity-bye!8. On being able to shout STOP THE PRESS -question from theblcksheepAR:We actually got to shout "Stop the Presses!" in the middle of the Prism story a few weeks ago. Sadly, it was my deputy, Paul Johnson, who got to shout it, as I was in NYC.I did once have to keep a judge talking while waiting for the print lorries to be loaded up with freshly-printed newspapers. Once the first van left the yard it was too late for an injunction. Quaint days!9. On protecting whistleblowers and sources -question from eudaimonistAR:It's difficult to talk through these issues in too much detail as to do so could give away information on how we operate.But in general, we try to be very upfront and honest with sources, and talk through possible repercussions (including legal) of speaking with the media. It's up to people speaking to journalists and the media which, and how much, risk they want to take, and how important speaking is. We'll then do everything in our power to protect them, after that conversation.With the NSA, Snowden himself has made clear it was his decision to give this information to the Guardian – as was to subsequently to reveal his identity. Our team spent many hours discussing with Snowden the implications of his decision to identify himself, which he was determined to do.10. On getting into journalism -question from rascallyAR:Main thing is to publish. Blog, tweet, write, photograph, tweet, video, code, play around with data - or a combination of all of the above. a) it will keep your journalistic 'muscle' in practice. b) if you're any good, you'll get noticed.And bear in mind you can do these things at other places than conventional news organisations. Many businesses, NGOs, arts organisations, public bodies, universities, etc are now publishers of extremely high quality stuff. Good places to practise your craft before moving on...11. There's more to come on the NSA files - question fromByLethalAR:Various difficulties have been put in our way (sorry to be vague, but this is an ongoing story). We're working round them. And, yes, more to come.....12. Finally, would Alan Rusbridger rather fight one NSA-sized Wikileaks, or a hundred Wikileaks-sized NSAs? -question from tomphillipsAR:I stay up all night working out my position on ducks and horses and you ask me this?dharmabumzzzcomes back: so what is it? WOULD YOU RATHER FIGHT A HORSE-SIZED DUCK OR A HUNDRED DUCK-SIZED HORSES?AR responds:I thought you'd never ask!I'd rather the former. Just so I could say "A duck, a duck, my kingdom for a duck!"Before I killed it.
President Barack Obama's decision to give ahigh-profile speech on jobs and corporate tax ratesduring a visit to one of Amazon's distribution centres this week was a coup for the company. Now it's capitalising elsewhere in its business.Amazon will launch an ebook under its Kindle Singles imprint on Wednesday based on an interview given by Obama to the imprint's editor, David Blum, during his visit. GigaOm reports thatthe ebook will be a free downloadrather than a paid title.The visit came as Amazon announcedplans to hire more than 5,000 new full-time employeesat 17 of its fulfillment centres across the US, increasing its headcount in the facilities by around 25% as part of a wider recruitment drive for 7,000 jobs in its warehouses.However, Obama's visit has sparked controversy within the books industry, both from retailers and publishers concerned at the impact Amazon's growth has had on smaller businesses over the past decade."For you to highlight Amazon as a job creator strikes us as greatly misguided," suggestedan open letter to the US presidentfrom the American Bookseller's Association ahead of his visit."The news this weekend that Amazon is slashing prices far below cost on numerous book titles is further evidence that it will stop at nothing to garner market share at the expense of small businesses that cannot afford to sell inventory below their cost of acquisition."Meanwhile, independent publisher Melville House's co-founder Dennis Johnson hasmade waves with a blog postattacking "the obviousness of Amazon's monopoly" and its relationship with the US government."The war seems to be over, and the good guys have lost," wrote Johnson."The only thing that would have stopped Amazon anyway was government intervention, and it's hard to imagine the DoJ [Department of Justice] opening a proper antitrust investigation of a company that has the president of the United States dropping in to laud the company and spend some time in one of its warehouses."The Obama ebook is part of Amazon's new range of Kindle Singles Interview ebooks, which launched earlier in July with an interview of Israeli president Shimon Peres by journalist David Samuels.The overall Kindle Singles range of shortform ebooks launched in January 2011, and according toan interview with Blum in the New York Timesin April this year, has generated more than 5m sales.
