Having been on holiday, I missed the excitement over Google'sOpenSocial, bloggedbelow, but at least I'm in time to observe the inevitable backlash. Having read the news reports, three things are moderately suprising.First, as far as I can see, it's just a widget format, ie Google Gadgets. I'm sure there is value to having a common Google-sponsored widget format for mini-applications, because it reduces the amount of work needed to put Vampires or whatever on different social networking sites. But really, who cares?Second, I can't see what's open about it. Sure anybody can write apps for it, but anybody can write apps for Facebook, or, indeed, Windows. There's more to come, but at the moment, it looks just as proprietary as the Facebook system it more-or-less copies. The main difference being that Google appears to own and control the OpenSocial container/API in which the widgets run. But should it feel the need, Facebook can make its system just as "open" as Google's, simply by allowing other sites to host Facebook apps.Russell Beattie has had a whinge about openness inWhere the hell is the Container API?Would people be jumping on this bandwagon so readily if it was Microsoft unilaterally coming up with an API, holding secret meetings geared towards undercutting the market leader, and then making sure that only those anointed partners get a head start on launch day by making sure a key part of the API isn't released -- even in alpha. (It obviously exists already, all the partners have that spec and even sample code, I'm sure. The rest of us don't get access yet, until the GOOG says otherwise).Christ, if this was a Microsoft move, there'd be torches and pitchforks out. I honestly don't see why Google gets a free pass here.Third, if there's a need to transfer personal data between social networking sites, there's a much simpler and easier way to do than OpenSocial. Amicroformatlike a suitably-expandedhCardwould do the job perfectly well in an industry standard way, similar to the vCard standard, RFC 2426. (Marshall Kirkpatrick at Read/Write Web makes the same point inOpenSocial: Three Big Concerns.) But I've tried talking to Google about microformats before, and it appears to be one of their blind spots (to their cost: Gdata has been a huge flop). You don't actually need OpenSocial to transfer or share your personal data, and from reading Dare Obasanjo, OpenSocial looks worse. As for transferringrelationshipdata, who gave you the right?Dare Obasanjo aka Carnage4Life has postedOpenSocial: Technical Overview and Critiqueexploring some of the technical problems, though he concludes: "Despite these misgivings, I think this is a step in the right direction. Web widget and social graph APIs need to be standardized across the Web." Fair enough.I can also understand the enthusiasm of people likeMarc Andreesson(of Ning), because it puts all the non-Facebook social networks on a level playing field, from the widget hosting point of view:With the Facebook platform, only Facebook itself can be a "container" -- "apps" can only run within Facebook itself. In contrast, with Open Social, any social network can be an Open Social container and allow Open Social apps to run within it.Yes, that's good for developers, but it still doesn't mean anything until people start to decide on their social network according to which widgets it will run. At the moment, they don't care. When they do care, there's nothing to stop Facebook from adding OpenSocial/Gogle Gadgets as well. Which will take seconds.Over the long term, there are good reasons for thinking -- and for hoping -- that a good open system will beat a good closed system, like Facebook. So far, however, OpenSocial has yet to show that it's either good or open. The idea that it signals the death of Facebookin the foreseeable futureis just stupid.Update: The conversation is moving along. In the comments below, RickWilliams has pointed to a post byTim O'Reillyin response to a post byMarc Cuban: An Open Facebook API vs Google OpenSocial.Don Dodgehas responded to both. Don also makes explicit an issue that I merely alluded to above, when I asked: "As for transferringrelationshipdata, who gave you the right?" Don says:OK, what if I am a friend of someone on MySpace. Cool, my name and picture appears on their friends list and anyone can see it. But what if this MySpace friend joins a PornSpace social network site and wants to import his friends list to that site? Now my name and picture shows up on his PornSpace page as a friend of his? Hey, wait a minute, I didn't agree to that.Final update: Tim O'Reilly has posted more thoughts onOpenSocial: It's the data, stupid. While he's gone from "mild skepticism" to "full blown disappointment" there are some more hopeful comments.
Cliff and silver surfers prove a match for the young onesWho said there isn't life after death? Hard on the heels of Radiohead's 'pay what you like' experiment - in which fans were able to decide how much (or how little) they wanted to pay for the group's latest album - comes news that Cliff Richard is also testing new online business models. He's asking his fans to determine the price of his forthcoming meisterwerk, Love - the Album. The maximum anyone will be charged is &pound;7.99 (the price of an album on the iTunes store) but the final price will be determined by how popular the record  is - as measured by the volume of advance orders.Ingenious, eh? It just shows that there's still life in these old codgers. Sir Cliff says he had no choice but to embrace new technology. 'Who'd have thought I'd get a buzz from creative marketing?' he told the Daily Telegraph. 'As artists, we face a stark choice. We either keep one step ahead of the  technology which is changing our industry so radically - or we throw up our hands and quit. Personally, I'm not for quitting.'Right on. As if to underscore the point, Saga also announced the launch of SagaZone, a social networking site exclusively for so-called 'silver surfers', ie, folks aged 50 or more. The site has been running for some months in a beta (test) version and already has 16,000 users. It's really Facebook for wrinklies with all the usual stuff - profile pages, groups, forums, etc.This might turn out to be a shrewd business move, for two reasons. Firstly, older people have more free time. A recent Ofcom survey found that the over-50s account for 30 per cent of all time spent online by people in the UK. Secondly, they have lots of disposable income, so SagaZone might be a lucrative site for advertising. And not just for Zimmer frames either.You've been GoogledMemo to investors: before putting your money into any venture, ask yourself this simple question. What will happen if Google decides to move into the same space? Cue Facebook, which until the other day was being hyped as the biggest thing since, well, Google.But that was then and this is now. What happened is that on Wednesday, Google announced it was entering into a partnership with a posse of the  smaller social networking sites to back a set of open APIs (application programming interfaces) that will give third-party developers a common standard for creating mini-programs users can place on their profile pages.'The strategy,' according to one  astute commentator, 'is an attempt to cut the legs out from under market leaders Facebook and MySpace, whose proprietary platforms have shown the great potential of the widget biz.' Translation: widgets are small applications that subscribers to a social networking site can adopt and use. On Facebook, for example, there's a 'Visual Bookshelf' widget which allows users to display the books they are currently reading, or hoping to read.Anyone with the requisite programming skill can write a widget, provided she/he adheres to the Facebook API. But it won't work on other sites such as Bebo or MySpace - and the owners of Facebook like to keep it that way because it corrals everyone within their own walled garden. Just like AOL used to do with its subscribers in the old days.Google's OpenSocial initiative puts a bomb under this cosy dream. If you're a developer faced with the choice of developing a widget that will run on dozens of platforms, or one that runs only on Facebook, which are you likely to choose? Answers on the back of an AOL share certificate, please.Update: shortly before we went to press, MySpace announced that it had caved in: it will join OpenSocial too. Wonder if anyone out there still thinks Facebook is worth $15bn?Reach for the SkypeVisitors to technology companies recently are noticing that everyone in the office is running Skype, the VoIP service. I know of one such company, with more than 70 employees and offices in the UK and Silicon Valley, that has gone completely over to using Skype for communications, thereby slashing its phone bill.But there is still a gaping hole in the VoIP universe - communications between users running Skype on their computers and 'ordinary' telephone users who don't see why they should have to boot up a PC just to make a phone call. On Friday, that gap was plugged when the mobile network 3 began selling Skype mobiles. They look and feel just like ordinary mobiles, but calls to Skype users anywhere in the world are free. Calls to non-Skype users are billed normally.What with that and the Apple iPhone arriving on 9 November, it looks as though the mobile-phone business has just become interesting again.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Ford MondeoFrom:&pound;13,640Miles per gallon:48.7Seats:5Good for:Flash HarryBad for:Steady EddyJames Bond, due to make his 22nd film appearance next year, has spent almost half a century chasing down evil masterminds in a never-ending series of extraordinary vehicles - many of which featured various modifications, including weapons systems, ejector seats and, my favourite, a full submarine function. The most famous of them all, of course, was the Aston Martin DB5, which first appeared in Goldfinger, but who can forget the Lotus Esprit S1 in The Spy Who Loved Me and the beautiful Alfa Romeo GTV in Octopussy? So, seeing 007 sitting behind the wheel of a shiny new Mondeo in his last outing, Casino Royale, came as something of a shock. Was his Aston broken? Had he hired this one from the local Avis?In terms of product placement it's hard to think of a cannier move. Ford is rumoured to have paid &pound;14m for the rights to have Mr Bond take the wheel of middle England's most trusted workhorse - though for that sum they also got to liberally sprinkle the film with Land Rovers, Range Rovers and, memorably, the world's first Aston Martin DBS. Ford has now flogged off Aston, but at the time Casino Royale could have been seen as a 144-minute advert for its cars.But what would Bond have made of his Mondeo moment? I think he would have been thrilled. Gone are many of the cheap and cheerful shackles of fleetdom. Instead of being every rep's default car, we now have a well-designed, gadget-filled motor that can rub shoulders with the best of its competitors (the Audi A4, the Lexus IS and the 3-series BMW) and still allow you to leave the forecourt about five grand better off.Far from feeling sorry for the high-mileage sales rep, a ride in the new Mondeo will now leave you feeling slightly envious. From its honeycomb lights to its five-circled alloys and double-level grille, Mondeo man is clearly a chap who rates design as much as value for money. Ford isn't convinced of his intellectual powers, however, as one of the onboard gadgets is an EasyFuel system which makes it impossible to fill up with the wrong sort of petrol. You can say farewell to those 'I can't remember if it takes diesel or unleaded' moments forever. Though compared to bullet-proof rear shields and rubber-shredding hubcaps it's not one of Q's most exciting developments.Ford is also keen to point out that the Mondeo is following the green blueprint laid down by Henry Ford more than a century ago - apparently the Model T's floor was made from old packing cases. And FoMoCo (the Ford Motor Company) has managed to save 35,000 tonnes from going to landfill this year by making more than 300 parts of the Mondeo from recycled materials.So, will 007 be back in a Mondeo next year? Unlikely. As purists will know, Ian Fleming originally had the secret agent in a 1933 Bentley convertible, and rumour has it Mr Faulks has Bond back in a Bentley. Let's hope he doesn't fill it with diesel by mistake.martin.love@observer.co.uk&#183;This article was amended on November 11 2007. Contrary to the article above the next James Bond film is not called The Devil May Care, scripted by Sebastian Faulks. 'Bond 22' is the working title for next November's film, written by Paul Haggis, Neal Purvis and Robert Wade. This has been corrected.
My apologies for the delay in updating the blog: I was on holiday. For future reference, you can always find the Ask Jack column on Thursdays athttp://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/series/askjackafter the publication of the printed version, but you can only make comments here....
The disciples have begun to question their faith. 'We suffer so Apple can make a few more bucks, when Apple is clearly not hurting for money,' wrote Wil Shipley, an American software developer, on his blog, Call Me Fishmeal. 'We were there when Apple was hurting, we stuck with it, we nursed her back to health. It's our money she has now, and she's turning on us now that she's rich off it.'Apple is the maker of the Mac computer, the iPod and now the 'revolutionary' iPhone, which launches in Britain this week, trailing clouds of hype after just being named Time magazine's 'Invention of the Year'. It will go on sale for &pound;269 plus contract at 6.02pm on Friday in the retail and online stores of Apple, Carphone Warehouse and O2. Matthew Key, chief executive of O2's UK business, claimed yesterday that he expected 'a couple of hundred thousand' iPhones to be sold in the first two months.But after years of near religious devotion to Apple and its high priest, chief executive Steve Jobs, there are signs of a revolt in the blogosphere. A series of controversial decisions by Jobs has tarnished Apple's reputation as an effortlessly cool outfit which was always on the side of the consumer against the Goliath Microsoft. Worst of all, it is now being compared to Microsoft as unexciting and money driven.The backlash could become all too apparent this week if iPhone buyers defy Apple by 'unlocking' their phone and choosing their own network operator. To add to Apple's long term anxieties in the crowded mobile phone marketplace, tomorrow Google is expected to announce plans for its own phone, dubbed the gPhone, a potentially dangerous rival because of Google's own vast fan base.Since launching in June, 1.4 million iPhones - a combined iPod, camera, phone and internet device - have been sold in America, with celebrity owners including Tom Cruise, Whoopi Goldberg, Spike Lee, Lindsay Lohan and former presidential political advisor Karl Rove. But the shine began to come off Apple's halo when it slashed $200 off the product less than 10 weeks after launch, angering diehards who had queued overnight for its release and paid top price. They were offered a $100 voucher but that was not enough to silence them.Wil Shipley, who bought an extraordinary 15 iPhones, calculated that he could have saved $3,000 if he had waited to buy until after the reduction. But on his blog he said it was not so much this that angers him as the iPhone's 'closed' system which prevents third parties adding their own software applications.He also condemned the once idealistic San Francisco company for exploiting the sale of ringtones as no other phone operator does. Shipley added: 'The generous view would be that Apple's screwing up, and the non-generous view would be that they are just plain getting greedy.'Such views have been echoed by bloggers dismayed at Apple's ruthlessness now that it is becoming an establishment player. Frustration at the iPhone's partner network, AT&amp;T, prompted a flood of American websites offering software which allows users to insert their existing Sim card into the iPhone and avoid signing the minimum contract.Some 250,000 of the iPhones sold so far have not been activated to run on AT&amp;T. But in September Apple hit back by issuing a software security update that made some iPhones freeze up and erased some self-installed programs, such as games and instant messaging.'There is a rise in complaints about Apple's policies and strategic decisions this year, and it seems to be accelerating,' blogger John Gruber told the Pittsburgh Tribune Review, under the headline, 'Something's rotten among Apple's core of fans'. The article noted: 'When they get really mad, they lob an M-bomb - they say Apple is starting to remind them of Microsoft Corp, which in their world is the prototypical soulless, monopolistic machine.'Apple and O2 now face the threat of 'unlocking' in Britain, with such services publicly advertising in shops on London's Tottenham Court Road and websites such as iPhoneUnlockUK.com and AppleiPhoneUnlock.co.uk.The latter brazenly states: 'We can now offer our customers the only available Apple iPhone 100% full unlocking solution.' It appears that rebellious Apple devotees could now use their mastery of the products against the company.But Apple has warned that installing one of the unlocking programs could make the phone 'permanently inoperable' when future software updates are released.O2 is Apple's exclusive network partner in the UK. The iPhone will be sold for &pound;269, but customers must take out contracts with 02 that start at &pound;35 per month. It means the cheapest iPhone deal will cost &pound;899 because the contracts last 18 months - more expensive than in America. Critics have been quick to point out that internet browsing could be slow because the iPhone does not run on a 3G network.Stephen Pentland, director of Telecoms and Media Strategy at Deloitte, said: 'I don't think it's going to be a huge seller. There are a number of other phones on the market which have similar functions at a significantly lower price.'There will be some unlocking happening over time,' he added, 'because people won't want to wait for their contract to finish.'
From the obsessive indie record collector flicking through the 12-inch racks, to the much-derided figure of '50-quid man' (the middle-of-the-road fiftysomething bloke with plenty to spend in HMV), music fans have always been addicted to 'product', from vinyl to CDs.It's all very well the likes of Radiohead releasing their latest misery-fest online, but music lovers want shiny discs to clutch, artwork to admire and lyric sheets to pore over. Or do they?After more than two decades, I kicked my weekly CD-buying habit three months ago and haven't been in a record shop since. I subscribe to Napster To Go (&pound;14.95 per month), which allows me to download as much music as I want onto my computer and transfer those files onto my MP3 player. Before, in an average month, I used to spend &pound;50 on music. Now I save myself &pound;35.05 (and can listen to much more stuff).But far from being a '50-quid man', Eamonn Forde, editor of the music business title Five Eight, thinks people like me are 'opinion formers', which is reassuring. 'We reckon 15 per cent of music sales are digital at the moment,' he says. 'The singles market has yet to impact upon the album market and that's where most of the margin is for the industry.'The omnipresent iTunes has triumphed over its digital-market competition, providing three-quarters of online sales. But it isn't the only show in town: there is a huge amount of competition, not just on price but on service.iTunes is an a la carte model: you see the track you like and pay your 79p.  A big drawback with iTunes is that it has inbuilt digital rights management (DRM), which prevents you playing 'your' music on anything other than an iPod, although iTunes has begun to introduce some DRM-free tracks. On Napster, you can listen to your chosen music for as long as your subscription is valid, including music stored on your MP3, but it too is not 'your' music (you can't burn it off your computer onto CDs).By contrast, with the website eMusic you can download 30 tunes a month for &pound;8.99 or 75 for &pound;14.99 (that's 20p a track). Not only is that a lot cheaper than many of its bigger rivals, but eMusic is DRM-free. Everything is sold in MP3 format, so your music is compatible with any device, not just an iPod. The service has more than 300,000 subscribers and its business in the EU has increased 110 per cent since 2006.'As more labels choose to sell their tracks in the open MP3 format, enabling compatibility between devices, and more retailers can offer those tracks, we believe the market will expand,' says eMusic chief executive David Pakman.UK-based website Wippit once claimed to be the world's first legal peer-to-peer file-sharing service, but has since moved to a less controversial download model. It says it has 184,000 users, three-quarters of whom are in the UK. The subscription is &pound;4.99 a month, or &pound;50 for a whole year and, unlike Napster, you get to keep the tracks you download. 'If you download an album every two months, then you have already broken even,' says chief executive Paul Myers. 'If you buy more, then it's a real bargain.'Yet, according to research by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry and analyst Jupiter Research, only one in 20 downloads is actually paid for. 'The under-24s wouldn't dream of paying until they start "hitting the barrier" - which is when they begin to have children, responsibility and less time,' Myers says.The UK music industry has taken a 'gently, gently' approach to policing a generation of illegal file-sharers since 2004 when the BPI, Britain's phonographic industry body, launched 150 cases, most of which settled for around &pound;2,000. Certainly it's been quiet compared to the more gung-ho approach in the US, where more than 20,000 lawsuits have been brought in the past four years, including one last month against 30-year-old Jammie Thomas, who allegedly held a Kazaa account on which 24 songs were available for download. The jury found she should pay $9,250 per song.So the generation driving the legitimate online music revolution is 'a lot older than you would think,' says Ben Drury, managing director of 7digital.com. Most users fall into the 25-to-34 age bracket, then 35-to-44, with the under-24s in third place, he says. 'Younger people are much more likely to download illegally - they're cash-sensitive, price-sensitive, more technically able and maybe have more time to search the peer-to-peer services.'Myers is more precise: 'Our average customer is a 34-year-old male. It's not the kids, as everyone thinks.'It sounds suspiciously like '50-quid man' has been more willing to move with the times than his image suggests.
The Orange BoxPC, PS3, Xbox 360As value packs go, this five-game bumper may supply the most delight per pound of any release ever. The wonderful Half-Life 2, at four years old, is showing its age graphically, but remains a defining first person shooting experience as you escape a sinister and heavily patrolled City 17. What it lacks in Halo-style glamour is made up for by beautifully engineered kinetic puzzles and crumbling urban environments. The story continues in Half-Life 2 Episodes 1 & 2, which deliver even further ingenuity with exquisite use of the gravity gun and open spaces, while in Portal, a device opens gates between which you teleport to solve its perfectly formed and black-humoured problems. With Team Fortress 2's highly tactical multiplayer mayhem, The Orange Box is a good deal of epic and mystifying proportions.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;35-&pound;50WWE SmackDown! Vs Raw 2008PS2, PS3, PSP, Nintendo DS, Wii, Xbox 360For fans of the peculiar muscle ballet of American wrestling, the latest in an endless line of simulations of this demi-sport will be reason for considerable happiness. For those not inculcated into the ways of Vince McMahon and his heavily muscled colleagues, the baffling success of wrestling games will have no light cast on it by this shambling mess of a title. Combining sluggish moves and shabby character models with interminable theatrics as each wrestler enters the ring, Smackdown Vs Raw creates an appallingly dull but long-lived set of bouts, from which most right-thinking gamers would want to escape. The plethora of fight modes, combinations of wrestling styles and options for engaging friends in drawn-out duels just extends the tedium. Lacking any innovation, this is sausage-machine development at its most exploitative.&#183;THQ, &pound;30-&pound;50Metroid Prime 3: CorruptionNintendo WiiThe Wii's arrival gave console-owning first person shooter fans a brief moment of anticipation that they would finally have a control method to rival the PC's hallowed mouse and keyboard combination. Anyone unfortunate enough to have played Scarface or the abysmal Wii version of Call Of Duty will rapidly have been disabused of that notion. But Metroid Prime 3 proves that, while no rival to mouse control, aiming with the Wii-remote and moving with the nunchuk controller is an intuitive, rewarding way of controlling heroine Samus Aran as well as interacting with doors and scenery. The elegance of its interface adds an extra layer of joy to the Metroid standards of multifunction weapons and visors used to scan your surroundings in search of plot points and clues. While no towering classic by comparison with Halo 3, this is easily the finest of its kind on Wii and is a lot more accessible than its predecessors.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;40
Remember the Mini Clubman? The one with the cupboard doors on the back? It was where the Mini and many of the fundamental principles underpinning the bathroom cabinet met, with predictably eccentric results."Only in England," you might have said, though you'd be careful about saying it now, of course. At a launch event for the new Clubman, BMW executives spoke movingly of the Mini's deep-seated, English design heritage and everyone in the room did their level best to ignore the fact that the executives speaking were, almost to a man, German. They say you can't buy a history like the Mini's but, happily for BMW, it turns out you can.Even now, though, Minis for the British market continue to be built at the Cowley plant in Oxfordshire, so, if you buy a Mini, you can still feel that you are honouring a wholesome commitment to locally grown produce. But is it made with you in mind?Consider the new Clubman. It comes with a pair of side-hinged back doors, but also with a rear passenger door. Only one, note. In order to put a rear door on each side of the car, as usual, they would have had to remove the petrol tank, apparently, and you don't need to be hugely up on the
engineering side of things to realise that such a step would have had detrimental consequences for the car's overall performance.Allegedly, the prospect of an asymmetrical door arrangement struck Mini as a bit odd at first. But then they thought, isn't that exactly the kind of crazy, kooky, kinky thing that Minis have come to stand for? Wouldn't Twiggy herself be twisting her legs in squirmish delight at the mere idea?So, one rear passenger door it is, on the driver's side. Great! Except that opening a rear-hinged door into traffic must be about the biggest risk one can take in a road-based context, short of playing chicken on the central reservation of the M6. Not for nothing has this portal already been gloomily dubbed "the suicide door". And not for nothing have people been chuntering that this supposedly English-blooded car has been built first and foremost for the convenience of the left-hand drive market, where your passenger door will spend most of its life adjacent to the pavement.Otherwise, the Clubman is a close relation of the regular Minis owned and loved by estate agents the nation over. Is the now familiar "funky" interior (the dish-size speedo, the perky clocks, the bright toggles) starting to look dated? Possibly. But let's not quibble.In the smart Cooper S version of the Clubman that I drove, you didn't seem to be carrying a sideboard. In fact, it was as punchy and direct as any other new Mini, to the extent that I had to get out a couple of times to check that the new, extruded rear end hadn't fallen off somewhere.What's more, it was sparky, fun and (until everyone gets one) endearingly different. And let's not forget the practicality. In response to the ancient question, "How many elephants can you get in a Mini?" the answer is at least two fewer elephants than you can get in a Mini Clubman. Buy one quickly, then, before the estate agents take them all.Mini Cooper S ClubmanPrice&#163;17,210Top speed139mphAcceleration0-62 in 7.6 secondsAverage consumption44.8mpgCO² emissions150g/kmEco rating7/10At the wheelTess DalyBound forAlderley EdgeIn a wordClubbable
Last year LG Electronics surprised the world by coming out with a touchscreen mobile phone that pre-empted Apple's long-awaited iPhone launch by nearly six months. It was called the Prada, and as the name hinted, the device was more chic handbag accessory for the girl or boy about town than digital device for the dork. Nothing like a serious contender for the longed-for title "iPhone Killer", the Prada was sleek and charming in its way, but footling and frustrating too.Welcome now the LG KU990 Viewty. Yes, you read me right: Viewty. Someone probably got paid for that name. In real money. Shudder. Anyway, name aside, this is a more serious mobile, packed with features that are (for the most part) elegantly incorporated into a slim and stylish piano-black oblong.The phone is 3G (actually 3.5G, using the HSDPA or High Speed Downlink Packet Access protocol) and therefore capable of close-to broadband
speeds on the go; a very fine browser takes advantage of this unfussily and pleasantly. Like its bratty little sister, the Viewty has a touch screen; unlike the Prada, it also has a proper camera and photo software to go with it. I should guess that the sector of the market LG is aiming for is the one currently bestridden by the Nokia N95. Unlike the N95, however, the Viewty doesn't offer Wi-Fi or GPS (for satnav functionality) which some
may find a deal-breaker. There is a slot for a MicroSD card of up to 2Gb; an excellent 5MP camera with xenon flash; surprisingly impressive photo
and video software (including a nifty 120 frames-a-second option that allows half-speed playback for really excellent quality slow-mo - what's
called overcranking in the biz); and even an option that allows direct uploading to YouTube, a feature you will soon see as standard everywhere, or so this observer believes, and he is never wrong. A damnably stupid rocker on the lens ring serves as volume and multi-function switch, but it's silly, inconvenient and more or less a waste of time and plastic.That said, you might argue this device scores over the iPhone when it comes to formats. It allows MP3, AAC, AMR, WMA and WMV for sound as well as the usual picture and video formats, plus - and this is rare - DivX, the preferred codec of rippers and toasters everywhere. Smart as it is, the Viewty falls down when it comes to text entry. You tap at a touch-screen version of a phone keypad or use a badly implemented and fiddly handwriting recognition system. This is what stops the device leaking into the realm of the smart phones. To qualify as such, you really need to be able to text, email and type at some length and at some speed. You'll never rise above the lvl of txt lk ths w Viewty.One neat feature: the screen can vibrate when touched, offering a kind of fingertip feedback that, once you're used to it, improves the whole relationship. In the end, I suspect this phone will attract more females than males, but what's wrong with that?I came expecting to scoff, but sent it back (reluctantly) to the PR company that let me play with it rather impressed. This is no iPhone killer any more than the Prada was, but if you want a neat, cute, fun phone that leans in favour of photos and general media larkiness, you could do a lot worse.Faint praise? Well, the Viewty has a gosh factor, but in such a big marketplace you need to turn goshes into wows.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
Each week we're trying to give you a taste of what other people are reading on Guardian's technology pages. Last time out the most popular story wasPalestinian militants using Google Earth; this week it was one of the biggest subjects in technology and science: the future of power.James Bloom's story - which led this week's printed Technology Guardian - examines US government predictionssatellites in space collecting solar energy and beaming it back to the earth. Apparently it's closer than you might think.Elsewhere, ourreview of Leopardthe new Apple operating system, proved popular reading - interesting since it was written not by a flaky journalist but a developer who knows Apple software inside out.And you also enjoyed finding aboutSaga's new social networkfor people over 50, 3's deal to launch aSkype phone, and our Q&amp;A withDigg co-founder Jay Adelson.On the blogs, several of the same subjects popped up again.A blog postcovering some problems in upgrading to Leopard, while the amount that Apple receives fromphone companies for the iPhonecame in for some discussion.But one of the most interesting posts of the week came on Gamesblog, which quoted EA boss John Riccitello (pictured) suggesting that in the future,all games could be free.Perhaps it's something we may see come to pass sooner than we imagine.
We wrote about new iMacs having a screen freezing issue (first time,second time), and in the four weeks or so since Apple has clearly been at work on the problem.And now, the solution: some software downloads for you to apply. There's a version for thosesluggards running Tiger, and one for thebleeding-edge types running Leopard.However, reading thecommentson The Unofficial Apple Weblog, it seemsnot everyoneis satisfied:This hasn't fixed the freezing issue. In fact, 30 seconds after restarting once the update was complete it locked up again.We'll wait and see. Let us know how it goes for you...
MondayEx-Guitar Hero dev bashes PS3PS2 is sevenTuesdayThe game of (MMO) lifeEA vs RockstarPES kicks FIFAWednesdayPre-owned moanWikiGame Week 13: Write your own doomHalloween horror questionsThursdayRock Band tracksYou're paying too much for gamesNurse, my whisky!Taking hitsXbox 360 festivities and attachmentsWoW: Hello Kitty?!FridayI/O Interactive and drunk peopleMake me a superstarSensible Soccer delayed?
Here we are slap bang in the middle of the most exciting time for game releases ever - November has Assassins Creed, Mass Effect and Mario Galaxy alone - with brilliant games seemingly released every week and I'm still pining for bloody Sensible World of Soccer on Xbox Live. Initially due out in August the classic Amiga footy game isnow supposedly arrivingat the end of November but who would bet against 2008? And maybe a release early next year would be preferable. It would liven up the traditional post-Christmas slump and er, stuff. Nope, I can't deny it - the sooner Sensi arrives the better. With FIFA and PES both treading water could this be time for Sensi to reclaim its football crown? Or will it be another retro disappointment like Speedball 2? My bet is going somewhere in the middle.
No, this PC didn't fall off the back of a lorry, but you will have to travel to the United States to buy it. WalMart is selling an entry level spec PC from low-cost specialists Everex loaded with what they call the gOS. That's'g' as in Green, not 'g' as in Google, althoughplentyofpeoplehave called it aGoogle PC. Although to be fair,John Dvorak put Google PCin quote marks. It runs on a Ubuntu Linux kernal with Google apps bundled and asimplified, light-weight file manager, Enlightenment. It's definitely not Gnome or KDE, but looks eerily like agreen-theme of Mac OS X.The other part of the Green PC is that this is a low-power PC running at an average of 2 Watts and operating at a "whisper quiet 28dB". One thing though that dents its green image is that there is actually a tiny mini-ITX motherboard in there.Slash Gear says: "Apparently people equate the size of the PC with the power, and they wouldn't buy it if the case were as small as it could be". They could have cut the waste by makingthe computer a lot smaller.This isn't the first time that WalMart has sold a Linux PC. Three years ago, they began sellingbudget laptops with Linspire, which sells a version of Ubuntu withadded proprietary codecs, drivers, software and CNR, which appears to be something like theSynaptic Package Manager(basically a GUI for apt). The $198 gets the box, plus a keyboard, mouse and stereo speakers, but no monitor. If you want Windows, it will cost you $100 more.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:budget PC,Everex,Linux,WalMarttechnorati tags end
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's not often that you get what looks like good news on the malware front. Reading the blogs of some of the people who track it - such asF-Secure,Alex Eckelberryof Sunbelt Software, and theGreynets blog- you could think that we're All Doomed, because the folks writing malware know that they're incredibly hard to track down, that there are people willing to pay them to write it, and that while human stupidity might not be infinite, it's a suitably large number that you don't have to worry too hard.And so we've had the Storm worm, which has set a lot of people in the security world on edge, with a number of reports suggesting that the number of infected Windows PCs is anywhere between 1m and 50m, operating in a silent peer-to-peer network which nobody outside can crack, and whose future nefarious purposes - beyond spewing pump-and-dump spam - we can still only guess at.Well, I'm here with some good news from the security world: the Storm network was at most probably about 1.5m bots, of which about 200,000 were operational at any time. That's fallen now to about 160,000, with 20,000 available.It's not particularly well-protected, and you (if "you" means "a talented security researcher at ease writing Perl web crawlers") can examine its extent comparatively easily without the knowledge of its owners.The source of this information is apresentation(1.4Mb Powerpoint presentation) by Brandon Enright of the University of California at San Diego (UCSD) given at the Toorcon conference.The slides suggest some very involved work went into the unravelling of Storm, but Enright's work does give some encouragement that the malware writers don't have it all their own way.He thinks that the Storm malware (which is a mixture of virus, Trojan, rootkit) could have infected up to 15m computers, but that most of those have been cleaned up or in some other way taken off the network.Microsoft made a significant dent in Storm in September by adding a detection signature to its Malicious Software Removal Tool; overnight, infection rates dropped by 20%.What's most interesting about his work, though, is that it shows how the authors of the peer-to-peer structure have built on existing ones, very straightforwardly: the protocols from the file-sharing network eDonkey (such as the method for numbering adjacent Storm "peers") seem to have been their starting point, and they didn't go much further. Distributed bot networks like this are really just small file-sharing systems, after all; but the entrance points are kept hidden, rather than letting anyone join in.Indeed, it's interesting how the bot herders (as they're called) are wary of who they'll let on their systems: I've heard that you can hire the networks quite cheaply, but what you do on it will be monitored. If it isn't in some way criminal then they'll know you're either a cop, a security researcher or a journalist; the outcome is not good.The dwindling power and size of Storm does at least mean that some of the more apocalyptic worries about its potential won't come true. Maybe the rump of remaining machines will just be used for pump and dump scams, where emails arrive saying that such-and-such a stock is just ready to leap ahead because of, er, something or other.Which brings us back to the Einstein crux of most malware: that is, what they rely on. As Albert Einsteinsaid: "Two things are infinite: the universe and human stupidity; and I'm not sure about the universe." If you get an email from someone you've never heard of telling you a stock you've never heard of is going to rocket in value,why would you buy that stock?I can't imagine the thought process involved. Yet people do, asTony Levene'spages in Guardian Money demonstrate week after week.Writing malware may be the work of clever people, and tracking it the work of arguably cleverer ones. But keeping the first lot in business remains, I'm afraid, the responsibility of people less clever than either group. The Storm is abating. But the lesson that the security blogs tells us is that there'll be another one along soon enough.
A senior Yahoo! has admitted that he had more information about the imprisonment of Chinese dissident Shi Tao than he originally told a US congressional investigation.The FT has details:Michael Callahan, Yahoo's executive vice president and general counsel, said in a statement ahead of a congressional hearing next week that he "realised" that Yahoo had additional information about the nature of the probe into one of its users, Shi Tao, a journalist now serving a 10-year prison sentence in China, months after he testified that Yahoo had "no information" about the investigation.Essentially Callahan says it was a mix-up - bad communication between himself and Chinese staff over a number of documents in a language he couldn't understand. However, it's important to know that Yahoo! didn't willingly make this U-turn; it comes after work bythe Dui Hua Foundation, an organisation promoting human rights issues between China and America.Rebecca MacKinnon, who has been following the case carefully,says it's entirely plausible. The "Influence Peddler" blog, meanwhile, says that US companies have to'walk a very narrow line'.Youmayhaverealisedthat I'mfascinatedby the actions of technology companies in China: it seems to me not only to deal with a massive human rights issue, but also deals with fundamental difficulties at the libertarian heart of the web.Is there more news on the way?
Due for release at the end of this month, I/O Interactive's stylish action adventure, Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men, is set to be one of the dark horses of the Christmas release schedule in many senses of the phrase (apart from any sense that relates to actual horses). It's an original title - as rare as optimistic turkeys at this time of the year - and it's pitch black in terms of tone and setting. This is the harrowing tale of two violent, damaged psychos - one a criminal, one a mercenary - seeking to escape Death Row by any means necessary: even co-operation.The set-up may remind many of classic 'opposites forced together' flicks like The Defiant Ones (or Blaxploitation alternative Black Mama, White Mama), as well as modern crime movies like Heat, but what were therealinfluences behind the story? I put some questions to Game Director Jens Peter Kurup who game some interesting insights into his studio's working methods. Including talking to barflies...How does a game involving an embittered mercenary and a medicated psycho escaping from Death Row come about? Was there a spark of inspiration or did the set up evolve over time?For this project our inspiration has come from lots of different sources, particularly our very own Hitman games. In Kane &amp; Lynch the story and characters are unique but some of the style and mood has been inspired by Hollywood action movies; Unforgiven and Man of Fire probably being the biggest inspirations in that area.We've also spent what feels like a lifetime listening to drunk people at bars - you'd be surprised what lives some of these people have led. Or at least what stories they come up with to cover it up. We wanted to create characters that are real. We've all seen and played our share of immortal action heroes. We wanted to get a couple of guys with some proper problems centered around themselves. No saving the world or anything. It helps if they´re a little older. They know that they´re not immortal and they know they don´t get a second chance.How does IO work in the early stages of a game? Do you have a core team, or does everyone pitch in with ideas?We'll have a core team who will shut themselves away for a while and work on the concept. We focus on characters, key scenarios and locations, and build a story around that. The important thing is to have a direction early on and then refine it when you see the game´s own potential. At a certain point everybody pitches in - and the core team filters.Throughout the Hitman series and into K&amp;L it seems that you've always developed extremely detailed backstories, environments and situations in your games - there's always a lot going on in the background. Has this always been part of the plan at IO or, again, is this just something that's evolved?Yes, that's definitely something that I would hope we're renowned for. We put a lot of time into researching our games before we get to work on them. Some of it comes from creating the Hitman games - where Hitman of course always encounters different scenarios all the time. He's not like a soldier who's always on a battle field - or a space marine that's always ... in space I guess.It's the same with Kane and Lynch. They don't belong in one kind of environment only - they go wherever their situation pushes or pulls them; a dense techno club with rich spoiled brats sweating on Lynch; on the outside of a Tokyo skyscraper; busting out from death row; in a bank heist and other places you'll find out about in the game. We've always enjoyed just throwing our characters into different situation and then seeing how they react. I guess we find it more interesting than throwing a soldier on a battlefield again and again.Having these new gaming platforms we're now also able to create games with a movie-like quality. When playing through Kane &amp; Lynch we want people to feel like they're taking the lead role in a Hollywood blockbuster action movie.What has your experience been with censors and classification boards? Has anything been cut from the game? If so, what?We haven't cut anything from the game and we shouldn't have to. We have not gone out to make a mature game for the sake of guns and violence, we have established two complex characters and, hopefully, put them into a situation where their motivation and plight become very apparent to the gamer and as a result players are drawn into their world - it's our central characters who have determined that this game will be a mature 18 rated game. It's a gritty world where the two characters are not only struggling to progress the plot, but struggling with each other. There are no actions without consequences and everything is set in a very specific story context.Do you feel a constant struggle as a developer between meeting the demands of the censors while giving hardcore gamers what they inevitably want - lots of violence and gore?I think if you are a developer who just wants to deliver a 'gore fest' to the end consumer then you are always going to come up against hurdles, some higher than others. The opportunity we have with next-generation consoles is to create a context for a compelling experience and we pride ourselves on our characters, story and gameplay so it should never, hopefully become an issue.Is there a moral behind Kane and Lynch? It seems that, like Hitman, it's quite a nihilistic experience...I wouldn't say it's nihilistic. The two characters, whilst very dark, do have some redeeming features and the story does have its uplifting moments. They've both been unfortunate and that's led to some wrong decisions. In a way they're trying to do the right thing in the only way they know how. That's all I can say at this stage, we've kept a lot of the story for this game completely under wraps so I'm not at liberty to reveal more.How does the relationship between Kane and Lynch develop through the game?I can't really say because it's this relationship that is integral to the plot in the game. Suffice to say, they don't get on particularly well as it's a very volatile partnership. The interaction between Kane and Lynch in this game really fascinated us - we were able to delve into what the lives of characters like this could be like. We wanted to see how people can get themselves into very bleak situations with catastrophic consequences.What do you feel are some of the key set pieces in the game - what sections are going to get people talking?The game is full of set pieces. Like I said, it's like playing through a Hollywood blockbuster. Without giving too much away I can describe you part of one level. At the beginning you enter a nightclub packed full of hundreds of people dancing away to techno music. As Kane, you weave through the crowds with Lynch close by, on your way to kidnap the nightclub's owner. Once you've got her and you're trying to leave the club, the guards spot you and start firing.The crowds of screaming people crouch down to avoid the gunfire but you still can't get through so you unleash a hail of bullets across the roof and all of a sudden the crowd disperses, running as far away from your gunfire as possible. Using your machinegun you make your way for the exit herding the crowd from the ensuing danger. That's one example of how we're using the environment in different ways in this game.[Sounds very like the opening scene of the Miami Vice movie - KS]Have you done anything new with weapons in the game? Is it a standard selection of hand arms and explosives or have you anything new in there?The game has a great arsenal of weaponry with machineguns, pistols, rocket launchers, shotguns, grenades and even tear gas. You can also control a squad of mercenaries and at any time, in the heat of combat, you can re-supply your team mates' ammo or even decide to take one of their guns for yourself. For example, you could be fighting a gun battle in the streets with an automatic rifle and then find yourself indoors in close combat, so with a quick dash over to your team mate to take his shotgun, you can be filling the bad guys with buckshot in a matter of seconds.The Fragile Alliance co-op mode has really captured the imagination of gamers - again, was there one spark of inspiration for this?When designing the multiplayer for a game like Kane and Lynch, it quickly became clear that any normal game mode just wouldn't do. We needed something that revolved around the same themes as single and co-op: Greed, Betrayal and Revenge. And since Kane and Lynch is essentially a crime drama, it instantly evolved into a heist-based multiplayer. And as we all know, there's no good heist without fighting for the loot. And that's essentially Fragile Alliance. A heist game where you start in an alliance and watch it crumble as people start to get their grubby little hands on the cash. We're all looking forward to playing against you. I meanwithyou. Us you can trust us off course. We wouldn't shoot you in the back just for a measly million dollars.Is it possible, in Fragile Alliance to actually play honourably? If not, how do you ensure players go through the initial period of co-operation - won't it just turn into an instant blood bath?The quick answer is, that you won't win if you start a bloodbath. You'll be marked traitor - everybody will see the reward on your head, and you'll have less chance getting past the guards to the loot, let alone getting away with any of it. The people you've killed, respawn as Kevlar-clad cops - with the opportunity to collect a reward by killing you before you reach exit. All in all, it's bad business to kill a team member. That is, until you think you actually have a chance of making it out on your own. In reality that's after the loot has been picked up. At that point a few of the players might be dead. There won't be that many cops left. You're carrying tons of cash (they work as shield too) and the distance to the exit point will be shorter.But it is possible to play honourably and it's actually often these players that will win.In terms of the visual style, people have mentioned Heat and Man on Fire. To me, it's interesting that people are talking about style at all - once upon a time, games just wanted to look realistic. Now they're subtly subjective, like movies. How do you arrive at a look for your games, and what visual elements do you use to convey that look?We employ a variety of techniques to give our games a cinematic feel. In Kane &amp; Lynch, as you play through you'll see that the levels play like chapters in a story rather than just missions. We also use continuous in-game conversation to elaborate on story points, define the characters and establish mood. Just like a movie, we also use detailed storyboards for our cut scenes and for working out an overview of the whole game and its flow. In addition, we spend a lot of time crafting highly atmospheric environments, grand set-pieces and sound effects so that players feel like they're actually there, not just sitting in front of their TV.Do you see this as a series? If so, how will it develop?I can't reveal our plans for Kane &amp; Lynch at this stage but we would like to continue working with these two interesting characters.Finally, what will the next Hitman be like?Now I really can't say anything! All I can tell you is that you've not seen the last of Agent 47, that's for sure.
You want gaming? You want social networking? Technological convergence? Yes, I know it was out in 2005, but let's just revisitthis(fromwemakemoneynotart):[Superstar] uses JapanesePuri Kura stickers... The goal is to see and be seen, using tiny images woven into the fabric of Tokyo streetlife.To play, place your own stickers (with a star on it to recognize participants) wherever you want and collect the stickers of other players by shooting them with your phonecam. Whenever a player snaps a Superstar sticker both players earn points.I am a fan of these leetle stickers. But imagine the retro goodness if you combined this with the Gameboy camera and printer?Giddeon Reelingand others who make spaces fun and playful - get on to this!Ahem, if anyone fancies doing it,here'sa pdf outline of what they did.
Some Xbox 360 snippets from this week. First, Microsoft is organising an Xbox Live 'festival' tortuously named Xtival, featuring exclusive downloads, competitions and other stuff - all for us lucky Europeans. Gold Xbox Live membership will be free to all Xbox 360 owners during the duration of the event from November 23-26. More info from theofficial sitecloser to the time.Meanwhile, Joystiq has beencomparingthe latest console and software sales figures to come up with ratios for each platform. Here are the stats:Xbox 360: hardware to software ratio: 6.59 (hardware total sold = 6.8 million; software total sold = 44.8 million)PlayStation 3: hardware to software ratio: 3.58 (hardware total sold = 1.9 million; software total sold = 6.8 million)Wii: hardware to software ratio: 3.44 (hardware total sold = 4.5 million; software total sold = 15.5 million)As you can see, Xbox 360 is way ahead thanks to a much wider selection of titles and a highly committed (okay then, 'hardcore') user base. Plus, it's been on the shelves for longer so users have had time to build up a collection. Wii and PS3 achieve similar figures, though as Joystiq points out, the Wii's figure includes sales of Wii Play which is bundled free when you buy an additional controller. If this title were discounted, the ratio would drop to around three games per system.
Adverts are an excellent way to keep abreast of how consumer tastes are really changing. Lately I've been fascinated by those from Dixons Store Group and other retailers for the latest generation of really big hard drives. "750GB!" say the ads. "Enough to store 150 movies!" The people who write the ad copy have clearly decided that to describe them in terms of the number of three-minute songs (ie 3MB chunks) you could store on them is pointless: "can store up to 166,000 songs!" doesn't mean very much, because nobody can imagine what it would be like to own 166,000 songs. (If they're all three minutes, that's about 8,300 hours, or 347 days.) So instead they describe how many movies they can store.Except ... whose movies? As the law stands, it's illegal to make a backup of a DVD film that you've bought, rented or otherwise acquired - something I checked with Lavinia Carey, director-general of the British Video Association. "When you buy a DVD, you buy the right to the performance in the way it has been presented," she explains. "It's like when you go to a cinema - what you pay doesn't entitle you to make a camcorder copy, even for your own use."Even making backup duplicates of DVDs you've bought so that your children won't ruin the original by putting sticky fingers all over it isn't legal. It's illegal to rip the DVD and transfer its contents to a hard drive that could store, ooh, another 149 like it, and play that back through a media streaming device, computer or console linked to that hard drive. So if doing that is illegal, why do DSG and others advertise these drives' ability to store so much data in terms of "movies"? (DSG said it's OK "for personal use" if you record from the TV.)I think it's a sort of technology realpolitik: the retailers know that the smarter of their customers know how to make copies of films; the software is out there, and the reasons for putting films on hard drives range from the sensible (stream what you've bought to computers or consoles around the house) to the illegal (making pirate copies for car boot sales). Though the BVA doesn't like it - and has tried to press the advertisers not to use phrases like "movies" - the fact is that this toothpaste, too, is out of the tube. It's illegal, after all, to rip your CDs and put them on a digital music player; and look how successful the music business has been at stopping that.Missing LeopardJack Schofield pointed out here last week that Apple's financial results last quarter were dramatic; its European Mac sales grew by 47% compared to the previous year, which means there must be more Apple users in the UK than ever before. Meanwhile, some readers expressed surprise that we didn't have an in-depth review of the latest version of OSX, dubbed "Leopard", on these pages last week, ahead of last Friday's release. "You must have had an advance copy," scolded one.Actually, no. For its previous two releases, Apple provided me with an advance copy; this time it didn't. Since it's easy to squirt a few bits over a phone line and burn a disc, why did Apple think that the biggest newspaper site in the UK shouldn't do an in-depth review of its new product ahead of time?Was it scared we would be too impartial and point to broken promises (no wireless backups to hard drives attached to its Airport wireless networks, promised in summer, yet missing in the final version) or criticise unnecessary eye-candyish changes (no matter, the rest of the web is busy doing that)? Or does it think customers in the UK are unimportant? Perhaps someone at Apple will write and explain. Meanwhile, read ouronline review.
How do your fingers feel today? Sweaty or dry? Manual work, skin condition and age all affect the quality of your fingerprints, along with simpler things like pressing too hard or from an odd angle. But with the increasing use of fingerprint readers for biometric systems, correctly identifying your fingerprints is essential.And it's not as easy as you might think. Fingerprints are often incomplete or distorted. The same finger can give slightly different results every time. Pressing down and rotating your finger against a hard surface will distort the print, while a light touch means less of a print remains.Dr Li Wang, a researcher in the University of Warwick's department of computer science, has devised a new means of identifying partial, distorted, scratched or smudged fingerprints in just seconds. Rather than finding a match by comparing a dozen or so features - the so-called points of comparison - his new system examines the whole print, regardless of how complete it is. From this, it digitises as much of the information from the fingerprint as possible.Fixing flawsWang explains: "Even if it's the same data, it sometimes looks different and this is the technical constraint for the biometric industry. If you can minimise that constraint, you can improve accuracy."Wang has worked with two other researchers at Warwick, Professor Roland Wilson and Dr Abhir Bhalerao, to develop a set of software algorithms to fix common fingerprint flaws by transforming the fingerprint pattern into a standard coordinate system. Wang calls this process "unwarping": it removes smudging, uneven pressure and other distortions. A clear digital representation of the fingerprint is then easily matched against a database of all other unwarped fingerprints by comparing digital signatures."Unwarping is the best lay term we can find to describe the approach," says Wang. Is it a big breakthrough? "We would like to believe so."This mathematically based process is so effective that it's possible to compare the position of the hundreds of individual sweat pores packed in a fingerprint. What's more, identification takes place in seconds, regardless of the database size, whether one print or a million. And it doesn't require vast processing power: Wang runs the system on his laptop.This summer, Wang and his colleagues took the system to London's Science Museum for three days of public hands-on (or perhaps one should say fingers-on) testing. "We tested our system on nearly 500 visitors and achieved 100% accuracy," says Wang."Children often tend to twist their finger when placing the finger on the scanner, creating an elastic deformation which provides a great testing ground for our technology." The children were asked to provide an initial fingerprint sample, and a few seconds later, the researchers were able to test if the print was recognised by the system.Assisted by Mathematical Capital, a new venture capital group which helps good mathematical ideas become companies, Wang, Wilson and Bhalerao have established a spinout company called Warwick Warp. While refining their prototype, they're exploring commercial opportunities such as access control, financial transaction authorisation and identity cards.While the technology at present is primarily aimed at commercial functions, the company hopes to work with any ID card contractor appointed by the government. Meanwhile, the ability to identify partial prints from crime scenes has also attracted interest from law-enforcement agencies.Inherent flawsRoss Anderson, professor of security engineering at the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory, sees fingerprints as an important biometric tool, but also appreciates their inherent flaws. In his book, Security Engineering: A Guide to Building Dependable Distributed Systems, he describes how a half-inch scar on his finger crashed an FBI building entry control scanner."The problem with fingerprints as a biometric is that they're just not precise enough," says Anderson. "Fingerprints can give you some benefits in authentication systems but the limitation is the equal error rate of a few per cent."The equal error rate is the point where the false accept (letting the wrong person in) and false reject (keeping the right person out) rates for automatic authentication are equal; 1% is a very good figure. Anderson says that improvements in fingerprint recognition algorithms are always welcome but points out that other, perhaps less convenient, biometric methods such as iris recognition already offer better results.There is, of course, a big difference between fingerprint evidence given by experts to convict people and a fingerprint used for access to a building or to authorise a transaction. No matter how good or fast automatic recognition technology becomes, correcting some biometric mistakes may be lot easier than others.
Techdirt - one of the top 200 blogs, according to Technorati - is known for its analysis of the digital content world.Technology Guardian: How did Techdirt actually get its start?Mike Masnick:I was in business school on the east coast, far away from Silicon Valley, and in the 1996-97 timeframe there was a lot happening in Silicon Valley in the technology world. I thought it would be a fun project for myself to do an email newsletter to keep people informed. The catalysing moment was seeing Slashdot towards the end of 1997, and saying, this is the perfect [web] format for what I'm trying to do.How did that evolve into a business?We turned it into an actual business in 2000. One of the options was to do advertising, but I thought that the advertising market was a bit of a risky one. So we focused on the launch of the corporate intelligence service, which was basically taking what we did with Techdirt and doing internal blogging of a very similar nature for companies, very customised to the types of information and news that they would need to know about on a regular basis.A recent addition on the business side is theTechdirt Insight Community. How does it work?We kept hearing from companies that the traditional analysis and research that they were getting from third-party sources was usually not that insightful. At the same time, we and everyone else were observing the explosion of really smart people writing about their insights, specifically on blogs. There's a clear disconnect there: we saw that as a huge business opportunity. The goal was to take really smart experts and connect them with companies who needed that insight and analysis.One of the hallmarks of Techdirt is your series about theeconomics of goodsthat can be copied infinitely, like digital music. What's the background to this interest?In business school, there was one class taught by an economics professor who did a lot of research within the open source world and the economics at play. I remember a lot of people taking that class thinking this was a crazy economist talking nonsense, and then as you start to work through the economics it began to occur to me, he was right.Could you summarise your ideas in this area?The basic concept is simply that the traditional economics of supply and demand don't disappear when you have a product that is infinitely available. Economics traditionally has been about resource allocation in the presence of scarcity. The realisation here is that it doesn't break down, it's just that you need to understand what it means when a product is infinitely available, and that tends to be that the price is going to get driven to zero. The trick then is recognising what other things that infinite good makes more valuable.How does this apply to music if people can download songs for free?It's really just looking at what is the benefit that people are buying. People don't think of themselves as buying this particular song, they're buying it because they enjoy the musical experience, the connection with the musician. So you start to look at what are the abundant, infinite components - which tend to be the music - and then you look at what are the components that are scarce. It can be concerts, appearances, merchandise, T-shirts and whatnot. But it can be things like access to the musicians - being able to talk to them, or be with them, or have events that they're involved in. Say you really like a band and you sign up for a subscription. From that you get early access to tickets to concerts, you can get the best seat, you can get backstage passes.Where do the record labels fit in?You get people who are then saying, "But I just want to be a musician, I don't want to think through these business models". So there is a place there where an organisation that understands music promotion and band marketing can help these bands. It's not the traditional role of a record label, which is distribution.What about the film industry?The film industry has never been about selling content; it's always been about selling the experience of going to see a movie. It's a social experience. So [the industry should be] focusing on making that experience better. Even if every movie is immediately available for download, you'll still get people going out, just for the experience. Still there are DVDs, and it's similar to the CD market: it's just about giving people incentives or reasons to buy, adding extras. If the movie is likely to have a sequel, have some sort of option where if you bought the original DVD you get a discount to either buy the DVD of the sequel or get tickets to go see the sequel.How might this apply to newspapers?The newspaper industry is struggling because a lot of people there have never gotten out of the mindset that they are a newspaper, as opposed to a news organisation. They need to recognise that a lot of what a newspaper is, traditionally, is about putting together a community of people with like interests. Usually those like interests are news, but it allowed the newspapers to sell the attention of those individuals to advertisers. Google has done that in a very different way, bringing together like-minded people and selling their attention to advertisers; newspapers should be able to do that in their own way, if they recognise what it takes to bring people to their site and collect them into communities.All this is fine in theory, but how are we going to get there in practice?What starts to happen is you see more stories of organisations that do successfully embrace the new. And from that, you get a bigger set of case studies that prove to others in that industry like, oh wait, there is a way to embrace this, make people happy and still make money - and perhaps make even more money. You're starting to see it in the music space, with all of these different bands dropping their labels, giving away music for free, or doing things that are much more focused on where these new business models allow them to go.What will happen to the legislation trying to lock down digital content?Where you begin to see people who are going against what those laws allow them to do, and becoming very, very successful, it becomes obvious that those laws are in effect meaningless. Eventually, people realise that there's no reason to even keep those laws on the books. That takes a very, very long time, and causes a lot of problems in the meantime, but I think in the long run the legal issues - like the business models - do tend to work themselves out.Curriculum VitaeAge32Education1993-96Cornell University, Bachelor of Science1996-98Cornell University, Graduate School of Management, MBACareer1997Founded Techdirt as a newsletter1997Intel, product marketing engineer1998Release Software, business development manager2000-presentTechdirt chief executiveFamilyMarried, with a dog and a catHobbiesReading
Extracting Windows XPMy old Acer laptop has failed (dead motherboard). It came without setup discs. I want to extract Windows XP from the hard drive to install on a new laptop, which I'm downgrading from Vista because some software won't run.Tim BrownI'm sure that the Windows XP that came with the Acer was "licensed with the hardware as a single integrated product and may only be used with the hardware", which is why it didn't cost you very much. You have no legal right to run it on any other machine. Even if you can get it running, you would still have to activate it. (A retail copy of Windows XP can be moved between PCs, but is absurdly expensive.) Microsoft often provides "downgrade rights" as these can be useful to businesses. Vista Business and Ultimate can both be "downgraded". In the unlikely event that you have one of these, you will have to read your EULA (End User Licence Agreement) to check your options. However, I'm surprised if you have many programs that won't run under Vista. The ones that won't run are usually programs that operate at a low level (where Vista has changed a lot from XP) or perform non-legal operations. Examples are anti-malware programs, CD/DVD authoring programs, and games. See the list attinyurl.com/f5arg.To get other software to run, right-click each program's .exe file, select Properties, and then click the tab marked Compatibility. Tick the box that says "Run this program in compatibility mode for" and then select the mode you want. Examples include Windows 95, Windows 2000 and Windows XP (Service Pack 2). You may also need to tick one or more boxes such as "Disable visual themes" and probably "Run this program as an administrator". At home, all our software runs in Vista without using a compatibility mode, though some programs needed patches. I'd have doubts about both the programming competence and management capabilities of any company whose current software doesn't run under Vista. I'd look for alternatives, rather than downgrade.Laptop plus monitorI sometimes use an external monitor with my laptop. How do I stop the display closing down when the laptop lid is shut, please?Mike CooperGo to the Control Panel and run the applet called Power Options. Click the Advanced tab on the properties sheet, and look for the section that says: "When I close the lid of my portable computer". Click the down arrow for the list of options, and select "Do nothing".Dialup downloadsThe downloads required to keep Windows antivirus, firewall and anti-spyware software up to date takes a terrible toll on a 56K dialup connection. What is your recommendation for people who use the internet only occasionally, and for whom pay-per-minute dialup is perfectly adequate?Richard BellThe downloads tend to be small so there shouldn't be a problem if you log on every day or so. That's reasonable if you use email. Failing that, you could try "borrowing" a broadband connection from a relative or friend just after the second Tuesday of each month: that's when Microsoft releases its monthly Windows Update. If you connect via a Cat 5 cable to a router (not a USB modem), the connection should be automatic and should not disturb your dialup settings. Does anyone have a better idea?Twain and TwunkWhat exactly are Twain and Twunk? I think they're probably something to do with Lexmark, but I'm getting conflicting messages as to whether they're healthy or not.Tom DraneTwain is a standard system for talking to scanners and digital cameras (twain.org). Twunk_16.exe and Twunk_32.exe are usually legitimate Twain files. However, the Blackmal.C trojan also uses these filenames to avoid detection: Symantec has details (tinyurl.com/yshkjk). You can tell from part 4 if your version is malware. Otherwise, most anti-virus products should pick it up. Double check usingSuperAntiSpyware.Backchat&middot; Gren Dix asked about his "missing" drive space. I pointed out that part of the problem was that manufacturers used decimal instead of binary counting, and that their "20GB" is 20bn bytes, and therefore only 18.6GB. Kevin Williams has bought a 320GB drive that's really 300GB and asks: "Has the industry considered regulating the marketing of drive space more honestly?" The problem is they would all have to do it at once, which they won't. Also, as the numbers get bigger, the difference gets bigger. The International Electrotechnical Commission's recommendation is to add a "bi" for binary bytes, and use gibibytes instead of gigabytes. A 20GB drive would therefore be 18.6GiB. There are also kibibytes (KiB), mebibytes (MiB), tebibytes (TiB) and so on.&#183;blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack
Anyone who still thinks that virtual worlds such as MindArk's Entropia Universe or Second Life are the plaything of geeks should look at what is happening in China. It is simply mind-boggling and, if it all comes off, has awesome implications for western economies. I have written before about how the Beijing municipality in partnership with private capital (and with help from MindArk of Sweden) is planning a virtual world for around 150m avatars, of which 7m could be online at the same time. This is so far above the capability of the much-hyped Second Life, which rarely has more than 50,000 online concurrently, that I had some difficulty in believing it.So when I saw Robert Lai, chief scientist of the Beijing Cyber Recreation District project, at last week's excellent Virtual Worlds forum in London, I asked him whether it was really true they were planning on such a scale.No, he replied, it wasn't true. The project is much, much bigger than that. There are nine similar virtual universes being planned. China is converting a 100 sq km site (yes, that is a very big space) on the former nationalised steel mill site to house, among other things, virtual worlds able to support not millions or tens of millions but billions of avatars. When I looked puzzled, he said that people still did not realise how big a country China was. And he is right. It is tempting to dismiss all this as an Asian phenomenon with no implications for us. That would be a serious mistake. It is about the availability of broadband, not culture. The sky is no longer the limit. The world is changing.And how. When I asked Professor Lai to explain what this was all about, he touched his shirt. This, he said, cost $1 when it left China but he noticed, walking around the shops, that it would retail at $20 over here. This project is about staking a claim to that value added. And not just in shirts. A western avatar wandering around one of these virtual worlds could almost as easily be ordering a car built to his specification for delivery in the UK. Goods that were made in China could have web addresses to take western buyers direct to a Chinese website for further purchases or replacements. There will of course, be games - they are a big part of industry these day - but this is a bold attempt to repeat what China has done in manufacturing (ie, conquering the world) in services. Be warned.It doesn't stop there. This site, now under construction, will have all the infrastructure (server farms, communication links, electricity, banking links, logistics etc) needed to make this the world's one-stop shop for consumers and producers. China, which is hosting a conference on the subject next month, wants companies around the globe to set up here - the likes of Cisco, IBM or western virtual worlds - to take advantage of state-of-the art communications, infrastructure and (for the moment) cheap wages. It could be a difficult proposition for many corporations to resist.If it were anyone but China planning this you would take it with a pinch of salt. But this is not the NHS, it is the world's biggest manufacturing country pitching to lead the next stage of development as the internet moves into three dimensions. When I asked the professor whether the coming of virtual worlds would be on a scale commensurate with the industrial revolution, he replied: "It will be faster, bigger, more like an explosion."At the moment, Britain and other western economies benefit from cheap Chinese manufactured goods and the low inflation they bring while also benefiting from huge wholesale, retail and distribution markups on the same goods. If they too migrate to China, what will there be left for us to do? That is a very serious question.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
21st-century bankingDear Hazel Davis: there is a simple answer to your problem (Technobile, October 25). Ask the large and popular magazine to join the 21st century and pay you by direct bank transfer.David Fermer, SeafordBaffled by SethI've just read Seth Finkelstein's article - twice (Read me first, October 25). I still don't understand it. Am I alone?Gerry McSweeney, TauntonStudying playtimeAleks Krotoski didn't make the obvious point that a lot of academic research is not ecologically valid (Boffins and industry: will the twain ever meet? October 25). Experimental research takes place in laboratories that bear no relationship with playing in the real world. First, playing games in a lab is not very comfortable. Second, games have a social context, often played with friends or online with other people. Third, games are played at different times. Fourth, games are usually played over several sessions and require time in which to become engaged or absorbed. Finally, players have preferences for certain types of games. A lot of research fails to control for these factors.Professor Mark Griffiths, Nottingham Trent UniversityWhat's my line?Chris Smith complains about getting only 1.2Mbps from a line advertised as up to 8Mbps (Letters, October 25). Sorry, Chris, but you've got nothing to complain about. In offering performance up to 8Mbps, BT is saying that the speed will not exceed 8Mbps. So, as BT sees it, what's the problem? BT is delivering to you what it said that it would.Neil Muir, Shrewsbury&middot; I'd imagine the issue is a physical problem with your phone socket. Consider trying another phone socket and changing the microfilters, and if that does nothing, talk to your ISP which should be able to run tests on the line and, if required, send out a BT engineer. When I first switched to ADSL my "2Mbps" line was barely reaching 100kbps, so a BT engineer replaced my ageing master socket and I promptly connected at 2Mbps exactly.Ross Burton, Bishops Stortford&middot; I'm as baffled as Chris Smith about BT's ability to get away with its "up to 8Mbps" claims. Does any other business routinely deliver around 10% to 15% of what it promises - and charges for?Alan Paterson, LondonGrowling for LeopardI was surprised - no, startled - to see no mention of the impeding release of Apple's Mac OS X "Leopard" in today's Technology Guardian (October 25). Are you unaware that the OS has just been released worldwide? The OS that Walt Mossberg has just praised as being "better and faster than Vista"?The red carpet was certainly laid out for Microsoft's  Vista in January: why should things be different for a company that surpassed giants such as IBM and Intel in many areas with its most recent financial results?Phelim Brady, GuildfordManual labourI used to be a technical author in computing and electronics, and so did many of my friends, but the job has become extinct (Letters and blogs, October 25). The internet set the seal on this by allowing companies to sell software and hardware with only a brochure with a URL for a website and a helpdesk phone number. Microsoft delivered the death blow by hiring tech authors who wrote carefully crafted manuals and in-program help that told the user nothing useful, thus creating a market for MS-certified training courses.Consumers are now conditioned to have low expectations about documentation, so they get what they expect. All the old-time tech authors are now dead, retired or running boarding houses in Bognor Regis.Dick Bentley, South Ferriby&#183; Read all this week's letters and blogsblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology.Send letters to:tech@guardian.co.uk
The case for allowing free access to data collected and held at taxpayers' expense has received endorsement from the top of the British government. In his speech on civil liberties last week, Gordon Brown, the prime minister, said: "Public information does not belong to government, it belongs to the public on whose behalf government is conducted."Brown's speech acknowledged the power of the web to give access to information about public services. "The availability of real-time data about what is happening on the ground - whether about local policing or local health services - is vital in enabling people to make informed choices about how they use their local services and the standards they expect."Brown is also considering opening new parts of the government's digital archives. A committee headed by Paul Dacre, editor-in-chief of Associated Newspapers, is to consider relaxing the rule under which government records do not become public documents in the care of the National Archives until 30 years have passed. It will report by the middle of next year. The National Archives welcomed the review, saying it "may have significant implications for citizens' access to information, as any changes may lead to the speeding up of access to many records".However, the prime minister did not mention how his enthusiasm for allowing citizens access to data squares with the policy of encouraging some publicly-owned bodies to charge for data sets, especially for re-use in web mashups and other products. But Locus, a trade association, welcomed the speech. "Next time we hope he will focus on re-use," it said.We agree. Over the past 18 months, our Free Our Data campaign has argued that the government should stop attempting to trade in information, but instead make its unrefined data (except where it threatens privacy or national security) freely available to all comers.Later this month, an independent review commissioned by the Treasury will report on the costs and benefits of the current "trading fund" model. In the meantime, our campaign continues to receive evidence of harmful consequences of public agencies trying to make money out of their information. One such consequence is a threat to the next national census, in 2011, because of inaccurate databases of addresses.According to the Office for National Statistics, neither of two rival address registers, one owned by local government, the other by Ordnance Survey, was accurate enough to ensure that a census form goes to every household in Britain. "Neither register met the needs of the census on coverage, classification and positional accuracy," ONS said.The shortcomings of national address registers are well known in government: over the past seven years, there have been several abortive attempts to create a single list. All foundered because of the difficulty of getting one arm of government to agree terms to use information produced by another. A convincing case, we think, for free data.&#183; Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
If you're thinking of buying a next-generation console this weekend, you'd better take a notebook and calculator - it's a complicated business. Take PlayStation 3 ("please!" says a Sony exec). You can opt for one of the old 60GB machines still littering the shop shelves, or go for the brand new 40GB version - which features fewer USB ports, no backwards compatibility with PS2 games and no memory card reader - but is quite a bit cheaper.Thank your lucky stars you're not in Japan or the US. In these territories you'd also have the choice of the 20GB version, which has no wireless internet, or the newer 80GB behemoth, which has everything. Oh, except backwards compatibility. Which you can only get from the 60GB machine. Wired editor Chris Kohler recently produced a helpfulVenn diagramto explain the differences between the four iterations - it may well come up on next year's GSCE maths paper, so make sure your kids have a good look.Meanwhile over in Xbox 360 land, until recently you had the choice of the basic Core system (no hard drive, wired controller) and the Premium system (20GB HD, wireless controller). Now, the Core has been replaced by the Arcade bundle, which still has no hard drive but at least comes with a 256MB memory card and HDMI capabilities. The Premium package is an option (hard drive but no HDMI), but you also have the Elite machine, complete with HDMI slot and cable, plus a 120GB hard drive and fancy black colouring.This proliferation of bundles and differing specifications has come about for different reasons. With PS3 it's all been about price, cutting out extraneous features in order to bring that whopping SRP down to something manageable for those of us who aren't Premiership football players. With Xbox 360, the manoeuvring has been about getting up to date - the machine came out at the dawn of the next-gen era.So which should you go for? I'll leave the basic Xbox vs PS3 quandary to you, but as for packages, at &pound;299 the 40GB PS3 is good value - it'll be rare for you ever to need more than two USB ports. Keep an eye out for retailer bundle deals - most will offer a game or at least a Blu-ray movie or two and for a few extra quid you could get an extra controller as well. With Xbox 360, the Arcade machine's lack of a hard drive is a big minus for those hoping to use Xbox Live Arcade by downloading more games, plus GTA fans will find themselves having to fork out more than &pound;100 for a hard drive when GTA IV comes along.If you're really confused, there's always the Wii. If you can find one: the machine that doesn't offer a dozen iterations is the one that's selling like hot cakes. I wonder if there's a connection?&#183; Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggersblogs.guardian.co.uk/games
In what looks like a highly developed piece of irony, hackers have proven that Voice over internet Telephony (VoIP) accounts are prone to the nuisance of voice spam - by attacking the university where the co-author of the protocol that VoIP runs on is professor of computer science.Henning Schulzrinne, co-author of the session initiation protocol (SIP) that is used by all the major VoIP services except Skype, believes the attack (which left unsolicited marketing messages on multiple phone extensions at Columbia University) might have been targeted at him, but could also have been a result of the institution not having a stringent firewall policy in place. Either way, he - like many in the computer and internet security industries - now believes VoIP is the next big target for spammers.Tempting medium"It's just too attractive for them to pass up," he says. "Spam filters are getting so good now that it's rarer for spam to actually be read, it's nearly always filtered out and most people know to ignore it if it isn't. The phone, though, is something you instinctively pick [up] and you would always go to pick up messages. It's a very tempting new medium for spammers, particularly if they can find a way of building up the huge networks necessary to automatically distribute voice spam as they have done with email spam."Although "spit" (SPam over Internet Telephony) attacks are very rare compared to the everyday nuisance of email spam, Yuval Ben-Itzhak, chief technology officer at computer security company Finjan, has discovered three spit attacks this year which showed VoIP spammers are thinking along the same lines as email spammers. One promoted a fitness protein drink, the second tried to lure users on to a site filled with malware and a third was a "pump and dump" scam intended to inflate the share price of a small American company.David Endler, director of security research at TippingPoint, reports that both of the accounts he has opened with a popular VoIP provider have received multiple Spit attacks, even though the numbers are unpublished."It's definitely happening, I'm just surprised we're not seeing a lot more of it," he says. "It's going to become a nuisance because the voice files are a lot larger than email spam, so they're going to strain and slow down networks and when it's a case of a phone ringing, instead of an email just popping in to your email inbox, it's just so annoying because it can be at any time of the day. Even though spit is designed to leave itself as a voicemail message, it's still going to be annoying if your voicemail box gets filled up with junk."Endler warns that the darker, more threatening side of this kind of spam will come when voice phishing - called "vishing" - takes off."The real problem with VoIP is that it's very easy to take a name as your identity which appears with a call, or to put up a number on a screen that isn't actually the number that the call's being made from," he says. "This lends itself perfectly to vishing, which we've already started to see, and I'm genuinely surprised we haven't seen more. People generally trust the phone, so if they get a voicemail from their bank saying they need to call in, they will, and they're used to telling an agent some security details or tapping in a passcode on the phone to prove who they are. As soon as they've done that they've given a hacker their identity."This is the direction Jean Paul Ballerini, senior technology solutions artchitect at IBM, believes spammers will go because it is more likely to lead to money for them."We've already seen a vishing campaign in America, where VoIP has a far higher penetration, where someone was pretending to be from the Bank of America," he says. "If people called back the number, as the voicemail instructed, the likelihood was they were going to give away their security details. I think this is going to be the most prevalent form of spit because it will catch people out. I don't see people phoning up someone to buy counterfeit Viagra, or something similar, because the phone is too personal. That type of spam, I think, only works with email because it's so impersonal and so people aren't embarrassed by clicking on a link."However, the one major tool the spammers are missing so far is the equivalent of a botnet - a network of malware-infected PCs which email spammers use send millions of messages anonymously.However, Paul Wood, senior analyst at computer security company MessageLabs, believes this is only a matter of time. "When you look at the recent effort that is being put in to spreading trojans in Skype, mainly through its instant messenger client, it's pretty obvious what the hackers are trying to do," he says. "If they can get enough logins they then have access to each person's buddy list, and so you start to get to a point where spammers could have the volume and those voice spams will appear to come from friends."This is certainly the opinion at Secure Computing which keeps "an eye on the enemy" in chatrooms where hackers boast of latest developments. Its principal research scientist, Dimitri Alperovitch, warns that spit is the latest hot topic among hackers who appear to be on the verge of moving on from small proof-of-concept attacks in to mass campaigns more akin to the scale of email spam."There's already someone claiming to have reverse-engineered Skype to allow multiple messages to be placed in voice mail inboxes," he warns. "This is how hackers popularise what they can do so people can make offers to buy or rent the capability from them. From what's out there it seems an inevitability that spit is almost certainly going to be the next big thing for spammers."Theoretical threat?Providers of VoIP services, both for PC calls and for landline connections, are publicly claiming there is no problem with spit in the UK and so the public need not worry. Colin Duffy, chief executive of Voipfone, claims that any problems are "largely a theoretical threat". Likewise, Hugh Roberts, a senior strategist at Patni, a VoIP consultancy, sums up the discussion about spit as "a storm in a teacup".However, the news this week of Skype and 3 partnering to offer a mobile phone with Skype telephony and IM facilities was preceded by an ominous warning by IBM's Ballerini, who believes spit will only be a problem when there are sufficient users: hence hackers are just waiting for VoIP to be launched on mobiles."The hackers need VoIP to get a lot more users to make it worth their while, and ideally they need it to become available on mobile phones because there are already several viruses that spread by Bluetooth," he says."With email better protected, it just needs enough people to be prone to attack and the hackers will move to VoIP. It's just a matter of time."
It seems that barely a week goes by without Microsoft being labelled anti-competitive, but the latest complaint could strike a chord with more people than usual.That's because it doesn't just involve government bureaucrats or angry programmers, but children's education.Becta, the organisation that liaises between the technology industry and British schools, this week made anofficial complaintto the Office of Fair Trading, accusing Microsoft of hampering competitive practice in its dealings with the education system. The problem, it seems, is that the terms and conditions for schools using Microsoft programs are considered too restrictive.Becta believes that they often act against the best interests of schools, meaning that sometimes headteachers are paying for software they don't want - or even that they are prevented from using competing programs.The result, says Becta official Bob Fenton, is that the possible choices for schools can be severely limited while strengthening Microsoft's hand."Schools are obliged legally to make sure they are properly licensed, but they should look at how they are doing it - whether they are paying for one-off licenses, annual subscriptions and so forth," he told Technology Guardian. "You could have a situation where schools are paying for licences on software they aren't even using."The two groups have been locked in negotiations since a pair of reports from Becta in January investigating Office 2007 and Vista, but without any satisfactory progress the group said it had no choice but to approach the OFT. Microsoft made an official response to the news, but has refused to make any further comment."At this early stage, no indication has been given as to how this issue will progress," the company said. "We want to reassure our customers, partners and the education sector that it is business as usual."Although OFT investigations rarely move at lightning pace, it seems unlikely that the complaint will take as long to process as the battle between Microsoft and the European Commission. That war seems to be drawing to a close, as the software giant last week finally agreed to comply with an EU anti-trust ruling after nine years of fighting.Becta said that it remained optimistic. "Schools are not organisations awash with cash, and we believe there's a valid complaint: we hope Microsoft will move," said Fenton. "It's not a step we've taken lightly - you don't do something like this without thinking very hard about it."
DWP blogs!TheDepartment for Work and Pensions isbloggingand plans to link to MySpace, Facebook, YouTube and Flickr.Streaming gamesPeople are used to streaming music or video from a PC to other devices, and now they canstream games, too. It allows gamers to play remotely.Faster terabytePhilips Electronics is about to ship aterabyte external drive, the SPD5130 (&pound;300), with an eSATA connector that runs up to six times faster than USB2.Audiotube music videosAudiotubehas now been formally launched as an authorised place to watch and rate music videos.Suggestive searchesYahoo! now providessearch suggestionsafter you have typed three characters. The experimental Google Suggest does it after one.Wi-Fi MusicPalFreecom's MusicPal is a device for listening to internet radio stations or MP3 files streamed from a PC (freecom).Webroot in oneWebroot now has a combo version of its software, calledWebroot AntiViruswith AntiSpyware and Firewall (&pound;39.95).Costly ID theftA Utica Collegestudyof 470 cases of ID theft has found that the median loss for victims is $31,356 (&pound;15,162.11).
Marshall McLuhan is back. The 1960s icon's theories about "electric media" have new resonance now that the internet is becoming our all-purpose conduit for news, information and entertainment.McLuhan was an obscure Canadian academic until the mid-60s, when his best-selling book, Understanding Media, turned him into a pop-culture phenomenon. His playfully radical ideas perfectly reflected the spirit of the times, when the air was filled with revolutionary rhetoric and pot smoke.McLuhan's central thesis, encapsulated in the famous phrase "the medium is the message", was that the technologies through which we take in information - the media, broadly defined - become "extensions" of our bodies, exerting a profound influence over us. When an important new medium arrives, it can reshape who we are as individuals and as a society.The electric media of television and computers, argued McLuhan, would liberate us from our dependence on the printed word. Print was what he called a "hot" medium, one that absorbed all of our attention and left little room for participation. The medium it had supplanted, the spoken word, was by contrast a "cool" medium that left plenty of space for participation.Reading, to put it simply, is a lonely pursuit, while speech is a social one. So when we became readers, rather than listeners, we sacrificed our shared, tribal consciousness and became locked into private consciousness.Electric media, being cool technologies that promote interaction, would bring back our lost tribal consciousness, McLuhan believed. But our tribes would no longer be small, isolated groups. Because the new media spanned the planet, we would become members of a "global village".When the communal 1960s collapsed into the self-indulgent 1970s, McLuhan fell out of favour. Today McLuhan's work seems current again. Kevin Kelly, one of Wired's original editors, suggests that what McLuhan "was really talking about was the internet - two decades before it appeared".The internet does seem to represent the fulfillment of McLuhan's vision, at least in some ways. As we've seen with the explosion of blogs, podcasts and homemade videos, the net encourages media participation on an unprecedented scale. If a global village is emerging, it's on the web.But it's hard to imagine that McLuhan would be sanguine about today's "electric media". In fact, he'd probably have a hard time even recognising them. Television, which McLuhan saw as cool medium, is rapidly turning into a hot one, with mammoth screens, high-definition images and surround sound. And computers, rather than freeing us from the printed word, have made text more ubiquitous than ever. Whether surfing the web, typing messages on our phones or checking our BlackBerrys, we are wrapped in a cocoon of text that would have boggled McLuhan's mind.The internet doesn't really fit into McLuhan's "hot" and "cool" dichotomy. It encourages participation but it also sucks up our attention and dominates our senses. When we gaze into a computer screen, we tune out everything else. The temperature of media was not McLuhan's only subject, nor even his most interesting one. Although he was often presented as a glorifier of technological progress, he painted a subtle, sometimes disturbing picture of the future.In one striking sentence from Understanding Media, he offered a dark view of the commercial exploitation of electric media: "Once we have surrendered our senses and nervous systems to the private manipulation of those who would try to benefit by taking a lease on our eyes and ears and nerves, we don't really have any rights left."McLuhan understood that as media become more interactive, they also become more potent tools for manipulation and control. They not only transmit information to us but gather information about us. In anticipating the internet, McLuhan sounded a warning as much as a welcome.&#183; Nicholas Carr's new book, The Big Switch, will be published in January. He blogs atroughtype.com
Streaming video of top telly shows, free on the interweb: it sounds worth making a hoo-hah about. NBC announced the launch of the site after its agreement with Apple to distribute TV shows via iTunes fell apart back in August.According to NBC, it accounted for 40% of video downloads on iTunes, so clearly that online content - and revenue - had to go somewhere. The result washulu.com, a joint venture between NBC Universal and News Corp.Hulu.com will offer embedded streaming videos on the website, supported by advertising - which, it says, will be less annoying than adverts on broadcast television: they will be in the form of banners alongside the video, text along the bottom of the picture or clips that are interspersed with the stuff you actually want to see.It doesn't require any technical expertise to get it up and running: it's just a Flash player, running in your browser. The content line-up looks good: it comes from both partners as well as offering films from Sony and Universal, while cable channels such as Bravo!, FX and SciFi are also represented. The shows include current hits such as 24, Heroes and House, as well as classics including Buffy the Vampire Slayer. And it will be available via partners including AOL, MySpace and MSN.But hulu.com has shot itself in the foot. First, the website doesn't work outside the US. This presumably is to do with advertising deals, but, as commenters point out on itsblog, that's contrary to the global spirit of the internet. More importantly, you can can't grab the content for later viewing on your PC, iPod or other device. Would-be users are upset: "Are you just plain stupid?" says one. The most pithy says: "Dear NBC. You have too many morons employed in key decision-making positions." He might have a point.
Pro Evolution Soccer 2008Xbox 360/PS3/PC, &pound;49.99, cert 3+, Konami, 5/5Another year, another PES, but 2008 will not go down as a vintage offering. On the pitch, PES still shines. The players feel weighty and under your control, the ball pings about as you'd expect and the games are fast and fluid. Compared to the glacial pace of Fifa, this speed is welcome. The improvements in AI are noticeable, while the graphical depictions of the top players - both face and body - are impressive. But off the pitch, things go wrong. Online play is a laggy mess, and there is still no sign of the co-op play you would expect to see in 2007. Juddery replays and occasional slowdowns are further niggles, and the product as a whole feels rushed and unfinished. For most games this would be too much, but PES still plays the best videogame football around. Just don't expect a revolution.Greg HowsonProject Gotham Racing 4Xbox 360, &pound;39.99, cert 3+, Bizarre Creations/Microsoft, 5 starsAs with Halo 3, the latest version of the popular arcade-style racer pursues a policy of evolution rather than radical change. Most noticeable is the presence of motorbikes for the first time, and the single-player experience has been split into Arcade and Career modes. The latter takes the form of a racing season, in which you compete in groups to improve your world ranking. So, on circuits set on the streets of cities of Europe, Asia and North America, you take part in eliminators, Kudos challenges (gathering points by hanging out the tail and so on) and more of those infamous cones that you have to drive around. Car or bike choice is critical in career mode, which sometimes annoys, as you can still find yourself negotiating cones in a Ferrari Enzo, say - which seems like sacrilege, particularly given that Bizarre Creations has overegged the weather effects and you invariably have to drive in the rain. Bike handling seems rather dumbed-down, too. But fantastic graphics, super-exotic virtual machinery, a meaty arcade mode and superb online support overcome those gripes with ease.Steve BoxerHalf Life 2: The Orange BoxPC, &pound;34.99, cert 16+, Valve, 5/5Half Life 2 may have been quiet for a while, but the Orange Box reminds us why it remains the connoisseur's FPS. What you get are five full games - two old (HL2 and the smallish HL: Ep1) plus the brand new Ep2, Team Fortress 2 and Portal. Ep2 is the star for HL fans, taking the player outside the Orwellian City 17 for the first time. Team Fortress shows the older multiplayer master looking good after nearly a decade, while Portal presents the kind of intriguing new puzzler you'd expect from Nintendo. You could justify the price for any two of these games, let alone all five - it's Christmas in a little orange box.Mike Anderiesz
Don't you meantheiPod?In October 2001, Apple introduced the iPod. Sorry, "iPod" - no definite article, like a child. Ah, the days when a charger wasn't a costly extra. Its USP: "It's ultra-portable." Not the scroll wheel? Huh?See if you can find my off switchThis animated short blending real and computer animation is about the threat to classic animation posed by CGI. Because Pixar and Dreamworks film credits have no names on, of course.Go for your gun, robotHigh Noon - the original - plus androids. (Not Westworld, but you keep expecting a dead-eyed Yul Brynner.)Tech support, Middle Ages style"This - what do you call it? Book? It's been like this all morning - I can't open anything. You know, we never had these problems with the scroll." Dutch humour: not an oxymoron.30 years of progress. Undo?Law professor James Boyle explains how to use the law to undo all the good things of the technological revolution of the past 30 years. Lasts more than an hour, but bears examination.Tested for danger on humansTake a six-axis industrial robot, insert human on chair, whirl. Probably not coming to a funfair near you soon. tinyurl.com/32o7dxGot more technology or games videos that you think others would like to see? Post them below. Come on, you know you want to..
If you want the full text of the letters and blogs we only hadlimited space to print, then click through.MOBILE BROWSING (VIC KEEGAN)For the past six months I've been using OnSpeed Mobile for browsing on my Nokia N73 phone. The software has transformed a previously unusable experience into one that is perfectly functional given the limitations imposed by screen and keyboard. Recommended. Gerry McSweeney, TauntonI agree with Victor Keegan's observations (The mobile web is finally getting started, October 25th), and they're borne out by our statistics. We see an average 2,500 page impressions per user per month, with each of these users logging in on average 8.5 times a day. These are astonishing usage rates – higher than on our web counterpart – and while it's taken us by surprise it does suggest an appetite for mobile internet – despite the current limited technology. For the foreseeable future though, the thinking behind made for mobile content will play a crucial role – as Victor suggested, even on the most sophisticated handsets it's difficult to use more than basic functions. Essentially, content providers have to bear in mind the importance of creating content that will fit into a screen a fraction of the size of a PC monitor. Mark Curtis, CEO, FlirtomaticMy father is a Lincolnshire farmer and needs broadband to run a competitive business. The government increasingly requires forms to be filled in online, but fails to provide any subsidies to help farmers utilise broadband in the first place. In the past few years my father has tried a variety of methods to set up broadband at home and none of them works. The latest method was 3G but the signal was insufficient. We have an Orange mast very close to our home so is there any way we could use this to our advantage? Satellite is another alternative, yet this is prohibitively expensive. Any suggestions you have on establishing broadband in remote areas would be most welcome. Robert Wilkinson, Cambridge&gt;&gt; mobile web browsers need to up their game and allow more easy viewing of "normal" sites (as the mobile Opera browsers claims to do). It takes two to tango of course, and to capture the maximum number of users/customers, website owners need to design their websites to be usable on a range of devices. This brings us, in a slightly stream-of-consciousness manner, on to the subject of website accessibility. Ratger than create mobile specific versions of their websites, my view is that website owners should be putting their efforts into making their website accessible to all. In doing this, they will open their doors not only to the mobile phone audience; they will also go a long way to making themselves generally accessible. This alone should offer a good commercial incentive for websites improving their accessibility.http://impact.freethcartwright.com/TECHNOBILE: BANKINGDear Hazel Davis: There is a breathtakingly simple answer to your problem. Ask the large and popular magazine to join the 21st Century and pay you by direct bank transfer. David Fermer, SeafordLike Hazel Davis I am self-employed and bank with HSBC because it is next door to my place of work. It used to be that you could place both both cash and cheques in one envelope and drop it into a machine in the banks foyer. They 'upgraded' the machines so that now you have separate machines for cash and cheques. A fair amount of time has to be spent smoothing out the notes or the machine won't accept them and if a cheque hasn't been torn correctly along the perforated line the whole lot gets rejected. However, if you post said cheques plus paying in slip through the letter box the bank staff deal with it the following day. Generally works well. although not suitable for cash and not when the bank is closed due to 'flooding' (even though the neighboring retail shops next door, that rely on people actually buying their goods, stayed open). Mardi Jamieson, LondonDEAR LARRYI've just read Seth Finkelstein's article in today's Guardian – twice. I still don't understand a single word of it. Am I alone? Gerry McSweeney, TauntonGAMING ACADEMICSAleks Krotoski's article on the relationship between academics and the gaming industry didn't make the obvious point that a lot of academic research is not ecologically valid (Boffins and industry: Will the twain ever meet? October 25). In short, a lot of experimental research takes place in artifical laboratories that bear no relationship with playing in the real world. Firstly, playing games in a gaming lab is not very comfortable either psychologically or physically. Secondly, games have a social context. They are often played with friends or family members present, or are played online with other people. Thirdly, games are played at different times depending upon factors such as when free time is available, and when games are accessible. Fourthly, games are usually played over several sessions and require a period of time in which to become engaged or absorbed. Finally, players have specific preferences for certain types of games. A lot of academic research fails to control for these factors. Professor Mark Griffiths, Director, International Gaming Research Unit, Nottingham Trent UniversityUP TO A SPEEDChris Smith complains (Letters and blogs, October 25) about getting only 1,2 Mbps from a line advertised as '..up to 8 Mbps'. Sorry, Chris, but you've got nothing to complain about. As Michael Doonesbury read out from the back of the box at the time of the launch of a well-known operating system some years ago, "This system supported by 10 000 lawyers". In offering performance up to 8 Mbps, BT is simply saying that the speed will not exceed 8 Mbps. So, as BT sees it, what's the problem? BT is delivering to you what it said that it would. Neil Muir, ShrewsburyYou'll notice that BT, and everyone else, advertises "up to", because the final line speed you'll get is incredibly dependent on the distance between you and the exchange. However, there is generally an implicit "from 2mbps" and as you are not even getting that, and are in a well-connected location, I'd imagine the issue is a physical problem with your phone socket. Consider trying another phone socket and changing the micro-filters, and if that does nothing talk to your ISP who should be able to run tests on the line and if required send out a BT engineer. When I first switched to ADSL my "2mbps" line was barely reaching 100kbps, so a BT engineer replaced my aging master socket and I promptly connected at 2mbps exactly. Ross Burton, Bishops StortfordChris Smith with an office in Clerkenwell (letters, October 25) thinks that BT broadband speeds are rubbish. Well I live in a poor part of Manchester, and the BT speeds here are lovely. Because hardly anyone else round here is on broadband yet! Is it a bit different in Clerkenwell? You shock me! If you're paying £200 a month then yes, you deserve a refund. If you're trying to get away - in central London - with paying a business tariff which is really designed for a low-use plumber in Preston, then you're just a cheeky whinger. I could have paid less to Crazy Betty's Nearly-Free Broadband than I'm paying to BT. But then there'd be 2m people using that cheap service, and I'd get low speeds, wouldn't I? Sorry, mate. But when you locate your office in central London, you pay more for a sandwich than you would in Asda. And when you want to be very near 25,000 other businesses... IC Rogers, ManchesterI read Chris Smith's letter complaining about BT's poor broadband speeds and share his frustration. I used to be a Pipex customer but was told by them that due to Local Loop Unbundling issues with my exchange in Bath, they were unable to upgrade me from what was then a 1Mbps service. So I called BT assuming that if they own the exchange, surely they must be able to offer something better and in fact, their sales team proudly said I could get 4.5Mbps through them so I switched. Within two weeks, it had "settled down" to 3.1Mbps so I went through an elaborate complaints procedure because, like Chris Smith, I felt it was a case of mis-selling. The lengthy procedure included an almost unintelligible call from a guy somewhere in the Indian sub-Continent and eventually, absolutely nothing came of it. Nothing that is except that now my broadband has settled down even further to a constant 2.6Mbps. With narrow bandwidth versus contention ratio steadily reducing what's being cynically sold as "up to 8meg", our crappy creaking old copper wires really do make the UK look like the rip off everyone says it is. And BT can bask in the glory of knowing it is right up there in the vanguard. Peter Allerhand, BathI'm as baffled as Chris Smith about BT's ability to get away with their totally spurious 'up to 8Mb' claims. I test my connections at home and at work on a regular basis and I'd say they average about 1Mb. Right now, my work connection is running at 1401.52 Kbps; the other evening at home I was getting just over 500Kbs . Does any other business routinely deliver around 10-15% of what it promises - and charges for? Alan Paterson, LondonDATING SPOLSKYJoel Spolsky (Why history will repeat itself with JavaScript and the web, p6, October 25) makes a sound point, but he has his dates a bit off when he writes that Bell Labs developed C in 1978. Work on C actually started nearly a decade earlier and was completed by 1973, Kernighan and Ritchie being the leading lights. (Hence "K&amp;R C") What happened in 1978 was the publication of Kernighan's book The C Programming Language. See Ritchie's paper The Development of the C Language,http://cm.bell-labs.com/cm/cs/who/dmr/chist.hmtl. Robert Sproat, London&gt;&gt; Nice theory, but who owns the browsers? Microsoft and Mozilla.http://jamespo.org.uk/LEOPARD GROWLS"So that lack of excitement about Leopard? It's because we don't need it." (Why the world says 'meh' to Apple's next product, Sept 20). I have to disagree with your premise. After installing on all of my 7 Macs, which are mostly high end but also including this really old 1.3 MHz 512 MB iBook G4 I am in shock. Now, as well as having tons of fabulous features that make this wee, old thing way more useful and productive ... it is now faster that it was the day I got it. I am, I repeat, in shock! Apple have managed the impossible ... a major upgrade that adds way more AND revitalizes older Macs. An amazing achievement! Michael J Bradley, Sarasota, FloridaAs I cast my eyes on the Technology segment of today's Guardian (25th October) I was surprised, no, startled to see no mention of the impeding release of Apple's Mac OS X 'Leopard' . I trawled through the other articles in the section, I even went through through Jack Schofield's typically biased bilge and belittlement of anything not formally approved and sanctioned by Microsoft, sure that i would soon see an article dedicated to the new release, but no. Is it that the Guardian have been misinformed? Are you unaware that the OS is released worldwide tomorrow? The OS that Walt Mossberg has just praised as being "better and faster than Vista." The red carpet was certainly laid out for Microsoft's 6 years in the making release of Vista back in January, why should things be different for a company who only last Monday revealed that they had surpassed giants such as IBM and Intel in many areas with their Q4 2007 financial results. I look forward to devouring and casting judgement upon your reply or subsequent article in next weeks edition of the Guardian Technology section. Phelim Brady, GuildfordMISSING MANUALSLeon Schneidermann's and Roger Marriott's letters struck a chord with me, too! I used to be a technical author in computing and electronics, and so did many of my friends, but the job has become effectively extinct. The decline of technical authoring began with the release of Ventura back in the 'Eighties. Managers would buy a copy, throw it at their engineers and say "Now you can do your own manuals!" thus saving money from hiring tech authors and getting blessed relief from ever having to think about 'documentation plans' ever again. The engineers were happy as they had always hated tech authors, seeing them as annoying people who came to ask difficult questions just when they were at their busiest preparing the product for launch. Engineers, being the wonderfully capable people they are, always believe that they can do anybody else's job, so they had no problem with putting the TAs out of work. These attitudes, unfortunately, failed to take into account that technical authors were not just there to deal with the type-setting and printing but were, in fact, needed to write manuals that could be understood by ordinary mortals, people who might not be fortunate enough to be engineers. As tech authors were put out of work there were less of them as they went into other areas of business, so even if a company wanted one they couldn't get one, so the engineers would get Ventura anyway. The internet set the seal on this by allowing companies to sell software and hardware with only a brochure with a URL for a website and a help-desk phone number. Microsoft delivered the death-blow by hiring evil tech authors who wrote carefully-crafted 'manuals' and in-program 'help' that told the user nothing useful, thus creating a market for MS-certified training courses. Consumers are now conditioned to have low expectations about documentation, so they get what they expect. All the old-time tech authors are now dead, retired or running boarding-houses in Bognor Regis, so there is nobody to train a new generation to this demanding profession, and so there will be no change in the forseeable future. I hope this makes things clear. Dick Bentley, South Ferriby
She really does get everywhere. According toHello Kitty Hell(written by a HK loather, it seems), there is now aWorld of Warcraft Hello Kitty interface. From his scathing description:For those unfamiliar, World of Warcraft (WoW) is an online game where people going around killing anything and everything. Obviously, there are players that believe that adopting a Hello Kitty theme will give them the added advantage they need to spread destruction and misery throughout the world. Hmmmm, on second thought, maybe it isn't such a bad fit for Hello Kitty after all...Tremendous. Full screen imagehere. And just to prove it ain't a lie,here's Joi Ito's WoW deck, complete with HK Halloween them. Rock on!Get ithere. Thanks to Joi'stwitterfeed.
Just two months ago, a parliamentary committee described the internet as a "wild west" and warned that immediate action was needed to stop the web from becoming a "playground of criminals".This week, the government said such talk was unwarranted, and that there was no evidence that online crime was a problem. What's going on?The argument centres on the House of Lords science and technology committee, which produced adamning reportsaying technology companies need to shoulder more responsibility for online safety - and exhorted the government to act immediately.Although it would be easy to dismiss the report as the product of a gang of doddery peers, the final report was far from uninformed. The committee, headed by Lord Broers (an IBM veteran and no stranger to the technology industry), conducted a painstaking investigation into the state of online security."You can't just rely on individuals to take responsibility for their own security. They will always be outfoxed by the bad guys," said Lord Broers at the time. "We feel many of the organisations profiting from internet services now need to take their share of the responsibility."This met with a few sour smiles among industry mavens, but thegovernment's responsehas outraged committee members. The government was unflinching, saying it "takes seriously all crime committed by use of the internet - however, we also feel there is an unwarranted suggestion that its only response to the problem is to regard it as a personal responsibility of the user".Although it did suggest some further investigation of a dedicated online crime-fighting organisation, the members do not feel that goes far enough."The government's response is a huge disappointment," said the Earl of Erroll, who has run IT and computer security businesses. "We were entirely persuaded that individuals were unable, on their own, to keep themselves secure."Perhaps, he suggests, things start out simply. "We don't know quite how bad things have become today - there are no reliable figures for e-crime. If you have no idea of the scale of the problem, how can you design solutions?"
BlueAnt Z9 earpiece, &pound;59.99Ah, the humble pinna, or auricle - you know, the not-quite-bony bit of the ear that sticks out from the side of your head. If you didn't have them, then (as Charlie Brooker has pointed out elsewhere) your head would whistle like an empty bottle when you walked into a headwind, and your glasses would fall off all the time. Don't diss the pinnae: they're eminently useful.But to designers of Bluetooth earpieces, they're a pain in the arse. And to the rest of us, having to bear those designers' efforts, the results are usually a pain in the auricle orifice.Here's why. A Bluetooth earpiece, the sort which just goes in one ear, has to do two things: plug into your ear (so you can hear what's going on) and also, somehow, not fall off. You can't just stick it in your ear and hope it'll stay there, so you have to attach it somehow to that strange arrangement of cartilage nearby. And until everyone gets an ear piercing near the top of their ear, this means some sort of loop over the top.In most earpieces, the result is a bit of plastic that goes over your pinna and clamps the listening part into your ear. This can be painful, and while some drivers do seem to have mastered the art of wearing these things for long periods of time, the number of people you see driving cars talking straight into their mobiles suggests that these earpieces still have some work to do. How envious earpiece designers must be of their colleagues who design glasses: all the fixings are in place already.With the BlueAnt Z9, though, the discomfort is gone. I've tried a lot of earpieces and this is definitely the first one that didn't feel uncomfortable or intrusive. It's very light, and the sound is very good - I tested it with my computer, and was able to hear the faint buzzing in the background of a YouTube video; and the pairing is straightforward. (The Z9's passcode is 0000, since you're bound to lose the manual and look for it via a search engine.) However, there is one problem that remains, even though the designers have taken a lot of trouble to make sure that the soft plastic loop is shaped like the earpiece of some comfortable glasses.It's this: the usefulness of this &pound;60 earpiece depends on the survival of that loop, which costs perhaps 2p. Put it in your pocket, and it's likely to die - I have a collection of broken ones from other earpieces, which proves that this is not a rare event. Cleverly, the Z9's loop is removable - but I still fear for its future when I'm in a hurry, in which case I'd have to resort to a bit of wire, which would be the equivalent of a coathanger car aerial. Can't evolution hurry up and give us different ears?Pros:light; excellent sound; simple operation, very comfortableCons:ear loop liable to break&#183;uk.blueantz9.com
This would have been a great one to post yesterday if I'd spotted it in time. Flash developerArmor Gameshas just released Dark Cut 2, a US civil war-based surgery sim in which you operate on a series of field casualties with a range of antiquated tools. You also get to load your victims, sorry 'patients', up with whisky - the only sedative available.It's a polished game, with pleasingly gory visuals, but it'll run extremely slowly on lower spec machines. I love the concept of a historical version of Trauma Centre, though. The possibilities for follow-ups are endless: butchery on the bloody fields of Towton, bone-splintering amputations aboard the HMS Victory... Lovely.You can play the gamehere.(ViaIndependent Gaming Source)
My old Acer laptop has failed (dead motherboard). It came without setup discs. I want to extract Windows XP from the hard drive to install on a new laptop, which I'm downgrading from Vista because some software won't run.Tim BrownI'm sure that the Windows XP that came with the Acer was "licensed with the hardware as a single integrated product and may only be used with the hardware", which is why it didn't cost you very much. You have no legal right to run it on any other machine. Even if you can get it running, you would still have to activate it. (A retail copy of Windows XP can be moved between PCs, but is absurdly expensive.)Microsoft often provides "downgrade rights" as these can be useful to businesses. Vista Business and Ultimate can both be "downgraded". In the unlikely event that you have one of these, you will have to read your EULA (End User Licence Agreement) to check your options. However, I'm surprised if you have many programs that won't run under Vista. The ones that won't run are usually programs that operate at a low level (where Vista has changed a lot from XP) or perform non-legal operations. Examples are anti-malware programs, CD/DVD authoring programs, and games. Seethe Windows Vista RTM Software Compatibility List.To get other software to run, right-click each program's .exe file, select Properties, and then click the tab marked Compatibility. Tick the box that says "Run this program in compatibility mode for" and then select the mode you want. Examples include Windows 95, Windows 2000 and Windows XP (Service Pack 2). You may also need to tick one or more boxes such as "Disable visual themes" and probably "Run this program as an administrator".At home, all our software runs in Vista without using a compatibility mode, though some programs needed patches. I'd have doubts about both the programming competence and management capabilities of any company whose current software doesn't run under Vista. I'd look for alternatives, rather than downgrade.
I sometimes use an external monitor with my laptop. How do I stop the display closing down when the laptop lid is shut, please?Mike CooperGo to the Control Panel and run the applet called Power Options. Click the Advanced tab on the properties sheet, and look for the section that says: "When I close the lid of my portable computer". Click the down arrow for the list of options, and select "Do nothing".
The downloads required to keep Windows antivirus, firewall and anti-spyware software up to date takes a terrible toll on a 56K dialup connection. What is your recommendation for people who use the internet only occasionally, and for whom pay-per-minute dialup is perfectly adequate?Richard BellThe downloads tend to be small so there shouldn't be a problem if you log on every day or so. That's reasonable if you use email. Failing that, you could try "borrowing" a broadband connection from a relative or friend just after the second Tuesday of each month: that's when Microsoft releases its monthly Windows Update. If you connect via a Cat 5 cable to a router (not a USB modem), the connection should be automatic and should not disturb your dialup settings. Does anyone have a better idea?
What exactly are Twain and Twunk? I think they're probably something to do with Lexmark, but I'm getting conflicting messages as to whether they're healthy or not.Tom DraneTwain is a standard system for talking to scanners and digital cameras (http://twain.org/). Twunk_16.exe and Twunk_32.exe are usually legitimate Twain files. However, the Blackmal.C trojan also uses these filenames to avoid detection:Symantec has details. You can tell from part 4 if your version is malware. Otherwise, most anti-virus products should pick it up. Double check usingSuperAntiSpyware.
Intego, an antivirus company which usually has to sit around drumming its fingers while its long wait for a Mac virus to pop up goes on, hascaught one: a "codec" download from a porn site which tricks users into installing a Trojan file that can take over their web browsing.If you download the file and install it,it uses a sophisticated method to change the Mac's DNS server (the server that is used to look up the correspondences between domain names and IP addresses for web sites and other Internet services).It's not a new trick - Windows users surfing for pr0n have been targeted in the same way for years - but Alex Eckelberry over at the (excellent) Sunbelt Software blog says that it is important news:I don't mean to sound breathless about it. As far as we know, it's not widespread. But this is the first targeted, real attack on Mac users by a professional malware group.It's that "professional" label that matters, he says:when I showed our resident Mac guru this Trojan, his reaction was real surprise. In his words, "I've been using Macs since 1989. This is the first time I've seen something like this." This is a good story.Again, I'm not trying to overhype. Mac users, hungry for pr0n, really do have to go through a few hoops to get this thing loaded. But we now have millions of new Mac devices out there, between the Touch and IPhone, running OSX.The sole driving force behind malware these days is money. And this is simply a new market for these bad guys.Let's not ourselves in the security space get complacent.Because someone else might. At which point we note that eWeek has aninteresting articlein which various security researchers tear holes in the new firewall in Apple's Leopard, becauseit's not on by default; if you do an upgrade install, it will turnoffthe firewall you hadon(as bad as Windows XP, in my view)you can't deny by service (or port), only by application - which is a step backward from OSX 10.4 ("Tiger"), where you could do port-based denial (ideally, you want both, of course)you can't distinguish between trusted and untrusted networks to join (Vista does this better)you can't block outbound services, which is usually the problem, rather than inbound"deny all" doesn't: "Heise's Schmidt was dismayed to find that choosing the option to block all incoming connections does not in fact stop connections—a finding that means users "can't rely on the firewall," he said."This leaves big holes:It's not clear whether the bugs are relevant or if Apple has back-ported fixes, Schmidt said, but the worst-case scenario could have serous consequences, given that both Samba and ntpd run as root and don't appear to be supported by new sandbox functions in Leopard."If, therefore, a security problem which can be exploited remotely to inject and execute code is detected, an attacker could gain complete control over the system—with all the consequences this entails, right up to mass distribution via a worm," Schmidt said inhis posting.Moral: let's be careful out there. And don't trust pr0n sites which say "Just download this codec to view our movies!"
Speaking during an industry event at the Berkeley Haas School of Business, Electronic Arts CEO John Riccitiello suggested that the big players in the videogame industry are going to have to change their business model over the next few years - especially regarding the distribution and pricing of games.From the Fortune blog:"In the next five years, we're all going to have to deal with this. In China, they're giving games away for free," he says. "People who benefit from the current model will need to embrace a new revenue model, or wait for others to disrupt." As more publishers transition to making games for online distribution, Riccitiello says he expects EA will experiment with different pricing models.He makes an interesting comparison between the fates of the three major US TV networks and the key videogame giants. Thirty years ago ABC, CBS, and NBC controlled 90 percent of the US TV industry and failed to appreciate the threat from smaller cable companies. Now the big three share less than half of the market.Clearly, he sees a future where electronic distribution replaces traditional retail roll-out. Plus, the mention of free games suggests he envisages the rise to prominence of ad-funded gaming. But who does he see as competition? Who are the cable companies of the gaming arena?Perhaps he's referring to the casual game networks like RealArcade or PopCap. But these generally work with an entirely different demographic - middle-aged women. Perhaps he's worried developers will start by-passing publishers and aggregators altogether and start using distribution initiatives likeSteamorManifesto. But these developers are unlikely to have the financial resources to develop for PS3 or Xbox 360, unless we face a future consisting entirely of PlayStation Network and Xbox Live Arcade downloads. Who is he afraid of?The recent Radiohead release has certainly got everyone talking about alternative distribution methods - especially methods that connect the artist directly with the fan. Certain independent studios certainly have the financial clout and established userbase to give this a go - Pandemic and Bioware for example. Oh wait, EA just bought them. Which is one approach to the potential fragmentation of the market...Would be interesting to see someone attempt the In Rainbows model with a videogame. It's tempting to suggest that gamers don't have the same emotional identification with game studios as they do with rock bands, but given the ferocity of some of the PS3 vs Xbox 360 debates in our comments section I'm not so sure.So, seriously, given the choice - how much wouldyoupay for Halo 3? Or Rock Band? Or Gran Turismo 5?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
At some point before 2050, satellites collecting solar power and beaming it back to Earth will become a primary energy source, streaming terawatts of electricity continuously from space. That's if you believe a recentreportfrom the Pentagon's National Security Space Office, which says confidently that we will see "a basic proof-of-concept within 4-6 years and a substantial power demonstration as early as 2017-2020".It's obvious in some ways: above the atmosphere, a solar cell receives about 40 times more energy per year than an equivalent site on the ground, due to the absence of atmospheric scattering and seasonal or nightly reductions in light.The NSSO suggests that an orbiting spacecraft with solar panel arrays would be comparable to current ground-based installations spanning hectares and, eventually, a few square kilometres. Then that energy can be sent to the ground - using, the Pentagon suggests, a giant laser or microwave beam.The report, Space Based Solar Power as an Opportunity for Strategic Security, suggests optimistically that one application will be the beaming of "energy aid" via satellite into conflict and disaster zones, minimising the human cost of resource wars and catastrophic events caused by global warming."The technology has been in development for a while," says Joseph Rouge, associate director of the space office. "The truly hard and expensive part is going to be getting it into orbit. We'll need regular launches and on-orbit robotic assembly systems. It's a $10bn [&pound;4.8bn] programme, but by 2050 it could deliver 10% of America's power needs."The space office sees energy supply as one of strategic importance as oil supplies dwindle; according to a report by Germany's Energy Watch Group published last week, "peak oil" output occurred last year, and will fall by 7% annually to half its present levels by 2030. The space office notes that all remaining oil resources are estimated to contain 250 terawatt-years of energy; but that a one-kilometre wide band in geosynchronous orbit receives about 212 TW-years of energy each year.Deadly weapon?The first units to go up will generate between 10MW and 25MW of continuous power, enough for a town of 25,000 people. If the energy is transmitted by microwave, a surface array one-tenth of a square kilometre in size will be needed to pick it up. Larger beams will require larger collector arrays. But wouldn't a microwave beam from space be equivalent to a deadly weapon? Unlike photovoltaic cells, these antenna arrays are practically transparent, so crops could be planted under them."If a 2.45Ghz beam drifted off its target and ended up over a town, the effect would be negligible," says Lt Col Damphousse of the space office. "By the time the microwave reaches the surface it has spread out considerably. The power density is one-sixth that of the noonday sun."The US army could also use such a device to deliver electricity to its troops. Military units in forward areas pay $1 per kilowatt hour, six times the UK domestic price. They pay a lot more to bring in fuel. Lives could be saved by cutting long and vulnerable logistics chains - though it would require the large collectors.The beam is most powerful near its source, and although at 25,000 miles up it would not pose a risk to astronauts in the International Space Station, it could be turned against communication or observation satellites in geostationary orbit. "Space Traffic Control would make sure the satellite is not tampered with before launch," says Damphousse. "They would also ensure the spacecraft do not interfere with each other."Leopold Summerer, head of the Advanced Concepts Team at the European Space Agency, thinks laser beams will be better than microwaves due to their higher transmission frequencies and narrower apertures. His department has been coordinating exploratory discussions between the big European energy suppliers and aerospace companies. "By the time space solar power is ready there will already be large-scale terrestrial solar in place," Summerer says. "The same panels could be used to receive energy from a laser. You could save a lot of money on energy storage by beaming at night and throughout the year."The various platforms under consideration will not be competitive until the cost of space flight goes down. Nasa's budget has been shrunk and Japanese agency JAXA has suffered technical setbacks. The International Space Station barely manages to justify its running costs. As of today, none of the agencies is funding a space solar power launch. Rouge says: "This is a commercial venture. The US government could be an initial customer, but they won't be the ones to build it."Solar power beaming could be much more profitable than space tourism. It has the potential to drive down launch costs, thereby making a number of other missions practicable. In a survey of the US space community's National Space Goals conducted last year, launching solar power satellites came top of the list.Over the past 40 years, microwave and laser power transmission systems have been tested successfully in Europe, the US and Japan. Unmanned aircraft and lunar rovers receiving power from a remote beam are proven applications. The Japanese have tested reactions in the  ionosphere to microwaves at the frequencies used for space solar power, and the results were positive. The only remaining issue is to test a large-scale system.Test prototypeSpace Island Group is a Californian startup with an ambitious strategy. Gene Meyers, its chief executive, says the company has almost completed financing for a test prototype launch at a total cost of $200m. "We expect to have the prototype in orbit within two years," he says. "It will be a 10-25MW system in low Earth orbit, using a microwave beam to deliver the energy to ground stations, probably located in Europe."Their main competitors are Mitsubishi and an as-yet unnamed European consortium. "Mitsubishi is more advanced in their satellite design, but are stymied by launch costs," Meyers says. Space Island will use Nasa fuel tanks and launch facilities built in the 1970s. "They are designed to handle a launch every week, so the capacity is there to scale up to a larger system," he says. The plan is to have a 100 gigawatt service in operation by 2025.The Indian government has expressed interest in becoming a customer. Many rural areas are undergoing development but do not have access to the national grid. There are also a large number of island nations paying excessive amounts to distribute electricity.Leopold Summerer at the European Space Agency says: "I think we'll use the technology sooner or later. If one nation develops this service, the others will take it seriously. They won't be able to resist."
Google, the world's most popular internet search engine, has joined the corporate super-league with a market value that ranks among America's top five companies. Ten years after its creation in a Stanford University dormitory, the Silicon Valley firm's capitalisation reached $219bn (&pound;105bn) on Tuesday - overtaking healthcare titan Procter &amp; Gamble to place it in fifth place on the US stockmarket.Only ExxonMobil, General Electric, Microsoft and the telecoms company AT&amp;T are bigger than Google.Its shares powered past yet another milestone yesterday as they touched $700 for the first time, less than a month after reaching the $600 mark. By mid-morning in New York, they were up $5.27 to $700.04. Google's growth spurt has been driven by seemingly unstoppable profits: the company's recent third-quarter earnings showed a 46% leap in net income to $1.07bn.Experts cite its leadership in online maps, videos, news and finance, all of which are thought to offer huge potential for advertising-driven revenue. The company is also going head to head with Microsoft in the software market with its own internet-based word processing and spreadsheet applications which compete with the American software giant's Microsoft Office products.Google has also become very interested in the potential of mobile phones as devices for accessing the internet and is working on its own mobile phone software and even its own devices. Details of the Gphone - as the project has become known, in imitation of Apple's iPhone - are expected to be released this month .Google is understood to have talked with a number of Asian mobile phone makers about the possibility of putting its own software on to a new generation of internet-enabled mobile phones. It is also working with a number of companies, including satellite broadcaster BSkyB, about the potential of advertising on mobile phones.Google is even examining becoming directly involved in the mobile phone industry by buying a mobile phone spectrum in the US and potentially the UK which it could use to run its own mobile services.Earnings powerTodd Greenwald, an analyst at Nollenberger Capital in San Francisco, said: "Could they be bigger? Certainly. Frankly, the market's only just realising the vast amount of earnings power and is valuing Google appropriately."The soaring share price means Google's founders - Sergey Brin and Larry Page, both 34 - have paper fortunes of more than $20bn each.The pair only take salaries of $1 a year but receive more than $1m in annual bonuses. They have shown a taste for jetset living - they have refurbished a former Qantas Airways 180-passenger Boeing 767 as a "party plane" with twin staterooms, a dining room and showers and have won permission to keep it at a usually restricted Nasa base in California.Google is 10 times as valuable as America's biggest carmaker, General Motors, and is worth 30% more than the world's largest drugs firm, Pfizer. Long established "old economy" brands pale into comparison - Coca-Cola's capitalisation is just $142bn, while McDonald's can only command a value of $70bn.In the past, the sheer scale of Google has created problems for other internet start-ups in America's technology heartland of Silicon Valley, with the company draining talent from other businesses. The fact that the Mountain View, California-based company allows its engineers to spend some of the company's time on their own pet projects has been very attractive. This practice has spawned products such as Google News. But over the past few months some of the allure of Google has worn off, with several senior Google figures defecting to the social networking site Facebook.Last week Google lost out to its bitter rival Microsoft in the race to buy a stake in the site and today it is expected to exact its revenge. Google is thought to have teamed up with a host of rival sites, such as LinkedIn and Friendster which between them reach more than 100 million people. Its plan, called OpenSocial, is designed to make it easy for software developers to create applications that work across these networks, making them more attractive for users than Facebook.Most industry followers believe the only way is up for Google. The information service Bloomberg reported that out of 37 analysts tracking the company, 33 recommend buying the shares and the other four rate the stock as a "hold".Google accounts for 56% of all searches on the internet according to the online research firm Comscore. In Britain, Google is visited more than any other website with 28.6m unique users in September - reaching 89% of all UK internet users.
An obscure peripheral,this one:Video game characters live in a three-dimensional world, but gamers have only been able to experience two dimensions... until now. The 3rdSpace® Vest from TN Games takes gameplay beyond sight and sound, creating spatial awareness of the world your characters inhabit. Unlike traditional force feedback devices that rumble or buzz, the 3rdSpace Vest gives you precise impact where it happens, as it happens. Get pounded with body slams, crushed with G-forces, and blasted with bullet fire.It could add to the whole general excitement. Combined with a lightgun, you could get a whole-body workout with the ducking and diving. And with two, you could hurt your mate in a multi-player show-off. Wouldn't that be nice.
