In the era of CCTV, The Truman Show, Big Brother, blogging and YouTube, the only question left is how far can you go. Now we have the answer. Justin Kan has strapped a camera to the side of his head and invited the world to log on and share his entire life, 24/7.Kan is the internet's newest star after launching Justin.tv, a website where viewers see what he sees and hear what he hears, even on a date. Only when he goes to the bathroom or bed does he take the camera off, but even then it is still discreetly monitoring every moment. The age of surveillance as entertainment appears to have reached its logical conclusion with 'lifecasting'.When The Observer contacted Kan yesterday, there was little hope of an exclusive interview. The 5,000-mile conversation was beamed live to the worldwide audience who apparently find his every breath more compelling than anything else on TV. The 23-year-old with zero privacy was sitting with a laptop on his knees in a cluttered apartment in San Francisco, shared with his Justin.tv producer and technical team.The first question was simple: why? 'I was driving around with one of my best friends and we were talking, and I said maybe other people would be interested in this conversation,' said the Yale University graduate. 'It went from there, until it was, maybe I should broadcast my life 24/7 over the internet. I put the idea to people and they looked at me as if to say, "Why would you do that?". But since it started people have been emailing to say it's the best idea ever, so I feel kind of vindicated. You can literally live your entire life with me and I love that.'In a suitably postmodern touch, much of Justin.tv consists of watching Kan run Justin.tv, his second internet company. But not everything has gone according to plan. One mischievous viewer called 911 to report a stabbing in the apartment and made it appear that the call came from Kan's phone. Police burst in at 2am with guns drawn - all of which could be seen live on Justin.tv. Kan laughed off the incident: 'Guns come in, shocked nerds close laptops.' The next day, a viewer reported a fire at the apartment, prompting another panic. San Francisco emergency services, wary of more false alarms, now call to confirm that there is a problem before responding.Kan's fame has resulted in requests for dates despite, or because, women know they will be on camera. 'I'm single, which makes the whole 24/7 thing much easier,' he said. The army of voyeurs on the site's chatrooms have inevitably debated whether Kan should have sex live on air. He has not ruled it out: 'We're still exploring what is legal, but any censorship that takes place won't come from my part. I'm willing to go all the way.'When Kan goes to the bathroom, he points the camera at the ceiling, but the sound is transmitted. At night it is aimed at his bed to show him sleeping. Kan has removed his phone number from the site because it became so overloaded with calls, but he still responds to emails.He declined to reveal his viewing figures, but said there were 'tens of thousands' a day, from as far afield as Brazil, Hungary and Germany. Justin.tv is a serious business with four staff and is making money from product placements and adverts that hang in the apartment and appear whenever Kan looks at them.The team's ultimate ambition is to equip hundreds of people with cameras so viewers can flick between 'channels' and decide which is the most interesting. Is this the end of television as we know it? Kan believes not: 'Soon you'll have a device you put in the back of your head which reads your thoughts.'
Now, we hope this isn't an April Fool. Somehow we don't think so. EMI has this afternoon issued a sudden invitation calling media "TO HEAR ABOUT AN EXCITING NEW DIGITAL OFFERING. WITH SPECIAL GUEST, APPLE CEO STEVE JOBS AND A SPECIAL LIVE PERFORMANCE." (Their capitals. We have some WD-40 to fix those sticky keys, you know.)It's happening at 1pm BST in London, which is in the wee small hours over in Cupertino where Jobs lives, so possibly his appearance isn't a live performance. Either that, or he has hopped intohis Gulfstream jetto come over to London.What for, though? What could "an exciting new digital offering" be? The bets are either on EMI giving up DRM on its songs (rating: less than likely) or the Beatles back catalogue finally being licensed by theOther Apple (Corps, which owns the song rights) to be sold digitally (rating: much more likely).The Beatles have been digital holdouts since Apple launched the iTunes Music Store in April 2003 (others include Radiohead, ironically also an EMI artist until their last contract expired). Their arrival online might drive a whole new demographic to download their songs. It could hardly subtract from their sales. If we were betting, we'd bet on this one.And the other possibility? EMI has experimented in a limited fashion with removing DRM, but it hasn't stuck too well. The company is also considering a merger/takeover with Warner; dumping DRM wouldn't seem like a smart move to shareholders at this point (since it might make the company look less valuable. You know how shareholders can be.) We have covered the possibility that record labels will remove DRM from their songs recently, on February 8 in "The end of the road for DRM?"; at the same time Jobs was penning hisThoughts on Music, which boiled down to "comeon, guys, just get rid of the DRM. We won't mind, we'll sell more iPods anyhow."Of course, this is Apple too, so there could be something completely unthought-of going on (Apple did look at buying Universal Music a few years ago), but somehow we don't think so.Your bets too for who the "live performance" is going to be. We don't think it'll be Ringo Starr reading from Thomas the Tank Engine, is all we can say.
"That's what we call it here at Google, anyway. What you'll call it is a godsend: free wireless broadband throughout your home, a host of optional breakthrough applications -- all with just one quick, easy self-install.Learn more about Google TiSP(beta) today," says theOfficial Google blog.Theinstallationis hysterical.In related news, Andrew Orlowski reports thatApple, Google join forces for 'ultimate phone': "Apple will mothball its iPhone, announced in January, in favour of a new device that serves as a platform for Google's contextual advertising business."Orlowski says the new id device has already had a "a glowing write-up" from the Wall Street Journal's Walt Mossberg:"With my assistant Kara I have been imagining what a "ID" would look like. In my imagination, set up is easy and the device works capably. Apple's stroke of genius in removing the telephony features from a phone puts it far ahead of its competitors by making mobile telephony simple to use. In my imagination, this is the most usable smartphone ever imagined. Will that do, Steve?"Microsoft, somewhat feebly, has launchedMicrosoft Penguin Adoption 2007:The support of an aquatic and flightless species like the penguin -- be it Emperor, Gentoo or Humboldt -- requires the support of an active community. That's why a key component to the new Penguin program will be the 2007 adoption of Seattle, WA-basedWoodland Park Zoo's Penguin Exhibit. With it, Microsoft will become an official 2007-2008 'ZooParent' to the local Humbolt penguin exhibit.Over at NASA, theAstronomy Picture of the Daycaption says: "A historic first Space Quidditch match came to a spectacular conclusion last night as astronaut Michael Lopez-Alegria caught the Golden Snitch to give the Americans a hard fought victory over the Russians."But commisserations to Google's Matt Cutts, whoseblog has been hackedby the Dark SEO Team, according toSearch Engine Land. (Follow the link to theDark SEO team...)As usual,Urgo is compiling a list....
Honda CR-V&pound;18,700Miles per gallon:34.9Seats:5Good for:PretendersBad for:OffendersI spot the fluttering yellow square of paper pinned under my windscreen wiper from across the road. I let fly a barrage of swearwords which, oddly enough, all seem to begin with 'B'. A parking ticket! Here, outside my own house? Fascists! But, as I get closer, I realise the authentic-looking ticket is not, in fact, a penalty notice from my friendly parking warden, but a flier from the Alliance Against Urban 4x4s (budding eco warriors can download them atwww.stopurban4x4s.org.uk). In block capitals it warns: 'Poor Vehicle Choice - it ought to be a criminal offence to drive around town in a vehicle that does this much damage'. The plausibly real spoof ticket goes on to warn that crawling round the city in a needlessly powerful car wastes as much energy in 12 months as leaving the fridge door open for seven years. Sobering stuff ... but at least I don't owe the council &pound;60.I needn't have worried. You see, I'm not in your ordinary 4x4 this week. I'm testing Honda's revamped CR-V, which the Swindon-based car-maker claims is 'safer, cleaner and smaller' than most other off-roaders.The 'safer' refers to the fact that the Honda CR-V, unlike many other 4x4s, is not very good at mowing down pedestrians. The car has a three-star safety rating which puts it in the top 10 per cent of people-friendly cars on the road. It also has five stars for occupant safety and four stars for child-seat safety, making it the safest vehicle in its class.The 'cleaner' refers to the fact that the CR-V, unlike other 4x4s, is also not very good at slurping through the juice. It boasts an admirable 34.9 miles per gallon (the diesel variant does 43.5mpg) and its emissions are low - a Mini Cooper S has higher figures.Finally, the 'smaller' refers to the fact that the CR-V, unlike other 4x4s, is not a chubby-cheeked road hog. It has a roadprint the same size as a Mondeo's and is, in fact, smaller than, say, a BMW 5-series. In short, the CR-V is the most un-4x4 4x4 you'll ever drive, which raises the question: why buy one then?The first two words in the press pack that accompanies the CR-V are 'car-like'. Honda has gone out of its way to create an SUV that drives and handles like a saloon but is, in fact, an off-road vehicle. The result is a classic fence-sitter. On the one hand it's a slightly toothless 4x4, on the other a lumpen saloon.The CR-V keeps its fuel figures down by employing only front-wheel drive in normal conditions, the four-wheel option kicking in when traction is lost. When you encounter a little mud at the polo, for instance. On the road, the CR-V offers the elevated 'command' position of other SUVs, though Honda has lowered it slightly to make it feel more car-like to drive, which is baffling, as that is exactly why people like to drive 4x4s.Being a Honda, the CR-V is, as you'd expect, reliable, robustly made and even quite attractive in a misguided sort of way. It's just that if you want a car, why not buy one? And if you want to be green, then don't. A greenish, car-like 4x4 is, well, a Poor Vehicle Choice.martin.love@observer.co.uk
A year ago mobile games could be summed up in three words: almost universally rubbish. These days it's a slightly more complicated picture but one that remains bleak, featuring a lacklustre mix of over-ambitious renditions of popular console franchises and all new mobile games, few of which feel like a fiver well spent. Your best bet for finding playable mobile entertainment is to look for the brand Digital Chocolate.Burning TiresI-PlayAn appalling wallowing mess of a racing game, whose low frame rate, unresponsive controls and deeply suspect handling conspire to remove any trace elements of entertainment value.Tetris ManiaElectronic ArtsA classic game, if one devalued by its overarching ubiquity, this adds the virtually irrelevant twist of letting unconnected blocks fall to the bottom by "gravity". Five quid to own this again seems churlish.Heli StrikeI-PlayRevive memories of Airwolf in this simple flying shooting match that involves hosing down a series of slow-moving targets before taking on an easy boss. Not actively awful, but stupefyingly tedious.Brain JuiceDigital ChocolateNot so much inspired by Nintendo's non-gamer-enticing Brain Age, as ripping it off mercilessly, this supplies bite-sized chunks of mental acuity training that never feel less than fresh and crisply executed.Medal of HonourElectronic ArtsMercifully not another misguided attempt to shoehorn a fully-fledged first person shooter into a mobile, but a two-dimensional stealth and sniping game that still manages to be much too fiddly for its own good.Galaxy on FireI-PlayWith pleasing 3D graphics, this addictive space-faring trading game has you planet hopping and taking part in ship-to-ship combat in what feels a bit like a prettied-up mobile version of the classic Elite.PictionaryElectronic ArtsSolo mode has you keying in the name of progressively more complex objects as your phone gradually draws them; at best a mildly diverting frippery hampered by the odd Americanism unintentionally raising the difficulty level.Johnny Crash Does TexasDigital ChocolateBlast Johnny out of a cannon and perform amusing stunts using an inspired single-button interaction. Fun, silly, moreish and delivered in perfect bite-sized pieces, this is happily everything a mobile game should be.Ricochet: Lost WorldsI-PlayIt's Breakout with power-ups and a neatly designed curved paddle that helps aim shots despite the manifold limitations of a mobile's cursor buttons. Not quite as bad as it sounds, but very ordinary.Planet RidersI-PlayWhile by no means as soul-sappingly dreadful as Burning Tires (a name it hurts just to type), this low-rent Wipeout-alike still falls some considerable distance short of something you would undertake voluntarily.Jewel Quest SolitaireI-PlayTarting-up Solitaire with intermittent descriptions of a jungle adventure and mini games does nothing to spoil its seductive qualities or a creeping sense that this, too, feels as though it ought to be a freebie.
Following the Kathy Sierra debacle (see below), Tim O'Reilly of O'Reilly Media, Inc has posted aCall for a Blogger's Code of Conduct. However, rather than focusing on what bloggers post, it is mostly to do with the kinds of things that appear in comments.O'Reilly says: "It seems to me that there's a big difference between censorship and encouraging and tolerating abuse."There's an attitude among many bloggers that deleting inflammatory comments is censorship. I think that needs to change. I'm not suggesting that every blog will want to delete such comments, but I am suggesting that blogs that do want to keep the level of dialog at a higher level not be censured for doing so.There are many real-world analogies. Shock radio hosts encourage abusive callers; a mainstream talk radio show like NPR's Talk of the Nation wouldn't hesitate to cut someone off who started spewing hatred and abuse. Frat parties might encourage drunken lewdness, but a party at a tech conference would not. Setting standards for acceptable behavior in a forum you control is conducive to free speech, not damaging to it.We don't usually get inflammatory comments on Radar, but in the past, when they've occurred, we've tended not to delete them, lest we be accused of censorship. But in future, we're going to adopt a policy of deleting comments that are ad-hominem, insulting, or threatening to any individual. I'd like to see other bloggers do the same. Obviously, there's a responsibility on the other side for bloggers not to delete comments solely because they express opinions the poster doesn't agree with.The Guardian has now -- perhaps belatedly -- introduced such a policy, though it's very rarely used. When you post a comment here, you accept the following:By posting on this website you are agreeing to abide by our talk policy. We will remove posts that contain racist, sexist or offensive/threatening language, personal attacks on the writer or other posters, posts that exceed the maximum length, and posts that are off topic. Any poster who repeatedly contravenes the talk policy will be banned from posting on the website.And, of course, anyone can complain about a comment they find unsuitable or offensive.What do you think? Have we got the balance right?
What the bloody hell is that? I agreed to test-drive the latest model from stylish Italian scooter-maker Piaggio, the firm that gave us the iconic Vespa 60 years ago, and here's something that looks like it's come from Fisher-Price. It's got too many wheels, for a start. And surely if something does have to have three wheels, there should be one at the front and two at the back. I have to spend a week going backwards on a tricycle - what's that going to do for my image? It's called the MP3? I don't care, that's a stupid name, too. What am I supposed to do, download it?Later that day something extraordinary happens. I'm on my stupid backwards tricycle at the traffic lights, eyes locked firmly in front (I've decided this is the only way to get through the week - ignore the mockery). A loud "Oi!" catches me unawares, and I turn round to see two hoodies staring and pointing at me. Oh Christ ...But they're giving me the thumbs up! Is this ironic respect? What does ironic respect even look like? No, I think, it's real - they like my bike. I'm cool! The good thing about being totally spineless and craving acceptance from others is that it's dead easy to change your mind about something. I quickly revise my opinion, unlock my eyes from their forward-only position, and start to milk my new-found credibility. If I'm cool, I'm going to enjoy it.This bike certainly provokes reaction. Yes, there are a few giggles, but most people seem to like it. They point, smile, and the thumbs keep going up. I even venture into that scary bike zone at the front of traffic queues, where helmeted men rev their metal steeds while eyeing up the competition before twisting their right wrists and disappearing into the distance in a whirr of noise and a fug of testosterone. Instead of mocking, they're curious - serious bikers on serious bikes, men with too much hair and four-stroke engine oil running through their veins, want to know about it, how much it costs, performance, how it handles.So I tell them. It costs a hell of a lot, for a scooter. And it can't really compete when the lights do turn green - certainly not the 125cc model I've got, which has the power, and sound, of a sewing machine (the 250cc version has a bit more oomph, and will whine along at 80mph, apparently). But the handling is amazing. Those two front wheels, which tilt together at angles up to 40 degrees, may look strange, but once you get the hang of it (it's more like driving a quad bike than a motorbike), it's so solid you hardly need to slow down for corners. Sand on the road, oil, the wrong kind of snow? No problem - round you go, as if you're on rails.And the way it stops is even more impressive than the way it goes. Braking space on slippery roads is down 24% compared with two-wheeled scooters, says Piaggio, and I think they're telling the truth.So I'm safe, and I'm cool. And there's loads of room under the seat - for my shopping, a small dog, or a medium-sized baby. I love my MP3; I don't want to give it back. See? I've performed a total U-turn, but without slowing down or falling off. And no one's laughing.Piaggio MP3, 125ccPrice&#163;3,999Top speed64mphConsumption70mpgEco rating7/10At the wheelLady SovereignTop gadgetHandbrake
In a word Hmmm&#183;Giles Smith is away.
For the past week's posts on a single page, clickhere.
MondayPS3: the first weekendDave Perry needs your helpThe easy way to understand gamesPS3 UK's largest selling consoleTuesdayPandas and marathonsDS sells three million in UKGames need more messWednesdayWhy the games cost so much360 Elite confirmedThursdayBlu-ray, reviews and a gaming musicalGrab som WoW this weekendVocal chords at the ready: SingStar goes sequel crazyThey said is couldn't happenPS£ isn't for games, it's for businessFridayPanda power
There's only one more day to vote for the panda you think I should wearto represent the gamesblogat this year'sSecond Life Relay for Life. All you have to do is go to thegamesblog's flickr siteand make a comment on the panda. I'm donating 100 Linden Dollars per comment to the American Cancer Society's event, and so far am only out 3,400 Lindens. That's not even a (real life) tenner!In fact, I'll treble the stakes.For every comment I get between now and Monday morning, I'll donate 300 Lindens (the equivalent of almost £1) to the American Cancer Society's in-world Relay.Come on folks! Is it thePolom Panda(currently in the lead), theSouth Park Sexual Harassment Panda(lagging behind) or theTiny Panda(in second place)? You decide!
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Bill Gates -- the DOOM videoShacknews hasa great interview with Alex St John, the former Microsoft guy who helped transform Windows' printing architecture, and fathered the DirectX system that made Windows a success in the action games arena. There are a couple of great paras:A month or so in, I still didn't know exactly what my job was until one of the guys who hired me said, "Write a strategy for how you would persuade the publishing industry to move to Windows." I spent a lot of time writing documents saying here's what our strategy should be, here's how we could convince companies to sign on, all that. I came in to do my presentation, and I got about three slides into it before I was interrupted by one of the executives saying, "This is all great stuff, you have a perfect plan. Developers who are reasonable should all support it, but what do you do if none of this works." "What do you mean?" "What if in spite of your best efforts, your best arguments, your best relationships, you can't get them to support them. How do you force the industry to support Microsoft anyway?" "Force them? Well, I don't know." "Come back when you have a plan that answers that question."That perplexed me for a long time. I'm thinking, "What the hell does he mean, force them? I can't hold a gun to their head, so how do I put all these companies in a position where, regardless of what they see is in their best interest, they have to adopt your technology?" That experience had a major impact on my thinking. I realized that a major part of my job was to figure out how to use technology control to create economic force, or leverage, such that money and business flowed in Microsoft's direction, and people had to go [to them]. That, ultimately, is when I became a "Microsoft guy," when I got that concept.He also reveals how he solved the games problem:I actually attribute my reasons for being successful there to listening carefully to the game developers. My strategy was very simple -- I go to them and ask, "What kind of crack would you get addicted to?" They'd tell me, and I'd go back to Microsoft and say, "If we make this crack, those developers will buy it." Very simple. DirectX was essentially the crack they asked me to make. That's the way you hook somebody -- ask them what they'll pay money for, then go make it.Shack says the follow-up interview will be posted next Thursday or Friday, covering subjects such as why Alex foundedWildTangent, as well as the aforementioned company's numerous spy/ad/malware allegations.
Intel has laid out the road-map for future microprocessors in a press release,Intel Details Upcoming New Processor Generations. At the 45nm level:Six Penryn family processors, including dual and quad-core desktop processors and a dual core mobile processor are all under the Intel Core processor brand name as well as new dual and quad-core server processors under the Intel Xeon processor brand name.The most significant may be this one:The mobile Penryn processor has a new advanced power management state calledDeep Power DownTechnology that significantly reduces the power of the processor during idle periods such that internal transistor power leakage is no longer a factor. This helps extend battery life in laptops. This is a major advancement over previous generation industry leading Intel mobile processors.After that, there will be a new next-generation microarchitecture, code-named Nehalem, with initial production at 45nm in 2008 (tick). This will go into production in a shrink derivative codenamed Westmere at the 32nm level (tock).Finally, there will be another new microarchitecture at the 32nm level, code-named Gesher.AnandTechhas the details, and comments:Obviously part of today's announcements were intended to pre-empt any excitement aboutAMD's Barcelona architecture, but Intel is doing the right thing. It's sharing a very forward looking roadmap with the public early on in order to rebuild trust and confidence, especially after what happened with NetBurst.
What happens when the open source philosophy spreads from software and into other areas of life?Well, it's already doing so in areas such as architecture, journalism and some forms of manufacturing - as we've reported before (this comment fromVic Keegan, for example).We've started seeing some of the effects come through too, even if not in true collaborative models, at least in the sharing of information (you could argue that generic drugs legislation is opening the source code of pharmaceuticals).Now, according to this article on theCore 77 blog, a project in the Netherlands is trying to bring about an open source car.The c,mm,n (pronounced "common" - awful name, all those commas) is a joint project kicked off by the Netherlands Society for Nature and Environment and three universities:The vehicle's technical drawings and blueprints are freely available online, and everyone is invited to add their own ideas and modifications, provided of course that these are shared again with the community.Environmental sustainability was a key factor in the development of the c,mm,n: the vehicle is therefore a zero-emission, hydrogen-powered 2+2 family car. c,mm,n drivers can also easily share information on traffic conditions, route planning and parking availability.Sounds interesting - unfortunately,the websiteis in Dutch, which, let's say, isn't one of my strong points. But if anyone out there can read it then let us know exactly what it says.
Today's Guardian Technology has a short piece (by me) titled "Is the PS3 a Trojan horse to help sell Blu-ray films?"Unlike almost all stories with a questionmark in the headline, the answer to this one is "yes".(Apologies, the thumbnail is out of focus. Click for the full size, in-focus version.)Now, despite the PS3 being the fastest-selling console in the UK in the history of, oh, history, by any objective estimation it's still a bloody pricey bit of kit, especially in the UK.But here's the thing: it doesn't really need a Blu-ray drive to do its stuff. Oh, sure, "store the game.." Tell us, how big are those games really? You don't need a Blu-ray disc to store them. Else why have a teraflop processor inside?In retrospect, it's clear that Sony took a very considered decision to make the PS3 as late as it could, as pricey as it could, in order to get the Blu-ray drive inside it. The reason: Sony can make far more money in the coming decades from Blu-ray than from the PS3. Remember, Sony owns a film studio too. Going for Blu-ray might reduce piracy. (We only said might.)If the Xbox 360 had come with an HD DVD drive, then that format would have got the whole war settled - done and dusted. Except the Xbox360 wouldn't have sold anything like the 10 million it has; you'd be lucky if it had sold a quarter of that, because the price would have been vast.The shot above is from a slide prepared for Sony by the research company Understanding &amp; Solutions. It shows high-definition market growing fast in a couple of years. But it won't get there if there are two formats competing for it, or if nobody goes there because nobody has won.I spoke last week to Matt Brown, who is a former Dreamworks executive who now works for Sony in the UK and Europe aiming to get Blu-ray sold. And he's happy. Blu-ray players now outnumber HD DVD in Europe -because of the PS3. Blu-ray players outnumber HD DVD players in North America.If you include the PS3. And that's the key. People buy HD DVD drives because they really want them; they don't buy Blu-ray drives - they find them inside their PS3, which is sold on the basis that it offers high definition. Brown was very happy: Blu-ray titles, he said, are now outselling HD DVD by 3 to 1.(Sony's figures suggest that by the end of this year there will be 6.5m Blu-ray players in North America, vs 1.63m HD DVD players; and in Europe, nearly 4m Blu-ray players vs55,000HD DVD players. The gap doesn't close. Of course, that includes PS3s. I'd bet that in fact the majority will be PS3s. In Europe, it forecasts Blu-ray films and discs outselling HD DVD ones by 10 to 1 by 2009.The news that theXbox 360 Elite won't include an HD DVD drivemeans that, in my view HD DVD hasn't got a chance. It won't get the critical mass, or even a rolling start. Microsoft, which backed HD DVD, will lose.It may be that following last Friday's launch that this means the high-definition video wars are already over. Yet the intriguing thing is that Blu-ray is the format thatBill Gates rejected because he felt it was too restrictive. So think, as you play on your shiny new PS3, how you've been a player in one of the most valuable format wars in years - and you helped decide the winner. And don't ask how you play the film on multiple TVs at once. You can't. That's the DRM. Enjoy!
I know I'm a day late with this, but I couldn't let such an epoch-shattering event pass without mentioning it and I was snowed under with work yesterday. In case you missed it, Sega and Nintendo announced that Mario and Sonic would be joining forces to star in Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games, a multi-event sports sim based around, yes, Beijing 2008.Mario and Sonic! MarioandSonic! Quite frankly, if someone had visited me from the future 15 years ago and told me this would happen, I would have had them consigned to a madhouse (quickly followed by myself for consorting with people from the future). What a bizarre world we live in. Frankly, Gerry Adams and Ian Paisley must be gutted that their potentially historic appearance together has now surely been superceded in the minds of many political pundits.I was at Future Publishing when the news broke, and Official PlayStation Magazine's publisher rushed over to ask if this meeting of rival videogame icons had a precedent. The best I could come up with was SNK vs Capcom, but even a fawning Fatal Fury idiot like me couldn't compare Terry Bogard vs Ryu with the meeting of Nintendo and Sega's mascots.Can you think of any similar meet-ups? Failing that, what unlikely couplings would you like to see in the future? Here are three suggestions...Sam Fisher vs Solid SnakeThe two characters wouldn't actually meet, they'd sneak around each other for a few lonely hours before giving up.Samus Aran vs Lara CroftYou can tell how much of a teenage geek you are by timing how long you spend imagining this.Tamagotchi vs PokemonThe ultimate showdown of cute yet painfully needy creatures. "Take that Tamagotchi, I've used my electricity attack!", "Take that Pikachu, I've done a small poo on the screen and become ill!"
PCs targeted by criminalsResearch by the government-backed Get Safe Online has found that up to 5m UK home computers are open to criminal attack due to virus, spyware or hacking.getsafeonline.orgCreativity unleashedAdobe has finally launched Creative Suite 3, with new versions of programs such as PhotoShop and Dreamweaver. Expect to pay from &pound;1,195 to &pound;1,969.adobe.com/go/cs3launchSense-less gamingThe National Deafblind and Rubella Association has launched an online game "to simulate what it could be like to experience failing sight and hearing" to raise awareness and funds.recycleyourmobiles.orgGrowing spam problemIn the past six months, the average size of a spam email has grown from 6.62K to 11.76K due to the increased use of images, reports SoftScan.tinyurl.com/2j6ajcChinese and chipsIntel says it will build a&pound;1.27bn chip manufacturing plant- its first in Asia - in Dalian in China.Harvard degree for drop-outBill Gates never finished his Harvard degree: 30 years ago, he dropped out to co-found Microsoft. Now they've decided togive him an honorary one.It's purrr-ty time!The Cat in the Hat is now 50.seussville.com/CITH_50th/Swappers unitedHitflip, which claims to be Europe's biggest swap-shop, has now arrived in the UK - by taking over the Swopex site.hitflip.co.uk
If you've ever wondered how the convoluted world of a company like Microsoft works, then this month's issue ofWiredmakes intriguing reading. It contains an interesting exhortation to "get naked and rule the world": how "radical transparency" is helping companies get touchy-feely with Joe Bloggs.The saga has taken an interesting turn, however, with the publication of a PRbriefing documentwhich was (apparently) mistakenly sent to journalist Fred Vogelstein,who wrote a piece on Microsoft's blogging strategy.The 13 page opus details how PR executives were trying to control and cajole Vogelstein (who says the document made him feel"downright peculiar"), and how they'd tried to restrict the outcomes. Wired boss Chris Andersonhas his say, and then PR honcho Fred Shaw responds by ignoringthe fact that this document leaked by mistake.What does it tell us? Not a lot really - PR tries its best to prepare for journalists, and agendas aren't always crystal clear. It does mean that Wired and Microsoft come in for some criticism from Nick Denton at Valleywag (who calls Wired"transparently compliant").I touch on this too because transparency is important to us here at the Guardian. This week staff have had a series of meetings with editor Alan Rusbridger about our digital future -blogged by media maven Roy Greenslade. Our main editorial meetings are open to all (I've taken my mother-in-law along) and we also run audits to find out whether we'redoing as we sayon ethical issues. The Guardian, of course, is a long way off Microsoft's 71,000 employees.But ultimately it does all bring into question whether any of the 4,500 bloggers inside Microsoft, are really part of an attempt to be open about certain things. Is it just a new take on spin and PR? Is it aimed at public critics, or at boosting morale internally?Ultimately, is it "radical transparency"?I don't know, but it does show how much effort goes in at a corporate and PR level to attempt to understand and manipulate what we know about companies like Microsoft.
It certainly looks that way to us - particularly after talking to Matt Brown, executive vice president of Sony Pictures Europe, whose job it is to persuade us all to buy Blu-ray media. Formerly with Dreamworks, and steeped in films, Brown declares that "the future is high-definition TV" and that the PS3 - which at &pound;425 in the UK is steeply priced for a games console, but comparatively cheap for a high-definition player (Blu-ray players in the UK cost more than &pound;500) - is "the ultimate home entertainment device". All of which you'd expect him to say. But talking to Brown, it's clear that Sony is happy to take its financial lumps in terms of losses in the games console market if it means guaranteeing a win in the high-definition video war. And the best way to do that? Lose money selling the players, and rake it back by selling the "software" - games and especially films. In the long term, Sony has far more to gain from winning the DVD format wars than it stands to lose in the gaming ones, since it could keep making the PS3 for the next decade.While the PS3 has not given Sony any clear advantage in the games field, it certainly has in the high-definition DVD market. At the Consumer Electronics Show in January, the HD DVD camp could claim 175,000 players sold in the US, well ahead of Blu-ray. But Sony can now claim a total of 1.8m PS3s sold worldwide (saysnexgenwars.com).Wood thus sounds confident when he claims: "Blu-ray discs are outselling HD DVD by three to one in the US." And, he adds, "if I do a good job then in six months we won't be having a conversation [about formats]. And the PS3 is going to help us do the job ... Potentially, we'll have 10 times more [Blu-ray] players [in the form of PS3s] out there by the end of the year." Projections for Sony by the research company Understanding &amp; Solutions suggest there will be nearly 4m Blu-ray players (including PS3s) installed across Europe by the end of this year, compared to 55,000 HD DVD players; by the end of 2008, it forecasts 13.45m Blu-ray against 1.6m HD DVD drives (which will by then also include computers). For the US, it predicts a smaller gap - although still running 9 to 1 in favour of Blu-ray.So is it game over for HD DVD? The HD DVD camp said at CES that owners of their players bought an average of 28 discs each, because they had chosen the format, rather than finding it bundled with their games console. Blu-ray owners hadn't bought many discs. But we remember a time when Netscape could claim to have many more people using its browser than Microsoft's Internet Explorer. Then Microsoft bundled the browser, and Netscape went pear-shaped. Someone at Sony has probably remembered their internet history, which says that victory goes to the most widely installed - not necessarily the most widely chosen.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Would you be surprised to hear US civil liberties groups arguing that internet censorship is cheap, easy, relatively effective and difficult to circumvent? While in reaction, the US government claimed that such efforts had an unacceptable amount of collateral damage? Yet that's what has been happening for more than a decade in litigation involving censoring the internet. While these arguments sometimes descend into a fog of statistics, the overall implications are important for public policy. In the UK, a different set of censorship issues has arisen with BT's Cleanfeed project, intended to block content that is illegal, as gathered by theInternet Watch Foundation.Researchers have had concerns over Cleanfeed's possible use as a storehouse of illegal sites itself, as well as ease of evasion (cl.cam.ac.uk/~rnc1). New offences such as "glorification of terrorism" raise the prospect of such control systems eventually being used for political purposes even in democracies. So every court case about these issues can have an impact on these debates throughout the world.The most recent US case involved a law known as the Child Online Protection Act (COPA), which was nominally aimed at material that is legal for adults but deemed "harmful to minors" - although this was difficult to fully define (tinyurl.com/yooxul). The law has been repeatedly ruled unconstitutional (and hence unenforceable) on many grounds, such as being "impermissibly vague and overbroad" and "not narrowly tailored". But one extraordinary part of the argument has concerned censorware.Censorware, politely termed "filtering", is software designed and optimised for use by an authority to prevent another person fromsending or receiving information. The authority may be a parent, an employer or a government wanting to control a child, an employee or a citizen. But while the social issues vary, the technical issues are identical. One's personal values regarding what is legitimate authority are irrelevant to the question of whether censoring the internet is feasible.As part of the COPA case, the free speech side argued that parents' use of censorware would be more effective to control what minors could view than a government law. Though there are many complex legal subtleties involved, overall the civil libertarians talked up censorware, while the government talked it down.One civil liberties expert testified that the censorware companies "monitor the various websites where children talk about how to circumvent the products and when they hear about techniques, they make sure that their software is not susceptible to those techniques ..." Another stated: "My opinion is that it's quite difficult for minors to circumvent filters." They may be right.But this then conflicts with anti-censorship projects such as "Psiphon" and others, which attempt to leverage social networks to circumvent "firewalls of states that censor" (psiphon.civisec.org). In fact, often an identical censorware product is sold to parents, employers, and governments.While the civil liberties side won this case, there may be unintended consequences for other situations. There's a famous quote by John Gilmore: "The net interprets censorship as damage, and routes around it." To which I've replied: "But what if censorship is in the router?" In 1995, I performed the first investigations into what was actually blocked by censorware, exposing the blacklisting of sex education, feminism, gay rights sites and more. Since then, the effectiveness of censorware has become a topic of international concern, as more and more governments seek to impose countrywide prohibitions.If a control system works for parents using it for what teenagers can see, it will work for governments using it for what citizens can see. Likewise, if citizens can escape government control of what they can read, teenagers will be able to escape parental control of what they can read. Now, pick one.sethf.com/infothought/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There was a time when anyone who came to my househadto pick up a PlayStation mic and belt along to the latest pop hit on karaoke gameSingStar. There was no choice. Everyone had to play.Several friends fewer later, I'm still impressed with the ability of the platform holder to convince a UK audience that karaoke is cool (although I still can't get anyone to come toHoratio'swith me). But truth be told, I'm a little overwhelmed by their enthusiasm.MCVreported last week that Sony plans to release another six singing titles in the next 12 months, on their PlayStation2 and PlayStation3 consoles, moving full-speed ahead in their approach to bludgeoning new audiences with social gaming.Surely after the PS3 version they won't have to launch any more software?Early rumourslist the SingStar downloadable content as one of the key online features of the new console. Sony have a vast back catalogue of tunes they can dip into, and a direct pipeline to the consumer. Why spend pennies on all that messy plastic?What'll bereallycool is when new bands can upload their own tunes and players can downloadtheirtunes for free. Talk about a marketing opportunity to rivalMySpace.
Blizzard'sWorld of Warcraftcontinues to bestride online gaming sales like a digital colossus, but lest the remaining6,576,000,000of us in the world who've not got a WoW account go un-Allianced (or Hoard-ed), we can get a free 14 day trial viaThe Timesthis weekend.And for those who have no idea what I'm talking about, there will be an 8-page massively multiplayer online game FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) supplement in there too.ViaMCV
In my ongoing quest to find a way to rescue the mobile operators from their buyers' regret at having splashed out &pound;22bn on 3G licences, I'm always on the lookout for what could be called the "killer app" for phones - something that will encourage people to download (or upload) a growing amount of data, and feel displeased when they can't get it. The other day, while trying out a new Sony Ericsson phone, I think I noticed it. In the menu at the top was the familiar (to me, at least) "orange radar" icon that indicates, on a web page on your computer, that you're viewing a page which offers an RSS feed. Except on this phone it indicates an RSS reader.If you've not joined the RSS party, it goes like this: RSS (Really Simple Syndication) is like web pages with all the water taken out. It performs the same function as the MP3 format does for music, taking out the bits you don't need in favour of the ones you do. An RSS feed is a stripped-down version of the text of the page, without the distracting visuals (unless the visuals are the point, in which case they're part of the feed). When an RSS reader queries a web server, all it asks for is what's changed on the page it's asking for. RSS is far less bulky than downloading the entire site and lets you skim hundreds easily: I use it to keep tabs on hundreds of sites using an "aggregator" - software to view multiple RSS feeds.Now, mobile operators have been thrashing around in their search for ways to get people to consume more data. They've tried pushing music downloads at us - they're multi-megabyte, surely that will work? Nope; the growing availability of fast broadband at home has left them in the dust. Mobile TV? Not biting, sorry - there are free newspapers on pretty much any commuter route where you might otherwise watch TV. Video calling? Can't quite see the benefit of something you can do quite well with voice, I'm afraid.Instead of encouraging people to bloat on a quart of data all at once (such as a music download), RSS gets you to take little sips, regularly. Not always such little sips, in fact: looking at the statistics for my aggregator, I notice that blogs such asEngadgetprovide an average of around 150KB for each check, and that's far from the largest.The problem with mobile downloads, mobile TV and video calling is that there's a barrier to consumption: our attention, which is limited, and often rationed. Although bandwidth-selling operators would like to believe that we're all just gagging to restart our multi-megabyte video call as soon as we come out of the train tunnel that cut the first one off, the reality is that we usually have something better to do - including doing nothing. Furthermore, you can't download a video call (OK, perhaps a video answer message - tell me if you know anyone who has ever received one), or mobile TV for later viewing.It's different with RSS. That's a periodic update that happens in the background; you don't have to force it to happen, or tune it in (except to find the sites you want to pull in the feed from). No hassles. All in my control.But what the mobile operators should find attractive is that I'm checking those feeds every half an hour. Aggregate that over a day, and it starts to add up: about a megabyte a day, 8MB per week, 24MB per month. And that's for just one, fairly average, blog. I've got nearly 700 feeds (though I'm atypical, I'd agree). Who wants to bid for my mobile business?On that basis, it makes sense for the mobile operators to insist that phone makers include an RSS reader in every new model. Include a few more feeds than just Google News and made it simpler - a one-click operation - to follow peoples' MySpace or Bebo pages, as you (sort of) can on a PC's browser, and they'd have a brand new market. Just give us the phones. We know where the blogs are.&#183;Vic Keegan is awaycharles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thereviewsare in Technology this week, with the PS3 getting two out of the three. Motorstorm gets 5 stars - it's the best PS3 game but not *that* good - while I gave Resistance Fall of Man the 3 stars its average action deserves (though it is more enjoyable than Perfect Dark Zero, the equivalent launch title for the 360). PC shooter Infernal also gets 3 stars, though I'd choose Resistance over this any time.Computer Game: The Musical? The ultimate killer appaccording to Aleks. And you know what? She may have a point. Elsewhere there is a look atPS3 and Blu-ray. Bought any films with your PS3 yet? I got Casino Royale over the weekend and compared it to a couple of HD-DVD films on the 360 - I couldn't see any noticeable difference. But the fact that you don't have to faff around with external drives, plugs etc means I'll be watching most of my HD movies on the PS3 in the future.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Don't look now ...Thinking of buying a camcorder? You may have to choose between four storage and two video formats, as rival companies bid for supremacy. Jack Schofield explains.Stars compose new ways to use musicDo you want to write music, or remix a band's tunes and then find similar stuff? Three top rock stars are eager to help.Minister listens to Guardian's campaign callFree Our Data:Baroness Ashton at the Department for Constitutional Affairs hears our case for the liberation of government information.Making a play for broadband BroadwayAleks Krotoski: By Jove, I think I've cracked it. I think I've found the way to break through the geek stereotype that dogs the games industry. Pay attention, Sony, this one's for free - Computer Game: The Musical.GamesMotorStorm | Resistance: Fall of Man | InfernalNewly Asked Questions:What is badware and why should I worry about it?It's stuff that sneaks on to your PC and messes with it. At its least malevolent, badware infests your PC with popups and tracks your surfing details via an application that has crept on to your system without your knowledge or permission.Is the PlayStation 3 a Trojan horse to help sell Blu-ray films?It certainly looks that way to us - particularly after talking to Matt Brown, executive vice president of Sony Pictures Europe, whose job it is to persuade us all to buy Blu-ray media.How to feed a killer appetite with RSSCharles Arthur: In my ongoing quest to find a way to rescue the mobile operators from their buyers' regret at having splashed out £22bn on 3G licences, I'm always on the lookout for what could be called the "killer app" for phones.Read me firstInternet censorship, at home or state-run, is a political hot potato, says Seth Finkelstein.TechnobileLinda Jones: It's all very well these bods dreaming up all-in-one devices, but using them can be a nightmare.How to crack the problem of internet password securityJack Schofield: It's a good bet that if you have 20 online accounts, you don't have 20 different passwords. In fact, according to a survey by Kaspersky Lab, most people (51% of us) only have between one and four passwords for 20 accounts. We are insecure.The 'fab' machine that could spark an industrial revolutionMeet the open source, low-cost machine that can 'print' 3D objects for you at home.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesPCs targeted by criminals | Creativity unleashed | Sense-less gaming | Growing spam problem | Chinese and chips | Harvard degree for drop-out | It's purrr-ty time! | Swappers unitedLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
My Norton subscription has now finished and I was very unhappy with the speed of my PC after installing it. I am therefore looking for a new security package that includes anti-spyware, anti-virus, a firewall etc. How many different defences are needed these days? Kevin O'DonnellThe first line of defence with a broadband connection should be a NAT Ethernet router with a built-in firewall, and not a USB modem. For several years I have also recommended using Firefox and Thunderbird for web browsing and email, rather than Microsoft's Internet Explorer 6 and Outlook Express. However, if you are running Windows XP SP2 or Vista, IE7 seems to be much more secure, and I recommend the upgrade. Those are the basics.You should also use a software firewall, and Windows now has an adequate one built in. However, it's worth running something better, and at the moment I recommend and use the free Kerio Personal firewall, rescued by Sunbelt Software (sunbelt-software.com). Of the commercial firewalls, I like McAfee. As an experiment, I ran a Windows XP SP2 PC like this on the net 24/7 with no other protection, and only picked up one minor bit of malware in 15 months. (This is not a recommendation.)When it comes to installing extra software, my current preference is for Grisoft's AVG Anti-Virus and its separate anti-spyware program, which used to be called Ewido. The best alternatives seem to be Avast! and AOL's Active Virus Shield. This is a version of Kaspersky Lab's program that is free to everyone courtesy of AOL (activevirusshield.com). Both SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy and Microsoft's Windows Defender are worth a look, but neither seems to be as good as Ewido. Also, Webroot's SpySweeper is well recommended and reasonably priced, although I have not tried it for some years (webroot.com).Otherwise, rather than installing more software, you can run periodic checks using scanners from websites such as Trend's Housecall, Symantec and Webroot.The problem is that many rogue companies are now building serious businesses on Windows malware and other deceptive programs, and it's hard for the good guys to keep up. The latest buzzword is therefore Hips (host intrusion prevention system). The idea is to keep a constant watch on potentially malicious types of behaviour inside your PC, and give you the option to stop it. Hips can detect new malware and prevent so-called "zero day exploits" for which there is no other defence. It's not clear how effective this is going to be, but at the moment I'm trying Novatix's Cyberhawk Threat Hunter (novatix.com/cyberhawk). Cyberhawk Basic is free to home users.Backchat: Re Cyberhawk, Steve Stannard says: "I have been using the free version of Prevx (http://free.prevx.com/) from its earliest beta stages. As far as Cyberhawk Basic is concerned, I have had pretty poor experience with it freezing the whole operating system. I never had anything like that problem with Prevx."
Is there any way I can convert a pair of really good Wharfedale speakers to accommodate a Sony NW-A1200 MP3 player? Jef Jon FoxAn MP3 player is not going to have enough output to drive a pair of good loudspeakers unless they are "active loudspeakers" -- which means they have their own built in amplifiers. Examples include the Wharfedale Active Diamond range, but there are lots more designed for use with portable music players.If you have to buy an amplifier to drive the Wharfedales, then the question becomes a familiar one: how do you connect an MP3 player to a hi-fi? In this case, the answer is simple. You just need to buy a connection lead that has a 3.5mm headphone jack on one end (to fit the MP3 player) and a pair of RCA phono plugs on the other end (to fit the amplifier) -- check your systems first!You can use any line-in input on the amp, and often there's one called AUX for auxiliary. If not you can use the one intended for a CD or DVD player or a tape recorder. The input you can't use is the one intended for a turntable.You should be able to get a cheap cable on the high street, although there are some sold for that specific purpose. For example, Amazon.co.uk has a Hama Connection Cable MP3 for £1.88, while Maplin sells the Groove Connect MP3 cable for £9.99.Oddly enough, there is a cheap but well-reviewed Chinese-made amplifier that can run on batteries and has a 3.5mm input jack: the Sonic Impact T-Amp. If anyone has used this with an MP3 player, let us know how it works.Backchat: On using the cheap but great-sounding Sonic Impact T-Amp to blast out music from their MP3 player, Eamonn Twomey responded, saying: "I'm really pleased with mine, purchased on eBay for about 30 quid. As long as you do not want ear-splitting volume, it provides wonderfully clear, detailed sound. It's better if your speakers have a high sensitivity (eg 89dB). Mine are Mission 731s."Tom Davis says: "I use my Sonic T-Amp day in day out, both with my Mac laptop and my iPod -- it's great. You need a decent power supply and you're also best off using higher attenuation speakers -- I use Kef Q Compact speakers with mine -- as they need less power. There's also a version of the T-Amp with a restyled box which looks much more stylish. The price is £100+ rather than £30, though!"
Is there a way to get Hotmail on the email client that comes with the Sony Ericsson P990i -- apart from flurry.com, which I don't trust 100%? I have managed to add my email on O2, Yahoo!, Gmail and my work email (on ActiveSync). I have had my Hotmail account since 2000 and I can access it in Outlook Express, so I would like to keep it. Andy MetalNot as far as I know. You can collect Hotmail using a POP3 client only if you pay Microsoft for POP3 access, although this feature is still free with some "legacy accounts". I didn't realise that Flurry.com could handle Hotmail, but from the website, it doesn't look less trustworthy than similar options. The rival TricastMail (tricastmedia.com) does not support Hotmail yet, and still lists the P990 as a supported phone, rather than the P990i, but I don't know if this makes any difference. (I've only used a P990.)
I recently downloaded some promotional software about the new Fiat 500 from the Fiat website. I used its delete option but then had to remove some remaining items using XP search. The program's exe file cannot be removed: I get a message saying that access is denied. Mike CooperOften you can delete files that will not be deleted by rebooting Windows in Safe Mode. However, I use a small free utility from the Gibin Software House: GiPo@MoveOnBoot (gibinsoft.net/gipoutils/fileutil/). This will generally move, remove or rename files when you reboot your PC.
My firewall/anti-virus program, Zone Alarm, keeps warning that it has found Win32.Adware.Beginto.C. It's classed as a medium to low threat and ZA wants to either quarantine or destroy it. I am also running Spybot S&amp;D. A special Trojan search did not stop it from returning. Ralf KinsbergerThe Zone Alarm Suite should be able to remove Beginto.C, and if removal has not worked, try booting your PC into Safe Mode by pressing the F8 key while it is starting. If that does not work, the free AVG Anti-Spyware, formerly called Ewido, can deal with it. As always, you should run the program when you download it, run it again after rebooting, and perhaps run it again in Safe Mode. For best results, run it with no browser or other software loaded.However, note that Safe Mode will probably mess up the layout of your desktop icons, so if you are fussy about this, take a screen shot of your desktop first.Backchat: Re Safe Mode messing up your icon layout. Philip Bergman says he uses a "little piece of freeware calledIcon Restore" to save and restore them. James Dingwall uses Midi-Ox'sDesktop Restore. He says: "I have found this particularly useful on my laptop as I use different screen resolutions for docked/undocked."
The Task Manager in Windows XP shows that tcpsvcs.exe uses 90-100% of my CPU. This slows my computer to an unusable degree. I have done everything I can with viruses, firewalls, hijack this etc and as far as I can tell my PC is clean. R H WrightAs its name suggests, tcpsvcs.exe is a Microsoft program that provides internet protocol (TCP/IP) networking services. Sometimes the same name is used by a piece of malware such as the old Backdoor.EggHead Trojan, but your checks should have eliminated this possibility. There's a discussion at File.net (file.net/process/tcpsvcs.exe.html) that suggests possible solutions.
It takes ages to change the image of a car company. If you are a manufacturer on the slide, that's lucky: you bask in the sunlight longer than you deserve. For the improvers, the time-lag between reality and perception can be a frustrating slog. Yet Skoda has managed to invert its brand image in little more than 10 years."What do you call a Skoda with a sunroof? A skip." There were dozens of quips like that, and my, how we laughed. That was then. Now Skodas have been voted Britain's favourite cars, coming top of satisfaction surveys run by BBC Top Gear magazine and Auto Express, which published its findings this week. Where did it all go right?In communist-era Czechoslovakia, it wasn't easy to build and market a complex consumer product and sell it against the world's best. While Skoda struggled bravely, it had to carry on selling its mid-60s saloon into 1990, bringing those gags on itself. The all-new 1987 Favorit might have been mediocre by most standards but it was a great car given the constraints, and it attracted Volkswagen into a takeover in 1991. In the absence of new models, the marketing strategy was brilliant: confront the demons head-on. The ads said the cars were "no joke". And they bore the legend "Volkswagen Group", surrounded by white space so you were sure to notice, but in small type so it didn't look like they were piggybacking on the Germans' reputation too desperately.Then VW's full strategy kicked in. With the Octavia, then the Fabia, Skoda could introduce models that had their own rather attractive styling but used the mechanical entrails of VW models. Same engines and transmissions, same suspensions, seats and electronics. But temptingly lower prices.So while badge snobs carry on buying expensive VWs and Audis, the canny know they can get the same in an &pound;11,000 Skoda. In satisfaction surveys, the only people who fill in the forms are those who have had their expectations either fulfilled or utterly confounded. Skoda wins by over-delivering on its no-nonsense promise.&#183;Paul Horrell is a contributing editor at BBC Top Gear magazine.
How often do you want to just press a button and see something happen? Every day, I'd guess. Don't we all? So why then do the clever people at Xerox not grasp this basic concept?I would like to know who came up with the notion of combining a photocopier with a printer, giving a sucker like me the option of 31 choices for what I need to do, then leaving me to get on with it? Whoever it was, I'd like to sit them down for just an hour or so as I twiddle with these buttons, to no avail, and let them watch and listen as the air turns blue. It's not pretty.On my rather bulky photocopier/printer there's an array of some 19 different options for settings on one side and 12 buttons you could choose to press on the other. Should printing out a piece of paper really involve such a palaver? That's before you've checked the paper supply, courtesy of a dinky little screen in the centre, as you scratch your head and wait. Just what is a collated or uncollated output exactly? And who on earth needs one?All this fuss kind of makes me wish I'd stuck with feeding documents through the fax machine to copy them. But no, I had to "give the right impression".Just like the Microsoft Office software on my PC, there seems to be a million possible functions, when actually I only need two at the most. The other functions may prove useful once in a blue moon to those who fancy printing something in green ink, on A5 paper, in triplicate, on both sides, with the margin in the shape of a paper hat. But I'm just trying to print an invoice.Perhaps I would mind this worthy-of-the-Krypton Factor mental workout less if the printer worked normally the rest of the time. But instead I find myself making tea for the nice man who visits about once a month to help the printer work again because it is unbelievably sensitive to minor fluctuations in the mains voltage.Its sophisticated, delicate balance is rendered useless every time we have the merest hint of a power cut - even one so small, so fleeting, that none of the other electrical equipment in the neighbourhood notices. This piece of technical wizardry is so sensitive that it picks up power cuts before there has actually been one. Genius.With depressing regularity, off I trot to the website with a "fault code". The online advice? Ring the call centre.The call centre's answer? "Have you tried the website?"Perhaps I should print my answer off and send it to them. In green ink, on A5 paper and in triplicate.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
MotorStormPlayStation 3, &pound;39.99, cert 12+, Evolution Studios/Sony, 5/5MotorStorm is currently the only game that gives an accurate glimpse of what we can expect from the PS3 as time passes and developers harness more of its power. An off-road racing game set at a raucous fictional festival in a meticulously reconstructed Monument Valley, it looks sensational; but more importantly, its gameplay grips you like a vice. Each course in the game has several routes, generally involving mud at the bottom and hopping from rock to rock up higher, and the quickest route is dictated by the vehicle you drive - which might be anything from a motorbike to a truck, via an ATV, a buggy or a rally car. Groundbreaking physics - the squishier mud, for example, can be squelched to the side of the track over the course of a race - and artificial intelligence that becomes more fearsome as you progress (rivals will sacrifice themselves to take you out) combine to create something that feels fresh, believable and utterly compelling. And even if you get it wrong, you're rewarded with a spectacular crash that sends car parts flying everywhere. Great online, too, although loading times intrude more than they should.Steve BoxerResistance: Fall of ManPlayStation 3, &pound;39.99, cert 15+ Insomniac/Sony, 3/5The belated videogame depictions of Grimsby and Nottingham can't save Resistance: Fall of Man from mediocrity. This is a strikingly average first-person shooter set in an alternative UK of the 1950s where ration books have been replaced by alien invaders. The derivative action - seek cover, shoot stuff, move on - will be familiar to anyone who has played Call of Duty or Halo. But Resistance lacks the intensity and enemy AI of both. The inventive weapons are the highlight - shoot through walls, tag enemies - and offer some much-needed originality. Resistance really comes alive online, with large scale battles showing what the PS3 can deliver. The graphics are fine, although nothing the 360 couldn't do and nothing to get excited about. Much like the Resistance itself, really; not a terrible game, but hardly an incentive to buy a PS3.Greg HowsonInfernalPC, &pound;29.99, cert 16+ Playlogic/Eidos, 3/5Perhaps it's just the slow decline of PC games picking up speed, but 1st and 3rd person shoot-em-ups seem to be in real trouble. Infernal is a fine example. At first the 3D textures and freeform gameplay promise a lot, but after a couple of levels you'll spot the problem; it's not freeform at all. In fact, Infernal is incredibly linear. And although the locations look great, they tend to be confined and predictable. Your special powers, such as teleportation or leaching health from enemies, are nothing we haven't seen in the Riddick and Vampyre games, and the difficulty level suddenly goes through the roof when you meet a boss. Infernal is still perfectly playable, but there are better titles in the bargain bins right now.Mike Anderiesz
Fear is the keyAdam Webb (Can filesharers be made to pay, March 22) correctly identifies that litigation against filesharers is just one aspect of the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) campaign against online copyright infringement.But it is wrong to surmise that litigation has had no deterrent effect on consumers' behaviour. A consumer study by Jupiter says that 50% of the European filesharers who cut back did so due to fear of legal action.Geoff TaylorChief executive, BPI&middot; There is an issue in the music piracy debate that seems to be ignored - the dominant player in the download market, iTunes, only offers downloads at 128kps. This is well below CD quality, but consumers who have iPods have no option to change it. How on Earth can the industry expect us to buy music legally when the freely available music on P2P networks is of superior quality?Murray GouldenNottinghamDon't sing for Opera yetIn response to Andrew Brown's article on Opera (The fat lady is clearing her throat, March 22), as an evangelistic user I must object to his premature notions that the browser is on its way out. Opera is one of the most accomplished browsers in the mobile device and embedded systems market, and is used by Nintendo's DS and Wii consoles.David EdwardsCoventry&middot;Opera didn't have tabs before everyone else, it had "pages". Firefox and IE don't even have real tabs; each tab isn't its own window. They are SDI, not MDI like Opera.Calvin Kostov&middot;I forsook Opera for Safari, which is inferior in every way but one - it has a little trick up its sleeve for troublesome sites: an option which in effect says (or rather whispers) "I can pretend to be Internet Explorer for this site". If Opera would deign to adopt this little bit of slumming and thus open up ALL the web, I would return to it like a shot.Chris RigbyUllculmeLoving the PS3?The PlayStation 3 is great and well worth the price (You shouldn't have any problems bagging a PS3, March 22). The only problem is a noticeable absence of games. But new titles such as Oblivion are showing up and it won't be long until enough great titles are available that the holdouts will purchase. The Blu-ray capability is a bonus. In short the PS3 won't fail, it may just take a little longer to get past the birthing pains.Brian Hart&#183;With a console that only did well here [in the US] because of the eBay effect, it seems that Sony may be having a hard time convincing Europe to buy into its pariah of a console. I don't mean to sound rude, but when the predicted loser of the console wars - the Wii - has outsold your console three times over, the ground may be too great to recover.insignificancywithpurpose.blogspot.comNovel approachI think you're absolutely right that social networking around books is an attractive proposition that is set to grow rapidly (A new chapter for books on the web, March 22). But did you know that as well as Librarything, there is now a wholly independent and completely UK-based site calledbooktribes.com?David KeighleyBooktribesSense of siteI could hardly believe my eyes when I looked at the charts in Siteseeing (March 22). Could it really be that so many more young people were interested in the Apple website than the Microsoft? Then I twigged. The bars do not compare like with like. They set percentages of one quantity against percentages of another.Stephen WellsWolverhampton[Microsoft gets roughly five times more UK visitors than Apple - Technology Ed.]Where on Earth?I think David Lund's problem with Google Earth (Letters, March 22) is that he doesn't know where to look. Trygooglesightseeing.com.David WerePembrokeshire
It's a good bet that if you have 20 online accounts, you don't have 20 different passwords. In fact, according to a survey by Kaspersky Lab, most people (51% of us) only have between one and four passwords for 20 accounts. We are insecure. But recent developments mean we could be more secure in the near future.While it's almost impossible to change people's behaviour, it's not too hard to fix the system so that only one to four passwords are actually needed. For example, you could get people to sign on to single service, and then ask other online services to consult that before letting you in. That way, you can safely use one password for 20 different accounts, because 19 of them don't know what the password is.This isn't a new idea, and it's how Hotmail has worked since the 1990s. You don't actually log on to Hotmail: you sign in to Microsoft's authentication service, known as Passport. That tells Hotmail to let you in, and it can and does do the same job for many other sites. (Actually, Passport has been replaced by Windows Live ID.)Although Passport was convenient, it had some major drawbacks. A lot of people were - rightly - unhappy about having their online identity on a centralised Microsoft server under Microsoft's proprietary control. A universal identity service ought to be open to all, and also widely distributed, so it did not have a single point of failure. Many years later, we are closer to getting what we want, thanks to Microsoft's InfoCard initiative and an open collaborative development called OpenID (openid.net). This lets you use a web address that you control to sign on to any site that uses OpenID. You could, perhaps, use the address of your blog at Wordpress, which has announced that it supports OpenID.Unfortunately, OpenID is vulnerable to phishing attacks, so it is hardly worth the effort. When a draft of OpenID Authentication 2.0 was published in January, Google security expert Ben Laurie immediately exposed its flaws, and Microsoft identity guru Kim Cameron illustrated Laurie's attack.But all is not lost. One of the editors of the OpenID draft approached Laurie to get him involved, and in February there was a joint announcement from Dick Hardt of Sxip Identity, Michael Graves from VeriSign, JanRain's Scott Kveton and Kim Cameron. This said that OpenID (JanRain and Sxip) will support InfoCards, Microsoft will support Open- ID, and Kim Cameron "will work with the OpenID community on authentication and anti-phishing."As a result, people will be able to use OpenID securely if they use it via InfoCard, which is a platform-independent metasystem capable of supporting any ID system. Vista users already have an implementation called Windows CardSpace, and XP users can download it. Others are becoming available. CardSpace allows you to hold a number of ID cards. You can create your own, or they can be issued by websites, clubs, banks, governments etc.At its annual Brainshare conference last week, Novell went even further, showing an open source, cross platform InfoCard Selector Service. In itsdemo, Novell used a Mac to log on to a shopping site with an InfoCard generated from an OpenID account, then picked up the same shopping cart from a Linux PC. Finally, the payment was made via Bluetooth using a credit card stored in the CardSpace on a mobile phone.It will be useful when InfoCard systems like this are widely implemented on different platforms. When you access a service by saying, in effect, "Here's my virtual card," then you won't have to remember a password at all.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
By Jove, I think I've cracked it. I think I've found the way to break through the geek stereotype that dogs the games industry. It's hot, it's topical and it screams "audience participation". Pay attention, Sony, this one's for free - Computer Game: The Musical.Before you scoff, hear me out. The thought struck me when I was idly listening to Elaine Page on Radio 2 while waiting to go to a ballroom dancing class. How, I thought, humming along to Masquerade from Phantom of the Opera, have I become this? What happened to the up-for-days, Radio 1-obsessed, rage against the machine, ennui-saturated emo kid I used to be?I blame the media. If the scores of Make Me A Musical SuperStar variety show TV programmes have affected me to the extent that I've laid down my indie girl NHS specs and my raver light sticks and picked up my tap shoes, surely there is a massive potential market out there begging for a totally integrated, fully interactive, utterly camp computer game that deals with the staples of the West End show: cheesy love songs, over-the-top kick lines and long flowing dresses. I promise you, if I've been turned, you can bet your bottom dollar there are thousands, nay, millions, who'll make this idea a hit.All the necessary technology is there: dance mats for the waltzes, guitars/drums for the orchestra, Wiimote for the conductor, MTV's Music Generator for young Andrew Lloyd Webbers, console cameras to capture choreography, microphones for the moments when you just have to break into song. Unfortunately, traditional musical fare doesn't feature as many explosions as your average computer game (a new niche?), but the good news is that their plots are just as flimsy. Simply swap rocket launchers for romantic stories, add some comic relief (preferably of the bawdy variety) and you're dancing.You could have spin-offs, like the management sim Musical Producer, where players try to balance the egos of the cast, control the vision of the director, manage the crew and get funding from the Arts Council. Or Rehearsal Boot Camp, where budding young starlets who don't quite make the grade can learn to sashay and sing.Using the internet connections of modern consoles, there could be meta-musical projects, where virtual directors could audition virtual talent and hire virtual set builders. Machinima movie makers could broadcast the shows, and publishers could cream a pretty penny off the top of soundtrack sales.Computer Game: The Musical is the ultimate killer app. And before I come up with another one, I'm off to practise my jazz hands.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you have a new baby, an offspring about to get married, or you're planning the holiday of a lifetime, then you could well be in the market for a camcorder. In which case, beware. They are now easy to use and provide an unbeatable way to capture precious memories. But the market is undergoing not one, but two transitions at once which raise the question of whether you will still be able to view your movies in 10 or 20 years' time.Depending on your age, you may have baby-on-the-lawn movies on 16mm, Standard 8mm, Single-8 or Super-8 film; on Betamovie, VHS or VHS-C videocassettes; or on Video8, Hi8 or Digital8 cassettes, to name but a few. In the movie market, format wars are pretty much endemic.Still, a couple of years ago the answer to "which format?" was simple: miniDV. However this popular tape-based format is now in decline. In a few years, the answer may be simple again, but as Ben Beasley, Sony's digital imaging product manager, points out, miniDV is being replaced by four competing digital storage formats, amidst a parallel shift from standard definition (SD) to high definition (HD) video, where two new systems aim to prevail.Competing formats"We're a step behind the TV market," says Beasley. As people move to high-definition flat-panel TV sets, high-definition Blu-ray and HD DVD movie players, and high-definition PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 games consoles, so they will want to move to high-definition camcorders.This will probably mean switching to one of the two HD formats that have been ratified for encoding movies on both high definition Blu-ray and HD DVD discs - AVC and VC-1 - instead of the MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 formats commonly used today.At the moment, AVC, which uses the super-efficient H.264 codec, looks like beating VC-1, which is a standardised version of Microsoft's Windows Media Video 9. But AVC HD camcorders are still on the bleeding edge. Beasley says Sony is hoping to do well with its HDR-UX3 and UX7 models, which record AVC HD on standard mini DVDs; but there's little if any software for editing AVC. That's one reason why JVC's hotly-anticipated hard disk drive (HDD) camcorder, the Everio GZ-HD7, still uses MPEG-2 for a full 1920 x 1080 image.Currently there are four main types of camcorder, depending on whether they store movies on miniDV tape, small format DVD discs, a built in hard disk drive (HDD), or Flash memory chips. Four types of camera times two definition standards gives you eight major options - not counting hybrids. Confusion between common abbreviations such as miniDV (small Digital Video tapes) and mini DVD (8cm discs), and between HD (hi-def) and HDD (hard disk drives) just makes things worse.Furthermore, the market is changing rapidly. Beasley says that "miniDV is fantastically successful and it's still used professionally, but mini DVD is now the largest part of the market". But it may not hold the crown for long. HDD camcorders had less than 10% market share last year and could reach 40% this year, reckons Beasely, as other companies follow JVC and Sony into the HDD market.Sony covers all of the options, but Neil Wilson, JVC's camcorder product manager, says JVC concluded years ago that the future belonged to "a media-less cost-free format" - one that stores movies digitally on a hard disk, not on tape or optical (DVD) disc. He says consumers have got the idea that physical storage formats such as cassette tapes, LPs, CDs, DVDs and 35mm films are being replaced by digital ones. "I can't see any major arguments for buying a tape-based machine now," he says.In the longer term, HDD camcorders could also be challenged by models that use memory cards, as Flash chip capacities increase while prices come down. Most current examples are small and simplified: they sell as convenience products. However the relatively high image compression often used might not produce results commensurate with their cost. Still, the imminent arrival of more sophisticated camcorders such as the high-definition Panasonic HDC-SD1, which uses compact 4GB SD cards, suggests this format could become another growth market.HDD and chip-based camcorders are, in one sense, a great boon. You no longer have to transfer a miniDV movie via a fast FireWire port in real time (so a full tape takes either 60 or 90 minutes to transfer) if you want to edit it before burning it to DVD. Instead, you can simply plug the camera or memory card into any PC via the USB port, where it will be recognised as a storage device.Getting the movie on to your hard drive is then just a matter of using the mouse to copy the file across. You can do simple editing and create playlists on the hard drive of an HDD camcorder, says Wilson, and JVC offers a ShareStation that allows some models to burn DVDs without using a PC. But it's not a good idea to carry around 20-odd hours of irreplaceable video with no PC backup. Camcorders get lost or stolen, and hard drives always fail eventually.Ease of editingOf course, not all camcorders need a PC. MiniDV models have analogue output ports so you can connect them to a TV set, and part of the appeal of mini DVD is that the discs will play immediately in most (though not all) DVD players. But mini DVD has drawbacks, too. The recording times may be limited to 20-30 minutes per disc, and there is not much scope for editing - unless you use a rewritable disc format.Also, the image quality is often lower than miniDV, because of the amount of compression used, though Peter Yabsley from Canon Europe, a leading mini DVD supplier, argues that "it's better than the quality of many TV broadcasts."And while Yabsley agrees mini DVD wins on convenience, he argues that miniDV still has a place, for quality, flexibility and ease of editing - "and if cash is a real issue, miniDV is still the way to go." Decent miniDV camcorders start at around &pound;200, although they run up to &pound;5,000-&pound;6,000 for the sort of Canon XL and XL2 systems used by pros.New technologies like AVC HD are attractive, but expensive; and prices will tumble with mass market adoption. It may make sense to buy a cheaper system for now, or wait until next year. Is it too late to cancel that Easter wedding?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Without political involvement, a campaign about government data hasn't got much chance. So it must count as important that we got an off-the-record meeting with the minister in charge of that data. Baroness Ashton (Catherine Ashton), of the Department for Constitutional Affairs (DCA), is responsible for policy on public sector information - the digital crown jewels which the Guardi an's Free Our Data campaign says should be liberated.We made our case, and her questioning led us to make some deductions about present government thinking.First, the DCA appears to see the re-use of public sector data on a continuum with its other government information responsibilities - overseeing freedom of information and the balance between data sharing and privacy. This is welcome. Free data is obviously a non-starter if we do not know what information government holds, so freedom of access is a vital first step.Privacy is also vital; we would certainly not want to see information identifying individual citizens made available. The DCA - rather than, say, the Treasury or the DTI - seems the right department to be making these judgments.Other questions raised familiar objections to the free data idea. One is how to assure the integrity of government data when it is re-used by third parties. While there are technical solutions such as encryption hashes, the answer may be that the government has to learn to let go. After all, in an era of free data, users and commercial competitors will always be able to make their own checks against the original. And free geospatial data could improve the accuracy of sketchmaps produced by bodies such as tourist authorities, perhaps even saving lives.Another familiar concern is how we get to free data from where we are today, when a number of government-owned bodies depend on sales of information and information products. To avoid jeopardising the quality of work by organisations such as Ordnance Survey, at least some of this income would need to be replaced by direct subsidy. We would like to see authoritative studies - new or existing - into how much this would cost, set against the gain to the national economy of making data as freely available as the Greenwich time signal.Our meeting with Lady Ashton was apparently part of a series to get the DCA up to speed on public sector information, which landed in the department's portfolio last November when the Office of Public Sector Information (OPSI) moved there from the Cabinet Office.The government must soon decide how to implement the EU Inspire directive, which requires it to make freely available certain types of data. More urgently, it will respond in May to the Office of Fair Trading's call for a more level playing field in public sector information.We'll be asking much more about this when we get our promised on-the-record interview. In the meantime, thanks for your time, minister.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's stuff that sneaks on to your PC and messes with it. At its least malevolent, badware infests your PC with popups and tracks your surfing details via an application that has crept on to your system without your knowledge or permission. At its worst, "badware" - an over-arching term for all sorts of spyware, adware, viruses and Trojan horse programs - is implicated in identity theft and credit card fraud.A group that's leading an initiative to fight badware isstopbadware.org, and they have support from industry big hitters including Lenovo, Google and Sun.One popular way that badware inveigles its way on to your machine is via a tiny bit of obfuscated Javascript on a web page. Ethan Zuckerman, a research fellow at Harvard Law School, details how a friend's site became a "badware" host onhis blog. The site was hacked and code added that inserts an "inline frame" into a page - embedding another web page just one pixel by one pixel large within the main page.The embedded page then tries to load a file from a site controlled by spammers which installs a rootkit and password sniffer and opens a backdoor into your computer so the bad guys can help themselves to your bank details.Zuckerman reckons blogs and wikis are being hacked via either guessing default passwords or unpatched software holes. But the biggest commercial sites are vulnerable too. AOL users last week found advertising on some pages infected: instead of the page they wanted, they were redirected to one advertising Winfixer, which claims to fix Trojans but is actually a vector for "scareware" - which aims to frighten the user into paying by way of endless popups. See the Spyware Sucks bloghere.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
As well as making an impassioned plea for more live music over the net at the recent SXSW music festival in Texas, The Who guitarist Pete Townshend announced his first foray into the world of software with the launch ofLifehouse Method. The music-creation software realises an idea from his long-running Lifehouse project.According to Townshend, it "takes data you input and turns that into music. I began thinking it might be possible to use software to do this about 20 years ago when I first got a Mac and software like M, Jam Factory and Music Mouse. These were programs that produced random music from limited data you put in."Townshend's excursion into software creation followed on from a conversation with the mathematician and composer Lawrence Ball and the software engineer Dave Snowdon, who made him aware that harmonic maths could facilitate the Lifehouse Method software he'd envisaged previously. Fine - but to what end?"There are a lot of possibilities," muses Townshend. "However, widely shared software tends to evolve through its use (or abuse) by the end user. Google transformed the entire web by creating a search engine that simply grades the listings to those most chosen by browsers."Wikipedia was an experiment in which end users could add lie after lie to a topic until someone came along and battled with them to establish the truth - or at least a compromise. The public define the way the software evolves and works. I hope the Method system will evolve. I like the idea of gathering data in new ways, of merging compositions with one another, but all guided by the Method community."Shuffle generationSuch evangelism for the digital realm is shared by other luminaries from the music world. Peter Gabriel's involvement in digitised music content is well documented, with his early dabblings in game-like CD-Roms such as Xplora (1994) and Eve (1997), and then the OD2 online musical distribution service he helped establish.Now Gabriel is taking further steps into software with his involvement inThe Filter, an intelligent playlist generator for the shuffle generation.It currently works with Apple's iTunes and Nokia mobile phones - it's a free download that claims it will get us to hear more of the often neglected music files that lie dormant in our ever-expanding digital archives."About five years ago I registered the name thefilter.com," says Gabriel, "because it seemed inevitable that as people had more access to information, data and media, the way they found stuff they wanted or needed would become increasingly sophisticated and important. So I encouraged some experiments with filtering within OD2, and the team who were designing it for us began a business of their own based around recommendation engines into which I was invited to participate."The current incarnation is the beginning of something which I think is really exciting. I can see today's 'disc jockey' evolving into tomorrow's 'life jockey', and of all the different approaches to recommendation engines, The Filter has the most human response."As a recording artist and head of a record label, Gabriel seems excited by the idea that developments such as The Filter can serve both equally well. "It enables people to find material that can surprise, inspire and excite," he says."The filtering process is not dictated by marketing dollars. Paid-for content has been the rock on which both the music and the film industries have been built. This rock is rapidly turning into quicksand and it seems to me that the future income streams are probably going to come as much from filtering and advertising, as from direct sale of content. I am hoping in our internet projects to make sure that musicians are not at the bottom of the pecking order."Trent Reznor, of Nine Inch Nails, is another champion of digital music and software advances that offer artists the chance to engage with audiences in new ways. During the band's current European tour, fans have been "finding" unprotected versions of tracks from the band's forthcoming album, Year Zero, on USB Flash drives left dotted around the stadium.The drives - and even the clothes the band wear - also contain images and links to cryptic websites. Reznor remains an unrepentant advocate of music files that are free from Digital Rights Management, seeing the USB drives as a convenient promotional vehicle."The USB drive was simply a mechanism of leaking the music and data we wanted out there," he explained. "The medium of the CD is outdated and irrelevant. It's really painfully obvious what people want - DRM-free music they can do what they want with. If the greedy record industry would embrace that concept I truly think people would pay for music and consume more of it."Remix downAn arguably more radical move was Reznor's release of individual tracks from the forthcoming album in files that anyone can edit and remix in music software such as Apple's GarageBand and Sony's ACID.To date, the tracks The Hand That Feeds, Only and Survivalism have been made available, but he intends to make the rest available on his website (nin.com/downloads) over the coming months. Reznor is philosophical about the influx of remixed versions of his new songs that get uploaded in return."I've always been open to the idea of letting people 'behind the scenes' with my music. What I love about GarageBand is the simplicity, elegance and price [free on Apple Macs]."When you boot up our file and hit the space bar, the track plays and it sounds like you know it. A few clicks later it's effortlessly transformed into whatever you dream up. It feels like a toy, but the results are as professional as you'd like."Any time a new technology becomes available to the masses it's a good thing. Recording studios used to be the domain of only the privileged or professional - now many have access to these tools allowing anyone to try their hand at it. As to what I'm looking to gain from doing this, I'm not really sure ... it just seemed like something I'd want as a fan. Of the many remixes and reconstructions that get made, some end up being truly great."Only time will tell if such disparate ideas about music - one for creating it, one for rediscovering it, one for making new versions of it - will become ensconced in our daily lives.But as Pete Townshend replied when asked what music software he uses: "Everything that is available. I try everything. As an old-fashioned musician who also loves technology I feel I have the best of both worlds - the most important thing is to keep an open mind, to inspiration and new ideas."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Hod Lipson would like you to make stuff at home rather than go shopping. As assistant professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at Cornell University, he reckons that home manufacturing will spearhead a revolution - one that is presently at the same stage, he thinks, as personal computing was 30 years ago, when obsessive hobbyists were soldering parts to make PCs. If he's proved right, even Apple iPods might one day be produced by a "fabber" sitting on your kitchen table.Creativity is a uniquely human trait, but Lipson is driven by the idea of allowing machines to do design and manufacturing for us. Several years ago, he worked on a theoretical project involving the automatic design of robotic lifeforms. But his computer program was far too clever."It came up with designs that we couldn't actually make. One of the things I wanted to do was create a machine that would eliminate these constraints," says Lipson.The fictional replicator used in Star Trek: The Next Generation makes everything from a glass of water to spare parts. In the real world, we have "rapid prototyping", a 20-year-old technology that can "print" objects from digital designs. Costing thousands of pounds, these 3D printers have movable nozzles which deposit quick-setting plastic in layers - ideal for making small parts or design mock ups.Fine detailsLipson has now created the Fab@Home machine for anyone to build for a cost of around &pound;1,170. His "fabber" uses off-the-shelf parts and was designed by Evan Malone, a PhD candidate in Lipson's computational synthesis laboratory. It's slower and lacks fine detail compared to commercial machines. But that's OK, Lipson explains: "Our goal in the Fab@Home project was to see if we can make a machine to handle multiple materials. I believe that making it accessible to many people will really bootstrap the potential of the technology."His plans are freely available at fabathome.org, which is getting 20,000 hits a day. By offering construction hints, ideas, and discussion groups, he's actively and openly encouraging participation. The Fab@Home is driven by programs that run on your computer - ideal for school, university, or hobby projects.So what has he made with his Fab@Home? Pushing the boundaries beyond simple shapes, Lipson has made a working battery, an electrically-activated polymer muscle and a touch sensor by printing different layers of material. His goal is to make a small robot with limbs, actuators, control circuitry and batteries.The possibilities are limited by what you can extrude from interchangeable cartridges - quick-hardening plastic is the favourite, but the machine can also handle and layer plaster, Play-Doh, silicone, wax and metals or mixtures with a low melting point such as solder (made of tin and lead). Some users have found chocolate, cheese and cake icing (which may also be used as a temporary soluble support material for hollow structures) rewarding too."I think the first application area will be toys," muses Lipson. "People would like to download and share action figures."The popularity of tabletop gaming figures like Warhammer might be enhanced with a fabber. You'd simply pay for the design on the internet and print it. And as the technology developed, creating and sharing your own designs might be possible, too. Either way, it'd be manufacturing at home rather than buying from the high street.A Fab@Home loaned by Lipson will be on view at London's Science Museum from May 22 to January 2009. Part of the Evolving Plastics exhibition to celebrate the centenary of Bakelite (the first fully manmade plastic), visitors will see the Fab@Home close-up and watch a time-lapse video of objects being made."Rapid manufacturing has profoundly massive implications for the way we make things. It changes everything, it changes the designs that you do," says Dr Richard Hague, who heads the rapid manufacturing research group at Loughborough University. He was very practical at school, enjoying the challenge of taking things to pieces and, mostly, putting them back together again. Following an uninspiring spell in the oil and gas industry, he then did a PhD in rapid prototyping and hasn't looked back.Sparking imaginationsIf you make a conventional part in manufacturing, you either machine away a block of material or form the part in a mould. And as any manufacturer will confirm, 'tooling up' is incredibly expensive. Rapid manufacturing techniques use digital data to make the part additively, laying down layers of material which do not need a mould - just like Lipson's Fab@Home. "It's extremely Heath Robinson but it's great and it will spark people's imaginations," says Hague.There are examples of additive manufacturing for consumer items that do away with moulds. Hague says that some in-the-ear hearing aids are made using a laser sintering process after scanning a wax impression of the ear canal. More exotic applications include components for jet fighters and racing cars."We are so locked into a conventional way of designing parts for manufacturing, it's difficult to change. This is quite a buzz area, and so it should be as it takes away the high labour cost," says Hague.Could a machine like the Fab@Home make copies of itself? Adrian Bowyer, senior lecturer in mechanical engineering at Bath University, is working on the RepRap - a practical self-copying 3D printer (reprap.org). His replicating rapid-prototyper also works by printing layers and has even made some of its own parts."Hod [Lipson] is trying to work with a wider range of materials than RepRap and, like we do, he is open sourcing everything. His idea is to have a machine that is very low cost, and is open, but that is sold in a conventional marketplace either whole or as a kit," says Bowyer.If these technologies take off, it may spark a new industrial revolution."In 1975, people were soldering together Altair 8800 computers - that's where RepRap and Fab@Home are now. The Apple II came out in 1977, the BBC Micro and IBM PC in 1981, and then the world was never the same," says Bowyer. "I think that within 10 years private individuals will be able to make for themselves virtually any manufactured product that is today sold by industry. I sometimes wonder if politicians realise that the entire basis of the human economy is about to undergo the biggest change since the invention of money."In that case, fabbing won't just break the mould - it will throw it away entirely.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Keeping Windows secureMy Norton subscription has now finished and I was very unhappy with the speed of my PC after installing it. I am therefore looking for a new security package that includes anti-spyware, anti-virus, a firewall etc. How many different defences are needed these days?Kevin O'DonnellJack Schofield replies:The first line of defence with a broadband connection should be a NAT ethernet router with a built-in firewall, and not a USB modem. For several years I have also recommended using Firefox and Thunderbird for web browsing and email, rather than Microsoft's Internet Explorer 6 and Outlook Express. However, if you are running Windows XP SP2 or Vista, IE7 seems to be much more secure, and I recommend the upgrade. Those are the basics.You should also use a software firewall, and Windows now has an adequate one built in. However, it's worth running something better, and at the moment I recommend and use the free Kerio Personal firewall, rescued by Sunbelt Software (sunbelt-software.com). Of the commercial firewalls, I like McAfee. As an experiment, I ran a Windows XP SP2 PC on the net 24/7 with no other protection, and only picked up one minor bit of malware in 15 months. (This is not a recommendation.) When it comes to installing extra software, my current preference is for Grisoft's AVG Anti-Virus and its separate anti-spyware program, which used to be called Ewido. The best alternatives seem to be Avast! and AOL's Active Virus Shield. This is a version of Kaspersky Lab's program that is free to everyone courtesy of AOL (activevirusshield.com). Both SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy and Microsoft's Windows Defender are worth a look, but neither seems to be as good as Ewido. Also, Webroot's SpySweeper is well recommended and reasonably priced, although I have not tried it for some years (webroot.com). Otherwise, rather than installing more software, you can run periodic checks using scanners from websites such as Trend's Housecall, Symantec and Webroot.The problem is that many rogue companies are now building serious businesses on Windows malware and other deceptive programs, and it's hard for the good guys to keep up. The latest buzzword is therefore Hips (host intrusion prevention system). The idea is to keep a constant watch on potentially malicious types of behaviour inside your PC, and give you the option to stop it. Hips can detect new malware and prevent so-called "zero day exploits" for which there is no other defence. It's not clear how effective this is going to be, but at the moment I'm trying Novatix's Cyberhawk Threat Hunter (novatix.com/cyberhawk). Cyberhawk Basic is free to home users.MP3 hi-fiIs there any way I can convert a pair of really good Wharfedale speakers to accommodate a Sony NW-A1200 MP3 player?Jef Jon FoxJS:An MP3 player is not going to have enough output to drive a pair of good loudspeakers unless they are "active loudspeakers" - which means they have their own built in amplifiers. Examples include the Wharfedale Active Diamond range, but there are lots more designed for use with portable music players. If you have to buy an amplifier to drive the Wharfedales, then the question becomes a familiar one: how do you connect an MP3 player to a hi-fi? In this case, the answer is simple. You just need to buy a connection lead that has a 3.5mm headphone jack on one end (to fit the MP3 player) and a pair of RCA phono plugs on the other end (to fit the amplifier) - check your systems first!You can use any line-in input on the amp, and often there's one called AUX for auxiliary. If not you can use the one intended for a CD or DVD player or a tape recorder. The input you can't use is the one intended for a turntable. You should be able to get a cheap cable on the high street, although there are some sold for that specific purpose.For example, Amazon.co.uk has a Hama Connection Cable MP3 for &pound;1.88, while Maplin sells the Groove Connect MP3 cable for &pound;9.99. Oddly enough, there is a cheap but well-reviewed Chinese-made amplifier that can run on batteries and has a 3.5mm input jack: the Sonic Impact T-Amp. If anyone has used this with an MP3 player, let us know how it works.Hotmail for a mobileIs there a way to get Hotmail on the email client that comes with the Sony Ericsson P990i - apart from flurry.com, which I don't trust 100%? I have managed to add my email on O2, Yahoo!, Gmail and my work email (on ActiveSync). I have had my Hotmail account since 2000 and I can access it in Outlook Express, so I would like to keep it.Andy MetalJS:Not as far as I know. You can collect Hotmail using a POP3 client only if you pay Microsoft for POP3 access, although this feature is still free with some "legacy accounts". I didn't realise that Flurry.com could handle Hotmail, but from the website, it doesn't look less trustworthy than similar options. The rival TricastMail (tricastmedia.com) does not support Hotmail yet, and still lists the P990 as a supported phone, rather than the P990i.File removerI recently downloaded some promotional software about the new Fiat 500 from the Fiat website. I used its delete option but then had to remove some remaining items using XP search. The programme's exe file cannot be removed: I get a message saying that access is denied.Mike CooperJS:Often you can delete files that will not be deleted by rebooting Windows in Safe Mode (see below). However, I use a small free utility from the Gibin Software House: GiPo@MoveOnBoot (gibinsoft.net/gipoutils/fileutil/). This will generally move, remove or rename files when you reboot your PC.End the BegintoMy firewall/anti-virus program, Zone Alarm, keeps warning that it has found Win32.Adware.Beginto.C. It's classed as a medium to low threat and ZA wants to either quarantine or destroy it. I am also running Spybot S&amp;D. A special Trojan search did not stop it from returning.Ralf KinsbergerJS:The Zone Alarm Suite should be able to remove Beginto.C, and if removal has not worked, try booting your PC into Safe Mode by pressing the F8 key while it is starting. If that does not work, the free AVG Anti-Spyware, formerly called Ewido, can deal with it. As always, you should run the program when you download it, run it again after rebooting, and perhaps run it again in Safe Mode. For best results, run it with no browser or other software loaded. However, note that Safe Mode will probably mess up the layout of your desktop icons, so if you are fussy about this, take a screen shot of your desktop first.Another processor hogThe Task Manager in Windows XP shows that tcpsvcs.exe uses 90-100% of my CPU. This slows my computer to an unusable degree. I have done everything I can with viruses, firewalls, hijack this etc and as far as I can tell my PC is clean.R H WrightJS:As its name suggests, tcpsvcs.exe is a Microsoft program that provides internet protocol (TCP/IP) networking services. Sometimes the same name is used by a piece of malware such as the old Backdoor.EggHead Trojan, but your checks should have eliminated this possibility. There's a discussion at File.net (file.net/process/tcpsvcs.exe.html) that suggests possible solutions.Backchat&middot;Last week, Peter Charlish asked about Net Nanny. Donald Hawthorn says: "My whole family uses a free program called K9 from Blue Coat Systems (getK9.com). My 11- and 13-year-old granddaughters have it on their machines blocking bad sites, and it even attempts to categorise new sites on the fly." The latest version also supports Windows Vista.&middot;Michael Groom from Cherry Keyboards says they now have a PS/2 and USB combi variant of its clicky keyboard, the G80-3000LSCGB-0, for &pound;52.99 (+P&amp;P). The L in the product code indicates laser-printed keycaps.&middot;Frank Hausman, an engineer at Amorphic Robot Works, says the old IBM keyboard legends were better because they used two-colour injection moulded plastic keys: "You could take a disk grinder to it, and it would still be legible."&middot;Peter Kenyon had problems with Adobe Reader. Linda Wallan and other readers suggested the free Foxit Reader 2.0 (foxitsoftware.com/pdf/rd_intro.php), which I've also mentioned before.
Microsoft hasofficially announcedthe Xbox 360 Elite model with "a 120GB hard drive, a high-definition multimedia interface (HDMI) port, a high-definition cable, and a premium black finish for the console, wireless controller and Xbox Live headset".But it doesn't have an HD DVD drive, and there's no mention of IPTV. The price is $479.99.Tina Woods has posteda video of the Eliteat Microsoft's 10 site, and Gizmodo hasan interview with Albert Penello, Director of Global Marketing for the Xbox 360. Most of this isn't very interesting, but there's a notable paragraph about Xbox Live. Penello says:Since we launched the service, there's been a 4x increase in Marketplace activity since Video Marketplace launched. People are spending about 40% of their time using the Xbox 360 for a lot of these entertainment-type experiences like music, movies and TV. So Marketplace has been a tremendous success, and something we're very excited about.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Newlaunches.com has published a list ofTop 10 Apple products which flopped, which is hardly a first but is certainly great link bait.All such lists are arguable, and this one has a couple of major flaws. For example, it misses the Apple III and the Cube (not to mention the original 1984 Mac, and the QuickTake camera line), but includes the Motorola ROKR phone. How does that make any sense at all?Taligent is on the list, but notKaleida Labs, which was another Apple-offshoot set up with IBM as part of the deal to use PowerPC processors.Other products that could be on the list are the Apple eMate (a version of the Newton, with keyboard, for education) and HyperCard, which delivered hypertext well before the Web. But it depends on your definiton of "flop". Both products failed to live up to expectations, but they weren't obvious clunkers like the Apple Portable, which was miles behind what was already available in the PC market. Indeed, I liked both of them quite a lot.
Leap back into the past if you've got a spare 90 minutes or so and hear Bill Gates, then a big proponent of this "DOS" stuff, talk about.. wwell, where everything was then.The links to the audio file are at at theUniversity of Waterloo's page: as it says, the talk was given in 1989 but was "only recently digitised". Be nice to them - grab theMP3 torrent download(hmm, bet that phrase will attract a few search engine hits..) rather than the direct one (it's kinder to their servers).Among the topics areThe start and history of the microcomputer industryMicrosoft BASIC and the Altair 880 computerThe transition from 8-bit to 16-bit computersMicrosoft's history with IBM640k memory barrier and 16-bit architectures32-bit 386 and 486 architecturesRISC and multi-processor machinesEGA graphics and WYSIWYG editorsDecreasing cost of memory, harddisks and hardware in generalThe importance and future of the mouseObject-oriented programmingMS-DOS and OS/2Multi-threaded and multi-application systemsSynchronization in multi-threaded applicationsDiskette-based softwareUNIX standardization and POSIXHistory of the Macintosh and Microsoft' involvementInvolvement of Xerox in graphical user interfacesApple vs. Microsoft lawsuit regarding user interfacesOS/2 future as a replacement for MS-DOSMicrosoft Office on MacintoshThin/dumb clientsCompact discsMultimedia applicationsGates' current role at MicrosoftThe sound quality isn't perfect, but think of it as a podcast from history.We're pretty sure, by the way, that the "640k memory barrier and 16-bit architecture" section won't include the infamous "640K should be enough for anybody" quote, principally because Gates never said it - he was far, far too good a programmer (and he was - is? - one of the very, very best, particularly with assembler) to think anyone could every be satisfied with that much.
Environmental awareness is growing all the time, but unfortunately for those of us who have a thing for technology, it isn't easy being green.When you've got a house, office and pocket full of energy-hungry gadgets, how on earth do you manage to make yourself less of a pain in the arse for the planet?The Treehugger blog has a selection ofreally good tipsif you're interested in: the basic guidelines seem to fall under research (buy well), recycle (batteries, phones, anything you can) and restrict (cut down your phantom consumption).Being green with electronics doesn't mean living in a teepee listening to truckers squalk on the old short-wave. Greening your electronics is a matter of knowing what tech to get, how to use it best, and what to do with it when its useful life is done. Many of these best practices aren't things you'll read in the instruction manual, either.Worth a read.
Xbox 360 Elite - the upgraded Xbox360 - has been confirmed for a US launch on April 29th. The new black console - $479 or $80 more than the current system - will have a 120GB hard drive and a built-in HDMI port and comes complete with black accessories and an HDMI cable. HD-DVD playback will still need the add-on player though. Happy with a component cable for your HD TV or - gasp - still using an old school standard def set? Then you can buy the hard drive separately - $179 - and transfer all your data over with supplied cables. No news yet on European details, but you can expect Elite to be available well before Christmas.So what does this all mean? Clearly Microsoft are responding to the PS3 and the knowledge that HD TV sales are rocketing. Lack of HDMI gives a perception that the 360 is technologically backward compared to PS3. The larger hard drive will be useful for downloading movies and TV from Live marketplace - the Euro service should start late this year - and hopefully the console will run quieter than it does now. A bit more hardware reliability would be nice too. But with no built in HD-DVD or wireless it still doesn't compete directly with the PS3. What it will do is confuse users, at least until the current top-end system is phased out.In reality though Microsoft had no choice - HDMI etc may not be crucial now but come 2009 it will be. The 360 has an excellent online service and far better games than currently available on the PS3, but clearly isn't as technologically "future-proofed" as Sony's console. Elite rectifies some of this and will extend the 360's longer-term lifespan in the marketplace. But those of you who have just bought a 360 may feel a little aggrieved. How do you feel about the new Xbox and will it stop you buying a PS3?
