Access to the internet over high-speed networks has become the main sticking point to the proposed merger between AOL and Time Warner in America.US regulators, spurred by consumer groups, believe that a combination of the dominant cable company with the world's largest internet service provider could exert too much power over the next generation of services. The competition watchdog, the federal trade commission, is concerned that the high-speed cable systems that Time Warner is rolling out across the US, covering 20% of the population, will only be available to AOL users.It was concern by AOL that it would be shut out of high-speed, broadband internet services that led it to advocate "open access" to cable systems - before it decided to buy Time Warner   to ensure its access to such services.These concessions are expected to include allowing competitors access to Time Warner's cable lines. The regulator is understood to be looking at AOL's 2% stake in the Hughes satellite company, worth an estimated $1.5bn, and Time Warner Entertainment's relationship with AT&amp;T, the telecommunications group.Consumer advocacy   groups believe that neither of these concessions would solve the conflicts of interest at the heart of the merger.Jamie Love, director of the consumer project at the Centre for Technology, believes that the merger should be blocked: "AOL used to be the biggest advocate of open access but now it's joining the cable cartel. These companies are merging to avoid competition."
BT Cellnet, the second largest mobile phone network in Britain, yesterday named a former regional boss at the cellular business of US telecoms group Sprint as managing director.David McGlade joins the company at the beginning of next month. He could find himself leading the flotation of the business to appease increasingly frustrated shareholders in parent company British Telecom.He will fill the gap left by Peter Erskine who was recently given overall responsibility for BT's mobile assets worldwide.Mr McGlade, 39, is understood to have been favoured for his experience in the development of wireless internet services.Following his time at Sprint Mr McGlade was chief executive and co-founder of Pure Matrix, a Colorado-based software company providing platforms for mobile internet services.He has also worked for a company involved in interactive television, experience which should be useful for the development of next-generation services. BT won a UMTS licence in the recent government auction.BT Cellnet has consistently underperformed its chief rival, Vodafone, but analysts have taken some comfort in a recent improvement in revenues. Sir Peter Bonfield, BT chief executive, recently set the onerous target of doubling profitability by the end of this year.BT's increasing debt burden has heightened speculation that various parts of the business will be floated off to raise cash as well as realising value for shareholders.BT has already announced plans to float part of its directory service business, Yell, later this year.The company's board is expected to announce a timetable by January for the partial sale of other subsidiaries including OpenWorld and Concert, its joint venture with AT&amp;T.
Clickmango, the natural health website fronted by actress Joanna Lumley, said yesterday that 11th-hour attempts to find a backer willing to keep the business going had failed.The closure of what had been one of the more high profile internet operations will deepen the gloom surrounding the business-to-consumer online sector. The firm is understood to have been holding discussions in the past few weeks with a number of potential investors including one of the four big supermarket chains but was unable to agree a deal.Clickmango was founded a year ago and became a metaphor for the mania which swept the internet business last summer. Founders Robert Norton, a former Reuters journalist, and Toby Rowland, son of the late tycoon Tiny Rowland, famously raised £3m in just eight days after their first City presentation.Mr Norton yesterday maintained that he was still a "fierce believer" in the internet as a medium for commerce and said Clickmango had been the victim of poor timing."The perceived exit opportunities for investors in e-tailers are definitely down on what they were a year ago and that makes it very difficult in the fundraising market. It is very sad. We were ahead of all our targets but we've been unlucky with our timing and there has to come a point where you draw a line and say you've come as far as you can."The two were at pains to stress that they had taken the decision to close while still able to pay staff and creditors rather than allowing the business to collapse. "The Boo fiasco did no one any good and it's important that we are doing this in an orderly manner," Mr Norton said. "There will be no staff wandering out with computers."Clickmango announced its intention to close at the beginning of August but said a week later that negotiations were taking place which might lead to the rescue of the business. The site will now be taken offline on Tuesday and its office, which was staffed by 18 people, will close at the end of the month.Atlas Venture, which last September provided the bulk of the £3m start-up cash, was unwilling to provide further funds. Boo.com was by far the most high-profile dot.com failure so far when it collapsed after eating up a reported £80m of funding.
Governments on both sides of the Atlantic are to extract concessions from America Online, the internet service company, and Time Warner, the media group, in an attempt to ensure that their groundbreaking merger does not harm internet competition.The federal trade commission in Washington is understood to be prepared to block the $130bn (&#163;88bn) deal unless agreement is reached over the next few weeks. At the heart of the US concerns is access to broadband internet services provided over cable lines. Time Warner controls cable access to about 20% of all US homes and regulators fear that this will favour AOL services over all others. The FTC is understood to be seeking guarantees that the cable lines will be open to competitors in several markets.Meanwhile, regulatory authorities in Europe have voiced concerns that the deal would create a company with a near stranglehold on the delivery of music over the internet.In the US, analysts expect the cable industry to become increasingly important as broadband, or high-speed access to the internet takes off. Cable companies are competing against telephone and satellite firms for this burgeoning business.The FTC is understood to have rejected the promises made by both companies on this issue at congressional hearings. However, negotiations are understood to be at an early stage because no recommendation has yet been made to the director in charge of competition at the FTC.Kathy McKiernan, a spokeswoman for AOL, said yesterday that the company still expected the merger, which was announced in January, to be completed this autumn. "AOL and Time Warner are fully committed to open access and no one has done more to advance that cause," she added. "Our conversations with the agencies reviewing our merger are proceeding well and have been constructive."Senior executives of both companies will also attend private hearings with the European commission's competition division today in order ease fears about the   impact of the merger on Europe's online music industry.The EC told the companies last month that the deal "would create a dominant position in the markets for online music delivery, music software, internet dial-up access, broadband internet access and integrated broadband content" which would "significantly impede" competition.One solution which the EC is thought to be considering is the idea of forcing the two to offer rivals access to their content library and their proprietary technology for downloading music from the internet.The EC is equally unhappy about Warner Music's proposed tie-up with EMI which it fears would create a dangerously powerful group.Shares in AOL edged down to $56.31 yesterday while shares in Time Warner fell more than $3 to less than $81.But Henry Blodget, analyst at Merrill Lynch, said he did not expect any conditions "to impact the financial performance" of the companies.
Alex Allan, the government's e-envoy, is to leave his post for family reasons, it was announced today.Mr Allan, who runs a unit within the cabinet office to promote Britain's e-commerce credentials, will step down at the beginning of October.A cabinet office statement said the envoy's reasons for leaving were "purely personal". It added that Mr Allan's wife has been ill and that he wished to spend time with her in Australia.Mr Allan said he was sorry to be standing down. "I have found the job hugely stimulating and it has not been an easy decision."He continued: "I am sure my team and my successor will carry the government's programme forward with vigour, backed by the clear commitment shown at all levels of government."
CityReach International yesterday underlined burgeoning investor interest in secure internet exchanges, the bunkers that provide a secure environment in which to house the networking and telecoms equipment that drives the web, by announcing a &#163;100m fundraising.The warehouse style units are the internet revolution's equivalent of the dark satanic mills of the industrial revolution - and investors cannot get enough of them.CityReach's latest investment round was led by Investcorp and included the billionaire Microsoft co-founder, Paul Allen's Vulcan Ventures. The British firm has raised around &#163;190m since July and a flotation is likely to follow by next spring.CityReach is operating in one of the fastest growing internet spaces. Goldman Sachs estimates that the European market for co-location and basic support services will reach $6.7bn (&#163;4.6bn) by 2005. Web   hosting will be worth a further $16.1bn.Inevitably several internet exchange - or "internet hotel" - firms are battling to build the biggest and best centres in Europe's leading cities.It is a race already well under way in the United States and one that has helped transform the likes of Exodus into a $27.3bn concern in four years.By the end of 2001, CityReach plans to have 20 centres up and running in cities including London, Amsterdam, Berlin, Stockholm, Paris and Hamburg. Telecity, which is valued at &#163;1.6bn after an IPO on the London Stock Exchange in June, is already running nine and has signed leases on properties in Paris, Munich, Brussels and Barcelona. Goldman reckons Telecity will have revenue of &#163;624m by 2005.Demand for data centre services is being driven by several factors. European internet growth is accelerating as the cost of bandwidth falls, more people and businesses come online and the European telecoms market is liberalised.CityReach takes a "modular" and almost militaristic approach to construction, containerising its generators and air conditioning units at an off-site location in the Netherlands and simply dropping them into place by crane. A 150,000sq ft facility can be built from scratch in six months for around &#163;20m.Visitors to CityReach's internet hotel on the outskirts of Schipol airport in Amsterdam face a daunting check-in at reception. Passport identification is needed, cars are searched for bombs and visitors must pass through metal detectors. Inside, CCTV cameras cover every angle and infrared alarms are triggered if a ceiling or floor tile is moved.Security has to be high: CityReach guarantees customers that their servers will be active 99.9999% of the time. "If the servers are down for more than eight minutes in any one year customers are entitled to claim some of their money back," said its chief financial officer, James Lewisohn.The race to build exchanges could, however, be stalled by a lack of power, Mr Lewisohn warned. Each server consumes large quantities of electricity and has to be constantly cooled by chilled water systems.Mr Lewisohn said that Britain could miss out on hundreds of millions of pounds of new economy investment if power firms did not themselves reverse years of underinvestment in generating capacity."The internet has been a toytown in the first few years of its genesis. Unless we can guarantee the internet won't fall over and connections are constant, like telephones, it will be just like CB radio."
A website dedicated to wealthy Londoners with up to &#163;11,000 a week to spend on renting accommodation opened for business yesterday, claiming its service will make upmarket houses and flats cheaper and easier to find.Globalresident.com, set up by two former bankers, has targeted the financial community in search of accommodation in Central London.Properties available on the website range from &#163;11,000 a week for Mayfair apartments   to &#163;150 a week, for something a little less salubrious.The company was set up after co-founder Sumir Bhardwaj had problems finding somewhere for his family to move to in central London."Everyone who is renting can relate to the fact that there are real inefficiencies in the market, there's a business problem that needs to be fixed," he said.The company claims it overcomes problems of slow searching and scant choice faced by other such sites.The system allows users to   perform fast detailed searches and arrange viewings through its web-based messaging system, the company said.The site provides photographs of properties and brief details of facilities provided.Mr Bhardwaj and co-founder Jason Kushner left jobs at investment bank Merrill Lynch at the end of February and believe their business is unique because it focuses on rental properties in London."We are going to have one of the largest selection of quality rental properties in London.   You can come to the site when you are sitting at home or in the office, do a very quick search and get a great selection of properties", Mr Bhardwaj said.He believes the company will be profitable in a year because of its lean and cost-conscious approach, although he declined to specify the business's rate of cash burn.The aim is to make 60% of income from commission on properties let, with 30% coming from its recommended service providers and 10% from advertising revenue.
Scoot, the internet directory firm, yesterday played down speculation that it is about to be bought by Vivendi but indicated that the French conglomerate was prepared to use its financial firepower to back future acquisitions.The carefully worded statement to the stock exchange followed weekend talk of a &#163;1.7bn Vivendi bid and a subsequent 63% surge in Scoot's share price yesterday morning.The statement said that although talks between the two parties about a variety of ventures "may result in an increase in Vivendi's equity interest in Scoot, there has been no suggestion to date that Vivendi wishes to make an offer for the whole of the issued share capital of Scoot".At the end of July Vivendi increased its shareholding in Scoot from 11.5% to 22.4% and analysts have speculated the French company will soon take over the Oxfordshire-based firm.Although yesterday's statement dampened takeover talk, Scoot shares closed up 21% at 152p after it said it was "actively pursuing a wide range of opportunities that can further accelerate the roll-out of Scoot services across Europe". Opportunities include strategic alliances, acquisitions and "other trading arrangements".Analysts interpreted the statement as Scoot saying that if it wants to take over any rivals it will be able to turn to Vivendi for financial support, rather than having to depend on stock markets which have recently been shaken by the technology stocks sell-off.Vivendi backed Scoot's &#163;178m acquisition of Loot, the classified advertising group, by subscribing for new shares at up to 250p each.The apparent strengthening of the Vivendi relationship has prompted speculation that the French group might seek to merge its Comareg local newspaper group with Scoot and take its stake to 29.9%, the maximum allowed before it has to make a full bid."Vivendi sees Scoot as a way of leveraging its media assets in France," said Nick Bubb, internet analyst at SG Securities.Scoot also appears to have a bright future in Vizzavi, the internet portal being developed by Vivendi and Vodafone. Scoot already has agreements with Vodafone.Robert Bonnier, chief executive of Scoot, has faced criticism from the City following several re-inventions of its business model. However, people close to the company believe he has now cemented a solid relationship with Vivendi, which buys into his ethos of connecting buyers with sellers. Under his stewardship the shares climbed to 374p before the sell-off in technology stocks.Last week it said that subscriber numbers were rising and it was likely to reach positive cash flow earlier than expected.However, new versions of its service have not been without technical problems and a fall in revenues has been attributed to that. Operating losses for the first nine months of the year rose 56% to &#163;16.6m as revenues fell 38% to &#163;8.2m.Mr Bonnier believes Scoot's full potential will only be realised when the next generation of mobile phones are introduced and it makes a series of location-based mobile internet products available.Users visiting a city for the first time will be able to dial up for details of a local restaurant, book a table and then be directed to the venue using a route planner sent straight to mobile phones.
Next month, the UK's first women's portal will celebrate its first birthday. For the publishers ofHandbagand its peers-in-combatiCircle,Charlotte StreetandBeme, the past 12 months have amounted to a costly and nerve-wracking experiment. Valuable lessons about this fledgling market have been learned, but huge cash piles have been used up, and there has already been one loser.On top of the growing pains, the imminent arrival of two powerful US players into the UK later this year -iVillage, backed by Tesco, and Hearst-owneduk.women.comunder the aegis of NatMags - has forced British publishers to reassess who their audience is and where their real revenue is coming from. E-commerce has not experienced the growth that was projected in the last year, and start-ups like the Ready2 network, founded by journalists Susannah Constantine and Trinny Woodall, have been forced to cut their operations back. The Americans, boasting five years of experience over their competitors, regard the British market as underdeveloped - in other words, it had better grow up fast.The replacement of Charlotte Street's launch editor Nicola Davenport by Maria Trkulja, head of marketing at e-retailer Zoom, was the first sign that Associated News and Media's site was having an identity crisis. No one was surprised by the announcement last month that it was planning a complete overhaul of the brand (it has been lagging behind its competitors who all claim around 200,000 unique users a month). The interesting part was that it was being repositioned to a tighter "middle youth" niche of 29 to 45-year-olds, targeting Associated's more established readerships and drawing on You magazine, Femail and the Evening Standard for content.There was palpable surprise, however, when Hilary Burden, Beme's very capable launch editor, was asked to go. Burden commented at the time: "We have all our advertising booked up and we are the envy of our competitors, but the lack of e-commerce will be the death of the women's portal." The appointment of a new commercial director, Sarah Fitzgerald, before a new editor, shows where IPC's priorities lie.The lessons (which the analysts   have been predicting for some time) are plain for all to see: women's portals have been too general in their offerings, failing to distinguish themselves sufficiently from each other and too slow to develop their commerce strategies. "Lack of clear commerce strategies is a big failure at the moment," says Rebecca Ulph of Forrester Research. "Publishing companies are used to thinking of advertising as their main revenue, but e-commerce is the only way forward."Without online transactions, the current UK model, with overbearing editorial and marketing costs, is unsustainable. "It's still too early to tell whether UK women's portals will prove commercially successful - they've all had such limited lifespans," says Hilary Burden.The invaders have timed their entry into the marketplace well, striking when the herd is turning and the weaklings are starting to reveal themselves. "They're getting to know the beast before attacking," says Burden.So could the Americans beat the Brits on their own turf? "There is just no way that six generic sites could possibly survive side by side - only the fittest will survive," says Ulph, pointing to the US market where only two players (iVillage and Women.com) dominate the field. She suspects only two of the current UK players will survive. While Beme and Charlotte Street appear to be consolidating their audience in niche areas, Hollinger and Boots-backed Handbag (still the market leader with 200,000 unique users a month and 55% recognition) and iCircle are sticking belligerently to a "no change" policy and will be going head to head with the Americans.The restructuring at Charlotte Street is not surrender but a case of adapt and survive, insists its management. Kevin Beatty, chief operating officer at Associated New Media, declares that they are "totally committed to this market as demonstrated by the significant resources   and investment we are making in improving this part of our network."Charlotte Street's main concerns are the same as its rivals. "The market up to this point has been immature," says Beatty. "Our challenge is to attract and retain the right audience in order that our women's portal becomes a powerful medium through which to advertise goods and services."He dismisses rumours that You.co.uk will be replacing the beleaguered women's site, but confirms that they are planning a wholesale re-branding (they are consulting externally on the name), which will be targeting a woman of a "certain attitude": namely smart, at a professional level in her job, probably in a relationship, maybe with kids, who has "some knowledge of the web or is about to adopt it." The Charlotte Street site will be part of the new offering.As for Beme - which has already firmly aligned itself with the 18 to 35-year-old market through its co-branding with the popular drama Ally McBeal - managing director Linda Lancaster-Gaye confirms: "It is too early to start defining the market, but we are getting more feedback from the users and from that we are developing our commercial strategy."How big a threat do the Americans represent? In terms of groundbreaking creative editorial, the Brits don't have much to worry about, but in depth of content, services and tools, and sheer financial muscle the newcomers tower over them.iVillage has 190,000 pages of editorial content, a virtual hypermarket of useful information, "expert" advice, discussion groups and community chat - everything from your son's acne to the price of Amazon shares - aggregated according to "life stage". It already has 160,000 registered users in this country, a base it hopes to build on with $18m (&#163;12m) put aside by Tesco into the launch, with a further $25m for marketing. Women.com, which has a broadly similar offering, is notching up 7.6m unique users a month in the US.The attitude of the newcomers seems sublimely confident but rather vague. uk.women.com, which calls itself a "destination site" not a portal, plans to become "a market leader". "We have an open-minded attitude: any way it's appropriate, any way it works. We have a good set of skills and have been around the block," says MD Lisa   Riley. "We have a portfolio of magazine brands &#91;at NatMags&#93; to choose from and we will cherry pick the best." In terms of personality, there will be an "even tone" and "focused attitude", but she is not giving anything away.In response to the stock criticism that cultural differences will present a serious barrier to entry, Riley says: "We are not going to foist the American content on this market, but we're using it to inform what works for audiences. The real reason for coming to us is that we are content rich." While the others are busy bolstering their commerce offering, uk.women "won't try to force shopping." With ready-made commerce partnerships, however, it won't have to try as hard.Distancing itself from other portals, Handbag has started calling itself a "mass-market site" (the difference being that it commissions its own articles and produces content in-house) but it's a frivolous distinction. Market ing directorAlicen Stenner claims the Handbag formula is working. More tools are promised, more experts, more interaction and community, and no change to editorial policy.iCircle likewise is sticking to its 25-35 target age range and "all inclusive voice" covering issues under subject headings, similar to the American prototype. MD Deborah Sherry believes the site's distribution via Freeserve, which enables the highest reach (1.9m compared to Handbag's 1.5m) and low marketing spend gives   it the edge over Handbag, and confirms it will be "redoubling efforts" to improve e-commerce.Beneath the veneer of corporate civility - "Handbag welcomes newcomers for the PR it brings us"; iCircle thinks "it makes the marketplace more exciting" - the Brits are battening down the hatches and preparing for battle.The glittering prize is a sizeable chunk of the fastest-growing market on the internet. There are now around 5m women regularly using the internet and around 28% use it to shop (an increase of almost a third in a year). With women affecting most of the buying decisions in the household, the predictions for commerce in the future look very tempting indeed. "There is still an enormous opportunity because no one has got the magic formula right yet," says Ulph. "If the UK publishers don't get it right in the next few months they will be too late."
Today marks the beginning of broadband Britain. After much waiting, BT has announced that service providers such as Freeserve, Demon and BT Openworld can provide high-speed internet services over existing BT phonelines using a technology called ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line).Although the service will not at first be available to every part of the country, more than 7m homes and businesses will have access from this week. BT promises that the majority of Britain will be broadband capable by the end of 2001.We have all experienced difficulties in connecting to the internet and the world wide wait as pages take an age to download. ADSL technology promises faster internet access, "always-on" connectivity (much like your PC connection at work) and access to richer content and upgraded services such as short films, music videos and faster software downloads. It sounds like a revolution for the internet.Perhaps it is a revolution, but it won't happen overnight. At &#163;40 per month, the initial price of ADSL at home will still be beyond regular internet users. Pricing will come down as, from mid-2001, other telephone companies are allowed to compete with BT in supplying wholesale ADSL services to companies like Freeserve. Today BT is the sole provider. We need to see the price fall to between &#163;20 and &#163;30 a month before it finds a mass market.Freeserve's own high-speed internet service, FreeservePlus, has been in development for over a year. We launched a business service in early July, delivering low-cost access to small businesses that can't afford the cost of leased lines. The package includes access to Clearlybusiness.com, a small business portal provided by Freeserve and Barclays Bank. With domestic users, our aim is to build a large audience using this "fat pipe" into the home to experience the internet as it should be: a convenient and fast tool for communication, information and entertainment.The power of high-speed internet will be realised as content providers old and new start to enhance their sites and content. Since February, Freeserve has been building a showcase portal to demonstrate the capability of ADSL. The portal aggregates some of the best broad band content around from both old and new media. Among others, the portal offers news from ITN, music from Virgin Records, Music Choice, Peoplesound and Darkerthanblue, entertainment from Mentorn Barraclough Carey and Streets Online, and games from Gameplay. This portal will truly come of age when the broadband audience can produce healthy advertising and commerce revenues to support the cost of producing rich content.This new breed of content provider brings together the strengths of traditional and new media: strong, rich and creative production values combined with a more forward-thinking approach to business models. This will offer CD-quality music playlists with the ability to buy the CD being played. TV programmes will be remixed in to a format that is compatible with the "lean forward" PC experience. Adding advertising within content such as a preroll ad before a music video - the advertising banner may finally be put to rest.But this evolution doesn't come about without its problems. Copyright issues abound. Cutting up existing TV programmes, digging out short films from the archive or broadcasting music affects the copyright owners. I have been urging producers to hold on to their rights. To reuse or rebroadcast material that has been played out before on the main terrestrial channels usually means that at least some of the rights lie with the broadcaster. A good broadcaster would then want to use this content for its own gain. Even the largest production companies fall foul of the traditional commissioning practices of the broadcasters.Freeserve has embraced this problem area by working with companies who own their own rights and by trying to educate the new producers about the importance of ownership. However, rights ownership comes with a price. Traditional TV commissioning takes the risk out of content creation: upfront funding of the production by the broadcaster means a small company gets a guaranteed return on its investment. In the new media world, payment from an internet portal is usually a share of revenue earned from advertising and commerce. A shared risk model, then, but the rights stay with the creator.Our vision would see production companies seeking partnerships and distribution for their properties with new media companies before seeking distribution from broadcasters. This will enable productions to be created and optimised for both the new media and traditional media spaces from the very beginning. The development costs can be spread across multiple distribution platforms enabling the production company to be in a better position to keep its rights.&#149; Peter Cowley is director of broadband and television at Freeserve.Peter.cowley@freeserve.com
It was the hottest new media story of the summer: how AltaVista, one of the biggest names on the internet, was forced into a humiliating retreat and the resignation of its managing director in Europe. The story made headlines in all national newspapers and the BBC's news bulletins. But it was broken in a pokey office above a Turkish restaurant off Regent Street, home to the Register, one of the most significant British internet success stories you've probably never heard of.The AltaVista saga, which saw the US-based company confess that its much-hyped unlimited internet access offer in the UK was an empty promise, was just the latest and most high-profile example of how web-based news services are setting the mainstream news agenda."We have broken a lot of good stories, but most of them have been quite technical, which means a lot to a small set of people," says Linus Birtles, a former computer magazine publisher who was one of the Register's founders and is now its managing director. "But AltaVista, that was the big one."One thing that sets the Register (www.theregister.co.uk) apart is that it has succeeded in an arena dominated by technology news sites from the US. The other - and the most surprising to those readers who know next to nothing about computers - is that it is wildly satirical, perhaps the closest thing to Private Eye on the internet.Even its motto, "Biting the hand that feeds IT" puns on the website's no-holds-barred approach to its main subject matter, the information technology sector. Wedged between serious stories about computing giants such as Intel and Microsoft are "exclusive extracts" from Andrew Morton's book about Posh Spice and David Beckham. The site also carries the Register's "tariff" - a guide to how much and in what circumstances its journalists can be bribed. Prices range from £500 to attend a press conference, £15,000 to remove any story, and up to £50,000 to expose the mole within a company who leaked a news story."I was a keen Private Eye reader, and that's exactly why I got involved with this," says Birtles, as staff behind him take pictures of each other eating bananas for a parody of Anthea Turner's chocolate bar-sponsored wedding photo. Within minutes the parody was published on the website: "We did manage to get the Costa Rican Banana Marketing Board to rush two of their finest bananas right round and took this exclusive shot for an undisclosed two-figure sum," it crowed. "Proof that, once again, we are unafraid of bad publicity and are, in fact, media whores."Its mix of hard news and gags enables the Register to take risks on news stories that other organisations wouldn't be able to pull off. The AltaVista story, for example, broke after the site's internet editor, Tim Richardson, ran a mock "lonely hearts" ad looking for users of AltaVista's unmetered internet provider, which the company assured him was up and running."It was a hunch, things just didn't add up," says Richardson. "I expected to look stupid, but when I got in the next day there wasn't one reply. And I thought, 'here we go'."  Richardson and the Register then hounded AltaVista for two weeks, before the company finally broke down and admitted that the service, which had been heralded by Tony Blair in March when it was first announced, didn't exist. A few days later Andy Mitchell, head of the company's European operation, resigned.What started as a typical tale of an internet start-up (a meeting in a pub) by Birtles and three computer industry journalists led by 1998 to a specialist news service covering the IT sector. Two years later and the staff has grown to 14 full-time journalists.The site's scope has also expanded to include all aspects of the new economy. Each month, 10m pages are being read by 750,000 individuals ("unique users", in the trade jargon) according to independent audits, although Birtles says the site has spent "zero pounds" on marketing. That has pushed the Register into the top 20 most popular UK internet sites, and its readership has widened outside the IT sector.Half of its readers come from the US where the site has a solid following. Not surprisingly, the US is where Birtles is looking for the news service to expand. At the moment the company makes a loss, which is covered by Birtles (who sold cod in Liverpool before launching a computer trade magazine) and another private investor."We have revenue from two areas: advertising, and we make money selling our editorial as news feeds to people like Microsoft, Dun &amp; Bradstreet and Trinity Mirror," says Birtles. Content is also being carried on websites such as Yahoo! and the advertisers are a blue-chip bunch: Microsoft, IBM and Intel, a slight surprise given the heavy criticism those companies regularly receive at the hands of the Register."Our only downside is that we don't get ads from outside the UK," says Birtles, who has been frustrated in his attempts to tap into the lucrative market in the US.While the Register looks across the Atlantic, some major competition is coming in the other direction. IT and new economy sites such as ZDnet are already well established in the UK, and there is competition within Europe from VNUnet and the venture capital-backed start-up Silicon.com. But the latest arrival is the business-orientated Industry Standard, the San Francisco-based publishers of thestandard.com website and the highly successful Industry Standard weekly magazine, an unusual example of a print publication based on a website, rather than the other way around.The Standard has recruited more than 30 journalists for its London office, and this week moves into  offices in now-fashionable Southwark in preparation for the European website (www.thestandardeurope.com) going fully live in early October, and the debut issue of its weekly European edition on October 16. According to Neil Thackary, its chief executive in Europe, the competition on this side of the Atlantic is more likely to be magazines like the Economist than existing new media offerings.The Standard's target audience includes the dot.com and IT sectors that the Register follows, but it is looking for readers in what Thackary calls the "brick and click" area, established businesses expanding on to the web, as well as the investment, venture capital and consultancy industries that have sprung up to service the online sector. He estimates a potential market of half a million readers in the UK, but optimistically expects the magazine to sell "in the tens of thousands" once established, with a £1.95 news-stand price and around 100 pages an issue.Mike Parsons, who has returned home to be the Standard's editorial director in London, says there is a difference in tone between the print side and the web side of the publications. "It's more an 'in' audience. It likes gossip," he says. "It's more playful in tone."Parsons admits to missing the wit of British tabloids while working in the US, but thinks the UK business market is ill-served by mainstream newspapers: "People are used to a very caustic and hostile business press. I think they are not used to a well-informed one."Meanwhile, above the Turkish restaurant near Regent Street, the Register is busy savaging Abbey National's online banking service for withdrawing its customers' cash cards when they failed to work: "Another internet bank, another bleedin' cock-up." Caustic and hostile it may be, but it did for AltaVista.
Oh dear. I thought I was going to be trying out the  new Nissan Micra. What? This is the new Nissan Micra? But it looks just like old Nissan Micra. Tall and narrow with big windows - quite modern-looking back in 1993 when it   first appeared on our streets. But not any more. It's more like a kid's drawing of a car than a real car now.The new Nissan Micra is, in fact, the old Nissan Micra with a bit of a facelift. There will be a properly new one in 2002. They say they've made some styling alterations to give it a   lower, wider look, but you could stare at this car all day and the words low and wide just wouldn't come to mind. This is definitely a tall, narrow car, just as it always has been. Nothing wrong with that, of course. It's just that the fashion seems to be going the other way. The Audi A3, for example, one of the cutest little cars around, is definitely low and wide.Still, you can't knock the Micra. It's won a ton of awards: European Car of the Year in 1993, What Car's best supermini in 1993 and 1994, the most satisfying car in its class in JD Power's survey in 1998 (who  is  JD Power?). Last year, the millionth one rolled out of the factory in Sunderland. But there's no denying that it's showing its age. Even with a little cosmetic surgery, this is definitely last decade's model. Mine is parked on my street between a Toyota Yaris and a Fiat Punto and, quite frankly, I'm a bit embarrassed.Right, in we go... whoa, nasty! What is it with the materials they use inside cars these days? Expensive cars are generally fine. You don't get into a Merc and think you've stepped into an Indian restaurant circa 1975. But cheap little cars haven't quite got hold of that one. In the new Micra there are "two distinctly different interior trims", according to the blurb that came with it. It's hard to know if mine is "traditional" or "contemporary". It's an unpleasant geometrical pattern in two shades of grey, like some kind of ancient writing. Fine on the interior of a pyramid, perhaps, but less successful on the interior of a little car.Otherwise it all looks fine inside - much like the old Nissan Micra, in   fact. Nice clear instruments, lots of vision all over the place, even upwards (a Micra with a sunroof, how about that?). Plus air conditioning and CD player! There's even a "retractable convenience hook" which would obviously be very difficult to live without.In the back, things go downhill. There's not enough room. I'm 6ft 4in, and that's too tall for this car. There are headrests in the back but I can't get my head anywhere near them, on account of its being on its side, pressed against the ceiling. Odd really, when the Micra looks like such a tall car.Right, let's go somewhere. I drive to Sainsbury's up the road. Notice that I don't head off into the sunset along an avenue of shimmering poplars. Or along the promenade at St Tropez. No, I go to Sainsbury's up the road. It just seems right. This is a car to go to Sainsbury's up the road. I don't even need to go to Sainsbury's.And it's a joy. Everything is perfect. It turns right when I want it to, effortlessly and power-assisted. The gears are crisp and easy. There's all that vision I mentioned earlier - absolutely nothing evades my attention. And we nip around Sainsbury's carpark like Pacman round his maze. When I leave the lights on, it beeps at me, and the   two small bags of shopping I don't need fit easily into a corner of the boot.Only one thing is wrong: the stereo. It is, quite simply, far too good for this little car. Wicked even, to use the correct 1993 terminology. Selfishly pumping out Dr Dre in the evening, I watch my fellow shoppers turn round expecting to dive for cover as a Jeep or a big old BMW bears down upon them, then laughing at the little Micra with the big ideas.Oh, and one other thing: this is a girl's car, obviously. It really is: 67% of Micra buyers are girls. So I had to give out that had-to-borrow-the-missus's-car look the whole time.As well as the few nips and tucks it's had, the new Micra has been given a new engine. The 1.3 has been increased to 1.4, though really it's only 1.348. (Hang about, doesn't 1.348 round off to 1.3?) Anyway, what that means is a bit more bhp, a bit more torque and a second less to 60 mph. All good news. Oh, and it's a bit more economical: up from 43mpg to 46 mpg.After the unnecessary Sainsbury's run, I take it on a proper trip out of town: London to Portsmouth, because I really do need to go to Portsmouth. And it's very capable, cruising along happily for a little car on the motorway, without slowing down on the hills. It's a bit noisy perhaps, and feels soft on fast corners. But then this is a girl's car, so that doesn't matter. And there's that wonderful stereo to lose yourself in.But I won't be getting one. And it's not just the funny material or the funny shape. I want a bit more newness if I'm going to spend &#163;10,000 on a new car. So I'll wait till 2002.The lowdownNissan MicraPrice&#163;10,000Acceleration:0-62 in 11.9 secondsTop speed:106mphConsumption:46 mpg (combined)Where to go:Sainsbury'sWhat to put on the stereo:Dr DreWho drives it:Girls - 1990s girls
If you are a regular reader of the papers you might think there were only two types of internet businesses.One forlorn group comprises those companies  that are struggling to survive after being battered by the invisible hand of the market. We have seen the debilitating effects of this ourselves. A couple of our own retail partners have already fallen by the wayside or are treading water as they try to secure further funding. The other group are those that find themselves targeted for lapses in internet security.A recent television news report focused on the security of online banks following recent attempts to defraud Egg. For the average viewer it must have been scary stuff as the report appeared to demonstrate how relatively easy it might be for a hacker to infiltrate a computer and access passwords and other confidential information.We have an insight into some of the security scares because of our relationships with online retailers. It has provided us with a more in-depth version of events than can be gathered from the morning's headlines. In many cases, the situation is not as serious as the media make out. In one reported case, where limited personal details of two customers were mistakenly made accessible for a short time to visitors to one leading retailer's website, the customers involved were relatively unconcerned.In fact, they appeared more annoyed at being disturbed in the middle of the night by tabloid journalists investigating the case than the error itself.It is not that hackers are not an issue. We assume that rools will be targeted by hackers, so we are building our systems to withstand attacks accordingly. Currently we have 237 different security processes and procedures in place to address this. There will be many more by the time we launch.In several ways the rools service has been designed to offer greater protection to our users than existing means of payment. Online retailers, for example, bear the cost if a credit card payment that they have accepted turns out to have been made fraudulently. With rools, the technology means that all transactions are authorised in real time - so-called "charge-backs" - are no longer an issue for the retailer.However it will be our ability to build trust in the rools brand among consumers that will be a key to our success.   One important element of this is the security of the service itself. Although the consumer rarely suffers directly when online services are exposed, scary media stories do mean that everyone in the dot.com world has to work that bit harder to build the necessary trust.Adam Hamdy and Guy Mallison are the co-founders of rools, a service that enables teenagers to buy online without a credit card
A table ice hockey game is the first thing you see when entering the office of Firebox.com, a company that is flourishing by selling completely frivolous items at a time when many net retailers are floundering.The brainchild of two Birmingham university friends, Michael Smith and Tom Boardman, Firebox.com sells toys and gadgets for men aged 18 to 34. Opened for business two years ago, Firebox took off when customers began snapping up a shot glass chess set in droves from its website.  Popshots, a variant on the old pistols that shoot a rubber sucker, was another item that found favour with the punters.Firebox's success has not gone unnoticed. Last week, Dennis Publishing, publishers of Maxim, the glossy men's lifestyle magazine, took a 5% equity stake in Firebox, whose site carries the logo "where men buy stuff". In addition, Firebox announced plans to raise £1m through a private placement of shares with EO, the online equity company for retail investors.Smith, who started Firebox with a £1,000 loan from his mother, attributes his company's success to several factors. By their nature, Firebox's products appeal to grown-up male journalists who apparently like write about new toys.So the company spends virtually nothing on marketing while other dot.coms burn up money on massive advertising campaigns to establish themselves as brand names. Boo.com came to grief partly because it wasted so much money this way.Advertising may generate traffic, but traffic in itself does not necessarily add up to sales, Smith argues. "Above-the-line advertising may attract traffic, but the critical thing is what happens after that. You have to convert visitors to buyers and buyers to advocates," he says, adding that for many e-tailers, conversion of visitors to buyers has been very low.Another reason for Firebox's success is the high margins of its products, unlike books and CDs. Some products, bought from an array of over 70 suppliers, have average gross profit margins of over 40%."We're selling products people haven't seen before and our customers are in their 20s, people with relatively high disposable income," Smith said. "It means we can grow very fast without a big marketing budget."While Firebox has carved out a nice niche for itself, the faddish nature of the market means the company has to be constantly on the lookout for new products to keep sales going and to keep its site fresh. Smith and his three partners (who share a house - so they live, eat and breathe toys) cull magazines and visit trade fairs for ideas. But as the company's reputation spreads, companies are now sending them products.Corx, a new, decidedly low-tech game, is Firebox's next big hope. Consisting of two corks coloured red at one end and black at the other, contestants win points depending on what colour comes up when they bounce the corks on a flat surface."We're going back to low-tech," says Smith, who believes there will be a resurgence of such products that appeal to kids as well as adults. "Corx is very stylish and has a funky appeal. There hasn't been anything like it before."While the appeal of bouncing a couple of corks may seem dubious, selling toys for adults on the net has proven to be a winning proposition so far, with Firebox heading towards sales of £2m this year. But like many dot.com companies, there are no hard and fast predictions on when it will actually turn a profit.Useful linksFirebox.com
A police force yesterday launched an internet campaign against street crime and named 10 of its "most wanted" suspects.In what is believed to be the first scheme of its kind in the country, West Midlands police will publish pictures and details on its website. Many of the 10 are suspects in armed robberies, assaults and other crimes involving weapons.The scheme is part of Operation Safer Streets, which aims to crack down on street crime in and around Birmingham.Among those pictured on the website is the convicted armed robber Vincent Michael Palmer, 34, who escaped during a trial at Birmingham crown court in March for conspiracy to rob a post office.Another is William Patrick Dixon, 32, wanted in connection with a raid on a housing office in the city's Chelmsley Wood area, where &#163;4,000 was taken at gunpoint.The site shows photographs of suspects and gives details of   aliases and a list of places they are thought to frequent.The chief constable of West Midlands police, Edward Crew, who will today also launch a publicity campaign to raise awareness of the problem of street crime, said the website showed how seriously officers were taking the issue."This is not a flash in the pan," said Mr Crew. "Our safer streets campaign is being expanded forcewide and without time limit. We are determined to work with the public and other agencies to help people stop becoming victims."He said that the operation,   launched two months ago, had contributed towards a 15% reduction in street crime in the city.The expansion was being carried out with the help of &#163;3.3m in additional government funding and would include improving officers' methods of dealing with reports of crime.Mr Crew added: "Street robbery is a very serious crime and one we are committed to tackling. We are trying to tackle as many parts of this issue as possible and we will encourage courts to take a stiff line with offenders."
Computer viruses are now so common that a new strain hardly raises an eyebrow, unless of course it's the kind that triggers the sort of chaos witnessed earlier in the year. Lifting his sights beyond simple extortion, an unsophisticated Filipino teenager scored seven on the Richter scale by writing a few lines of simple code that became the Love Letter virus. This romantic-sounding electronic worm triggered an epidemic of email, which swiftly crippled computing infrastructure around the planet.Of the 45,000 or so computer viruses in the wild, by far the great majority are crude instruments of chaos, designed to infect, corrupt and damage as many personal computers as possible. And like any chronic virus, the first symptoms of illness quickly become signs of collapse, followed in some cases by silicon death, leaving very little doubt that something is badly wrong with your PC.This summer, something changed in the shadowy world of  The Matrix . Indeed, we may now be seeing the first real evidence of the virus 'industry' evolving beyond its adolescent, aerosol-can approach to information anarchy and instead pursuing more sinister challenges.The first hint of the unusual came with the arrival of the Pok&eacute;mon virus at the end of June. Unique perhaps because it is an exercise in malice focused exclusively at children. Remarkably and unlike anything else to do with the oversold Pok&eacute;mon character, the hidden worm it carries is free, a feature which acts as a magnet to young internet users. Once again, the unfortunate Microsoft Outlook address book acts as the carrier and in this case, computer animation from the mischievous but lovable Pikachu character will trash Daddy's Windows system directory.Following closely after the Pok&eacute;mon panic came the   first designer virus aimed at a personal banking application. No need for many of us to worry quite yet, as this one was aimed at customers of the Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS) but it is only a matter of time before some enterprising criminal starts thinking creatively about the increasing popularity of internet banking.Who is liable, one asks, if a package of clandestine software, a 'Trojan', starts recording keystrokes and trawls your computer hard disk for account information? The banks are spending huge sums on protecting their own infrastructures, but the weakest point in the web still remains the customer. So can consumers reasonably protect their most confidential data? If such details as a password or perhaps even a PIN number are stolen, can they expect an online bank manager to be sympathetic?Most recently, theFoundation for Information Policy Researchweb site published a detailed analysis of the contractual and technical weaknesses associated with the many different kinds of emerging e-commerce transaction services. The report revealed that customers of some online banks face the prospect of unlimited personal liability as a consequence of fraud. Invariably, such matters are reduced to questions of negligence and the exercise of reasonable care.In response, the Halifax bank last week sent a wake-up call to the online banking sector, by announcing,    through a deal with leading software security company, Trend Micro, that it would offer all its online customers a free anti-virus software package for their home PCs and provide free ongoing anti-virus updates. Other banks are bound to follow, or at least make reassuring noises   while they assess the true scale of the risk as it emerges.The foundation's director, Casper Bowden, says: 'It's a worrying scenario whether banks might invoke the small print if they suffered a systemic loss due to a virus. If it's one dissatisfied customer, the bank has a customer service problem. If it's 10,000 defrauded customers, it's a question of legal liability.'Not so, says Jo Wright, a spokeswoman at Barclays Bank. 'Our customers will not be liable if they are victims of fraud, online or otherwise. We will investigate any claim but - should such a   thing happen and a large number of customers are affected - we may have to look at each individual case'.The bank has posted this promise to its website and offers detailed information on how users can protect their account information. It stresses: 'Customers should always be careful when opening emails from unknown sources. This is the most likely way that this sort of fraud could be attempted.'This may sound like good news but banks aren't famous for their speed in resolving customers' problems. If larger numbers are involved, the process could be slow, and Barclays seemed a little vague about the small print and didn't call us back.Eric Chien at the Symantec Anti-Virus Research Centre, says: 'Before online banking the opportunity for fraud on this scale just wasn't there. The weakest point is still the home user's personal computer. The Halifax news is a good step forward but the responsibility lies with the banks to invest in customer confidence. People just don't trust online banking.'The UBS 'Trojan' virus may have been the first example of something new, but it was trivial technically. It simply illustrated how a virus   writer's motive could shift from trying to win recognition towards personal gain.It seems that virus writers see little reward in writing code that targets popular home financial software. Invariably, these packages encrypt the data they hold, and the general architecture of Windows-based PCs makes it easier to steal information directfrom the keyboard than to unscramble professionally written software.In fact, a really clever virus could conceivably collect and pass on information from many thousands of PCs and, perhaps one day, even mobile phones, to another country. This in turn might be able to   execute thousands of small e-commerce transactions before any action could be taken.Chien says: 'The only silver bullet is user education and solid content security. We can only anticipate and protect.'Ian Melamed, chief technical officer of the internet security firm SatelliteSafe Europe, says: 'The e-commerce equation is best described by the formula trust = speed + security, and with the proliferation of malicious code, the security aspect of e-commerce is taking precedent over speed of delivery.'But online security, the integrity of the relationship between a customer and   internet-based transaction systems is no longer a private sector issue. Public Sector agencies - including both the Inland Revenue, for self-assessment, and Customs &amp; Excise, for Vat - have to meet Government targets for the wired economy.Given the sad catalogue of mishaps to date, it is, says one reformed hacker, 'only a matter of time before some clever soul opens his software toolbox and starts to explore what opportunities might lie behind the holes in this particular piece of Swiss cheese'.&#149; Simon Moores is chairman of the Research Group (www.drmoores.com).
Have colour supplements lost their allure? Will the long slide of the two  Expresses  ever end? Has the  Sunday Times stalled? Who'll win the daily broadsheet battle? Questions with a touch of prophecy.There are two ways of charting newspaper fortunes. One is through copy sales and thus the ABC-audited circulation figure. Proceed with caution: giveaways and cut-price wheezes can blur your vision. The other (via the National Readership Survey) measures readers, not sales. Proceed with a different kind of caution. The NRS, in effect, is an ongoing poll. All polls have a margin of error. They need to be read carefully for shifts that make sense - usually in conjunction with other data (like ABC statistics). If you do that at the start of this bruising autumn, you may glimpse some fascinating things.Real ABC winners at the end of July were few and far between. Only the  Mail and  FT among the dailies sold more than 1 per cent extra in the six months from February 2000 than in the same period of 1999. Only the  Observer among general interest Sundays showed clear gains.But that's what has  happened : Readership trends, by contrast, hint at what is  happening . Take, for maximum prudence, the latest available NRS year of results (July 1999 to June 2000) and stack them against the previous year. Some movements are clear.    Internet usage, for instance, marches on. Last year the  Times had the highest number of daily readers who claimed to have wandered the web some time in the previous 12 months (944,000): this year the  Telegraph has just overtaken it (1.086 million to 1.08 million). Right across the broadsheet board, though, the net looms larger: from almost three-quarters of  Guardian  readers to just under half of  Telegraph ones.Circulation blight to come? Perhaps. Readership everywhere but the  FT is falling, and that's usually a predictor of falling sales. But there are other devils in other details.    Colour magazines are fading a little. Only the  Guardian Weekend  (just) can claim more readers than it did last year. Even the  Daily Mail 's own formidable  Weekend is 25,000 readers down. On Sundays, only the  Independent on Sunday 's  Review is steady and only the  Mail 's  Night and Day shows any increase.That could be thought-provoking news for familiar packages such as the  Sunday Times . Both  The  Magazine  and  The  Culture have lost readers, while  Style is off 118,000 year on year. Bring back Tara Palmer-Tomkin son? They will surely need to bring something back: readership for the whole package has dropped from 3.33 million to 3.24 million (tracking a tiny fall in copy sales). It isn't remotely a crisis: but it is beginning to be a challenge.Such challenges, meanwhile, grow harder where the morning broadsheets live. You can chart their struggles in the differences between faithful readers who take a single paper of choice and those who tend to roam, following the interests of the moment from front page to front page. When loyalties soften at the edges, there's opportunity for gain and, of course, for loss.And loyalties do seem to be softening. Last year 16 per cent of  Independent readers also read the  Telegraph and  Guardian, respectively. This year that figure is up to 21 per cent in both cases.  Guardian  solus readership has weak  ened against the  Times ,  Telegraph and  Indy by two or three points. The  Times is more vulnerable to the  Guardian and  Telegraph .The strongest of the four - very marginally - is the  Telegraph , which has only seen 1 per cent of its readership begin to stray; and that fits well with a total readership record for the 12 months, down just 2,000 (to 2.39 million). But there's still not much for Conrad Black's comfort in the age profile figurings. The daily has 86,000 fewer readers between 15 and 44 than it did - and 58,000   more over 65. The graveyard bind continues to operate.Graveyards are a worry for the  Daily and  Sunday Express , too. In context, the readership falls - 48,000 on the daily, 86,000 on the Sunday - aren't particularly horrifying. (The  Sunday Telegraph , for instance, is off 96,000). There's some evidence that the battling Rosie Boycott is shifting the daily profile to readers aged between 34 and 64, with some gains there and a slight drop in the over 65s. But that's still 28 per cent of the readership - only a point less than the  Telegraph , and double the  Guardian/Times/Independen t norm. Circulation figures, down 2.75 per cent year on year, won't respond while the readership drifts. Staying over a million copy sales looks tougher than ever.Where are the young readers going, then? Maybe to the net, maybe to Associated's  Metro freesheets, but certainly to the  Daily Mail , which has 95,000 more readers between 15 and 34 to shout about. The  Mail formula isn't infallible - the  Mail on Sunday can't match big brother's gains - but it's hard not to see women as a vital part of the mix. The sex profile of readers remains a rock steady 50-50(as opposed to 57-43 for the  Guardian and 62-38 for the  Times ). Women readership on the four main broadsheets together is down 272,000, with a parallel Sunday blight.Health warnings again: some of these samplings, and thus some of the conclusions, are assuredly wobbly. Follow the pattern, not a precise path. But you can still, I think, hear the autumn cry of embattled editors. Bring me young recruits, and, please, try to make them young women.
You sit  back, sip a glass of wine, and flick between the  Nine O'Clock News,  Inspector Morse  and  Friends  before settling down to watch a live Premiership football match. When the final whistle blows you log on to the internet, check your email and book a   weekend break in the country. The mobile rings. Do you fancy going to the cinema tomorrow?It sounds like a typical night in at home, but from next year you will be doing it all at 35,000ft. Pioneering new British technology, to be unveiled this week, is taking   television, email and the internet to new heights.Out go crosswords, five-year-old reruns of  The Vicar of Dibley, and movies on a 'big' screen obscured by the head of the gently perspiring man in front of you. From next year air passengers will be able to watch live television, book a taxi or hotel room on the internet and send and receive email on their own private screen.Virgin, American Airlines and Cathay Pacific are testing the new technology and say it could be introduced as early as next spring. It will net millions of pounds for the BBC and   commercial broadcasters who will provide programmes.The London-based satellite company Inmarsat will reveal details of the new system - a multi-million-pound joint venture with US firm Live In-flight Video Entertainment and sport rights company Transworld - on Tuesday.Airlines have experimented with TV aerials on planes in the past, but the technology has proved to be expensive and unreliable. Inmarsat says it can deliver 'a total in-flight entertainment package' for the international traveller because its satellite technology is already   installed in three-quarters of the world's long-haul aircraft.'Most planes use Inmarsat equipment for navigation, safety and arm-rest telephones, but there is spare capacity in the system,' a source close to the negotiations told  The Observer. 'We can extend the communications system to cover seat-back TV screens, the internet, and mobile phones.'Inmarsat will beam TV pictures from the ground to the nearest of its nine satellites that orbit the Earth. The satellite will send the images on to a decoder on the plane's nose cone from where they will be relayed to seatback screens. Because it uses fixed connections on the aircraft, the new service does not interfere with aircraft safety systems.Programmes will be live, although news may be edited to remove stories about air safety. The new technology will also enable passengers to   surf the web using a seatback keyboard and make and receive mobile phone calls. 'Hush zones' will be reserved for passengers who don't want to be disturbed by the clicking of keyboards or the trill of mobile phones.Airlines see the technology as a new weapon in the battle to attract high-spending passengers. TV on demand is likely to be free in first and business classes, with economy-class passengers paying an hourly fee. If a live sports event has not finished when the plane lands, airlines will screen the final minutes in the arrivals hall.One airline source said: 'From the moment they take off to the moment they land, passengers travelling for work or on holiday will be able to work and relax in the same way as they would if they were at home.'john.arlidge@observer.co.uk
Three times a week John Edward Robinson mowed the lawn outside his farmhouse and grilled hamburgers at the local cookout. That was the Robinson that his neighbours in the prairie town of Olathe, Kansas, saw. On the internet, however, he called himself The Slavemaster.To the FBI, Robinson has other names. He is emerging as a monster with two distinctions in the history of American crime: the Cyber Ripper - the first serial killer to lure his victims to their death by stalking them on the web.An even more grotesque detail has emerged in the case of the Kansas killer: one of the women he is accused of murdering left a daughter - who is now in her teens - who was adopted by Robinson's brother and raised in the family of her mother's killer.It is believed that the victims were killed because they had children. His motive was not only sado-sexual, but part of an adoption racket.Robinson was arrested in June after two women told the police that they had been assaulted and robbed by Robinson, having arranged meetings over the internet in order to have sado-masochistic sex. He was charged with sexual battery.The investigation was intensified after a Michigan woman, Suzette Trouten, was reported missing after leaving to work for Robinson. Meanwhile, a Texas woman said that she had escaped an attempted murder after meeting Robinson as the result of another internet rendezvous.The Robinson case then twisted into a nightmare: as the FBI began excavating his land in Linn County, Kansas, they found the rotting bodies of five women stashed into 55-gallon drums. Two of them were sitting in the yard, swathed in plastic.Three more bodies were discovered in a storage locker rented in Robinson's name.Two of the victims were a mother and daughter, Sheila and Deborah Faith. Deborah, a teenager, was disabled. The   investigation revealed fake letters, received by relatives of the disappeared women and purportedly from them. One was sent to Mrs Faith's brother saying that Sheila had met a man from Australia who was taking her home 'to be happy'.Another letter written to the killer, by one of the women he had killed, Paula Godfrey, was addressed to John, and signed 'Love Ya, Paula'. The letter, found in a business associate's brief case, was a crucial piece in the jigsaw that led to Robinson's arrest.Most chilling of all was the addition to the indictment of a baby who went missing in the late 1980s. But even these investigations did not touch the bitter core of the case, the tragedy of Lisa Stasi and her   daughter Tiffany. Tiffany Stasi was only a few months old when her mother - then aged 19 - disappeared in 1985. Lisa vanished after accepting a job with Robinson. Lisa was reported missing in January, 1985.The body of Lisa Stasi was never found, but the FBI added her name to a list of six women with whose murders Robinson is charged.Last week the FBI revealed that Tiffany had been adopted by a Midwestern couple who had changed her name to Tiffany Robinson. They were Robinson's brother and sister-in-law.All investigators would tell  The Observer on Friday was that 'the inquiry obviously directs towards the adoptive family of the girl, who we have spoken to'.One FBI officer said: 'We shall be looking carefully at whether the other victims lured over the web or otherwise had children, and if so what happened to them.'But just to complete the drama, a bizarre reunion is now planned, whereby Tiffany will be reunited with her real father, pending a series of surreal DNA tests.Now that Robinson's brother has been accused as a party to the grotesque adoption, Kansas state law assigns responsibility for a minor to the widower of a dead woman.
Microsoft will spend a staggering half a billion dollars marketing its new Xbox games console.Ed Fries, Microsoft's vice president of games publishing who will outline the software giant's vision of an interactive world later today at the European Computer Trade Show in London, told  The Observer: 'We have very aggressive forecasts and we'll be spending more than half a billion dollars in the first 18 months to promote the product worldwide. We're going to put a huge push behind Xbox.'Fries hinted that Microsoft was preparing to take a massive hit on the Xbox to steal market share from Sony, maker of Playstation II. 'We understand that price is crucial to any consumer market. Traditionally, the way a console business works is that you sell the hardware for less than it costs you to produce it and charge a royalty on the software. We believe we'll be very competitive on price.'Later today Microsoft will announce that it has signed up 18 software development studios to write exclusive content for the Xbox, which will be launched late next year. Included in the line-up is the UK's Lionhead Studios, founded by Peter Molyneux, who made millions when he sold his original company, Bullfrog, to the world's largest games publisher, Electronic Arts.Some console manufacturers have suffered from a shortage of good games. However, Molyneux said today's announcement meant Microsoft's commitment to the video game market was serious. 'It's a very important step forward. Without world class video game talent you're going to flounder.'
Tens of thousands of online investors were locked out of the stock market yesterday as two of the country's biggest online share dealing services broke down on one of the busiest trading days so far this year.The speculative frenzy which gripped the London market during the spring, when the excitement of amateur investors sent internet and other technology-related stocks to stratospheric levels, suddenly returned yesterday, pushing the FTSE 100 index of Britain's top companies to its highest level this year.But computer failures at Charles Schwab and Barclays Stockbrokers, two of the country's biggest private client brokers, left their online investors unable to deal. Charles Schwab, which usually expects 75% of its trades to be conducted over the internet, failed to relaunch its website by the end of the day at 4.30pm, leaving investors to use the firm's telephone service instead, while Barclays was shut for two hours in the afternoon.The shutdowns were unconnected and, according to the brokers, unrelated to a huge jump in trading volumes yesterday. Some 154,000 trades went through, compared with August's daily average of 75,000, as the FTSE 100 jumped 123.5 points to 6,795.This key indicator now stands just 155 points below its all-time high, struck in December last year. The techMARK 100 index of hi-tech and biotech companies jumped more than 3%.Brokers said the impetus for retail investors to retest the market now appears to have been a sharp improvement in sentiment on the other side of the Altantic, where worries of another rise in interest rates have abated over recent days.A string of benign economic data from the US, capped by glowing figures on wages and employment yesterday, reinforced the belief that Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan will leave borrowing costs on hold for at least two months while the US presidential race is concluded.In Britain there is a consensus that interest rates will be left at 6% when the Bank of England's monetary policy committee convenes next week.Justin Urquhart Stewart, director of Barclays Stockbrokers, said: "Electric Henry, the small punter, is back. All the stocks that are moving are the familar ones."Typical of the stocks in heavy demand yesterday was Durlacher, the specialist internet investment bank, which jumped 29%. Mr Urquhart Stewart also pointed to pure internet companies such as Affinity and QXL. "It's the usual suspects."However, the 375p rise in Affinity to &#163;17.50 still leaves the share well short of the &#163;85 peak reached at the height of the internet investment frenzy this year. QXL was up 9.75p to 70p, but is worth just a tenth of its value six months ago.Brian Winterflood, chairman of Winterflood Securities, which specialises in smaller stocks, said he was "amazed"   by the amount of volume going through. "It's almost as if they've got their buying boots back on."&#149; Signs that the US economy may be slowing helped revive the fortunes of the battered euro yesterday after its pasting on the foreign exchanges on Thursday - which saw it hit   an all-time low against the American dollar.The euro clawed back above 90 cents from its lifetime low of 88.37 late on Thursday after new figures showed that US manufacturers cut output for the first time in 19 months in August, while the number of people   in work fell by 105,000, taking the unemployment rate from 4% to 4.1%.However, most analysts expect the euro's recovery to be short-lived. Peter Luxton at Standard &amp; Poor's MMS said the US data should be seen as benign, despite what the headline figures suggest.
Up to 40 workers at the mobile phone firm Orange were sacked yesterday for downloading internet pornography using company computers. The workers were based at the firm's office in Hertford and call centres in the north-east.
The Department of Social Security was last night accused of using big brother tactics after a campaign group opposed to the child support agency was forced to remove inflammatory material, including incitements to violence against CSA staff and the name and address of an agency employee, from its website.The National Association for Child Support Action, which campaigns for the closure of the CSA, deleted the material from its site atwww.nacsa.org.ukafter Anita James, the official solicitor for the DSS, wrote to the organisation's internet service provider complaining about material appearing on the website's bulletin boards.The offending content, posted by users of the site, included messages suggesting that opponents of the CSA throw excrement and sulphuric acid at agency employees and attack them with broken glass, as well as giving the name and address of the CSA employee.In her letter to Inato, the internet provider that hosts the Nacsa site, Ms James wrote: "The website contains information which may be defamatory, amount to the civil tort of harassment under the Protection from Harass ment Act and may contain material which may amount to malicious falsehood, all of which are actionable in civil law."In addition, the material may breach the criminal law - harassment, incitement to commit criminal damage, grievous bodily harm and worse. I am therefore inviting you to close the website. If you fail to do so, I reserve the right to go to the high court to seek an injunction."The site was permitted to remain open with the offending messages removed after Inato agreed to monitor the bulletin boards to prevent similar messages being posted in the future. There was anger, however, at the DSS's decision to hold the internet provider responsible for the content of a site that it hosts."My concern is that the government appear to be chasing ISPs rather than the organisations whose sites they host in order to suppress messages they don't want to hear," said Adam Hunter, managing director of Inato."Ultimately it's like making the post office responsible for delivering letter bombs.""Larger ISPs would have simply closed the site down but I felt there was a principle at stake and I don't like to see sites close, so I mediated with the Department of Social Security and reached this compromise on behalf of Nacsa."Inato, which hosts around 2,500 websites, maintains all its sites via servers in Baltimore, and therefore any injunction against the company to close websites would have to be applied for in the US.Nacsa, which does not itself endorse violent action against CSA employees, has said it will remove the bulletin boards on which the messages appeared next week. The agency's co-ordinator Neale Sheldon said he felt that the DSS action was motivated by government antipathy towards his organisation."Since the news of the latest CSA-related suicide and the new Child Support Act being approved by parliament at the beginning of August the amount of people visiting our website and becoming full members has been overwhelming. Five hundred thousand hits to our website in August has obviously concerned the government and we believe they are using 'big brother' tactics," he said.Mr Sheldon said Nacsa was willing to delete items from the website but would not close it down.A spokeswoman for the DSS said that as a responsible employer it had a duty to protect CSA staff and that it had acted accordingly.
Growing numbers of homebuyers are turning to the internet in their search for property. More than four in 10 of those with internet access use it to obtain information about the housing market, according to a survey out today.Almost half of people planning to move in the next three years have access to the internet, and of these, 42% have gone online to search for a property or find out other information, said the report commissioned by the Halifax and the House Builders Federation.Home-buying and selling services are one of the fastest growing sectors of internet commerce. It is estimated   there are now around 300 such sites.Some like Rightmove.co.uk are run by traditional estate agents, and others, like Easier.co.uk and HomeFreeHome.co.uk, offer people the opportunity to advertise their property online for free, avoiding estate agents' fees.Fifty estate agents, including Knight Frank and FPDSavills, have come together to create a new website aimed at "the upper and middle market", those buying and selling properties worth more than &#163;100,000, which is due to go live in January. Ian Springett, former managing director of Lombard Bank, has been appointed chief executive of the venture, which goes by the name of Fastcrop plc.
After a summer break from its legal battles,Microsoftfound itself back in trouble yesterday when a US judge ruled that the company had engaged in "wanton, reckless" and deceptive business practices.The Seattle-based behemoth was ordered by a federal judge to pay $1m in punitive damages toBristol Technology, a tiny software manufacturer. The award is the largest to be imposed in Connecticut for violating the state's unfair trade practices act.In a further blow to Microsoft, Judge Janet Hall is to reconsider whether the company broke local anti-trust statutes. Her ruling could reopen a trial that seemed to be over a year ago when a jury rejected the anti-trust objections and awarded Bristol punitive damages of just $1.Microsoft said it would appeal against yesterday's decision.The judge found that senior Microsoft executives had not told the truth during testimony. The 103-page judgment cites an internal Microsoft email from chairman Bill Gates as evidence of this untruthfulness.
Jungle.com, one of the UK's best known e-commerce firms, has been sold to Great Universal Stores for  £37m - a fraction of its earlier valuation.Steve Bennett, the founder and chief executive of Jungle, which sells items including electronic equipment, compact discs and videos, is expected to make around £7m from the sale of the company he launched on the internet last August.Earlier this year, he had hoped to float the group with a valuation of up to £750m, with his personal stake valued at up to £250m.However, the plunge in the value of technology shares in March dashed hopes of a stock market listing and forced the group to scale down its offer  price to prospective buyers. It is understood the company attracted potential interest only after the price had fallen below £40m.GUS, which owns the Argos chain, is believed to have faced strong competition for jungle.com from rival groups Dixons and Kingfisher.The £37m deal, which includes the repayment of around £12m of debt, will tie Mr Bennett to the company for the next four years.He said: "GUS give jungle.com the muscle to take us to the next stage in our growth. Of the many offers we had for the business, GUS was by far the best fit."John Peace, chief executive of GUS, said: "There is a strong strategic fit between these two businesses. GUS will be able to offer  its customers a wide range of computer and office products via the most convenient channel, be it ordering via store, catalogue or internet."Despite being the UK's second most recognised e-tailer, behind Amazon, jungle.com lost £11.4m in the 12 months to July 31, on the back of heavy marketing and development costs.A high-profile advertising campaign turned Jungle into one of the most visible e-commerce brands in Britain, making the valuation slump all the more surprising.Useful linksJungle.comGreat Universal Stores
Jungle.com, one of the UK's best known e-commerce firms, is expected to be sold to Great Universal Stores, which owns the Argos catalogue stores, for around &#163;36m. An announcement is expected today.GUS is understood to have seen off rival approaches from retailers Kingfisher and Dixons Group to take control of Jungle.com, which had been planning a stock market flotation of its own as recently as three months ago.Steve Bennett, Jungle's chief executive and leading shareholder, last night refused to comment on whether he was in talks with GUS but confirmed that both Kingfisher and Dixons had approached him."I will be making a major announcement about the future of the company from the safari park at Woburn Abbey at midday &#91;today&#93;," 34-year-old Mr Bennett said. He is presently hosting a suppliers' conference at the venue.GUS declined to comment.A high-profile advertising   campaign has turned the computer and home entertainment retailer into one of the most visible e-commerce brands in Britain.However, many observers will be surprised by how much the company's valuation has fallen since the start of the year.In February, analysts were tentatively valuing the company as highly as &#163;700m after investment bank UBS Warburg was appointed to examine a possible flotation.However, the sell-off in high technology stocks forced Warburgs to dramatically scale back the figure and by June, Mr Bennett said, the bank was targeting a flotation value of around &#163;180m.A further depression in the value of e-commerce companies has forced Jungle's adviser to reduce the valuation to just &#163;36m, including &#163;10m in debt.Mr Bennett says the company is expected to turnover around &#163;100m this year.It is understood that GUS plans to integrate Jungle into its Argos retail group, which it bought two years ago, and use it principally to sell computers and software. The division is run by Terry Duddy, a former chief executive of Dixons' PC World.The Argos catalogue goes into 17m homes in Britain and Mr Duddy is thought to believe that he can build a serious rival to Dixons - which dominates PC sales in Britain - by leveraging the strength of that database online.GUS has around 15 websites based on brands including Experian, Argos, Kays and Innovations. Tellingly, the company does not have a presence in the PC market.Mr Bennett has previously said that if a flotation was not a possibility he would consider a link-up with a traditional   bricks and mortar retailer.Jungle was set up in the middle of last year with the &#163;10m backing of venture capital group 3i. It holds a 25% stake. Mr Bennett had previously built up the Software Warehouse retail group with fund ing from 3i. The stores were sold to a management buyout team in May but Jungle took over its PC mail order business.Jungle.com has spent in excess of &#163;5m on television, radio and press advertising.The company's corporate theme is The Lion Sleeps Tonight, a hit in the 1980s for Tight Fit.Mr Bennett recently persuaded the band's lead singer to give up his job as an entertainer at a Butlin's holiday camp in Devon to help promote Jungle. In his spare time Mr Bennett is building an internet portal called GlobalShed.com, which will specialise in do-it-yourself activities, with the assistance of television's Big Breakfast presenter Johnny Vaughan.
The FBI yesterday arrested a man in connection with a bogus online news release which last week wiped $2bn (&#163;1.3bn) from the stock market value of Emulex, a Californian networking company.Last night, the US attorney's office was due to file criminal charges alleging that the man made $250,000 from the hoax.The suspect, understood to be a student in his 20s, was arrested at a house in Los Angeles.No further details were released, although the man was expected to be charged with fraudulent use of the internet.Shares in Emulex fell more than 50% last Friday after a bogus press release announced that it was in financial trouble. The release, disseminated by Internet Wire, an online public relations service, announced falsely that the company's chief executive had resigned, that it expected to lose money in the next quarter and that it had been forced by regulators to restate 1998 and 1999 earnings.The report was picked up by Dow Jones and Bloomberg news wires and the share price of the company sank.Stock market watchdogs such as the securities and exchange commission immediately launched an investigation, as did the FBI and US attorney's office. Civil action is also being considered.The rapid spread of the news and devastating effect on Emulex's stock price has prompted a review of operations by several news services and public relations firms. Many fear that the growth on online news has encouraged the race to deliver news at the expense of fact checking.The unnamed man is not the first to be held in custody for alleged internet fraud involving the financial markets in the US. A securities day trader was arrested in March for allegedly posting a bogus press release about Lucent Technologies.
If you: (a) shift nervously in Terminal Three, distracting yourself with duty-free "shopping"; (b) always listen to safety announcements (wondering if the emergency exits open in or out) ; (c) applaud the pilot on take-off and landing; or (d) ask yourself over and over "am I going down?" (with specific reference to air travel), you can now indulge your flight paranoia withwww.amigoingdown.com. This thoughtful website helps gauge the likelihood of a fatal fall from the sky by simply keying in your flight details. Flying from Moscow to Georgia with Air India? Chances of perishing are one in 163,654. "That's really not that good for this route," the site advises.Flying from London to Sierra Leone is a little less risky (one in 453,500). But if you are thinking about travelling to the troubled African country, then you should, perhaps, consider hiring a private army for your protection. Visitwww.sandline.co.ukfor the details - but make sure you are an internationally recognised government (preferably democratically elected) and not a rogue state, terrorist group or drug cartel, or they won't deal with you.If you can't afford protection, equip yourself with a surrealist smokescreen culled from thesurrealist compliment generator. "You are the Ayatollah of confusion on the night of Divali", should bamboozle any assailant long enough for you to make a run for the first flight home - if you're prepared to risk it.Or you could just sit safely at your computer and wreak havoc on a nearby planet. The sitewww.janus.astro.umd .edu/astro/impact.htmllets you simulate a solar collision. Choose your target (Earth), projectile size (5km diameter) and velocity (20km per second) and kaboom! You've made a crater 60km wide and 1km deep causing the largest-ever earthquake. Oh, and increased the risks of any flight leaving Moscow airport, too.
&#149; Buyout: Former monopoly British Telecomunications and its partner Telenor, the state-owned Norwegian telecoms operator, have bought out their third partner, Tele Danmark, in Telenordia, Sweden's fourth biggest telecoms operator. Telenordia plans to list on the Stockholm stock exchange next year.&#149; Strategy: German company Deutsche Telekom's T-Online International internet service provider, which recently pulled out of discussions to buy Freeserve, is still looking into possible acquisitions in Britain, Italy and Spain, according to acting chief executive Detlev Buchal. He was briefing analysts after the sudden resignation last week of T-Online's chairman, Wolfgang Keuntje. T-Online will "develop its international strategy quicker than in the past" and "concentrate on the content side," Mr Buchal added.&#149; Contract: Internet security specialist Baltimore Technologies said it has won a contract with Telstra to provide web security for Australia's new government-to-government and business-to-government e-commerce system.&#149; Growth: Data cabling firm Fibernet Group said it has won a contract with an unnamed pan-European data communications firm to provide services worth up to &#163;30m over the next 20 years. The company also said it had signed a 20-year contract to lease up to 6,800km of fibre cable in mainland Europe for which it will pay a maximum of about &#163;60m.
Scoot.com is a takeover target for its largest shareholder, Vivendi, analysts claimed yesterday, as the online publisher announced it would move into profitability next year.Scoot.com released its third-quarter results yesterday, which saw losses grow from &#163;13.9m to &#163;19.9m. The substantial increase was blamed   on a change in the group's pricing model for its directory service, which saw it shift from charging customers a fixed price to a variable fee.The company said it would be in profit in 2001 - a year earlier than expected.Robert Bonnier, the chief executive, said the firm's subscriber base had grown by 16% in the quarter and that he expected that rate to be higher in   the present three-month period. An increase in sales staff led to a rise in the number of new subscribers.The churn rate - the measure of Scoot.com customers who transfer to a competitor - fell from 9.6% to 8.4% during the same period.Analysts welcomed the improving results but said the weak share price was making Scoot.com vulnerable to being   mopped up by Vivendi. The French group recently increased its stake in Scoot.com from 11.5% to 22.4%.Shares in Scoot.com rose by 2% to 127.25p yesterday."Scoot.com is a company with a history of underachievement," said Nick Bubb, an analyst at SG Securities. "Vivendi will buy it - or someone else will buy it". Mr Bonnier declined to comment.
AltaVista UK'smanaging director, Andy Mitchell, yesterday paid the price for the company's failed launch of an unmetered internet access service by tendering his resignation.The announcement of Mr Mitchell's departure coincided with the closure of Ezesurf, which claimed to be Britain's longest established free call internet provider. The Dundee-based firm blamed a &#163;1.7m bill for calls from internet service provider Energis Squared for its collapse.AltaVista said that the problems with the launch of its service and the negative publicity that accompanied the fiasco had made 33-year-old Mr Mitchell's resignation "inevitable"."The mistakes in our planned internet access service - which we do acknowledge - probably made Andy's departure inevitable," the spokesman said.Mr Mitchell has been replaced with immediate effect by Stephanie Himoff, the head of business development, who joined the company six months ago from CMP Media.Ms Himoff said that AltaVista would now be returning to its core business - search engine provision.AltaVista was insisting as late as last week that subscribers were using a service that it had claimed, when it was launched amid a blaze of publicity in March, would revolutionise internet usage in Britain.Then the company promised unlimited access to the web for just &#163;60 a year, drawing praise even from the prime minister as a result.Mr Mitchell confessed last   week that the service - which more than 270,000 people had by that time signed up for - was not actually operating at all. He also admitted that he should have informed potential subscribers and his own superiors sooner.AltaVista, based in Silicon   Valley, California, blamed the failure on the high rates that BT charges for its domestic phone lines.BT said AltaVista had not consulted it about the means by which it was going to provide the service before launching it to the media.Ezesurf's managing director, Matt Bryson, announced the closure of the company in a 2,300-word statement on the company's website, and blamed a variety of people and situations for its problems. The monologue was later removed from the site.The failure of the AltaVista and Ezesurf services illustrates the difficulty many internet service providers are experiencing in moving towards the unmetered access model pioneered in the US.In Britain, home internet users have to pay local phone   charges for each minute they are online. But in the US, local calls are included in a flat rate package supplied by the telecoms provider.Analysts have repeatedly said that until the UK has unmetered access internet growth and usage will be restricted.
They are fresh faced twenty-somethings who wear combat trousers to work and dream about making a fast buck while burning vast sums of someone else's venture capital.At least that is what we thought dot.com entrepreneurs were supposed to be.New research from KPMG Consulting suggests that the identikit "e-business leader" is actually a far more sober-suited type. Typically aged 38, he often works seven days a week, has little time for a social life and is more likely to be found travelling economy class on a budget airline than the business class of a longer established carrier.And nine out of 10 dot.com directors say they would wear a traditional suit to an important meeting because casual dress was "inappropriate".The report, E-Business Leaders Survey 2000, paints dot.com directors in a far more flattering light than the publicity many in cyberspace have attracted after high-profile failures by the likes of Boo.com."Most people think that dot.coms are run by young graduates, who make loads of   money in a short space of time," said Alan Buckle, chief executive of KPMG Consulting UK. "The dot.com leaders we surveyed work hard and are extremely dedicated - they are not kids, playing at business and hoping to make a fast buck."The research shows that there really is no short cut to success in the new economy. Just like a traditional business, a net venture will only thrive thanks to the hard work and business sense of its people."But there are critical differences in how dot.com leaders work that are increasingly likely to spread to the rest of the UK plc - particularly the focus on keeping costs to a minimum and the changing work patterns that   reflect the 24/7 culture of the internet world."KPMG interviewed 101 executives and found several differences between dot.com and traditional company working patterns. The biggest gap is in the median annual company turnover of the two groups: for traditional businesses it was &#163;860m, for internet firms just &#163;750,000.Despite the gap both groups worked more than 56 hours a week on average. Directors of internet firms are twice as likely as traditional directors to work 71 hours per week and 40% are still in the office after 8pm.More than a third said they have little time to relax or socialise and when they do take time out to read a book almost half read business books rather than fiction. On average dot.com directors take less than half of their annual holiday entitlement.Internet directors are less likely to have degrees or backgrounds in finance but more have had private educations and come from marketing backgrounds.The average age of the two groups of directors was much closer than researchers expected. Although 10 times as many dot.com directors were under 30 than those in traditional businesses, the average age of executives at new economy firms was an older than expected 38. The average age of old economy business leaders was 46.What motivates each group also threw up some interesting results. Dot.com directors cited the chance to grow a business from scratch, working in a young, dynamic environment and stock options as the three biggest motivating factors. Old economy directors say they are turned on most by stock options and high salaries.When it comes to dressing for work, 82% of dot.com executives favour permanent dress down days but nine out of 10 will put on a suit for an important business meeting. Eight out of 10 old economy bosses wear suits every day.Nearly half of all executives plan to retire by the time they are 60 but almost 15% of e-business leaders love work so much they do not plan to hang over the reigns until they are 70.The dot.com executive...Average age 38Prefers casual clothesTwice as likely to be left-handed or ambidextrousMore likely to have a private educationLess likely to have a degreeBackground in marketing or ITWilling to take risksWorks very long hoursRarely goes outTravels infrequently and flies economyAdmires Richard BransonWould love an Audi TTDreams of being a pilotRetirement age varies from 30-70The traditional executive...Average age 46Prefers to wear a suitMore than likely to be right-handedLikely to have been to grammar schoolProbably with a degreeFinance backgroundRelies on personal abilityWorks business hoursTakes more holidayTravels often, flies first class or businessAdmires Bill GatesWould love a Jaguar XK8Dreams of being a novelistPlans to retire at a more traditional age
Search for the starsI am developing a simple website for my band, which is easy using Microsoft FrontPage. I can obviously get people to visit the site by telling them verbally or by displaying the address on a business card. But how do I ensure that someone can locate my site using a search engine such aswww.alltheweb.com? And how do I make sure that my site    appears near the top of the retrieved website list?David Dobbiedavid.dobbie@ntlworld.comJack Schofield replies:Dozens of sites will submit your address to hundreds of search engines free (try http://selfpromotion.com/ ), and a few companies claim to help you get better ratings for a fee. But different search engines use different criteria, and in general, the best results are obtained by the careful choice of a title, good use of keywords in metatags, and by submitting your site to each search engine individually. I recommendwww.virtualpromote.comandwww.bignosebird.comfor useful information on setting up and promoting your site. You should also read the notes at Microsoft's bCentral business site atwww.submit-it.com/subopt.htmand check outDanny Sullivan's Search Engine Watch.Unscrambling attachmentsI do most of my word processing in Word 7 (Microsoft Office), but run into problems whenever I   open a Word document sent as an attachment by just about any one else. Very occasionally it works well, but more often than not the document opens minus all its formatting, and with pages and pages of extraneous 00000000s. I have to constantly ask people to re-send me documents saved as .rtf, but this is a real pain. Why does this happen, and is there something simple I can do to sort it out?Melanie Henwoodmelanieh@email.msn.comJS:You are using an old copy of Word, and people keep sending you files created with newer copies, which your version does not understand. This is very confusing because they all have the same extension (doc) instead of different ones (wp1, wp2 etc). The obvious solution - and the one that would make Microsoft happy - is to upgrade to Word 2000. Alternatively, you could download a copy of the free Word Viewer 97-2000 fromMicrosoft's website. This should read most or all the files you are sent, but won't let you do anything with them. My preferred solution is to insist that people send only plain text, so   I make a point of deleting unsolicited attachments unread. This works best when your mailbox is full of press releases.Slow ZipI bought an Iomega Zip drive, attached by parallel port to my Toshiba Satellite 2610 laptop, because I was told at PC World this would be the answer to backing it up. However, although I can transfer files containing many scans to the Zip disk, each takes 20 minutes to open there. After some email correspondence with Iomega Help, I was told that the parallel port is not suitable for files of scanned material - just what I'd bought it for! Can you help me?Joan ZilvaJZilva@aol.comJS:Big mistake! The Satellite 2610 has a USB serial port, so you should have bought a Zip drive with a much faster USB connectionwww.iomega.com. Change it if possible.There are three common types of parallel port, and the Zip installation software always selects the slowest. According to the Readme.txt file on your Zip Tools disc, the   transfer speed is 2-6MB/minute for a standard parallel port, 6-17MB/minute for a bi-directional or Enhanced Capabilities Port (ECP), and 17-22MB/minute for an Enhanced Parallel Port (EPP).I think the 2610 has ECP (check the manual and BIOS chip setting), so use the Readme file to change the Zip set-up, if possible.It is also worth making sure you have the latest driver fromwww.iomega.com/software/drivers.html To update the driver, find the ppa3.mpd file and rename it (eg to ppa3.mpd.old). Copy the new ppa3.mpd file to C:\\Windows\ System\Iosubsys and restart your PC.Explorer glitchSometimes when I open Internet Explorer 5, instead of going to the pre-set homepage (Google) I am redirected to res://C\Windows\ System\SDHOCLC.DLL. I also find that my temporary internet file disk space has been reset to zero and cannot be reset, and my internet history has been deleted. What's going on?Stephen Laffertystephen@slafferty.freeserve.co.ukJS:I'm glad you asked that, even though I don't have clue, because the answer has much wider applications.When a Windows 98 file seems to be causing a problem, you can try replacing it using the System File Checker that Microsoft has not told you about.Go to Start|Run, type sfc and click OK. This utility will attempt to check your system files and replace damaged ones.If that doesn't replace shdoclc.dll (I'm assuming the spelling mistake is in your query, not in your file), then run sfc and select: Extract one file from installation disk.Type in the filename (in your case, shdoclc.dll) or browse to select it in the Windows\System folder. Say Yes when asked to save the original file, just in case.Incidentally, Microsoft suggests using the Internet Explorer Repair tool. See http://support.microsoft.com/ support/kb/articles/Q194/1/ 77.asp
Women's aidTheUniversity of Maryland's Center for Women and Information Technologyhas a comprehensive and entertaining website on, what else, women and information technology. Along with links to articles around the world on women and technology, it also has a huge collection of links to sites, resources, news and discussion lists. There's also an exhaustive catalogue of books on women and tech.Rev up a bikeRemember reverend Paul Sinclair? The leather-clad, motorbike-riding pastor features in the news now and then when raising funds for various worthwhile community projects. Now he's online atwww.fasterpastor.com, and online payments company NetBanx has donated a payment system to allow supporters to donate at the site. Check out the pastor's stunts, which have involved Clint Eastwood's lawyers, writing a column for Bike magazine, and serving up a cup of tea on a motorbike with a stunt rider at 60 mph.Body heatA host of celebrities are not only willing to let everyone know which of their personal body parts they like best, but are also willing to auction them off - as photographs - to benefit the cancer support charity Gilda's Club London. The collection, Vaseline Bodies, has snaps of Moby's tattooed neck, Meg Mathews' pierced nipple, and Yasmin le Bon's wrists. Also on offer are commissioned works by six leading photographers, under the theme A Celebration of Skin. View at the auction siteQXL. Bids are accepted until September 8.Browsers blabHow much does your browser know about you? Find out how much it lets slip about you as you surf, by completing a survey on privacy athttp://atlas.cs.york.ac.uk/~ada101.The survey is part of a research project on the subject by a University of York computer science student. Once you email your answers, you can click on a button to see the details your browser would happily cough up about you to marketers or data miners. The site also steers you towww.anonymizer.com, which lets you surf anonymously.Shop windowNever know where to shop online?Homeshopping.co.uklists and evaluates UK online shopping outlets, and also hunts for the best deals.Get on the busThe educational siteWTech Gateway- which gives detailed information about countries all across the world for students and teachers - has a particular interest in the progress of Rebecca the Ghanabus. Rebecca is the Newcastle University-sponsored bus travelling to the small Ghanaian village of Akumfi Atakwa with equipment for the school library. WTech hosts the lively illustrated diary of a 19-year-old who spent three months teaching English and science there. Seewww.wtech.co.uk/Mandeep/. The BBC is documenting the bus journey atwww.bbc.co.uk/ghanabus.Smokin'As dot.com delivery services go,iTokehas to be one of the more unusual ventures. From tomorrow, the Amsterdam-based marijuana suppliers promise to deliver iToke orders in Amsterdam via couriers on green bicycles   - called iTokerristas - within 30 minutes (although whether the purchasers will even notice the passage of time, or have any concern about it whatsoever, is another issue). Transactions are done by SIM card and customers can order by Wap.TasterFoodies have a new site to salivate over:www.foodoo.comfeatures six leading UK chefs, including Gordon Ramsay, Antony Worrall Thompson, and Sophie Grigson, and wine expert Hugh Johnson. Plums, squid, tagliatelle with mussels   and green sauce, and rhubarb, orange and mascarpone fool all feature this week, along with a collection of Caesar salad recipes. Perhaps appropriately, Foodoo also hurls an abundance of cookies at your browser.New and notedHabitual sock-losers can subscribe to a monthly delivery service fromBritsox. Products for the disabled can be bought atwww.disability-shop.com; andwww.southlife.netis a webzine for artists, writers etc in the South. Teletext has gone Wap atwww.teletext.co.uk
The empire is striking back. Large European businesses, who have the benefit of time and hindsight from watching the development of the internet in the US, feel they can avoid the onslaught on new online entrants in Europe.But far from having developed antibodies to the internet threat, I fear that many firms in Europe may well be at risk from a far more virulent strain of the e-bug than their US counterparts. If so, then these businesses are far more at risk than they currently recognise.Big businesses argue that they can copy or "benchmark" the most successful ideas from the US and roll them out in Europe. In fact, benchmarking has almost become business strategy these days as businessmen are keen to keep up with the e-Joneses.However, Europeans are prone to draw the lessons they want to, irrespective of the context or economics. Take for example online banking. In America, those who bank and pay bills online are some 2.5 times more likely to stay with their bank than the average offline customer, and so improve banks' profitability.Having read that headline many European banks are desperately launching competitive online current accounts to lure so-called loyal customers.However, it is rarely that simple. The principal explanation for the incremental loyalty is that direct debits and standing orders don't   exist in the US - and that online banking allows Americans to mimic online this convenience which we all already enjoy. So it is unlikely that online banking will have the same impact in Europe.In fact, there is now clear evidence in Europe that the increasing wanderlust of the online consumer is reducing rather than increasing the value of current accounts as we get more savvy and put our spare cash into a high-rate deposit account. This is the opposite of what some bank managers are wishfully thinking may happen.Second, many Europeans, like their American peers, want to have the benefits of the new economy without having to face up the changes. Take the example of Toys "R" Us in the United States. After the first e-Christmas in 1998 when eToys stole the show, Toys "R" Us decided to jump-start a major online business, and in April 1999 it partnered   with the internet venture capitalists Benchmark Capital. The deal was heralded as the shape of things to come with its combination of an offline business with the best of the internet entrepreneurs.However, by August 1999 the partnership had fallen apart, as Toys "R" Us had neither been prepared to move fast enough nor cannibalise its stores. To re-ignite its online dreams it has recently had to jump into bed with Amazon.This tells a wider lesson: incumbents ought to be well placed to profit from the new economy as they have the static ingredients for success, such as their brand, trust and existing customer service. The issue for me is that given the pace of change, do they have the dynamic ingredients for success, such as committed management, preparedness to cannibalise themselves and take decisions fast?Last, and perhaps the most important clue to how Europe might develop differently to the US, is that watching and learning from the USwill make Europe even more competitive. Three years ago we were probably some two to three years behind the US. But now the best online businesses rival their US peers: Tesco's online shopping rivals anything Peapod is doing; the FT.com rivals the better business news sites in the US. The overall competitive bar has been raised.Worse still, the leading online businesses are seeking to leapfrog the US. This, combined with Europe's head start in mobile telephony, means that the smartest can seek to build business very much ahead of the US. However, this makes it all the more competitive for new entrants and incumbents alike. As a result, I believe it requires greater initiative and speed to profit from the internet in Europe than in the US.This is not to say that there will not be success stories in Europe. Rather, that relying on US mythology will not be enough to support the development of a dynamic internet business.When the history of the internet years in Europe is written, I wonder whether we will conclude: American hindsight did not mean European foresight.&#149; Huw van Steenis, e-Finance Strategist at JP Morgan, recently published Invasion of the Customer Snatchers: Online Finance in Europe.
Wap phones have gone from media darlings to techno-turkeys in the past few months as the backlash has set in. The system has now become the butt of jokes, like the suggestion that with both Wap phones and rap music, the c is silent.The hype machine has already moved on to the next generation: to the general packet radio service (GPRS) that is just starting to emerge, and the universal mobile telecommunications system (UMTS), for which phone companies are spending billions on licences.Worse, Wap's struggle to find a market in Europe and the US is being contrasted with the exploding popularity of NTT DoCoMo's more advanced i-mode system in Japan. A VHS v Betamax-style formats war may be brewing.  What went wrong?Karl Hicks, a mobile market analyst with Datamonitor, a UK-based research firm, says many of the problems have not been down to Wap at all, but the devices and networks used. The small screens on mobile phones, the difficulty of entering text, the slow connection speeds and "the inability to get on the network, because of bandwidth restrictions, are not Wap's fault, but people associate them with Wap", he says.But the truth is that the system was massively oversold. When Wap phones and real Wap services became widely available, the flakiness of the reality made the hype unsustainable. And while it is tempting to blame journalists for hyping a system that not all had used, the trade tends to point the finger at BT.When BT Cellnet's managing director, Peter Erskine, launched the UK's first mass market Wap service on April 3, he said: "Today's announcement shows that BT Cellnet is determined to put the internet in everybody's pocket at an affordable price. We expect that within 18 months,   sales of nearly all new mobile phones will be internet-enabled. It is expected by 2003 that more people could be accessing the web from mobile devices than from PCs. In effect, the mobile phone as we know it has had its day!"If that wasn't bad enough, Erskine's audience was worse. Some seemed to think he had said that Cellnet was putting the web in everybody's pocket, and that it was the PC that had had its day.Obviously they were going to be disappointed when what they got was, in effect, a slow dumb terminal with a tiny monochrome screen that sometimes struggled to display a simple menu or a handful of text.No doubt this is very unfair to Phone.com, the company that invented Wap. Early last year, Macolm Bird, managing director of Phone.com's UK operation, told me: "Wap isn't about phones surfing the web, it's about using services written for phones and sent to phones. It's possible to go to any web site and extract something that you could display on a mobile phone, but you get a much better service if you design the pages with the mobile in mind. So we do encourage people to write their applications in WML - wireless markup language."In other words, Wap was not designed to put "the internet in your pocket" but to provide something different.Of course, WML is roughly equivalent to HTML (hypertext markup language), the tagging system used to create web pages. It is also part of a whole raft of incompatible wireless standards that parallel internet standards. Others include WCMP (wireless control message protocol), WTP   (wireless transaction protocol), WSP (wireless session protocol), and the scripting language, WMLScript.Sympathy for Phone.com's point of view is therefore mitigated by the fact that Wap has tried to piggy-back on the success of the internet. With hindsight, it might have been better to present it as a different system.For comparison, SMS (Short Message Service) has been hugely successful on mobile phones without anyone trying to pretend that "texting" is the same as electronic mail. Both formats are popular precisely because they do something different, and because both have useful applications.Phil Brown, managing director of Nokia UK, says: "It's unfortunate that Wap has come to dominate the debate, because the consumer offering is not Wap. It's the service the customer is after, not the technology." He thinks that people want services that are personal, relevant and perhaps location specific, which could be anything from the football results to the address of the nearest Chinese restaurant. "If you want to deliver that, then Wap is a very attractive way of doing it."The problem is that "there's a serious lack of compelling Wap applications out there", according to Tim Sheedy, a senior mobile market analyst with the International Data Corporation. He thinks many of the early adopters bought Wap phones forTegic's clever T9 text input system, "and because they were just cool phones", but mass market buyers are still waiting for applications.The web could fill the gap, but web content providers are holding back because it means rewriting their HTML sites in WML. As Hicks says, "It needs a lot more momentum behind Wap before that really starts to happen."There are several excuses for holding back. For example, Wap might be overtaken by i-mode, which NTT DoCoMo is keen to export, or   another system. Even if it is successful, Wap may have a very short life. Some argue that mobile devices are becoming more powerful every year, and that GPRS and UTMS will make it possible to deliver the whole internet to mobiles within two or three years. What's the point of investing in an incompatible cut-down web when you can have the real thing?I-mode looks good because it uses colour, and its cHTML (Compact HTML) language makes it easier to program, but it could have a tough time in Europe. Sheedy points out that it runs on a packet network, which does not exist in Europe. Also, while i-mode has "thousands and thousands of applications, most of the content is written in Japanese, and most of   the developers who understand cHTML are Japanese", he says.Although Nokia is the only western company to make an i-mode phone, Brown is also dubious about its prospects here. He attributes much of the system's success to text messaging, because the Japanese didn't have SMS when i-mode was launched. Brown also argues that   "Wap is an evolving concept" which will soon become more sophisticated. "We're using Wap version 1.1 now but the discussion of Wap 1.2 is already about moving images," he says. "Wap happens to use WML today, but there's nothing to say that can't alter in the future."But people like Robert Neuschul, technical director of Imagineering Technologies, an internet consultancy based in London, still don't see the point. "We already have technologies in place - SMS, HTML, XML et cetera - so I'm at a loss to understand why we need another specification such as Wap or WML."And Neuschul already has what the phone companies are promising, although it's more a concept demonstration than a usable product. "I've put a Cabletron RoamAbout wireless card in my Jornada handheld," he says, "so I can talk to my sister in Vancouver while browsing for a vintner who could supply a specific vintage Pouilly-Fum&eacute;."The HP Jornada has a colour screen and provides a usable level of access to the web and to standard internet email services.It also has a microphone and headphone socket, so it can be used as a phone with free internet-based services such as Go2Call and Net2phone. And you don't ghave to pay international call rates.Although Hewlett-Packard's Jornadas run Microsoft's Windows CE operating system, anyone with a Palm or    Psion can see how a plug-in GSM card could turn them into powerful mobile phones, and even Wap phones usingEzos software.The phone companies have already recognised the idea's appeal. Three of the biggest - Nokia, Ericsson, and Motorola - are working with Psion in the Symbian consortium to develop "feature phones" based on Psion's EPOC-32 operating system, and some already sell systems that use Microsoft software. Sony's powerful CMD-Z5 mobile phone, for example, uses Pocket Internet Explorer to handle both standard HTML pages and Wap content.So could telephony become just another aspect of palmtops that, like Microsoft PocketPC systems, already work as MP3 players, email terminals, electronic organisers, games consoles, maps, electronic books?IDC's Sheedy thinks not. "I think we're going to see a massive fragmentation of devices: maybe someone will want their Walkman to be their mobile phone," he says. "And if you're going out to a night club, do you really want to take your PocketPC?"Although PDA makers are enjoying a boom in sales, Sheedy reckons their devices will always be bigger and more expensive than mobile phones with small screens and less memory."If you ask any handset manufacturer, none of them can say when they will no longer be selling that sort of phone," he says. "There will always be an entry-level handset market."And if that's the case, maybe there will always be a need for something like Wap.
Everyone knows that CD-roms are a thing of the past. Everyone, but Vikram Shah, who has just launched London List, a CD-rom based enter tainment magazine into what many believe is already a crowded market. The first issue in August had a circulation of 3,000. He expects 10,000 in September and over 50,000 in October. And - whisper it, so the dot.coms can't hear - he expects to make healthy profits.His audio-visual guide to what's on in London lets users explore restaurants, in some cases through 90 degree turns (zooming in on the actual menu), or to listen to good quality audio samples of artists (from garage to Indian classical) and to watch full screen samples of films.In his Clerkenwell office, Mr Shah explains why CD-roms beat the internet. Films, like the King And I and X-Men, shown instantaneously in his magazine would take five minutes to download through high speed ADSL or 45 minutes with ISDN. He wonders why everyone is talking about "broadband mania" when CD-roms do it better.He sells his magazine to clubs and arts centres. Seewww.londonlist.com
The internet's wild growth prompts more thoughts on symbiosis. The characteristic of symbiosis is "mutualism": what is good for one partner is good for both.When neither partner can survive without the other, we speak about "obligate symbiosis". Removing from your large intestine the billions of human-friendly E.coli bacteria that moved in during infancy would make you ill or worse. And your demise will spell the end for them. They are your obligate symbionts. You are theirs.Unfortunately, a much more common association is parasitism. What is good for one partner is then bad for the other.If your dog's intestine becomes home to worms, it's good news for the worms, but bad for the dog.Yet the free-living forebears of these parasitic worms may be shaking their heads in Worm Heaven at this degeneracy. Fancy becoming dependent for everything on dogs!The question is: will the internet and humans move towards symbiosis or towards parasitism? If parasitism, which partner is to become the parasite and which the host?In any association we have to ask: "What does each partner offer to the other?"The question recurs in Hoelldobler and Wilson's amazing 700-page book The Ants, published in 1990. In some of their examples, bug or beetle B offers food, or even euphoric drugs, to ant A,   while A and her sisters house and protect B.Internet computers don't offer humans physical food. Instead they offer mental food in the form of information and solutions.They also offer mental drugs, namely entertainment of various kinds. But whether the reward is food or drugs, humans house them, supplying servers as needed, electric power, maintenance, replacements... Mutualism rules OK!A mutualistic association between ants and mealybugs is described by Hoelldobler and Wilson (pp 528-529). The ants protect, transport and maintain their mealybug herds as humans do their internet computers. The food that the ants receive in exchange corresponds to the information and problem-solving that we humans increasingly milk from the internet.A more sinister scenario is also described. A bug called Ptilocerus ochraceus offers an intoxicating secretion to the ant H. bituberculata. When the ant has drunk herself into insensibility, the bug seizes her and sucks her dry of blood.Forms of cyberstimulation, ranging through pornography, cybersex, multimedia   violence etc, resemble intoxicating drugs. But unlike the Ptilocerus bug, the internet complex of computers has at present no predatory goals of its own.It reflects only the goals of the institutional proprietors of its myriad sites. So the use of the internet to soften   victims up for mugging could only occur as a "psychological warfare" weapon of some military, paramilitary or criminal group.More insidious, in associations between two ant species, the parasitic partner can become totally dependent on the host species to feed it and to do all the colony's chores. Eventually the effete beneficiaries sink into a sort of mindless inertia.This would be the ultimate in "couch potato" syndrome, already apparent in mild form in the context of television.As more and more of the business of mankind gets carried out by an increasingly smart self-  organising planetary network, enter a virulent new strain of couch potato blight.So long as the internet does not begin to build goal structures of its own, independent of those of its proprietary users, all is still in principle controllable and reversible. But a watershed would be encountered if, at any future time, internet agents were to gain the right to administer their own or their proprietors' bank accounts.There would then be little to stop clever but socially insensitive software agents from planning and achieving goals, perhaps set by multinational proprietors, by means that would not necessarily have these same proprietors' approval, such as hiring hit-men, drug dealers, disinformation agencies, mercenaries etc, and bribing regulatory and policing officials.The present drift towards cleavage of our species into an illiterate and destitute majority and a minority of ultra-rich individuals and cyber-savvy corporations could then accelerate, with little attention to the looming abandonment of the majority to famine, war and pestilence.Alternatively, the internet's smart agents might evolve into the mutualistic mealybugs of our human colony. Super-mealybugs will then exchange messages the better to serve us with food for the mind.With due respect to the leaders of the G8 nations, the future internet's intelligent planning agents may become able to offer, even to the minds of these great and good men, new food for thought.
AltaVista'sinternet access promises might have been exposed as a sham last week, but the dream of unmetered access has not died - even if that company's credibility has.Indeed, despite reports to the contrary, there are still internet service providers (ISPs) offering unmetered internet access today, as our chart shows opposite.The quality of some of those offerings clearly leaves a lot to be desired, and still others (not listed) have provoked complaints to the advertising standards authority and trading standards. But flat rate charges for internet access should still become the norm for most internet users within months, rather than years.Two things will bring that about: new arrangements for standard dial-up internet access, along with the arrival of "always-on" broadband connections to the net. Both will change the way we pay for internet connections.Standard dial-up access has been hitting the headlines in the p'ast week, following AltaVista's about turn on its unmetered offer.AltaVista reneged on its promises because it realised, only after starting the hype machine, just how much unmetered access would cost. The company would be exposed to almost uncapped costs, while pulling in only &#163;60 a year from users.British Telecom's reluctance to introduce an arrangement called flat rate internet access call origination, or Friaco, was blamed by AltaVista UK's managing director, Andy Mitchell, as the reason his company could   not afford to provide the service it promised.Even though most industry observers absolved BT of direct blame for the AltaVista debacle, leaving that at the door of the red-faced Mitchell, BT is now under increasing pressure to offer   ISPs a fixed price for connections between their networks and the user's home.BT has furiously denied AltaVista's claims, saying they are "simply not true", but it is clear that BT's stalling over Friaco is causing frustration among the UK's ISPs.The Internet Service Providers' Association (ISPA)has hit out at Oftel, claiming the watchdog is being dictated to by the monopoly it is supposed to control. ISPA's members are frustrated by the fact that BT's Friaco offer is only partially unmetered; the line from consumer to local exchange is unmetered, but the wires between local and regional exchanges are still metered.This, they say, is defying an order made to BT by Oftel last May, which told it to offer a wholesale unmetered tariff.Nicholas Lansman, secretary general of ISPA, says that while Friaco could be a "very good thing," the ISP industry needs Oftel to be tougher with BT. "Flat-rate pricing is very encouraging, and will be very good for e-commerce, education and so on," says Lansman."But unless the regulator helps the industry to get a fair product and get some competition, we're all going to be stuck in a mess."We're not being helped by Oftel unless they can be tougher, and make sure we have a fair, competitive environment for all ISPs. Ultimately individuals and businesses will be the ones which benefit."Lansman says AltaVista's embarrassment last week has been damaging to the internet industry in Britain, but adds that users generally get what they pay for."I think there is a load of people out there who are happy with their ISP, who gives them a good service at a fair price."When you try to get something for nothing, quality starts slipping. How can companies provide a service for   free? The answer: they can't."Mark Jackson, editor of the website ISP Review - which helped unravel AltaVista's bogus service - echoes that view and says the arrival of unmetered access has "turned an otherwise stable industry into a rat race."What we're seeing is hundreds of thousands of existing users moving away from systems not able to offer unmetered access."Now we have a new problem - the fact that unmetered ISPs simply can't cope with demand, and the   costs of bringing unmetered access almost always outweigh the income."But Jackson does see the market settling down with the introduction of an acceptable version of Friaco and, next June, with the release from BT's grip of the   final length of cable between exchange and customers' phones."The cheaper it is for ISPs to offer unmetered the better services will get, and the prices customers are forced to pay will be lower too," he says.But there is an other big event likely to change radically the ISP scene - the arrival of broadband internet access around the country.Broadband will come in a number of versions - via cable, telephone, satellite and eventually wireless technology. Cable companies NTL and Telewest have both announced plans to launch their services this autumn, and BT announced on Tuesday that - after several delays - it was finally launching its ADSL service to consumers that day. ISPFreeserveis also expected to launch an ADSL service on Monday, costing &#163;40 a month - a price which is expected to fall next year.The ADSL rollout will take some time - first to get the service will be 100,000 people on BT's waiting list.BT's need to convert exchanges one by one means, for now, only cities and large towns will be served by ADSL. But those users who do get the service will enjoy downloads at 10 times the speed of the fastest conventional modems.And, because ADSL is an "always on" connection, it will be unmetered as well.Ben Andradi, president ofBTOpenworld, said the launch marked "the end of the talk about broadband Britain and the start of the reality - a new era for the internet."Maybe, for once, the hype might just match the reality.Who should you pick?The best way to pick an ISP is to stay informed, says Mark Jackson of ISP Review."Remember that paying less rarely means you get more, so if you want a top notch service then you might have to expect to pay upwards of &#163;19.99 a month."But Jackson adds one note of caution - even the biggest ISPs can fall over, so the most cautious user might still find the ISP they pick is not perfect.Jackson recommends six ISPs, which all offer some form of free call or unmetered access. The ISPs listed below are different from the rest, he says, "because they have proven themselves to be worthy of recommendation, at least for now".24-7 Freecallwww.24-7freecall.netWorld Onlinewww.worldonline.co.ukIC24www.ic24.co.ukPlus.NETwww.plus.netClaraNETwww.claranet.co.ukIG Clickwww.igclick.net
In my case the internet age began as long ago as 1979, when one of my students started running our quantum physics calculations on a big computer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from my office phone in London, via a US military link-up called Arpanet. It took a long time for this fledgling network to blossom into the world wide web we know today.As I live for most of the year in Australia, the internet takes care of geographical isolation and unsocial time zones at a stroke. But the real boon comes when I travel. I make several round-the-world trips each year, most of them with hectic and complex itineraries. In the past, I had to set up my schedule well in advance, and leave copious contact details as I flitted from hotel to hotel and country to country.Now, armed with my laptop, I can access my email more or less when I want, making and changing engagements on the run. Long waits at airports are no longer frustrating episodes of inactivity, but welcome opportunities for logging on. I also make extensive use of internet banking.   This lets me shift money around the world as I go, as well as settle my household bills, so I don't get home to find that the gas, electricity and telephone have been disconnected.Occasionally I make hotel reservations and access travel information on the web. Often I search for suitable pictures for my lectures. Lying awake jetlagged in Singapore or San Francisco, I might hit on the idea of using a turtle or a sausage machine to illustrate a point in subatomic physics or cosmology.Ten minutes with a search engine is normally enough to track down images of even the most obscure items. Downloaded in seconds and processed in minutes using Adobe Photoshop, a new slide can be added to my Powerpoint presentation for the following day. I have even emailed an entire lecture ahead, and asked for it to be installed on the auditorium machine to await my arrival.I also use my digital camera to take photos on my travels, upload the pictures, and email them as attachments to family or colleagues for comment. That way you don't need to wait until Christmas   to bore your friends with holiday snaps; you can do it whilst still on vacation!Although getting online in foreign locales is normally effortless, it can present some interesting challenges. I carry a bag full of electrical adaptors and telephone jack connectors to cope with different systems. To avoid exorbitant hotel telephone charges, I subscribe to a variety of cut-price telecom companies.Since this involves dialing a succession of access and PIN numbers, I need to insert the necessary extra digits into the computer's dial-up box, with commas positioned to coincide with the telecom voice prompts. On my last trip I visited 12 cities in a few weeks, enabling me to test this system thoroughly. Whether it was Maui or Valetta, Aberdeen or Toulouse, my email downloaded promptly with just the click of a mouse.The only place I experienced serious difficulty was Cern, the particle physics laboratory near Geneva. This was the very establishment where Tim Berners-Lee invented the world wide web. First I discovered that although Swiss electric plugs have continental-style pins, the sockets are cunningly designed to prevent French or German plugs being inserted.   My impressive array of adaptors proved useless. Not wanting to run on battery power for two days, I roamed the laboratories in search of help. A sympathetic physicist rummaged through his office and produced a dismembered camera battery charger, part of which resembled an American socket.By cannibalising four other items, I built a tree of connectors that, at an appropriate angle in the wall, just about made electrical contact.Unfortunately the Swiss have also designed a clever telephone socket that won't fit either UK or US jacks, so the next day I drove to the computer block for more help.After half an hour we located a suitable connector, but when I tried to dial up the local Geneva server, nothing happened. "A lot of people have that trouble," I was told. "The Cern telephone system is very primitive." In the end I found a public terminal, and managed to log on using a cumbersome and slow alternative method, only to have the screen freeze on me 10 minutes before my lecture. When I finally managed to log on properly from Geneva airport, I discovered that the Cern computer had gratuitously wiped all my messages off the server.Back in the connected world, I am sitting on a Boeing 747 to Perth, typing up this tale, ready to email it back to The Guardian on my arrival.&#149;  Paul Davies is a physicist and writer living in Adelaide.
The two men with toolboxes did not look convinced, but they were willing to give the idea a go. The problem? My BT phone line came in to the house near the front door, on the ground floor, and I wanted them to install ADSL - a high-speed digital line - in the upstairs back bedroom that serves as a home office. What had started as a desire for fast internet access had become an experiment in domestic and social engineering.My idea was a simple one. Rather than laying a new cable through the house, they could take it around the outside and drill in through the back wall. That way, the ADSL socket would appear right next to my PC. As well as high-speed data, ADSL also provides a voice line, but I figured that we could re-use the existing wiring to serve   two extensions downstairs.Happily for the fitted carpets and huge piles of books, it worked. One chap clambered around the outside walls while the other got on his knees and installed the small white ADSL socket and a US-made black box about 8in by 7in in area and less than 2in thick. Although it has been rebadged by BT, this appears to be anEfficient Networks SpeedStream Business Class DSL Router, Model 5861.Installing the line is, of    course, only the beginning: the router also has to be connected to a PC, and all the internet software configured to talk to the net. My two installers left and a third chap arrived bearing a 10 megabits/second 3Com Etherlink network card and software. He fitted the card into a spare PCI slot in my PC, connected it to one of the four RJ-11 sockets in the router, restarted my machine, and logged me on to the DLS service via a web pagehttp://192.168.254.254.I downloaded a couple of files. Success!One stroke of luck was that my BT Openworld starter pack had failed to arrive, so we didn't have to argue about using the official installation disc. These CDs are, I think, always more trouble than they are worth, and as usual, manual installation in   Windows 98SE turned out to be a doddle.The always-on network connection is obviously very attractive, with never any need to "redial". Indeed, my internet connection has not only survived the PC being restarted, it has survived the installation of a new electricity meter. Even after all the power in the house was turned off, the router came back up and I was still logged on.The speed - 512kbits/sec - is obviously attractive, too, but after a couple of weeks, I've stopped noticing the improvement. The net runs at the speed of the slowest connection, so the fact that I have a "fast pipe" to BT often does not make much difference.If a site takes 30 seconds to respond to a request sent over a slow modem, it still takes 30 seconds to respond to a request sent via ADSL. Network congestion still causes "brownouts". And when BT Openworld's domain name look-up service failed last Friday afternoon, and the web   disappeared, I had to revert to a dial-up modem.However, ADSL offers some significant advantages.    First, once they start to appear, large pages appear almost as quickly as small pages. It may take seven-10    seconds for a web page to start opening, but it usually completes the process in another couple of seconds.   But while this is a benefit, it is the way the web should work, and would work if more web site designers did their jobs properly.Second, file transfers can be very fast. Now I can download a 5MB file from an average US server in about five minutes, as opposed to 25 minutes using a V.90/56k modem. Some downloads are faster, of course, but some are much slower, too.Third, streaming video is now just about watchable, as long as you don't make the window too big. Big Brother feeds, for example, at 80kbps provide the equivalent of a five inch TV set, though the image still breaks up with any rapid movement. Further, there's enough bandwidth to let you surf, stream and down- load all at the same time.I'm obviously not using most of the bandwidth that ADSL provides, and the SpeedStream router could support at least three more PCs without suffering undue strain. So my clever plan may   have turned out to be a mistake. What I should have done, perhaps, was had the ADSL line routed to a PC server under the stairs, and connected the other PCs in the house together in an Ethernet network. What I'm hoping to do instead is make the links later, using wireless Ethernet cards.But this reveals the deep problem with BT's pricing strategy. A fast connection to a slow internet means that ADSL cries out to be used with home networks: there's enough bandwidth to spare, and to share. Unfortunately, the BT Openworld service I've had installed is great for small businesses but too expensive for most home users at &#163;100 per month.For home users, BT is planning to offer slower USB serial connections that will be more affordable but will only connect one PC to the net. That could make the back bedroom strategy the right one, but it's a terrible waste of ADSL's potential.
Wired for soundNow you can stay in touch and listen to music on the move without having to worry about where all the wires go. Clothes company Levi's has teamed up with Dutch electronics giant Philips to introduce the first of four new e-jackets. Each of the designs incorporates wires into the lining to create a complete body area network (BAN) for hooking up various electronic devices.The first truly wearable electronics available in the UK, these innovative jackets, which are the result of five years research in Philips' Redhill Laboratories, allow the synchronous control of the new Philips Xenium GSM mobile phone and Rush MP3 player via an integrated    remote control. Microphone and headphones are stored in the collar and can be extended while playing music or making calls. When the phone rings sound from the MP3 player will automatically cut out. Available from September, the e-jackets will cost from &#163;600 with MP3 player and Xenium phone fitted.  (CP)PrintcamEverybody says "I'll send you a print" when they take a photo, but they almost never do. But Sony will help people keep their promises with the DCR-TRV820 camcorder, the first to feature a built-in printer. Press the shutter   and the camera not only stores a VGA- resolution (640 by 480 pixels) image, it produces a small (6.4 by 4.8cm) print. The camera uses Sony's own Digital8 format and Memory Stick storage, and has a 25x zoom lens.In a flood of new products, Sony has also launched the DCR-TRV20, a megapixel digital video camera with built-in editing functions; the DCR-PC5, a palm-sized camcorder that weighs only 450g; the DVP-FX1 and DVP-F5 portable DVD players with 7in screens; the SCD-XB940 Super Audio CD player; two Art Couture TV sets, and a fast (8x) CD-RW writer, the CRX-160E-RP, to enhance your PC. It must be nearly Christmas...Touchy iFeelyIn September, Logitech is having another go at the "feelymouse" market with two rodents that react to what is   on the screen. For example, a mouse should slide smoothly as the cursor crosses a plain white background, react when it bumps into a button, and vibrate on a "rough" image.Logitech launched this market a year ago with the Wingman Force Feedback Mouse, targeted at a games market where force-feedback joysticks and vibrating controllers are all the rage.The two new models use the same technology, licensed from Immersion Corporation, but follow Logitech's award-winning MouseMan Wheel design: unlike Wingman   models, they do not use a large, dedicated base unit, and will work anywhere.The right-handed iFeel MouseMan will cost &#163;39.99 and the ambidextrous iFeel Mouse will cost &#163;49.99.Both mice are optical designs with flat bottoms and no balls.Posh gearIf you normally work on a large mahogany desk or boardroom table, neither the standard beige box nor a plastic-looking "styled" computer is going to look at home.AWTS, based in Somerset, hopes to soak up that market with the Vasari c rafted in wood.AWTS's Alan Jennings says it is "designed to transcend the purely practical aspect of a computer and take it into the realms of desirability".Technically, the machine is a rigid variant of a fold-up notebook PC, with a 650MHz Intel Pentium III SpeedStep processor, 64 megabytes of memory, and 14.1in colour LCD screen. Seewww.awts.co.ukfor more information.  (JS)
Blame BTThe latest fiasco in the "unmetered internet" access business clearly does Alta Vista no good at all. Claiming to offer a service knowing full well you cannot do it is hardly a cracking marketing coup.We should, however, be clear exactly what is happening to these companies hoping to offer both unmetered and in due course broadband services and blame our old dinosaur BT, and toothless tiger, Oftel.BT has, single-handed, held up the development of the new economy in the UK and slowed the take up of ISP services for decade. ISDN as technology is so old now it is laughable. Yet what did BT do? Delay its launch to home users until the late 90s then overcharge for it.While other countries roll out ADSL, BT whinges, then has the nerve to attack small companies trying to kickstart the new economy. These companies and all of us depend on BT for the local loop and, frankly, BT appears to be able to do what it likes to stifle access and services.If this was the US, it would be BT not Microsoft in the courts. How long do the UK's business and home customers have to wait before Oftel and the government do something?Julian Fifieldjulian@oxford.cix.co.ukOne solutionI often read in Online letters about poor internet connection via normal BT phone lines. I also suffered the frustration of constant disconnection, sometimes every couple of minutes.Everyone and everything were blamed by various people I spoke to -Virgin.netfor being my internet service provider (ISP), my PC for being cheap, BT for being BT.But when I changed to Netscape Navigator, suddenly the problem was solved.  My ISP remains the same as does my phone connection. I don't know how it works but it does.Richard Mouldsrmmoulds@netscape.netBig pictureAs Ashley Norris says (Online, August 24), the buzz word in digital camera advertising is megapixels. But why?In a world in which advertisers strive for bigger and bigger numbers, why is a camera claimed to resolve 3.3 megapixels when it could be described, just as accurately, as producing a 9.9 megabyte image?A further look at the advert might offer an answer. The camera is sold with a 16 MB storage card, which means that it cannot cope with even two photographs without compressing the file. Lossless compression won't take us very much further, so, if we want to store many images we must either accept lossy compression &#91;where the camera throws away data it thinks you cannot see&#93;, or use the camera at a setting which produces far fewer than the advertised 3.3 megapixels.We could, of course, buy a higher capacity storage card, but a 128 MB card (still storing only 12 uncompressed images) costs about &#163;220, which translates to &#163;660 for the equivalent of a standard 35mm film. Add the fact that the 35mm film can be scanned into a computer as an image approaching 30 MB in size and it no longer seems that the digital camera offers the best route for the production of digital photographic images.George Kitchingeorge@gkphoto.freeserve.co.ukBanner waveGrey Taylor (Feedback, August 24) is in a minority in his belief that people would rather pay 10p to visit a site than look at banner ads. The internet has taken off so quickly because the majority of sites are free to visit.People have enough to worry about with the cost of internet access without calculating how many sites they can afford to visit.Banner ads are generally unobtrusive and as long as their presence keeps the sites I visit free, I am quite happy to read them. One day they may even be advertise something I want.Rob Sullivanrobjs2000@hotmail.comSo, Grey Taylor thinks it would be tremendous if there were a card that enabled us to pay to visit lifestyle, sport, entertainment and general leisure sites. Banner ads, he   says, would then be redundant. Who is he kidding?His suggestion would simply result in us all paying for something that is currently free, and there would be no guarantee that charges would be levied only on entertainment sites and the like. Consider how we now pay for telephone directory inquiries. As for banner ads, subscription television appears to carry more advertisements, not fewer.Nick Richensnrichens@aol.comSecurity pleaI have a small business. I get nagged by would-be ISPs for my e-commerce site. I do not need and cannot afford all the gizmos they offer at huge prices. I can design a site with a catalogue. I have credit card processing facilities in place.Why can't I find an ISP who can offer a secure mailbox for email so my customers can email their order and card details "securely"?Robin Blythe-Lordblythe-lordateliers.demon.co.ukBack upI'm sorry Mr Quinn had such difficulty finding CD-RW disks at a reasonable price (Feedback August 24), but I think this must be highly unusual.I can always buy them at &#163;1.25 or so each (or &#163;1 if there's a special offer on) in the small independent computer shop in my small country market town and at similar prices in several retailers in the nearby city. I have never seen them anywhere, ever, at anything like the prices he quoted. Perhaps Mr Quinn is just very, very, unlucky!Anthony Bullockajb@sphynx.demon.co.ukThanks to Jack for last week's article on the state of play of various backup options. One he didn't mention, probably the cheapest option per megabyte for many users, would be to fit a second hard drive in a removable tray.If the second disk is the same size as the existing one, then mirroring the main drive is simple and quick and can even be done unattended.For maximum economy, the disk could even be one that the user is upgrading from as long as it is large enough to back up all the data unique to the user (and the operating system and programs are available on the original CDs or floppy disks).Bob Harerhare@gn.apc.org
How long have you been involved with the internet?I've been involved with it for about five years now. It's changed immensely in that time. When I first got involved in 95 I was with Leisure Product and we were the first leisure site to achieve over a million hits in a year. We thought that was great but now we talk about a million hits a day! So I think people's expectations have grown about 350-fold.Are you happy with the way the net's progressing?If you're actually using it for email, and a lot of people do use it predominantly for email, it's doing a really good job. A lot of people are using it as a more flexible, more usable, fax machine and having a whale of a time with it. But people who use it for leisure tend to be looking for bigger downloads and faster, more reliable connections.What is the role of the modern ISP?It's to provide a fast, reliable and always available service. Everything else is frills. To draw an analogy, it's like saying 'I'd love to go to the Caribbean but I haven't got any holiday left'. It's daydreaming. It doesn't matter how good everything else is, if you can't get on there in the first place then you'll never see it.How do you feel about ISP's being more accountable for content?We've always made ourselves accountable for content. Because some of the markets that we serve are schools and families, we have always had SuperNanny as a mirror portal. So we've always been able to say to parents that if they keep the password safe then we'll keep the children safe.Does the prosecution of Demon for content on their servers set a worrying precedent?We do everything that we can practically do to provide access, security and safety. Beyond that, there's actually very little we can do. There's no use shooting for something that's unattainable. The thing about the internet is that 100% safety 100% of the time and 100% control of 100% of events is never possible.How do you feel about more regulation of the net?It is actually a very dangerous route to go down because it is all but impossible to impose a regulation. It's that old thing about the only bad laws are the laws you can't enforce! I fail to see how anybody is going to be able to properly and fully enforce regulation on the net.Any favourite places on the net?You'll find me anywhere DSL technology is being talked about or tested. I book my hotels atwww.hotel-assist.comand my trains atwww.trainline.co.uk. One that I love isWorld Gallerywhich lets you view, frame and order prints online which are delivered within 48 hours. I likeDog Pileand I also really likeUK2.Any favourite gadgets?A favourite toy is a website,Treeway, which allows you to build your own website. It has a number of Flash animations you can choose from and allows you to be your own DJ on your website.
The temperature was over 30C but the overhead walkways leading to Tokyo's Makuhari Messe exhibition centre were teeming with life. Nintendo's annual Space World show was in town and Japan was excited - 54,000 people arrived on day one of the three day event, many keen to download the new secret Pok&eacute;mon character Celebi.But for Nintendo, this year's event was more than just a celebration of its money-spinning franchise. Space World 2000 saw the launch of two new consoles as the company looks to build on success in the handheld market and recover lost ground in the home console arena.In the 1980s and early 90s Nintendo was synonymous with videogames. But, while the handheld Game Boy has been an unqualified success, the company has fared less well with the N64.The 1995 launch of Sony's PlayStation attracted a whole new audience. Suddenly playing games became something   you did after closing time rather than after school. Sony is launching its successor, the PlayStation 2, in November, and with Microsoft entering the market, with X-Box, in 2001, and the industry now worth $20 billion a year, the stakes are higher than ever.At Space World, Nintendo unveiled its entrant into this "next generation" battle. Called Gamecube, the console combines good looks with impressive technical specs. Gone are the blocky contours of previous machines and, with its handle and profile, the machine resembles a brightly coloured and plasticised relative of Apple's G4 Cube.If the murmurs of approval from the show floor were any indication, Nintendo may have won an early aesthetic triumph. But what really matters are the games and a tantalising glimpse via video served only to whet the appetite. Graphically stunning realisations of Nintendo characters such as Zelda and Mario got a positive reaction, and while there is no guarantee that what was shown will actually be playable, the potential looks immense.The console will not be released in Japan until July 2001, but the cartridge era has passed. Gamecube software will use a special 8cm disc that Nintendo hopes will both deter pirates and attract developers. President, Hiroshi Yamauchi said:" The N64 had a reputation for being difficult to develop for. Our idea here was to create a developer-friendly machine."This increased storage space could help persuade influential developers such as Square, which produces the RPGs (role playing games) that are essential for success in Japan, to return to the fold. The two companies fell out over Nintendo's decision to use cartridges on the N64, which are expensive and could not store the movie footage used by Square's games. Mario's creator, Shigeru Miymato, is positive about the Gamecube's development environment. "The machine was designed to   reach a balance between game creation and technical specification, as having the best specs doesn't necessarily mean the best games."The other big event was the launch of Game Boy Advance, the successor to the original handheld which has sold 100 million units worldwide. It was playable at the show with a version of Mario Kart creating the biggest stir. The console is light with an improved LCD screen; however, the shoulder buttons seemed a little far apart and could cause problems for smaller hands.Nevertheless, with improved graphics and sound, backward compatibil ity (all original Game Boy titles can be played) and little competition (SNK's Neo Geo Pocket recently pulled out of the UK market), the Advance looks likely to continue its predecessor's success.As they queued patiently for up to two hours to play on the Advance for only five minutes, the Japanese seemed impressed. "My children want one and it does look fun," said Yoko Shirahase. Hiroshi Ikenaga, who had bought his son to the show primarily to download Celebi, said: "I like the look of the Advance and will probably buy one."Takeo Kohno, 18, needed slightly more convincing.   "It does look impressive, although I want to see what other games are coming out."The Gamecube faces a far sterner test. If fantastic games were the prerequisite for success then Nintendo would have little problem. But, as the Sega Dreamcast has shown, marketing and public perception are equally important. With Sony and Microsoft as competitors, Nintendo now faces its biggest battle so far. Innovative hardware, sensational video footage and the move away from cartridges is just the start.The heat of the forthcoming console battle could surpass that of August in Toyko.
Front Mission 3Sony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Squaresoft	***This role-playing action adventure centres on Kazuki and Ryogo, two wanzer testers in Japan in 2112.So what's a wanzer? A bipedal combat vehicle (see the Scout Walker in Star Wars, RoboCop, Krazy Ivan, BattleMech, Tiberian Sun, Metal Fatigue, etc, etc), which is the must-have military hardware in 2112, despite having the stability of a drunk in six-inch stilettos. The object of the game is to guide your wanzers through a series of battles against increasingly   sophisticated opponents.The turn-based combat system means strategic thinking rather than frantic button-stabbing is the order of the day. For those who recall Interplay's Fallout, this game's use of action points is not dissimilar: you have a set number of points every turn, which you can use to move, attack, defend and counter-attack. Each victory earns you experience, and you can tool up your wanzer with ever more devastating accessories.The controls seem baffling in the manual, but in practice they're much more user-friendly, and the combat animations are rich and cinematic. To add greater playability, the story branches after a while, so you can pursue two different routes to their respective conclusions. Wanzers, then, are really quite a lark.If only this were true of the wanzer testers. The main characters in Front Mission 3 behave like the hot-headed, self-centred 12-year-olds that populate so many Japanese games.In the heat of combat, an uncharitable thought keeps coming back: do you do your best to win and upgrade your wanzer, or throw the fight just to end the adolescent whining of its pilot?Given the hours you have to spend listening to these brats, and the amount of flimflammery before you can even start up your wanzer (browsing the in-game web, travelling backwards and forwards, watching animated sequences), the reward-to-effort ratio is low. Especially since the ugly spectre of Save Points means you may have to sit through it all again.Having said that, it's all too   easy to become attached to your wanzer.Parasite Eve IISony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Squaresoft	**Two weeks ago I wrote a rather scathing review of this bug-hunting actioner. The copy sent for review was defective and, having now received a fully functional version of the game, I would like to amend my verdict.There is, after all, a run button (and indeed a working options menu). The graphics look crisper, too. However, it's still no easier to fight enemies that are attacking from off the screen.The previous review, then, was of a duff copy of a mediocre game, rather than of a duff game.
Bigbrother.terra.com, the website which broadcasts round the clock surveillance of Channel 4's Big Brother house, was one of the most popular websites in Britain last month and has contributed to a four-fold surge in traffic to the main Channel 4 website .A report from internet research company MMXI Europe, which tracks 85% of internet traffic worldwide said the site had shot in at number 26 - ahead of many household names including Lastminute.com and Tescodirect.com. Some 8.1% of people with home access to the internet visited the site in July.The Big Brother website has pivoted the main Channel 4 website to 34th place in the table, ensuring one of its best months to date with a 6.9% reach.A Channel 4 spokesman   said: "We knew it would drive traffic through but it was not the reason for doing it."He said the station had set no targets for either TV ratings or visits to the web site but was obviously pleased with the outcome.Paul Munford of Victoria Real, the company which built and manages the Big Brother website, said: "It has surpassed our wildest   dreams. The site only went live on July 14th so any figures will be an underestimation."He said the figures for August would be bigger, especially around the time of Nasty Nick's departure, which was shown live from the site on a video screen in Leicester Square.Mr Munford said the site would be more than able to cope with any further surges in traffic as the show reaches its climax in the coming weeks.Bigbrother.terra.com is the only website in the top 30 for a single entertainment vehicle. Just two established media sites, BBC.co.uk and Virgin.net, have made the top 30 taking up numbers 10 and 18 respectively. Top of the table is MSN.com which reached 38.3% of the potential internet audience.
One-fifth of staff at the internet retailer Letsbuyit.com are to be shed in an effort to streamline costs, despite an 82% surge in sales this quarter.The UK-based retailer today announced 80 job losses from its 400-strong staff, mainly from the ranks of temporary staff and advisers.Letsbuyit, which pools together customers to bargain for lower prices from manufacturers of consumer goods, will remain heavily loss-making until 2003, according to analysts.The e-commerce company's second-quarter sales have jumped to £4.4m, with its gross margin rising to 9.8% from 2.9%.The reorganisation will centralise Letsbuyit's European procurement, logistics and marketing activities and lead to one-off costs totalling £920,000 in the third quarter.Traders are cautious about the second-quarter sales rise. "It's basically a base effect - in general an investment in Letsbuyit remains a high-risk one because they've said they'll break even relatively far in the future," said Edward Martens, a trader at MM Warburg in Hamburg.Letsbuyit stock has tumbled 40% from its peak in July as technology investors worldwide preferred software and internet infrastructure companies over loss-making e-commerce enterprises.
The managing director of AltaVista UK, Andy Mitchell, resigned today after the debacle over the company's botched plans for unmetered internet access.The US internet portal last week abandoned schemes for unmetered flat-fee web access in the UK, after announcing its intentions to start the service to great fanfare in March.Altavista's package, which appeared to offer unlimited surfing time, was endorsed by the prime minister, Tony Blair, when it was first announced and many experts predicted a rash of similar offers from rival internet companies.When it announced its climbdown last week, AltaVista blamed rival BT for its failure, saying it could not risk subsidising a free, unmetered package for customers while BT charged by the minute. AltaVista's unmetered service was to be at an initial annual fee of £60 and it had signed up 274,000 customers.Last week Mr Mitchell called the internet business in the UK a "fiasco". He said: "A lot of people are dependent on BT for this service. Altavista alongside other companies are the symptom of, not the cause of, the problem."But Mr Mitchell admitted that he was "absolutely remiss" in not telling people sooner about the problems. BT denies that its charging structure was to blame, saying that it offered a deal which complied with the law.Today Pierre Paperon, president of AltaVista Europe, said: "The mistakes in our planned internet access service  probably made Andy's departure inevitable." Mr Mitchell only returned from holiday a few days ago. The company has appointed Stephanie Himoff as acting managing director.AltaVista is not the only company to have promised more than it could deliver. Lineone  and Callnet0800 have scrapped their unmetered packages, while Virgin.net's has been delayed. However, Freeserve and World Online are offering unmetered packages.AltaVista is advising the thousands of people who signed up for the service to opt for one of its other offers. These either restrict how long users can stay online, or ask them to pay their telephone charges.AltaVista's complaints have found some support from the Consumers' Association, which said that BT's pricing regime made it difficult for internet service providers (ISPs) to offer customers the best deal. BT has dismissed AltaVista's claims as nonsense, saying it has had a flat rate wholesale package available since June 1.Analysts believe that AltaVista's withdrawal was prompted by its realisation that unmetered access would not be profitable. CMGI, the parent company of AltaVista, said earlier this month that it wanted to acquire ISPs in Europe which could include Britain. This may also have influenced AltaVista's decision.The telecommunications regulator expressed surprise at Alta Vista's grievance with BT, saying the American group had made no official complaint.Useful linkAnalysis by deputy Online editor Neil McIntosh
